20-08-2020||Mumbai||Bidders invited to qualify for ₹1,642-crore CSMT redevelopment project||The Indian Railways Station Development Corporation Limited(ISRDC) has invited bidders for the request for qualification (RFQ) for the redevelopment of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). The RFQ is a process to shortlist and qualify applicants who will be asked to submit financial bids for the redevelopment. ISRDC will be undertaking the redevelopment of the station at ₹1,642 crore. The project is likely to begin next year and is targeted to be completed in four years. “RFQ is called in order to inspect and check the information from the bidders. The process will take three months post which a station plan will be called for. The redevelopment work is likely to start next year.” said a senior ISRDC official. CSMT will be redeveloped through the public private partnership (PPP) model. The plan will involve construction of commercial spaces including restaurants and cafes along with parking spaces for passengers inside the terminus. Segregation of outstation and local train passenger movements with the help of connecting decks has been planned. The ISRDC plan includes construction of an elevated deck connecting platform number eight to platform number 18. The deck will be accessible for passengers coming via the P’D’ Mello Road entrance of the railway station towards the present main entrance of the terminus. ISRDC has also planned for the construction of an underpass for passengers near the present pre-paid taxi stand near the divisional railway manager’s (DRM) office at CSMT. This will be done by dismantling railway buildings that comprise the main reservation office and railway offices that are adjacent to the DRM office. An additional holding area for passengers will be created at the P D’Mello Road entrance along with the current main entrance for the outstation terminus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bidders-invited-to-qualify-for-1-642-crore-csmt-redevelopment-project/story-U5EmKLkFroGjSLjpxVnQpI.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram ranks 62nd out of 382 cities in cleanliness||Gurugram was judged to be 62nd among 382 cities with a population between 100,000 to 1 million in the country, as per the central government’s annual cleanliness report, the Swachh Survekshan Survey, results of which were declared on Thursday. In Haryana, the city was behind Karnal (17th position nationally, Rohtak (35) and Panchkula (36).In 2019, Gurugram was placed 83 out of 425 cities in 2019.“A jump of 22 places reflects that the city’s cleanliness and hygiene measures have improved since the last survey. It is a continuous process, and we will undertake all efforts to ensure, we are within the top 50 cities in the next survey,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG).Officials say that the city’s score could have been had it found an alternative site for processing waste than the overfilled Bandhwari landfill where both Gurugram and Faridabad dump close to 1,900 tonnes of waste every day.  In 2018, it had a rank of 105 and in the year before that, it was 112. In 2016, out of 73 cities surveyed it ranked 36th and in 2015, it was 466 out of 476 cities surveyed. The survey, in its fifth edition, looked at four broad parameters – direct observation (DO) of ground level cleanliness by survey teams, citizens’ feedback (CF), service level progress in terms of provision of services to citizens (SLP) and certifications.Gurugram scored 3733 points out of a total score of 6,000. All four categories carried 1500 points each.Under the direct observation and citizen feedback categories, the city had a score in excess of 1000 each. In the service level progress, the city scored just above 800 while in the certification it scored around 500. Unlike previous surveys, where the survey of a city was done once at the start of the year, this time it was spread across three quarters.The service-level category rates a city on door-to-door collection of waste, segregation of waste, collection and transportation of waste, sweeping, percentage of wet waste treated, percentage of dry waste treated or recycled, management of C&D waste, remediation of waste dumpsites, number of bulk waste generators, number of houses processing wet waste at home, percentage of closed sewage connection, number of household toilets with direct water supply, number of toilets opened between 4 am-10pm, penalties on open urination, defecation or littering among other measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-ranks-62nd-out-of-382-cities-in-cleanliness/story-e2AIh6DucH409vraL1Y8GP.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||IMD downgrades forecast for Friday, predicts heavy rain this weekend||The weather bureau has downgraded its yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) for Friday across Mumbai and Palghar, but retained the yellow alert for the weekend – the first two days of the 11-day Ganeshotsav festival.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) retained warnings (yellow alert) for Thane till Monday, and upgraded warnings to an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) for Ratnagiri, Raigad, Pune and Satara till Sunday.According to IMD Mumbai’s weather bulletin issued on Thursday, a well-marked low-pressure weather system over interior Odisha, adjoining Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand is likely to move westwards over three to four days, over parts of Madhya Pradesh, activating weather systems over the Arabian Sea. “This has already strengthened the southwesterly monsoon flow, enhancing rain activity over the Konkan coast and interior Maharashtra,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.On Thursday, the city witnessed cloud cover through the day, with light to moderate rain and isolated intense heavy spells for brief periods. South Mumbai recorded 26.8mm rain while 15.4mm rain was recorded in the suburbs between 8.30am and 5.30pm. The weather bureau also warned that there would be gusty winds reaching 45-55 kmph along and off the coast over the weekend. Areas with orange alert could witness minor damage to homes and roads, while waterlogging and localised flooding was a possibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-downgrades-forecast-for-friday-predicts-heavy-rain-this-weekend/story-kjVAhCVLkVEZ1Q1fyaIdKO.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Rain brings 12 hour power cuts in areas of Gurugram||Several residential colonies have been witnessing long hours of power cuts since Wednesday morning due to the persistent rainfall in the city. Residents of Tatvam Villas, Sector 56, 57, Palam Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Sector 45, Sector 40, Sushant Lok-1, Ardee City, Sector 31, Jalvayu Vihar, Sector 46 and several adjoining areas complained of unscheduled power cuts on Wednesday, which lasted for anywhere between eight to 12 hours. In some areas, residents complained that power supply had not been restored till Thursday morning. The basements in the societies were flooded with water, following which the developers had switched off the electricity and power backup system, residents claimed. On Thursday, residents took to social media to vent their anger against the power distribution utility DHBVN for failing to provide uninterrupted supply. Many complained that the power infrastructure in the city was poor, and even light spells of rain often lead to frequent power outages. Shuilu Dar, a resident of Tatvam Villas on Sohna Road, said that power went off around 9.30am on Wednesday and came back only around 7pm. “On Thursday again, there was a power cut of eight hours and the supply was restored only at 12.30pm. The authorities should inform residents about such long hours of power cuts. There is no communication on part of the distribution company and people, including Covid patients, are being left to suffer,” she said. Residents also said that the power outage hampered their work from home routine. A resident of Sushant Lok-3 said that his two sons are working in different states of the country but were here working from home . They could not attend the office meetings which has led to an explanation being called from them. “The invertor batteries also died as there is no power since Wednesday morning. There are senior citizens living alone and managing on their own. It becomes very difficult to manage without electricity,” said Umang Kumar (71). In many areas, the power supply was hampered due to faults in cables, said DHBVN officials, adding that the power was restored in the first half of the day. The residents, however, said that they had to remain without supply for almost 12 hours. The residents of Sushant Lok -1 complained that there was no power all day on Wednesday and on Thursday they barely got electricity for an hour. They could not even recharge their mobile phones and were stranded inside their homes, as roads outside were flooded. “The residents of Sushant Lok -1 suffered immensely due to the power cut that started around 9am. There was no water supply as without electricity we could not even pump up water,” said Sanjay Bakshi, a resident of Block A Residents also complained that despite DHBVN repeatedly asserting that it was upgrading infrastructure across the city, the situation on the ground had improved very little. Isha Tyagi, a resident of Ardee City said that there was a major fault in their area, which took almost 12 hours to be fixed. “The situation was really bad and everyone, including senior citizens,suffered due to power cuts. There was no power all night and on Thursday we got very little power supple. The fall in temperature helped a bit though,” she said. “Teams of DHBVN have been deployed in all the affected areas and they are attending to the complaints to ensure resumption of supply. During rains, the number of complaints increase because of snapping of trees which disrupt supply. All efforts are being made to restore power to affected areas at the earliest,” said KC Agarwal, chief engineer, operations, Delhi circle. Joginder Hooda, executive engineer, Gurugram I, said that the reason for power disruption was that 28 electricity poles collapsed, which caused supply disruption in various parts of the city. “The lines got snapped and supply was affected, but our teams managed to connect these snapped wires to other sources of supply, as poles could not be erected again. Power has been restored in most of the areas but during such heavy rains, such problems can arise,” said Hooda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rain-brings-12-hour-power-cuts-in-areas-of-gurugram/story-q21ycWSdrzQlSAuSAwi3XJ.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Police personnel plug 187 potholes in the city to avert mishaps||Officers of Gurugram Police filled up at least 187 potholes between Wednesday and Thursday at more than 20 spots across the city to avert mishaps on the flooded streets. On Wednesday, Gurugram experienced nearly 158mm of rainfall between 8.30am on Wednesday and 8am on Thursday, inundating several stretches of the city. As a result, at least 28 cars and 35 two-wheelers got stuck in potholes that had to be removed with the help of cranes and ropes, said the police.Police personnel were seen standing in knee-deep water, helping commuters to cross roads and overseeing operations to remove cars, which had broken down in waterlogged areas. Photos and videos of the police personnel trying to fill the pothole were shared widely on social media by residents and drew widespread appreciation from netizens. At least 4,250 police personnel were deployed at 32 vulnerable points in Gurugram to manage the traffic situation on Wednesday morning after night-long incessant rains. Police personnel filled up potholes with the help of mud and interlocking tiles. Police commissioner KK Rao said mishaps due to potholes were reported from many stretches across the city such as Sector 10, Hero Honda Chowk, Sector 5 , Udyog Vihar , Jharsa chowk, Sector 31, Sector 15, New Railway Road, Sector 51, etc. “Many cars and two wheelers got stuck in the potholes, resulting in minor injuries and damaging of vehicles. As such, we took a call and started temporarily filling them,” he said. The Gurugram Police had earlier identified 265 accident-prone potholes across the city two months ago. Citing the danger posed by these potholes to citizens and commuters, Rao said that personnel were instructed to go ahead with the process of filling potholes instead of waiting for the civic body to repair them. Rao said due to the current situation they cannot depend on civic agencies to fill the potholes. Therefore, police officers have been asked to fill them up temporarily. Ajay Kumar, a constable deployed near Huda Metro station, said that he, with the help of his colleagues, filled up potholes with stones and bricks found near the spot. “Many cyclists and motorists got stuck and three of them got injured . It was difficult to identify these spots but we managed to fill up six such potholes with an hour,” he said.  The police personnel were also seen tying ropes to cars that got stuck and pulling them. Some officials were also seen pushing auto-rickshaws. Shahid Ahmed, in-charge of traffic control room, said that their team tracked the issues on a real-time basis and shared pictures of waterlogging and commuters who got stuck. “We were sitting in front of camera and were watchful. We were sending the screen shots and videos on our police group to apprise the officials deployed on the ground to manage the situation,” he said. Rao said that the police personnel who went beyond the call of duty and worked for more than 12 hours standing in knee-deep water helping commuters will be rewarded. “The personnel will be felicitated with appreciation letters, mementos and ₹5,000 as reward money,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-personnel-plug-187-potholes-in-the-city-to-avert-mishaps/story-OoblkGs7bJ3hXCCH9rvs9K.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Two men booked for threatening district town planner during demolition drive||Two persons were booked by Gurugram police on Wednesday for allegedly threatening district town planner (enforcement) and obstructing the work of government officials during a demolition drive being carried out in Sector 34 on Tuesday.According to the complaint submitted by RS Bhath, district town planner(enforcement) to the police, the duo was allegedly involved in building an illegal colony in Sector 34 on land owned by two other persons. The suspects hadn’t got any permission and license from the department of town and country planning. “The two persons were developing an illegal colony without any license and on Tuesday when the enforcement team started demolition drive, they misbehaved with staff, obstructed the work being carried out by government officials and also threatened me,” Bhath said in his complaint.Based on Bhath’s complaint, a case was registered against the two suspects at Sadar police station under Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 and sections 186 ( obstructing a public servant in the discharge of his public functions,) 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 34(Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 353 (using criminal force to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty as such public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. “A case has been registered in this matter and it is being probed,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), Gurugram.During the demolition drive at the location, Bhath said, the enforcement team had cleared a five-acre area being illegally developed. Two makeshift tin shed offices, two rooms, and a tin boundary wall were demolished by the team, which was supported by a large team of city police.In his complaint, Bhath said the two suspects arrived in a luxury car at the spot and started arguing with officials. The duo allegedly told the officials that they had invested a lot of money in the project, and used abusive language against the officials apart from threatening Bhath. “We will not be deterred by such threats and the demolition drives against illegal colonies will continue. I am thankful to the Gurugram police and district administration for their active support and providing security to me after the incident,” he said.Two weeks ago, a property owner had allegedly hit the official while demolition was being carried out in Dharmpur village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-men-booked-for-threatening-district-town-planner-during-demolition-drive/story-iYIaSbwlFAPzTwdPkEfTXO.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||35-year-old man dies after portion of wall collapses over shanty||A 35-year-old man died and his wife was seriously injured after a portion of a boundary wall collapsed over their shanty in Sector 33 following the heavy rainfall on Thursday morning, said police.The police said the couple was sleeping when a portion of the boundary wall of a vacant plot close tho their hutment collapsed over it. They added the couple was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared the husband brought dead and his wife, Junaina, 33, is reported to be in critical condition. The deceased has been identified as Sujauddin, an auto-rickshaw driver, who was from West Bengal.Dinesh Kumar, station house officer, Sadar police station, said the police vacated nearly 10 hutments which were close to the boundary wall. “The incident took place Thursday morning when the couple was sleeping in their hut and the boundary wall collapsed on them,” he said. According to the police, two men were also asleep in the next shanty but they escaped unhurt.The police said the shanties were built alongside a boundary wall of a vacant plot owned by a woman. The wall did not have pillars to support it and it had not been plastered. The family of the couple has refused to file a complaint against the landowner, they added.In another incident, a wall collapsed at Emaar Emerald Hills in Sector 65 damaging three parked cars, said the police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said a wall collapsed in the Sector 65 residential society but no injuries were reported, and only residents’ cars were damagedDespite repeated calls, the developer did not comment over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/35-year-old-man-dies-after-portion-of-wall-collapses-over-shanty/story-wLQLeZyzU3KEjXtZ6cGhTJ.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Rainwater from DLF Phase 1 underpass finally cleared after more than 30 hours||After more than 30 hours of draining operations, the Golf Course Road (GCR) underpass at DLF Phase-1 was finally cleared of rainwater on late Thursday evening. Gurugram received 118mm of rainfall on Wednesday, inundating several parts of the city. With more rain on Thursday morning, two underpasses — one at Hero Honda Chowk and the other at Rajiv Chowk — were also closed as a precautionary measure by civic body officials.As per a statement issued by DLF, the caretaker of the GCR underpass, more than 12 fire tenders, 11 de-watering motor pumps, 12 technicians, 20 housekeeping staff members, 10 technical managers from the district administration, 20 firemen, and a super suction machine of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) were pressed into service from Wednesday afternoon.“We started the draining operations at around noon on Wednesday and finally around 6pm on Thursday evening, the underpass was drained of rainwater. We are now cleaning the sediment and muck left behind by the rainwater, as it can potentially lead to accidents. The underpass is expected to open after midnight on Thursday,” said Satyawan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO), Gurugram fire department.Samriwal said that each fire tender involved in the operation can disperse more than 1,800 litres of water per minute. However, with the underpass accumulating at least 24 crore kilolitre of rainwater, it took them more than 31 hours to clear it.“The underpass is nearly 3km long, and all of it was under water when we arrived. The volume of rainwater inside was simply too much. As such , it took us such a long time to clear the underpass of rainwater,” he said.Traffic police officials had closed the underpass at 11am on Wednesday. It is expected to become operational after midnight on Thursday.A statement by DLF on Wednesday had stated “the intensity of rainfall received this morning was 6-7 times higher than the designed capacity of the master drainage system of Gurugram.”As per DLF officials privy to the matter, the master drain of the Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradikaran (HSVP) had a blockage due to which rainwater in the underpass had nowhere to go. VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said that they are checking as to what caused the inundation and added that there is a possibility that the motor pumps of DLF Phase-1 failed to work properly.“We are investigating the exact cause of flooding, as this is first time flooding of such magnitude has taken place . We are suspecting that the motor pumps installed inside the underpass did not work properly or ran at a limited capacity. We are verifying this. Regardless, in the absence of drains on the surface, the underpasses on the Golf Course Road (of which the underpass is a part) remains vulnerable to waterlogging. It is, therefore, important to install motor pumps of adequate capacity to ensure that rainwater does not get accumulated,” said Kundu.A fresh statement issued by DLF statement on Thursday evening read, “Despite two consecutive nights of rains, a team of more than 60 people from DLF has been working tirelessly over the past 30 hours, with two fire engines, water tank and equipment like dewatering pumps, suction motor machine, alongside the government authorities, to make the underpass operational by today(Thursday) evening.We were extremely swift in deploying all our resources to clear 6 out of 7 underpass on Raghavendra Marg, in less than 6 hours time, despite high intensity rainfall which is 6-7 times higher than the designed capacity of the master drainage system of Gurugram (sic).” The statement further read.In other parts of the city more than 300 officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), MCG and their contractors were deployed overnight, along with 45 motor pumps, to clear the areas of rainwater.Other parts of the city:Following another spell of showers on Thursday morning, areas such as Narsinghpur, Khandsa, Hero Honda Chowk on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, and sectors 10, 27, 28, 42, 43, 56, 71, and 72 were once again inundated with knee-deep rainwater, thereby inconveniencing the residents of these areas. With a large amount of rainwater accumulating in the Hero Honda Chowk underpass, MCG officials closed it early morning on Thursday. The underpass is expected to reopen on Friday morning.“A lot of rainwater had accumulated inside the underpass. Although the volume of rainwater at the underpass is not alarming, but since it is located in a low-lying area and is in close vicinity to the Badshahpur drain, we have closed the underpass as a precautionary measure. There is always a possibility that Badshahpur drain may overflow and quickly inundate the underpass, resulting in traffic congestion. We decided not to take a chance,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.MCG officials said the underpass at Rajiv Chowk near Medanta Hospital was also closed as a precautionary measure and gunny bags were put in front of the facility to ensure that rainwater does not accumulate inside. They said that this underpass too will reopen on Friday morning, provided there is no more rain.Meanwhile, several other parts of the city were also cleared of rainwater. “Barring Gadoli village, located next to Badshahpur drain, most stretches of the city were cleared of rainwater by 4pm. At Gadoli village, the Badshahpur drain overflowed, flooding the village. Since this has never happened before, we were not adequately prepared. As a result, it is taking us so much time to clear it. We are expecting to clear all the rainwater by Thursday night,” said Kundu.Kundu said out nearly 150 workers from MCG and GMDA are involved in the draining operations. Some have worked for nearly 40 hours at a stretch. “Our officials were on the field ever since it started raining on Wednesday morning. Since then they were engaged in clearing operations and worked throughout the night. Only daily wage workers of the contractors worked in shifts and took limited breaks. The rest of the staff were on duty throughout the time,” said Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rainwater-from-dlf-phase-1-underpass-finally-cleared-after-more-than-30-hours/story-kZmJQgOjVmBamFYBZ1ry1H.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||State minister Nitin Raut detained in UP on route to meet family of slain Dalit sarpanch||Maharashtra energy minister and chairman of the scheduled caste department of All India Congress Committee Nitin Raut was detained by Uttar Pradesh (UP) Police at the border of Azamgarh district on Thursday morning. The minister was travelling to meet the family of a murdered Dalit sarpanch of Bansgaon. When Raut reached the Azhamgarh border, he was detained by the police. He was asked to accompany them to a guest house, but the Congress leader refused and started a sit-in protest at Baghpur village on the border. Raut later flew back to Nagpur. “I was heading towards Bansgaon to meet the family members of Dailit sarpanch Satyamev Jayate who was brutally killed a few days ago. Dalits are not safe under chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath rule. Men are brutally killed, while women face atrocities. Neither have the culprits been arrested, nor the family has been given any help by the government. Downtrodden are not tolerated if they try to raise their voice against injustice,” Raut said.Local Congress leaders including Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, were with Raut during his visit and the protest. Jayate, popularly known as Pappu Ram, was allegedly shot dead by three men on motorcycles last Friday. He was allegedly killed by an upper-caste man as he had ‘advocated the cause of social justice’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-minister-nitin-raut-detained-in-up-on-route-to-meet-family-of-slain-dalit-sarpanch/story-i4ez3GZ6KXYDDtjkY5uFYM.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Government colleges conduct 2-day mock admission drill||With the online process for admission to undergraduate courses in government colleges expected to start by next week, colleges across the state carried out a two-day mock admission exercise to pre-empt potential errors. While the mock exercise was completed on Thursday, the final trial would take place on Friday. In a directive shared with principals of all government colleges across the state on Tuesday, the department said that it had commissioned an admission portal for first-year admissions and the two-day mock drill was aimed at testing the portal for any technical glitches that might crop up. As part of the mock exercise, colleges tested the portal by filling in various entries with student data that was already available with colleges. Pooja Khullar, principal of the Dronacharya Government College, said that each college in the state had been asked to carry out a mock online admission exercise. As part of the exercise, college teachers was asked to complete the admission process for 50 applicants by using already available information. “A mock exercise was carried out so that admissions can take place smoothly and students don’t have to face any difficulties. Due to the pandemic, the department wants to ensure that the entire process takes place online without any hassle, so that students are not required to visit colleges,” said Khullar. She added that a number of issues surfaced on Wednesday and feedback pertaining to these glitches was sent to a team for resolution. “Teachers from commerce, arts, and science streams were put in charge to check for problem areas and make recommendations for improvements,” said Khullar. Unlike last year, the higher education department has not roped in a private agency for admission this time. Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that the department was handling the complete admission process through the National Informatics Centre (NIC). “Private agencies are not involved in the admission process this time. The NIC has developed the portal, which is being tested. The mock drill is over for now and all the problems notified by us will be taken up and resolved after which a final trial will take place on Friday,” said Yadav. He said that the admission schedule is expected to be out by next week, once the final trial is complete. Centralised admissions for government colleges across the state are regulated by the department of higher education. The admission process usually starts in June every year with classes beginning in August. In view of the pandemic, the process has been delayed this year. Yadav said that the new online portal would be seeking exhaustive information from the students so that details shared can be used in the future as well. “Every year, scholarship forms are filled separately. This time, there is a possibility that the information sought from students during the admission process will be used in the future since uncertainty continues to prevail due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The department doesn’t want students to make unnecessary visits to colleges,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/government-colleges-conduct-2-day-mock-admission-drill/story-u6YxzCqNYrGpHet1r101ZN.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Motorcyclist killed after being hit by tractor on Gurugram-Faridabad Road||A 28-year-old man died after his motorcycle was allegedly hit by a tractor trolley near Gwal Pahari area on Gurugram-Faridabad Road on Wednesday afternoon. The police said the suspect, the tractor trolley driver, abandoned his vehicle near the spot after the collision and escaped on foot. He is yet to be arrested. According to the police, the victim, identified by first name as Sailesh, was a resident of Najafgarh in Delhi and worked in a construction company in Sector 48. On Wednesday around 2pm, his brother-in-law, Bharat, paid a visit to his office, following which they decided to head to Faridabad on their motorcycles. In the police complaint, Bharat said, “He told me he had some official work in Faridabad. Around 2.30pm, we left from Sector 48 on our respective motorcycles. I was driving ahead of him. Since he was lagging behind, I stopped at a restaurant on Faridabad road and waited for him. A few minutes later, I saw his motorcycle approaching the restaurant. Suddenly, a tractor trolley took a left turn and hit his motorcycle.” He added that his brother-in-law fell on the road and suffered severe injuries. “I ran towards the tractor trolley but the driver drove away. A commuter took my brother-in-law to a hospital in Sector 56, where he died during treatment.” The police said the tractor trolley was found abandoned a few metres from the accident spot. “The suspect escaped from the spot. His tractor has been seized. We are trying to trace him with the help of the regional transport authority officials,” said a police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity. A case was registered against the suspect under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at DLF Phase 1 police station on Wednesday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/motorcyclist-killed-after-being-hit-by-tractor-on-gurugram-faridabad-road/story-K4SAu6usODJoKeUAzl0fEM.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Road caves in at busy Iffco Chowk on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway||A sizeable chunk of road on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway at the busy Iffco Chowk crossing gave way on Thursday morning, after two days of torrential rain and subsequent waterlogging across the city. After the matter came to the notice of NHAI and police officials, the damaged portion of road was immediately cordoned off around 9.30am and repair work started by the contractor around an hour later. Officials said around 700 sqft area of road was damaged due to the depression and it has been temporarily repaired. The is the second incident of road cave in at Iffco Chowk, the earlier incident having happened in August 2019. In 2019, a section of road along the L-shaped underpass on MG road had caved-in after heavy rain hit the city. The sidewalls of the underpass from Iffco Chowk to Mehrauli were damaged and it then took around two days for the contractor and authorities to repair the stretch. NHAI officials on Wednesday said that the damage at Iffco Chowk could have been worse. But the situation was saved partly because most of the rainwater from Aravallis — that in the past has caused damage and waterlogging at various stretches at NH8, including Iffco Chowk — this time collected mostly at Golf Course Road underpasses and heavy damage was prevented in areas downstream . “The damage at Iffco Chowk was caused due to waterlogging at a spot where large power transmission towers stood earlier. The towers were removed for construction of this road. Heavy digging was carried out at this spot and it seems that stagnation of water caused the depression. We have made initial repairs and stopped movement of vehicles,” said Vikas Mittal, manager, NHAI, who reached Iffco Chowk in the morning. As per officials, the affected stretch has been cordoned off and repaired temporarily by the contractor. “We have removed the road surface and dug the damaged area after which repair was done using construction material . The damaged portion of the road shall be repaired in a proper manner, when the rain subsides,” said Prem Kumar, an official of Gawar Constructions, who was overseeing the repair.Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAi said that two small portions of the road, measuring 10x 8 metres and 6x8 metres respectively, caved in due to ingress of water. “The cave-in happened in an area where earlier there were electrical HT 220kv towers, which were later shifted, the area dug up and the road constructed. The cave in has been repaired and the affected area was barricaded,” he said, adding that the road will be made motorable by evening. Sharma also.said that NHAI resumed traffic at the Medanta underpass on Thursday around 11 am. “We had cleared the underpass of water on Wednesday evening but in consultation with civic agencies started traffic on Thursday morning,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/road-caves-in-at-busy-iffco-chowk-on-delhi-gurgaon-expressway/story-0J00hrfGYHmmLL2xtlzrBM.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch probes underworld link to Juhu developer’s murder||Following the murder of 55-year-old Juhu real estate developer and chairman of AI Sofi Group, Abdul Munaf Shaikh on August 17, the Mumbai crime branch is now probing the possibility of an underworld connection to the case. Crime branch sources said that while two accused, Abdul Rehman Abdul Latif Shaikh alias Sonu, 30, and Nadeem Naushad Shaikh, 29, have been arrested in the case, it was not probable that Abdul planned the murder. Initial reports suggested that Abdul had given a contract of ₹5 lakh to Nadeem to carry out the murder, but investigations have revealed that the plot was hatched a long time back, said crime branch sources. Investigations have revealed that Abdul had given a similar contract of ₹2 lakh to Ankit Trikha alias Ankit Punjabi in October 2019 to kill Shaikh. Trikha had followed the developer for almost 10 days while he used to walk to the mosque to offer prayers. Trikha tried to attack Shaikh but backed off at the last moment as there were too many people present near the mosque. Trikha was reluctant to commit the murder and changed his mind, said crime branch officers. Later, he contacted a person named Anwar Mullah who lived in the same vicinity as that of the developer and allegedly told him about the murder contract. “Anwar Mulla took Trikha to meet Shaikh at his residence and Trikha narrated the entire story to Shaikh, who had recorded the conversation on his phone. Shaikh had then approached DN Nagar police station with a complaint,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity. DN Nagar police, however, did not register and offence but had questioned Abdul. Police had also questioned Trikha for two days without registering any offence, added crime branch sources. “The manner in which Shaikh’s complaint was not registered, Abdul was let off indicates a larger plot,” said a crime branch officer. “It is not possible that Abdul could plan all by himself to kill Shaikh, and we have information that another group that deals in real estate in the area might be behind the murder,” he added.“Preliminary inquiry reveals that the murder was due to a fall-out over a 6-acre slum plot on which Shaikh was to start an SRA project. It seems that someone associated with the underworld conspired to kill Shaikh through a local group that deals in real estate,” said the officer. “We will inquire all possible angles on who had given the contract to Abdul and also probe any underworld involvement,” said senior inspector Mahesh Desai of the Unit 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-probes-underworld-link-to-juhu-developer-s-murder/story-akilDxvZN42PJvZbgmvh9L.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Police evacuate 13 families as building tilts to a side after heavy rain||Thirteen families were evacuated on Thursday after a neighbouring four-storeyed building under construction in Gurugram’s sector 46 tilted slightly following heavy rain, said police. The building had a wall that would normally be almost touching the wall of another building only two storeys high. On Thursday people noticed that a 10-inch gap had formed between the two, suggesting one side of the four storey building’s foundation weakened following heavy rain. However, government agencies were yet to confirm thisAt the time of the incident, the unoccupied residential building had labourers working. Those who were moved were neighbours whose buildings may have been affected had the building fallen.Police commissioner KK Rao said that police were informed of the situation at around 8.15am. “A team of Sector 50 police station was sent to the spot and after conducting recce of the area, at least 13 families residing in the neighbourhood were asked to vacate for their own safety,” he said. Emergency response teams, a sub-divisional officer from the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and a disaster management team soon arrived.“All necessary procedures were undertaken immediately and the tenants were led to safety,” Rao said. Residents said that the building tilted towards the side where the support was weak. Gurugram witnessed heavy rainfall on Wednesday, clocking nearly 11.8mm, flooding many areas. Rajkumar Yadav, president, resident welfare association (RWA) of sector 46, said that the sector had been transferred to the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) two years ago, but was yet to construct a drainage system. “The sewerage pipeline is eight inches wide but that is only enough for a double storey building. The district administration instead permitted a four-floor building with stilt parking. There is no infrastructure in the area and residents are at risk,” he said. HSVP had made stilt parking mandatory for buildings higher than two floors in towns falling under hyper-potential category such as Gurugram. Dharamvir Punia (61), a resident of Sector 46 who vacated the house, said that the building may have to be razed. “If there was a house on the weak side, the building could have been saved. The water-logging weakened the foundation a lot and it is likely to fall,” he said. The owner of the building, Delhi resident Rajesh Kumar, said that he installed a hydraulic machine to support the structure after the building was evacuated. “I am consulting with contractors and experts but there is little chance to save the building. I will have to break the entire building which is a huge loss and hard work of nearly two years,” said Rajesh Kumar, the owner. MCG officials who visited the spot said that they were coordinating with the disaster management team to ensure the safety of nearby houses and residents. “We are coordinating with other departments and our prime concern is the safety of the residents,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG. An HSVP team visited the spot and said a structural audit of the building would be carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-evacuate-13-families-as-building-tilts-to-a-side-after-heavy-rain/story-s7fUrC38gB1zbWoMb6QdIN.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Why does Hindmata keep getting waterlogged? BMC to undertake topographical survey to find out||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will map the topography and assess the condition of the stormwater drainage system between the chronic water logging spot of Hindmata on BA Road in Dadar (East) and the Britannia pumping station. The study will help determine reasons for continued waterlogging at Hindmata – Mumbai’s worse flood spot – even after BMC’s massive drain augmentation work at and around this junction over the past two years, worth over ₹50 crore.Mapping the topography will determine if the drains are damaged, have odd elevations preventing the free flow of water, have utility cables, or are blocked with tree roots or crusted garbage.Along with this survey, BMC is also planning to build more drains around Hindmata so that water from this elevated region does not flow downward toward BA Road, according to a stormwater drains department official.BMC in 2018 said it undertook a similar survey to map drains around Hindmata. A civic official from the stormwater drains department said, “This survey was done only in parts and not the entire stretch up to Britannia. We need to find out where the bottleneck is and why the water would not drain out even after the work BMC has carried out. Augmentation of the drain at and around Hindmata has reduced water receding time, but not prevented waterlogging entirely.”Since Hindmata is saucer-shaped, it used to receive water from Parel, Lalbaug, and Dadar. BMC planned to intercept this water via augmented stormwater drains before it reached Hindmata, and carry it to Britannia pumping station directly. Before the drain augmentation work, this water would flow to Hindmata, and one pipeline at the junction carried water from three localities to Britannia pumping station.BMC also augmented this pipeline to increase its capacity to 50mm rainfall per hour from the current capacity of 25mm per hour. It installed a box drain along 800 metres of BA Road from Hindmata.Swapnaja Kishirsagar, assistant commissioner of the F South ward, with jurisdiction over Hindmata, said, “About 10% work on the circular drain around Hindmata is incomplete at Chinchpokli, which may be the bottleneck. Work was affected because of the unavailability of labour due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Work on augmenting the 800-metre stretch of the drain on BA Road is complete.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-does-hindmata-keep-getting-waterlogged-bmc-to-undertake-topographical-survey-to-find-out/story-mwF9huzdDBQm78ItmEVUiI.html
20-08-2020||City||Huge cache of drugs seized by Haryana Police in a month||In a special operation, the Haryana Police have recovered a huge cache of drugs in Ambala, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra districts of Ambala Division in one month. Sharing details, IG, Ambala Range Y Puran Kumar said that from July 16 to August 16, 14 cases under the NDPS Act were registered in Ambala, 26 in Yamunanagar and 16 in Kurukshetra and a total of 67 persons were arrested with drugs. “Around 8155 kg cannabis, 283.54gm smack, 226.10gm heroin, 1.56kg opium, 53.15kg bhuki, 140gm charas, 5,258 intoxicating capsules, 1,486 intoxicating pills and 100 intoxicant injections were recovered. Similarly, taking action against those possessing and selling illegal weapons, 36 cases were registered and 49 accused were arrested,” Kumar said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/huge-cache-of-drugs-seized-by-haryana-police-in-a-month/story-vhRHPC9WJbXSVE3RdBX9hJ.html
20-08-2020||City||New Patripool bridge work begins, traffic prohibited at night till August 24||The Patripool bridge on the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch in Thane will be closed from 10pm to 5am till August 24. Thane traffic police had to announce this decision following the work of laying girders for the new parallel bridge.In a notification issued on Wednesday evening, Thane traffic police said since the work of laying girders for the parallel bridge had to be done, the existing Patripool bridge, which is being used, will remain closed during night hours.The 104-year-old Patripool bridge in Kalyan was dismantled in November 2018 before the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) took up the work of the new bridge. Several deadlines were announced for the completion of the bridge. However, none of them was met. Commuters and activists have been complaining about the delay in building the new bridge as they face traffic snarls on the existing Patripool bridge.The new deadline set by the MSRDC for the completion of the project is August-end.The work of the new Patripool bridge got a boost in May this year as the MSRDC officials planned to use the lockdown period to complete the project.“The bridge will remain shut as the work of laying girders will be undertaken. The existing bridge will be used to park the crane that will lift the girders and lay it for the new bridge. We have given alternative routes which should be followed to avoid any sort of congestion at the site,” said Amit Kale, deputy commissioner of traffic police, Thane.As per the notification from Thane police, heavy vehicles taking the Kalyan-Shil road will not allowed entry at Rajnouli chowk at Bhiwandi naka and will be diverted to Khategaon toll naka-Mumbra bypass road.Small vehicles taking the Shil road will not be allowed entry at Durgadi chowk and will be diverted to Adharwadi chowk-Khadakpada chowk-Waldhuni bridge-Kalyan east.Vehicles coming from Kalyan Nagar route will not be allowed entry at Subhash chowk and will be diverted from Netaji chowk to Waldhuni bridge. Those vehicles leading towards Patripool bridge from Kalyan-Shilphata stretch will not be allowed entry from Suchak naka.Work on the most-awaited new, two-lane Patripool bridge came to a halt on March 23 after the lockdown to fight Covid-19 pandemic was imposed. However, it was resumed by April 2 with minimum workers at the site.An officer from MSRDC , who did not wish to be named, said, ”The work for laying girders will take five days. It will be done during night hours while is no traffic movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-patripool-bridge-work-begins-traffic-prohibited-at-night-till-august-24/story-KSz0VFlpfm4kPKZeMv8LGK.html
20-08-2020||City||Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan show improvement in Swachh ranking||In a marked improvement from the previous year, Thane city ranked 14th in the country and third in the state in the Swachh Survekshan 2020. The city was at the 57th position in the country last year. Navi Mumbai too showed improvement and ranked third in the country and the cleanest in Maharashtra. Kalyan-Dombivli and Ambernath also showed improved ranking compared to the previous year. The jump in ranking for Thane, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) claimed, is owing to increasing the number of community toilets, commissioning five new waste treatment plants and good public feedback. For the past few years, the city’s ranking has suffered due to lack of solid waste management. The city generates around 1,000 metric tonne waste a day, of which 425 metric tonne is wet waste, 375 metric tonne is dry waste and the rest is construction and demolition debris, most of which is dumped at the Diva dumping ground. Deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi said, “The city had ranked 57th last year in the category of cities with population of more than 10 lakh. This year we ranked 14th across the country and third in state, after Navi Mumbai and Nashik, with 4,606.35 points.” The corporation scored well on citizen’s feedback and direct observation, said officials from the solid waste department. An official said, “This year we have commissioned five new waste processing plants, which include plants for composting, wood waste and biomethanisation. These plants are set up at Hiranandani Estate, Vrindavan Society, Kausa, Kalwa and Kopri. The Diaghar biomethanisation plant is also operational. We have reduced the amount of waste dumped in Diva dumping ground which helped us improve the score.” He further said that sanitation was also another point of focus and added, “We have increased the number of community toilets and also ensured that the existing toilets are cleaned regularly. Citizens also gave a positive feedback which improved the ranking.” Residents, however, claimed more needs to be done. “Most of the solid waste processing plants are merely on paper, while waste continues to pile up in nooks and corners of the city. Emphasis should be given on cleanliness of slums, especially in Kalwa and Mumbra. The corporation had beautified roads and footpaths in some areas, but there are not enough dustbins in the city,” said Amol Suryarao, a 37-year-old resident. ‘Residents helped improve ranking’The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has given the credit for ranking as the cleanest city in Maharashtra and third in the country to its residents. The city had ranked seventh last year. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “Navi Mumbai is the only city in Maharashtra to have received a 5-star rating in becoming debris-free city under Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, and is among the top six in the country. We have also received ODF+ (open defection free) rating. The credit should go to the residents who wholeheartedly supported the measures taken by NMMC.” Former NMMC Swachhata Mission Tadartha Committee chairperson Netra Shirke said, “Large housing societies and hotels are producing fertiliser through plants set up within their premises. The same is happening in all civic schools and gardens. Similarly, a zero-waste slum model has been implemented in Ramnagar area of Digha.” Ambernath ranks third in state in smaller cities categoryThe Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) has ranked 18th in the country and third in the state among cities with population of less than 10 lakh as opposed to its last year’s 30th rank in the country. AMC officials claimed proper waste management, management of ghanta gadi, waste composting projects helped in improving the ranking. “The civic body has managed to implement ghanta gadi service efficiently which helped in reducing dumping of waste on roads. Volunteers conducted door-to-door visits to explain waste segregation. We focused on keeping chowks and prominent places in the city clean,” said Prashant Rasal, chief officer, AMC. Kalyan Dombivli ranks 6th in state The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) ranked sixth in the state and 22nd in country, in a marked improvement from previous year’s ranking of 77th in the country. One of the major reasons for improvement in rank is implementing waste segregation rules, decreasing the amount of waste dumped at Adharwadi dumping ground, claim officials from the civic solid waste management department. “Citizen’s participation in waste segregation has improved the rank to some extent. Also some of our waste management projects have begun functioning. Similarly, we have reduced dumping waste at Adharwadi dump yard from 650 metric tonne to 50 metric tonne. We have also began processing dry and wet waste. We have plans to close the dump yard through bio-remediation method, and the work for the same is already under progress,” said Ramdas Kokre, deputy municipal commissioner, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-navi-mumbai-kalyan-show-improvement-in-swachh-ranking/story-cRcNu9wzu5p0F8QC6UZ3mK.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Milind Deora and Devendra Fadnavis agree middle ground in politics has shrunk, ideology has become divisive||Congress party leader and former member of Parliament (MP) Milind Deora on Thursday said that political parties across the spectrum need to encourage “inner party democracy and external democracy” and allow their members the latitude to express their views. “I have never strayed away from party’s core ideological viewpoint but on issues of governance or development... On peripheral issues, I see no harm, regardless of how disciplined a party is, to allow its members to take a different stand unless you are like the party spokesperson. Then you have to be disciplined and your voice is the gospel voice of the party. I could never really be my party’s spokesperson because I am free with my opinions at least on peripheral issues,” said Deora, who is often seen as a voice of dissent within his party. Deora, along with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, were guest speakers at the online launch of ‘India Tomorrow: Conversations with the Next Generation of Political Leaders’ – a book by professor Pradeep Chibber and Harsh Shah, organised by the Centre of Policy Research. During the panel discussion, Fadnavis and Deora agreed on several talking points during this conversation, including that the space for a middle ground in politics has shrunk. “Fifteen or 20 years back, there was no political untouchability. There has been shrinkage of space in politics for people from opposite sides to have a dialogue or discuss. We can have different ideologies but we are not enemies. The situation in Maharashtra is still good, in some southern and northern states, people act like enemies. We need to introspect as to why this is happening, and all of us have to try and change this,” said Fadnavis. Deora asked Fadnavis if he felt that politics had become too extreme and ideologies were too divisive to allow for collaborations across the aisles. On the issue of coalition politics, Fadnavis said that while he could see coalition politics continuing in states for another two decades, he termed the alliance in Maharashtra as “unnatural”. “What is happening in Maharashtra is absolutely unnatural. The three parties are pulling in three different directions and we can feel the heat. There is no decision making, this kind of politics cannot take the state forward. When it was only Congress and NCP, at least there was some cohesiveness, some decision making,” said Fadnavis. However, Deora pointed out that such “unique alliances” are a part of political compulsions and will continue until the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) retains its stronghold in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/milind-deora-and-devendra-fadnavis-agree-middle-ground-in-politics-has-shrunk-ideology-has-become-divisive/story-yIC7fmybsiTR5YwYEwSawL.html
20-08-2020||City||Basement waterlogged, all four lifts in two towers of 17-floor high-rise stops working||Noida: Residents of about 200 apartments in two towers of a high-rise residential complex are in a bind as all four lifts of the towers have stopped working due to water logging in the basement in Noida’s Sector 134. The residents of Jaypee Kosmos have been told to use the stairs instead to go to and come from to their apartments in the towers which have 17 floors each.Sunil Bharadwaj, a resident of Tower KM – 16, who lives with his family on the 16th floor, said: “It rained heavily on Thursday and the complex was waterlogged. The society’s drainage system is poor and choked, due to which the tower’s basement was flooded. Rain water entered about three feet deep in the elevator and the management stopped the lifts,” he said. Both the towers had two lifts each and all four were out of order.Ananda Banerjee, a resident of Tower KM – 15, said he had to use the stairs to come down to collect a courier and go back all the way up to his 11th floor flat. “This is the first time the basement got flooded. The maintenance department must be prepared to avoid such unwanted incidents,” he said. He also demanded a revisit of the fire safety exit in his tower.The developer has so far given possession of flats in 24 towers in the society. Each tower has 17 stories and each floor has six apartments.Bharadwaj said that about 100 families live in each tower and 200 families are affected. “I wanted to take my child out for some work but had to postpone as the lift was not functional. There are some residents who need to visit doctors and attend to emergency calls. How can a person use the stairs all the time if they live on the 17th floor,” he said.The facility management of the complex had informed residents via text message that due to excessive rain on Wednesday and Thursday, rain water has accumulated in the lower basement. When contacted, Ravindra Badesra, head of facility management at Jaypee Kosmos, told HT: “We are using pumps to de-water the area. We hope the problem will be fixed by Friday. We have advised residents to use stairs as we have no other option.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/basement-waterlogged-all-four-lifts-in-two-towers-of-17-floor-high-rise-stops-working/story-pAEUVSmqVQ4MBd6lVx9zEP.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Four cases of theft reported in last 48 hours in Chandigarh||Four cases of thefts were reported from various parts of the city during the last 48 hours.Mohit Sharma, owner of an eatery at Industrial Area Phase 1, Chandigarh reported that unidentified persons stole a mobile phone, two cylinders, six vessels from his shop on the intervening night of August 18 and 19. The thieves reportedly entered the shop after breaking the locks of the main door. A case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) and 457 (whoever commits lurking house) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Industrial Area police station.In a separate incident, Ganpat Lal Thakkar, owner of HPG Systems in Phase-2 reported that someone had stolen six bundles of electric wires, some tools and three cameras after breaking the window grill of his shop on the night intervening August 18 and 19. A case under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC was registered at Sector 31 police station. Another theft was reported by Ashok Chandak of Sector 11, Chandigarh who reported the theft of his bicycle from the parking of Rose Garden, Sector-16, Chandigarh. A case was registered under section 379 of the IPC was registered at Sector 17 police station. While, Rakesh Kumar of Sector 28, Chandigarh, reported that an unknown person stole away the battery from his Zen car and four batteries of cars belonging to his neighbour on the intervening night of August 18 and 19. A case under Sections 379 of the IPC was registered at Sector 26 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-cases-of-theft-reported-in-last-48-hours-in-chandigarh/story-Vywz7LWE6UAGRDPTPYGTbJ.html
20-08-2020||City||Woman killed for dowry, three nabbed, hunt on for 9 others||Police on Thursday arrested three people, including the husband of a 22-year-old woman, who was shot dead at her house in Dadri on August 18 (Tuesday) allegedly for dowry. The arrested suspects were identified as Amir, his brother Aas Mohammad and father Iliyas, all residents of Dadri.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police (Greater Noida) said that on August 18, the victim was found dead with a bullet wound to her abdomen. “The woman’s in-laws had informed police that she had ended her life. However, by the time a police team reached the spot, all the 12 family members had fled the house,” he said.The police had sent the body for a post-mortem and medical reports revealed that she had died due to gunshot injuries wound.The victim, a resident from Inder Nagar in Bulandshar, was seven months pregnant, her family members said. She had married Amir, a resident of Rithori village in Dadri in March 2019.The victim’s brother, Naimuddin, filed a case against Amir, his father Iliyas, mother Habiban, brother Aas Mohammad, sister-in-law Afseena, and seven other family members. He alleged that since the marriage, Amir and his family were demanding Rs 5 lakh as dowry.The police registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 304 b ( dowry death), 498 (detaining a married woman with criminal intent), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code, and section 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act against 12 family members.“On Thursday, police received information about movement of some suspects near Ajayebpur railway station. A team from Dadri police station reached the spot and arrested Amir, Iliyas and Aas Mohammad f. Police also recovered a countrymade gun and a live cartridge from their possession,” Pandey said.Pandey said that the suspects have not revealed the sequence of incident yet nor told them what triggered the murder.“They were produced in a court and sent to judicial custody,” said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-killed-for-dowry-three-nabbed-hunt-on-for-9-others/story-1u2FSy7hG8l7pVe510vnUN.html
20-08-2020||City||PMPML service to resume from Sept 3||Pune: Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will resume its bus service from September 3. “It was decided to start the public transport from September 3. We plan to run 421 buses on 190 routes from 13 depots across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. We are happy that both the civic bodies have given approval to start the service,” said PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-service-to-resume-from-sept-3/story-YNjXnoMMmz4KDoC3Iad6FK.html
20-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Phone survey finds only 14 Covid-19 cases since June 1, residents concerned||A district-level survey being conducted by booth-level officers (BLOs) has found only 14 positive Covid-19 cases till August 18 since its launch on June 1. The outcome of the survey conducted over the phone, whose findings were shared by the district administration, has prompted residents to raise concerns over the way it is being conducted as the tally of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases continues to rise sharply in Ghaziabad.According to the data shared by the administration, the survey spanned over 431,341 households and covered 1,889,043 residents. The survey which is tasked with identifying cases with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) found only 1,149 suspected cases of Covid-19 taking the positivity rate (with respect to the survey) to just 1.21%.District officials said the survey is conducted by the BLOs through a telephonic communication with the local population under their jurisdiction.“The results of the survey by BLOs is almost negligible considering the district is reporting 80 to 100 positive cases daily currently. There is no use of deploying such a huge workforce if the results are not credible. The workforce can be put to more productive works.More importantly many residents including my neighbours and have neither received any calls under the survey,” said colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation.In Ghaziabad, on an average 100 cases are being reported daily in the month of August. The cases are detected through tests conducted at static booths, mobile vans, random camps and also through testing by surveillance teams deployed in containment zones.With 81 new cases in the last-24 hours, Ghaziabad has 6,955 Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 4.93% on August 20.As many as 3,048 BLOs are engaged in the survey, with 237 supervisors who are usually teachers, shiksha mitras (contractual teachers).“The results by the telephonic survey are of little or no use. Door-to-door surveys are much better considering that teams can meet residents in person. If the survey result is low and can’t detect many cases, there is no point in wasting the workforce’s time,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartment RWAs (resident welfare association).When asked about the low outcome of the survey, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “The survey by BLOs is an additional initiative taken up by the administration in order to zero in on suspected cases. The teams are in touch with people over the phone in order to find out about ILI and SARI cases. The survey will continue.”A previous district-level survey, conducted on directions of the UP government from July 2 to July 12, had yielded better results with the detection of 150 positive cases after surveying a population of 38 lakh people in ten days.In contrast to the survey by BLOs, the survey by surveillance teams in containment zones has also produced better results. According to official records shared by the administration, the surveillance teams surveyed 501,449 households and identified 500 suspected cases between July 17 and August 17, and 57 persons were found positive for the infection.“The low results survey by the BLOs is primarily because residents don’t cooperate with them, and usually do not disclose correct information about people in the family having symptoms. The teams which include our teachers are working diligently even as the results are low,” said Anuj Tyagi, state secretary of UP Prathmik Shiksha Sangh—a union of primary school teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-phone-survey-finds-only-14-covid-19-cases-since-june-1-residents-concerned/story-Okhb7toUF4y7y3mxANGguM.html
20-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad among 11 districts selected for sero surveillance||Uttar Pradesh will test a section of the population for antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, an exercise called serological surveillance or sero-surveillance. In the first phase, it launch the exercise in 11 districts, including Ghaziabad.The other districts are Kanpur City, Varanasi, Agra, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Meerut, Moradabad, Lucknow and Baghpat.Sources in the state health department said that an internal communication has been sent to the districts and the exercise will also cover the viral diseases hepatitis-B and hepatitis-C simultaneously. They did not clarify why the department was checking these disease along with the pandemic.A serological survey checks for an immune response against the coronavirus in the form of antibodies in the blood of a random sample of the population. It can help establish how far the disease had spread and how many people fought off the virus without showing symptoms.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had previously conducted an all-India sero-sruvey, the results of which are yet to be published. Cities such as Delhi and Mumbai too had conducted the exercises. The latest in Delhi had found that around 29% of the population had antibodies to fight off the virus.Antibodies generally appear around two weeks after a person has been infected and is expected to last several months. So, the antibody test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates previous infection. For the Uttar Pradesh exercise, the districts have been asked to form 10 teams for collection of samples starting August 26 to August 30. “It basically gives direction to planners to find out whether the surveillance, testing activities need to continue or not,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “The state administration has decided to include Ghaziabad district for the survey and we are expecting a government order soon,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Once the formal government order is issued to the district, two days are required for identification of members of the teams while one more day will be reserved for finalisation of the standard operating procedures. Thereafter, the training session will start and sample collection activities will begin from August 26. “The survey will involve random testing of local population in order to detect whether they developed antibodies or not to Sars-Cov-2. We have started exercise to identify teams and collect data which may be required during the survey,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be quoted. On August 11, Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), had issued directions to officials of nine districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar, for sero-surveillance. According to the directions, National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research was assigned to take up studies in Gautam Budh Nagar district. “The sero-surveillnce teams arrived and activities started 3-4 days ago. They have probably completed the survey and the results are awaited,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-among-11-districts-selected-for-sero-surveillance/story-yKBifoqZUPqeSrvwY2jOcN.html
20-08-2020||City||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Ghaziabad slips six notches to land at 19th spot||Ghaziabad city slipped six position to finish at the 19th spot in Swachh Survekshan 2020 announced by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) on Thursday. On a state level too, the city slipped from the top position to third, with Lucknow and Agra gaining ground.Ghaziabad was evaluated among other cities that had more than 1 million population.“Overall, the city secured 4283.26 marks out of 6000 in the results announced on Thursday,” said Arun Kumar Mishra, accounts officer of the Ghaziabad municipal-corporation and the nodal officer for the survey. Lucknow secured 4728.28 points (nationally 12th rank) and Agra got 4391.51 (nationally 16th).He said that the lack of a waste disposal facility cost them dearly. “That alone lost us about 500 points. Our only landfill site at Pratap Vihar (a composting plant at the site processed 300 metric tonnes of waste daily) closed down on directions of the National Green Tribunal in January, 2019. Ever since, we have not been able to find a permanent site for our solid waste disposal. Secondly, construction is yet to begin for the proposed waste-to-energy plant at Galand. At present we are only dependent on temporary sites for disposal of solid waste,” Mishra said, adding that the city lost its 3-star rating under garbage free city survey under the MoHUA and now had a 1-star rating this May. The district produces about 850-900 metric tonnes of daily solid waste per day.Ghaziabad’s latest ranking was in stark contrast with its recent performances. In 2017, it was ranked 351 nationally, 36th (2nd in state) in 2018 and 13th (1st in state) in 2019.A sign of things to come came in January with the the Swachh Survekshan 2020 league ranking where the city stoodl 32nd nationally in quarter 1 results and 30th in the quarter 2 results. The survey, in its fifth edition, looked at four broad parameters – direct observation (DO) of ground level cleanliness by survey teams, citizens’ feedback (CF), service level progress in terms of provision of services to citizens (SLP) and certifications. Overall, the Ghaziabad district bagged 1069.15 point in SLP, 700 for certifications, 1376 in DO and 1138.11 in citizen feedback. Overall, 1300099 citizens from Ghaziabad provided their feedback for the city during the Swachh Survekshan 2020. However, the points bagged by the city were much higher than the state average of 2246.88 points and also higher than the national average of 2214.38 points under the category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swachh-survekshan-2020-ghaziabad-slips-six-notches-to-land-at-19th-spot/story-PXCm1vjp4pKjJvjDSL7YwO.html
20-08-2020||Noida||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Noida cleanest city in UP, bags 25th spot countrywide||Noida has been ranked as the cleanest city in Uttar Pradesh with a population of less than 10 lakh under the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the Central government’s annual survey, announced on Thursday.Noida also bagged the 25th spot, in the category of cities with a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh, in the survey held by the union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) under Swachh Bharat Mission. This is a considerable improvement from last year when the city bagged the 150th position on the national level in the category.The city, which ranked 15th in the state last year, scored 4433.22 out of 6000 points in the 2020 cleanliness survey.The Noida authority, which is primarily responsible of taking care of infrastructure development and the civic work in the city, said it is taking necessary measures to perform even better in the 2021 survey.“It is a good jump for Noida rising up to the 25th rank in the country from the 150th position it secured last year. We feel that we can perform even better in the future. We have taken multiple steps to make Noida the best city in terms of cleanliness,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.Authority officials said Noida performed well on citizens’ feedback securing 25th spot out of 382 cities that competed in the category (cities with a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh).The Swachhta survey results were delayed in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Noida authority officials. The survey, which covered 4,242 cities and saw the participation of nearly 1.87 crore citizens, was completed in 28 days.Earlier in June 2020, Noida had got a 3-star rating city in a survey of garbage free cities (GFC), also conducted by the Central government under the Swachh Survekshan 2020. Under the (MoHUA), a seven-star rating is the highest, conferred to the city with a perfect waste management system.Noida has around 165 sectors and 65 villages, where daily 900 metric tonnes of waste is produced. The Noida authority started collecting waste door-to-door with the help of 250 vehicles and 21 compact machines which crush waste for its easy transportation in 2018 when the authority started participating in the cleanliness survey seriously. Noida was at the 324th spot in the 2018 ranking and failed to make serious improvements even in 2019 as well.“Initially, there was some error in uploading the data on the city’s efforts in the Swachhta survey. As a result, we could not perform well in the initial rounds. However, we feel Noida is far better than many other cities in terms of cleanliness,” said Maheshwari.“In the last two years, the Noida authority has taken some steps on handling garbage, collecting waste door-to-door, and waste management. Noida could have performed much better in ranking if the authority had taken these measures much earlier,” said PS Jain, president, confederation of Delhi-NCR RWAs (CONRWA), an umbrella body of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs).Nearly 60 community toilets, 140 public toilets, 10 ‘pink’ toilets and 119 urinals were built by the authority in the city, in the last two years, to discourage people from defecating in the open, said officials. It distributed 20,000 home composting kits, installed 2,000 dustbins at different sites, and focused on reducing, reusing, and recycling waste, they added. A bio-remediation plant at Mubarakpur was also set up in Sector 145 to treat waste the city, spread over 20,000 hectares of area, produces with the aim to perform better in the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/swachh-survekshan-2020-noida-cleanest-city-in-up-bags-25th-spot-countrywide/story-eCER2I2abuOhYRj50oG4CO.html
20-08-2020||Noida||Noida sees heaviest rainfall of season; similar spell likely next week||Noida and its adjoining regions saw the heaviest rainfall of the season over the past 24 hours, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting a similar spell over the next five days.Parts of both Noida and Ghaziabad will, however, continue to receive light rain showers over the next three days as well, weather analysts said. According to IMD’s radar-based estimation, Noida received 133 millimetre (mm) and Ghaziabad 144 mm rainfall over the past 24 hours between Wednesday at 8.30am and Thursday at 8.30am, while Greater Noida saw 51.1 mm rainfall over the past 24 hours.With unmanned weather monitoring stations in Ghaziabad and Noida defunct, rainfall is being measured using Doppler Weather Radar (DWR) that uses radar signals to analyse precipitation that covers a 250 km area around Delhi’s Lodhi garden.“Favourable weather conditions have led to such heavy rains over Noida and Ghaziabad region, which have been the heaviest of the season. There were favourable conditions which included passage of low-pressure monsoon trough line from over Delhi-NCR, while at the same time there was also the convergence of south-west winds from the Arabian Sea and south-east and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal. This is one of the most favourable meteorological reasons for the heavy rains. Now, the line of the trough is shifting slowly towards the north of Delhi but the region will see light rain showers in the region due to high moisture,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The deluge of the past 24-hours helped cover 8% of the rainfalldeficit in the rain-deprived Gautam Budh Nagar district. According to IMD’sdata, up to Wednesday, the city had received an average of 26.2 mm rainfallagainst an expected 360.9 mm for the season. By Thursday this climbedto 34.2 mm against an expected 366.7 mm. However, the deficit is still 91%, despite the rainfall till Thursday.Rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5mm is heavy. MORE SPELLS LIKELY NEXT WEEKThe weather department foresees a similar build up during the intertwining night of August 25 and 26, when a similar rain pattern is most likely to hit the region.“More or less similar weather conditions like on Wednesday are likely to form around August 25 and 26. We are watching the movement of the monsoon trough closely and it seems that similar weather conditions favourable for moderate to heavy rains in the region will be formed,” added Srivastava. On Thursday, the mercury stayed well under the season’s average recorded at 29 degrees Celsius, five notches below the season’s average, against 27.7 degrees a day earlier. The IMD predicts maximum temperature to rise further on Friday and likely to hover around 31-32 degrees Celsius. The humidity oscillated between 100 to 94%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sees-heaviest-rainfall-of-season-similar-spell-likely-next-week/story-UlA33sF4StYrmIL5VFzrgM.html
20-08-2020||City||Irked by bad roads, Giaspura residents go on indefinite protest||Raising a hue and cry over the pathetic condition of all the three roads leading to the Giaspura area, residents of different colonies went on an indefinite protest outside the office of Lok Insaaf Party’s (LIP) MLA Balvinder Singh Bains in Kot Mangal Singh area.Residents of different areas including Jeet Singh colony, Azad Nagar, Amardas colony among others said that roads, including PSPCL office road, Oswal road and a road at the backside of Avon cycles lead to Giaspura area are in a bad shape, due to which accidents take place.Adv Ravinder Singh Rawat said, “The roads are in a bad shape for many years and we had also staged a protest against the MC in the past but to no avail. Over 1 lakh residents, mostly migrant workers residing in the area, commute on these roads and accidents take place due to deep potholes. On Thursday, a truck full of construction material overturned in the area. The MC and the MLA are not paying heed to the problem. We will continue our protest until the civic body does not repair these roads.”MLA (Ludhiana south), Balvinder Singh Bains said, “I have already apprised the protesting residents that the work order for constructing the main Giaspura road has been issued. However, the work is going on at a slow pace due to rainy season.”Earlier on August 11, members of the Samajwadi party had also staged a protest against the state government and MC for its in constructing the roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/irked-by-bad-roads-giaspura-residents-go-on-indefinite-protest/story-qqjUoOAC6M1mGjqJUgGl5L.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Braving floods and a boat capsize, Delhi Police nabs two for burglary, recover ₹12 lakh loot||While a family from north-west Delhi was away at native village late last month, to perform the last rites of the head of the household who died of Covid-19, two men broke into their home and made off with ₹10 lakh cash and jewellery. After a harrowing investigation, in which their team braved flood waters and a boat capsize, the Delhi Police on Thursday said they have nabbed the suspects and recovered a part of the loot.“A part of the cash and jewellery was recovered from one of the suspect’s house in Maharjganj district of UP and some of it from a water tank atop the house of another suspect in Delhi,” said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west).Police said the burgled house in Shakurpur in north-west Delhi belonged to 51-year-old Madan Kishore Pathak, an astrologer and a temple priest, who lived with his wife and three children.Pathak’s son Vedank said, “On May 1, my father was diagnosed with Covid-19. He had kidney ailments as well and died on May 10. On the day we cremated him, my mother, my two older sisters and I were found positive for the virus.” After remaining in home isolation for a fortnight, the family left for their native village in Ayodhya to perform Pathak’s last rites. “On July 30, my neighbours saw the windowpane of our house broken and lights inside switched on. They alerted me and we returned to Delhi on June 1,” Vedank said.The family found the house ransacked and ₹10 lakh cash and gold and silver jewellery missing. “The cash was for my father’s kidney transplant and the jewellery was for my sister’s wedding that was scheduled for November,” Vedank said.When the police began their probe, the CCTV footage showed two suspects ,with their faces covered, walking away from the house. “Later, they uncovered their faces, and this helped us identify them,” a senior investigator said.“Our probe revealed that the suspects may fled Delhi. One of them, 19-year-old Nageshwar, belonged to Maharajganj district of Uttar Pradesh,” the investigator said.The police team reached Maharajganj to find the streets under water following heavy rain. “On August 13, the team had to use a boat to ferry their car and themselves from one village to another. But the rain swollen river was difficult to navigate and the boat toppled. The policemen had to swim to safety,” the officer said.Eventually, the police were able to recover ₹3.1 lakh in cash and some jewellery from Nageshwar’s house. The police were then tipped off about the suspects fleeing to Delhi. “On August 14, we arrested Nageshwar and his 21-year-old accomplice, Mohammad Chand, from Shakur Basti. At their instance, we recovered more cash and jewellery hidden in a water tank atop Chand’s house,” the officer said.The police have so far been able to recover ₹12.10 lakh in cash – a little more than what was reported stolen – and some jewellery, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/braving-floods-and-a-boat-capsize-delhi-police-nabs-two-for-burglary-recover-12-lakh-loot/story-DxYvKsJOaGBVqr71VBCcAP.html
20-08-2020||City||AAP to contest Uttarakhand polls||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister and the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the party will contest assembly elections in Uttarakhand, which is likely to be scheduled in 2022.“The Aam Aadmi Party will contest the Uttarakhand assembly elections, which are likely to happen in 2022. We shall field candidates in all (70) seats in the state,” Kejriwal told reporters in Delhi.The hill state is presently ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).He said, “A lot of people from Uttarakhand reside in Delhi. They encouraged us to take this decision. Earlier this year, we conducted a survey and more than 62% people of Uttarakhand responded that they want AAP to contest polls in the state. People there believe in our Delhi model of development. They believe we can make a similar model for Uttarakhand too.”“The state has a major problem of unemployment, which ultimately leads to extremely high migration to other states. Government schools and colleges are in a poor shape and so is the health care infrastructure. These are the three major issues. We are in the process of developing a cadre base in Uttarakhand. We have also learnt that people there have lost hope with the BJP and the Congress,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-to-contest-uttarakhand-polls/story-AdtHwCFudBU5HVnIlp9pUN.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||JNU hostel committees demand waiver of hostel, mess charges||Hostel committee presidents of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) have written to the Dean of Students, demanding a waiver of the hostel and mess charges and urging that a circular asking the students to clear their dues before registering for the monsoon semester be withdrawn.In a related development, the JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) also wrote to the university authorities “to urgently approve and act upon initiating a phased return of students, starting on a priority basis with those stuck in Delhi-NCR and otherwise bona-fide residents and students, and terminal-year research scholars”.They also appealed that research scholars be granted an extension of six months from the date of entry to submit their thesis or dissertations and those who are unable to return to Delhi be given a further extension.The letter of the hostel committees said the JNU administration has initiated the registration process of the monsoon semester 2020 “at a time when the worsening pandemic situation and the administrative response have led to a majority of students not being present on the campus”.“Most of the students left the campus in March after an administrative circular advised them to do so. While they have neither availed mess nor hostel facilities since, they are being arbitrarily and unjustly charged for the same. Similarly, if students have not used hostel facilities such as their rooms, utensils or crockery, the charges are not logical at this juncture,” it said.In a circular issued on August 14, the JNU administration announced the online registration for the monsoon semester and said the students are required to pay all their dues such as tuition fees, hostel fees, mess charges etc.The letter also alleged that huge discrepancies were observed in the mess bills of students.“The residents that remain on campus have not been provided breakfast since the lockdown commenced, yet the mess bill for the students exceed what could be presumed reasonable,” it alleged.It also claimed that the quality of meals, in terms of nutrition and variety, too has been far lower than what is usually provided.“Even though the mess bills have been clearly inflated artificially, the mess secretaries have not been given the opportunity to examine the bills for discrepancies in a clear violation of the provisions of the Hostel Manual,” it said.The letter also stated that even before the lockdown began and the campus was vacated, most of the due fellowships were not disbursed. “Even now, the situation has not improved much, with most students not having received either one or even two semesters of fellowship. In this situation, expecting students to pay mess dues is illogical, while forcing the same is unjust,” it said.The letter appealed to the Office of the Dean of Students to recommend the withdrawal of mess dues, “wherever published, until the same is examined and audited by the concerned mess secretary”.“After the same is done, students should not be coerced to pay the bill until and unless their due fellowships for the last two semesters are disbursed,” it said.According to a JNU official, the students have not received inflated mess bills and have not paid their dues from January to March. He said it is mandatory that the dues are cleared before students are allowed to register for the monsoon semster.The university administration had asked the students to vacate the hostels on March 19 while citing the Covid-19 situation and an order of the Delhi government to close all institutions till March 30.The students’ union urged the JNU authorities to allow the students to return and cited internet connectivity issues in far-flung areas and the absence of laptops and books with students.“For many, JNU provides a more viable place for their research than their family residence. Furthermore, students from Jammu and Kashmir are unable to continue their academics due to the internet speed ban that has been in place there. A similar predicament is faced by students who hail from regions with intermittent internet and electricity access,” the JNUSU said. It added that presuming that the closure would be short, a number of students did not take their laptops and books, and claimed that the university has not even allowed them to return to take their belongings back.“In academic programmes like the Sciences, Computer Application and Geography/Population Studies, it is nearly impossible to write thesis or dissertations without practical work which is inaccessible. Hence, asking the students to submit on December 31 for these reasons is unfair and impossible,” the students’ body said.It urged the university to reconsider its decision and said the Delhi government has already stated that it is willing to play its part in facilitating the entry of students after a proper screening and testing.“More than that, the university has got plenty of space, resources and means to set up isolation centres, quarantine facilities and other related logistics. Many other universities have initiated plans to facilitate a phased return of research students,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnu-hostel-committees-demand-waiver-of-hostel-mess-charges/story-Wst26lpblWe9fd9fBdJCyL.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||PU senators seek action against syndicate members for holding press conference||As many as 21 senators of Panjab University (PU) have written to Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore, demanding action against the syndicate members who held a press conference at the university on Tuesday.The members of the PU syndicate, which is the apex executive body of the university had held the conference, after they staged a dharna to demand the documents on the basis of which the senate elections were postponed.The letter, which was written by 21 senators, including Subhash Sharma, Sanjay Tandon and Gurdip Sharma on Thursday, stated that syndicate members Navdeep Goyal, Ashok Goyal and Keshav Malhotra had deliberately organised a press conference in violation of the guidelines of the Chandigarh administrator.”Goyal said, “On Monday evening, we went to the registrar office seeking documents on the postponement of senate polls but the documents were not shared with us till late night and we kept waiting at the registrar office. The next day, when mediapersons came up with queries, we addressed them.”Meanwhile, the syndicate members met vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Thursday and demanded a special syndicate meeting to discuss the issue of deferring the senate polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-senators-seek-action-against-syndicate-members-for-holding-press-conference/story-iape89nTmFvfNQi17v1GTI.html
20-08-2020||City||Ludhiana Police chief bans taking a dip in water bodies||Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal imposed a ban on diving in the river, canal, ponds and other water bodies on Thursday. In an order issued, the commissioner of police said that due to monsoon water level has risen in the water bodies. People, especially children, take a dip in the water for fun. In some of the cases, people have lost their lives due to drowning. Sensing the situation he imposed a ban on diving in water bodies. The orders will be effective for two months.He also added that legal action would be taken against the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-chief-bans-taking-a-dip-in-water-bodies/story-wfqHYT9FSqKyGL2rK4rxeI.html
20-08-2020||City||Vigilance closure report in 2018 PTU case says further probe waste of time||Jalandhar Over two years after Punjab vigilance bureau arrested Rajneesh Arora, former vice-chancellor of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (PTU), Kapurthala, for allegedly committing major financial irregularities and administrative lapses during his tenure as V-C in January 2018, the department filed a closure report in the case on August 3. Nine others had also been booked.“If the charge-sheet would be filed in court in the case, there is dim possibility of its success, which would waste the time of court,” reads the closure report that Hoshiarpur vigilance deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Dalbir Singh has filed in the Kapurthala court. Eight of 10 accused, including V-C Arora, had links with the RSS and the BJP.The vigilance had registered the case following an inquiry report that former IAS officer Surjit Singh Dhillon had submitted to the state government, indicting Arora for financial irregularities and bypassing norms to appoint consultants. Arora had remained V-C from 2008, getting a three-year extension in 2011.The vigilance FIR claimed that Arora made a payment of Rs 25 crore from the varsity to a private company, M/S NETiiT, as counselling fees, without following financial rules. In the closure report, the vigilance says that the board of governors of varsity had accepted the audit reports, after being put up before the finance committee. “As per the probe so far, neither any connivance has been found nor has there been any personnel benefit to Arora, which caused any financial loss to the varsity,” the closure report says. The vigilance also investigated the claim of Arora appointing six coordinators and facilitators, arbitrarily, without publishing any advertisement and of paying Rs 9.3 crore to them over two years. On this, the closure report says that the recruitment was either as per rules as no evidence could be found for the police file. Arora was also accused of causing a loss of Rs 1.6 crore to the varsity by opening the office of the Indian Institute of Excellence Programme in Delhi. The closure report, however, says that there was no audit note, reflecting that there was wastage of Rs 1.6 crore. On this basis, the vigilance gave a clean chit to Arora. On the vigilance closure report, the additional and district sessions court has issued notice to all 10 accused for September 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vigilance-closure-report-in-2018-ptu-case-says-further-probe-waste-of-time/story-sxcnyvkLaJQHHndF65me0M.html
20-08-2020||City||Trucks with illegal mining material should not be let off easily: HC||Chandigarh Trucks carrying illegal mining material should not be let off easily, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said, while dismissing the bail pleas of 18 accused in a case reported in SBS Nagar. The high court bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi observed that the confiscation of the vehicles will not be dependent solely on the basis of conviction of the accused, when the use of the vehicles for illegal mining may be proved by documentary evidence. The court was hearing bail pleas of 18 persons filed in June against an FIR registered in May 2020. The petitioners are alleged to be owners/drivers of 29 tippers (out of which eight tippers were filled with sand), two Poclain machines, two canters and one motorcycle found on the unauthorised site for illegal mining. It also came before court that since April, 201 FIRs have been registered and 299 vehicles have been confiscated. Seeing the gravity of the situation, the court had made director, department of mines and geology, Punjab as party in the case. “Due to undesirable human interference with forces of nature, calamities, which were a few years back considered to be un-scientific fiction or remote possibilities, have turned into harsh realities and become nightmares in many parts of the world, endangering human life and even posing a threat to the very existence of mankind if remedial measures are not taken,” the bench observed, adding that remedial steps by the state be taken in two weeks and court be informed of the same.MEASURES LISTED OUT BY STATE BEFORE COURTFor monitoring movement of vehicles, the mining department is developing a portal for online booking, registration and tracking of vehicles. Punjab has requested the Centre for implementing the mining surveillance system. The District Legal Committee and the District Level Environment Management Cell are to be substituted by District Mineral Foundation. DCs have been told to conduct review meetings on status of complaints and FIRs registered. DCs told to take action against officials for non-filing/delay in filing of FIRs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trucks-with-illegal-mining-material-should-not-be-let-off-easily-hc/story-qU2ZBBIABgSkSHKlgENVZN.html
20-08-2020||City||35th death anniversary of Longowal: Govt, SAD and Dhindsa pay separate tributes||Longowal (Sangrur) The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the SAD (Democratic) and the Punjab government marked the 35th death anniversary of former SAD chief Sant Harchand Singh Longowal that fell on Thursday in separate events at Longowal village on Thursday. The SAD held an event at Gurdwara Kambowal Sahib where Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Gobind Singh Longowal, acting jathedar of the Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh and other SAD leaders paid tributes to Longowal. Rebel Akali and SAD (D) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa organised their function at Gurdwara Bhai Mani Singh in Longowal village. Punjab forests and minorities minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir paid their homage to Longowal at the grain market.Dhindsa alleged that SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal was not acquainted with the personality and philosophy of Longowal. “Sukhbir has no concern with the politics of Sant Longowal. He does not even know who Longowal was? The performance of SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal is zero as he is the yes-man of Sukhbir Badal,” he said. He also claimed that former CM Parkash Singh Badal and Gurcharan Singh Tohra were against the Rajiv-Longowal accord, but they had reached compromise just a day before the Sant’s assassination. Former finance minister and Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa alleged that the SAD distributed tickets to rich candidates during assembly elections, which was never part of its politics.Terming the SGPC as an independent body, its president Longowal rubbished Dhindsa’s allegations. “Dhindsa is travelling in Punjab with an agenda and falsely accusing Badals. Dhindsa has great greed for power. He never noticed such wrongdoings a year back,” the SGPC president claimed. Addressing the gathering of few people, minister Dharamsot said that Sant Longowal had laid down his life for peace and prosperity of Punjab, and he would be remembered by people for centuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35th-death-anniversary-of-longowal-govt-sad-and-dhindsa-pay-separate-tributes/story-wnMczRIYPtspVvNftNYDHO.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||PhD scholars to be allowed to return to hostels in phased manner: DU||The Delhi University (DU) Thursday recommended all its hostels to allow PhD scholars to return in a phased manner. The administration’s fresh set of guidelines has also asked hostel authorities to “minimise” running expenses since very few students are staying on campus presently. The DU advisory, however, has not specified any date from when scholars can start returning and has left this to the discretion of individual hostels.While a majority of students residing in the 21 DU hostels left for their homes after the university closed in March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, some of them could not do so because of the nationwide lockdown and the restrictions on travel. In the guidelines issued on Thursday, DU advised all hostels to allow registered bona fide PhD students to return to hostels in a phased manner. “The first preference may be given to senior PhD students followed by other PhD students in a phased manner. However, such residents will have to mandatorily self quarantine for 14 days in their rooms, following which they would be screened at the on-campus health centre,” read the notice issued by the university’s assistant registrar (colleges) on Thursday.“After the completion of the quarantine, hostels are advised to allow such PhD students to attend their respective research laboratories,” it added.The DU has also advised all hostels to minimise their running expenses. “Hostels which are located within a common hostel complexes or located nearby may opt for the centralised security, sanitation, garden and office staff/services to minimise their running expenses. Hostels with a very few residents may arrange for ‘packed food’ or ‘tiffin’ delivery from adjacent hostels (as per the printed/actual meal charges) in order to minimise mess operating expenses,” the notice further stated.The hostels have also been advised not to charge mess fee from students during their absence. However, students will have to pay 50% of the monthly electricity and water charges for the entire duration of their absence from the hostel. Students have objected to this. Dewanshi, a resident of an undergraduate hostel for girls in DU, said, “We understand that the university needs money to run the hostel but we believe that during these uncertain and unprecedented times, the onus of paying wages and maintenance of the hostel should not fall on students. We are also going through this crisis and many students are facing financial adversities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/phd-scholars-to-be-allowed-to-return-to-hostels-in-phased-manner-du/story-2qi7l7K4El4G2EDKzKTyPL.html
20-08-2020||City||Ten lose battle to Covid-19, 398 others test positive in Ludhiana||As many as 398 people tested positive for Covid-19 while 10 people lost their lives to the virus in Ludhiana on Thursday.The city’s death toll currently stands at 280 while the infection tally has reached 7,686. The active case tally stands at 2,285, with 5,118 patients recovering so far. Out of the 280 Covid fatalities reported in the district till date, 192 were reported in the month of August alone. Thursday’s fatalities include a 71-year-old woman from Shibpuri, a 62-year-old man from Abdullahpur Basti, a 60-year-old man from Kabir Nagar, a 59-year-old man from Preet Nagar, a 57-year-old man from Rishi Nagar, a 55-year-old man from Tajpur Road, a 54-year-old man from Shastri Nagar, a 42-year-old man from Azad Nagar, a 36-year-old man from New Kuldip Nagar, and a 21-year-old man from Samrala Road. Among those who were tested were 107 patients with influenza-like illness (ILI), 97 contacts of already positive patients, 67 patients referred from OPD, five police personnel, 11 health-care workers, five domestic travelers, an undertrial and 10 pregnant women.AYALI INTERACTS ON FACEBOOKMeanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali, who had tested positive on August 11, interacted with his followers via Facebook and shared his medical condition. He said he was following the doctor’s advise and staying positive. He also advised residents not to panic in case they find themselves suffering from the virus. The Dakha MLA also urged residents to wear mask, maintain social distance and wash hands regularly to keep the virus at bay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ten-lose-battle-to-covid-19-398-others-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-ArclZkFtTmvXSMW12gIk0K.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda cleanest city in state for 3rd year in a row; slips nationally||Bathinda Bathinda has emerged as the cleanest city of Punjab for the third consecutive year, but its national ranking at 79th has seen a steep fall from 31st position in 2019. In 2018, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s assembly constituency was not even in the top 100, securing the 104th position. Municipal commissioner Bikram Shergill said the corporation team worked hard, but the interpretation of ‘garbage-free city’ lead to loss of points. “As per Swachh Survekshan parameters, a commercial ward requires sweeping twice a day. Certain areas in the old locality of Bathinda have shops, even in residential areas. An independent agency hired by the central authorities said such areas are considered commercial areas and not residential zones. On this account, Bathinda lost 1,000 points. We will analyse to match up to given standards,” said Shergill, adding that garbage collection remained functional and hygiene levels were maintained in the city limits, even during lockdown, he added.Ferozepur, at 96th position, registered a considerable improvement as it ranked 174 in 2019.Muktsar, the home town of SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal did not change much. This time it was placed number 135 whereas, in 2019, the city had ranked 138. Moga city has secured 148th position; it ranked 185 rank last year.Abohar, the hometown of Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, has been tagged as the third filthiest local body among 382 municipalities graded across the country. Its All-India position is 380, and it is ranked 14th in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-bathinda-ferozepur-among-top-100-clean-cities-in-country-but-abohar-among-the-dirtiest-towns/story-mmY9XAZ4TDAQcydjMomO3K.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra committed to protect, conserve Western Ghats, says CM||The Maharashtra government is committed to protect and conserve the biodiversity of Western Ghats, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Thursday.He said the Centre will be notified on exclusion of villages in the eco-sensitive area for protection of biodiversity of the Western Ghats.Thackeray was speaking at a meeting on Western Ghats biodiversity conservation.The chief minister said he has asked the forest department to conduct a drone survey to find out if any non- forest activity is being conducted in the sensitive area.Residents of villages coming under the route of transit of tigers and other wildlife should be rehabilitated elsewhere, he said.Before finalising the Western Ghats eco-sensitive area, a drone survey will be carried out in 62 villages, state forest minister Sanjay Rathod said at the meeting which was chaired by Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-committed-to-protect-conserve-western-ghats-says-cm/story-e4xG8WJC03yClqXvUdtDDO.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal’s ‘Delhi model’ improved Covid-19 situation: Govt||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s ‘Delhi model’ of tackling Covid-19 has led to significant improvement in the situation and the national capital’s case doubling rate has gone up to 101.5 days as against 28.8 days for the rest of India, an official statement said on Thursday.The case fatality rate in Delhi for the month of August has also come down substantially to 1.4 per cent, as against 1.92 for rest of the country, it said, adding that the recovery rate in Delhi is 90.2 per cent as compared to 72.5 for rest of the country.A large drop has also been witnessed in positivity rate between June 18 and August 16, the statement said. The positivity rate of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests both have seen a “sharp decrease”, claimed the statement.“The efforts made by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to deal with the Covid-19 situation in Delhi are showing successful results. Delhi’s position is much better than the rest of the country, the statement said.At present, the doubling rate of coronavirus cases in Delhi has gone up to 101.5 days as compared to the rest of the country which stands at 28.8 days, it said. Moreover, the mortality rate in Delhi has also considerably decreased due to the multiple efforts being made by the chief minister to bring the death figures to zero, it said.  In a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) held on Wednesday, the Health department of the Delhi government presented fresh data regarding the coronavirus situation in Delhi.  “The figures are not only strengthening the case for Delhi Model’s success in defeating coronavirus but also bringing relief to the residents of Delhi,” it said.  “The chief minister is closely monitoring the evolving situation of the COVID pandemic in Delhi,” it added.In the month of June,  there was “panic” in Delhi over COVID but the situation is showing a lot of improvement now, the statement claimed.  “On July 1, the doubling rate of Corona cases in Delhi was the same as with the rest of India at 20 days. Since then, the doubling rate of Delhi has been steadily rising. It was 58 days on July 17, around 90 days on August 1, and has currently increased to 101.5 days. In comparison, for the rest of India, the doubling rate has remained between 20 and 27 days since July 1,” the statement claimed .While reiterating that the situation of coronavirus is improving in Delhi,  Arvind Kejriwal has maintained that the main aim of the authorities and the Delhi government is to save as many lives as possible.  “For this, many improvements have been made inside the hospitals such as ramping up the infrastructure, increasing ICU beds and wards, and supplying oxygen concentrators to patients recovering in hospitals as well as home isolation,” it said.  “The recovery rate of Delhi on June 20, was same as the rest of India at 55.2 per cent. Since then, the recovery rate of Delhi has been consistently higher than the rest of India.  “Currently, the recovery rate in Delhi is 90.2 per cent as compared to 72.5 per cent recovery rate for the rest of India. Out of a total of 1,57,354 cases in Delhi, 1,41,826 cases have recovered, which shows a significant improvement in the Corona situation in the city,” it said.  The “success of Delhi Model” is also seen in the sharp decrease in test positivity rate over last two months. On 18 June, the test positivity rate in Delhi was 24.59 per cent, which reduced substantially to 5.25 per cent on  August 16, the statement said.  “More importantly, the positivity rate has dropped for both RT-PCR tests and Rapid Antigen Tests,” it claimed.“On June 18 , a total of 9,088 RT-PCR tests were conducted of which 2,804 were positive - a positivity rate of 30.85 per cent. However, on August 16,  out of total 4,106 RT-PCR tests  conducted, 434 were positive - a positivity rate of 10.57 per cent, it claimed.  It added that similarly on June 18, 3,316 Rapid tests were conducted in Delhi of which 247 emerged positive - a positivity rate of 7.42 per cent. The positivity rate improved to 3.24 per cent, on August 16, as out of total 10,882 Rapid tests  353 were positive, claimed the government statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-s-delhi-model-improved-covid-19-situation-govt/story-aqdFV5vw9Q1gjZWHUj9HfO.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||PU offers one-year course on inclusive education||Panjab University is all set to offer a one-year postgraduate diploma in inclusive education from 2020-21 academic session.The course will be run by Panjab University’s department of education. “The diploma course will follow a choice-based credit system having two semesters,” said Professor Kirandeep Singh, chairperson of the education department. A candidate with 50% aggregate marks in graduation (any stream) is eligible to apply. Also, relaxation of 5% marks will be given to the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), backward class and physically-disabled candidates. The course has a total of 25 seats which include 15 seats for NRIs/Foreign Nationals and 10 seats for Indian nationals.The course is primarily for NRIs/Foreign Nationals but also open to Indian nationals as per the availability of seats. The seats remaining vacant either under NRIs/Foreign Nationals or Indian Nationals category, as the case may be, are interchangeable. In the case of Indian Nationals, the Panjab University reservation policy will be applicableThe last date for submission of duly filled application form is August 31 which is available on the website of PU’s education department.The candidates must send the admission form along with all the documents at dinc_edu@pu.ac.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-offers-one-year-course-on-inclusive-education/story-7NYJHeCPMyh3tpbgpWg4dM.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Producers’ association seeks permission from Chandigarh adviser to resume shooting||To kick-start the film and entertainment industry, Panj-Aab Line Producers’ Association has sought permission from Chandigarh adviser Manoj Kumar Parida to resume shooting in the city.In the missive written to the UT adviser, the association members made him aware of the grim situation of the film and entertainment industry which is reeling under an economic crisis.Chairman Laljit Gill said, “Our industry is suffering huge losses and is in very bad shape. Many workers related to the industry, who mainly work on daily wages have lost their livelihood and many have left the profession. While considering these issues, the Punjab government has already allowed shooting in the state while other states like Maharashtra, Haryana, Goa, etc have also resumed the shooting in their respective areas.”General secretary Parveen Kumar said, “We are prepared to take all the preventive measures at the shoots to keep the virus at bay. We will adhere to the guidelines and norms issued by the Chandigarh administration in this regard.”The association’s delegation said that even film tourism which was a major industry has received a setback. Gill said, “We will engage the bare minimum professionals at the spot of the shoot, we plan to use sanitisation tubes, sanitisers, maintain social distancing and make use of masks compulsory for the entire crew; only character artists will be allowed to remove masks during takes and this too with proper social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/producers-association-seeks-permission-from-chandigarh-adviser-to-resume-shooting/story-Os9jBXJOoJkJCMCQcyxDOJ.html
20-08-2020||City||Delhi’s municipal bodies to start mega drive against dengue, chikungunya and malaria||New Delhi: Delhi’s three municipal corporations— north, east and south — will launch a mega campaign against vector-borne diseases such as dengue, chikungunya and malaria from August 25.All seven members of Parliament from the city, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs and party councillors will be part of the “awareness cum preventive” campaign.The announcement was made at a joint press conference of the three mayors of the north, east and south Delhi municipal corporations.North mayor Jai Prakash said since the monsoon is in full swing, rainwater gets accumulated at empty patches of land, roadsides and even on rooftops of buildings, which provides a conducive atmosphere for the breeding of the aedes aegypti mosquitoes, known for spreading dengue, malaria and chikungunya.He said the campaign will focus on making people aware about vector-borne diseases and take preventive measures to control the spread of mosquitoes. “The mega campaign will start on August 25 and continue till September 30. All our seven MPs, all BJP MLAs and party councillors from the three civic bodies will participate with other municipal staff. They all will visit households and appeal to the public not to let water accumulate and discourage mosquito breeding. We will distribute pamphlets carrying information about preventive measures to be taken by people for dengue, malaria and chikungunya,” Prakash said.Prakash said DBC (domestic breeding checkers) employees have checked 71,65,882 houses and sprayed anti-mosquito drugs at 2,04,429 places. Mosquito larvae were found in 21,339 houses. Notices have been sent to 16,642 and challans issued to 360 people and households.According to civic records, 41 cases of dengue, 26 cases of chikungunya and 48 cases of malaria has been reported till August 17 this year in the national capital. No death has been reported. In 2019, as many as 111 cases of malaria, 57 cases of dengue and 20 cases of chikungunya were reported. The three civic agencies have around 5,000-6,000 DBC and malaria unit workers. The municipalities have a strength of around 71,000 sanitation employees. East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain said the entire machinery of the three municipalities will visit every household to check if water has accumulated in the buildings. Fogging exercises and spraying of anti-larva solution has already started in most of localities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-municipal-bodies-to-start-mega-drive-against-dengue-chikungunya-and-malaria/story-yy1Yo1fjOABwgE2CisZhUO.html
20-08-2020||City||Delhi HC notice to govt, north MCD on delayed salaries of hospital workers||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Delhi government and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to respond to a petition filed by the Hospital Employees Union of the civic body, seeking a direction for the immediate release of their pending salaries.A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad also issued notices to both the authorities on a petition by the union that comprises employees working in the civic body hospitals.Appearing for the petitioners, advocate Rajiv Agarwal contended that the authorities were not paying timely salaries to Group C and Group D employees even during the Covid pandemic when their workload increased manifold and the staff became more vulnerable to the infection.The counsel said while Group C employees have not been paid for May, June and July, Group D employees have not got their dues for June and July. “For the past five to six years, the respondent No. I (NrDMC) has made a habit of paying salary to the employees concerned after a delay of two to three months. It is submitted that delay in payment of salary has become a chronic problem with NrDMC,” the plea claimed.The plea said the employees and unions made various representations in June and July but no action was taken. It said the union and employees, considering their responsibility to other citizens, are not resorting to coercive industrial actions such as strike and seeking the court’s help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-notice-to-govt-north-mcd-on-delayed-salaries-of-hospital-workers/story-W018wPX8OFPrfD1B5VkwxJ.html
20-08-2020||City||Poultry, meat products unlikely to transmit Covid-19: GADVASU V-C||The World Animal Health Organisation (OIE), Indian Meat Science Association, and department of animal husbandry and dairying, government of India issued a notification stating that poultry has no role in the transmission of Covid-19 to humans. This information was shared by Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana. He revealed that scientific findings clearly indicate that coronavirus is known to spread through human to human interactions. However, the person suffering from Covid-19 infection should be screened and not be allowed to handle either domestic animals or any food products whether of plant/animal origin or even cooked. They may cause secondary surface contamination of the products. Dr Singh emphasised that farmworkers, milkers, milk/meat handlers, butchers, dairy and meat industry personnel should be screened regularly and anyone showing symptoms of fever, cough, nausea, diarrhea and difficulty in breathing should not be allowed to enter the farm and meat/dairy industry premises. The infected persons should immediately consult the doctor and quarantine themselves. All the workers should be instructed to follow the general hygiene of frequent sanitisation and washing hands, wearing masks, and avoid spitting, sneezing, and coughing in public places to prevent the spread of disease. Everybody should take a protein-rich immunity booster diet to increase their strength to fight against the disease. The V-C urged the public to stop forwarding fake videos without ascertaining the facts. Undue fear among people adversely affects the demand for eggs and poultry meat or other products, and consumers will be deprived of good affordable sources of protein. Further, food products including milk, meat and poultry products should be consumed after proper cooking only, so that all the infectious agents including viruses may be killed. The general principles of food hygiene and proper cooking must be followed as per the suggestions of WHO/OIE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poultry-meat-products-unlikely-to-transmit-covid-19-gadvasu-v-c/story-9EVkE6tL2qIaTyfQZAogCN.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||2 booked for theft of NRI’s passport and extortion of ₹1.5 lakh||One man claiming to be a tantrik (carrying out occult practices) and the other a ragi (religious singer) were booked for theft and extorting money from a 74-year-old non resident Indian (NRI) staying at a gurdwara in Sector 30, and an arrest was made.Harmeet Singh alleged in a police complaint that Joga Singh and Gurmukh Singh from Ludhiana had extorted Rs 1.5 lakh from him. He said he was and NRI and lived with his children in the US and stayed at the Naamdhari Gurudwara whenever he visited Chandigarh. The NRI met Joga (42) from Ludhiana and Gurmukh, a ragi, about two months back in Samrala. They claimed to be tantriks and said they would perform rituals for the benefit of his children who were facing problems while settling in the US. The duo had even asked him to bring gold to the Bhakra Canal in Nangal and throw it in “running water” as part of the rituals and Harmeet claimed that he had given them gold bangles weighing 5 tolas.It was also alleged that Joga and Gurmukh had come to meet him at the gurdwara on July 10 and had stolen his passport, green card for the US and other documents from his room when he had gone out to get water.When he had asked the duo to return the documents, he said they asked him for Rs 1.5 lakh.The NRI filed his police complaint after paying them, following which Joga was arrested, while Gurmukh is yet to be traced. Joga was produced before the court and remanded to two day police custody. Police have registered a case under sections 380 and 384 of the Indian Penal Code at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-booked-for-theft-of-nri-s-passport-and-extortion-of-1-5-lakh/story-E9Sqa5VwW66J8xUvk23PDL.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three held for arranging gambling parties in Ludhiana||Police arrested three men on Wednesday for arranging gambling parties at a farm house in Basant Avenue. Dice and tokens worth Rs 2.6 lakh were recovered from their possession.The accused have been identified as Gagandip Singh alias Raju Shehanshah of Phase 2, Dugri; Raj Kumar alias Raju of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Sukhwinder Pal Singh Sehgal of Ahata Mohd Tahir, near CMC Hospital.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the sadar police arrested them near Flower Chowk following a tip-off. When frisked, the police recovered dice and tokens used for setting bets.During questioning, the accused told police they arranged the parties at the farm house of a man named Pappu and invited people for putting bets. The police chief added that the accused have duped people of their hard earned money. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-held-for-arranging-gambling-parties-in-ludhiana/story-16ikejS1VCf5lAXlrEHt1N.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||966 fresh cases push Haryana’s Covid-19 tally to nearly 51,000||Haryana on Thursday registered its highest single-day spike of 996 coronavirus cases, just a day after it recorded 994 infections, taking the total number of cases to 50,926, while the state’s death toll rose to 578 with eleven more Covid-19 fatalities.It was for the fourth straight day that the state recorded a big spike in cases. On Tuesday, the state had registered 896 cases and on Monday 887 infections were reported.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOf the eleven fatalities reported on Thursday, three were from Karnal, two each from Faridabad and Panipat, while one person each died in Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Jind districts, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Also read: Noida’s Covid-19 tally reaches 6,776; death toll at 43Meanwhile, among the districts which reported fresh cases include Panchkula (114), Gurugram (111),  Panipat (98), Ambala (92), Faridabad (88), Rohtak (72), Yamunanagar, Sonipat and Rewari (50 each) and Karnal (58), according to the bulletin.The number of active cases in the state are 7,555, while 42,793 Covid-19 patients have been discharged after recovery.As of Thursday, the state’s recovery rate was 84.03 percent while the rate of doubling of infections was 33 days. The state has a fatality rate of 1.13 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/966-fresh-cases-push-haryana-s-covid-19-tally-to-over-50-000/story-iWneaeuCRpeDoeswYiEglO.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man accused of vehicle lifting escapes from police station in Ludhiana||A man arrested for vehicle lifting, lodged at the Tibba police station lock up, outsmarted the cops and managed to escape, late on Wednesday night. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jaspal Singh, investigating officer in the case, said the accused, Jaswant Singh, of Guru Teg bahadur Colony was arrested on August 13 for vehicle lifting and kept in the lock up.Constable Ram Singh, who is on duty at Tibba police station said Jaswant Singh requested him to take him to the washroom. When a home guard on duty, Jawan Nirmal Singh, took him to the washroom, the accused pushed him and fled after scaling the compound wall. They chased him, but he managed to escape.The ASI added that a case has been registered under Sections 223, (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of IPC against Jaswant Singh and home guard Jawan Nirmal Singh at Tibba police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-accused-of-vehicle-lifting-escapes-from-police-station-in-ludhiana/story-Na0MiUpLH7xStF5YebF8MN.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Security cover of slain YAD leader’s family reduced||After the bhog ceremony of slain Youth Akali Dal leader, Ravinder Singh alias Sonu, police have reduced the security cover provided to his family. Earlier, two police officers had been deputed for the security of the family. But, after the ceremony, it has been reduced to only one. Sonu’s mother Ranjit Kaur, sarpanch of Seh village of Samrala, whose younger son had also been murdered 17 months ago, said she is a target of the accused as she is pursuing the murder cases of her sons. “I had requested Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh for more security cover, but to no avail,” she said. She alleged that the police are hand in glove with the accused. Police had given a clean chit to Harjinder Singh alias Jinder, Bikramjit Singh alias Vicky, Amandeep Singh and another accused for the murder of her younger son, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gura She, who was killed on March 23, 2019. They are also accused for Sonu’s murder and so far police have arrested only two accused while the others are still at large. “After gunning down my elder son, Sonu, on August 11, the accused had openly challenged that they will kill his wife and 17-year-old son also. They had opened fire in the air near her house minutes after murdering my son,” she alleged. “After I had brought this to the notice of the police, two officers were deputed outside my house for security. After Sonu’s bhog ceremony, it has been reduced to only one,” she added. The sarpanch added that her 17-year-old grandson is the only male member in the family and they have not allowed him to go out of the house after his father’s murder. Former Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Jagjivan Singh Khirniya said that the police should arrest all the accused immediately and provide security to family of the victims. Ravinder Singh Sonu, 38, the Samrala rural unit president of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD), was murdered at Seh village in Ludhiana district on August 11, 17 months after his younger brother Gurpreet Singh, alias Gura She, was hacked to death on March 23, 2019. The accused are Congress supporters and allegedly murdered the siblings over a political rivalry. When contacted, Khanna senior superintendent of police Harpreet Singh said that one of the gunmen deputed in the security of family has gone to his village to bring his belongings. He has returned to his duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/security-cover-of-slain-yad-leader-s-family-reduced/story-tKmvhlIKFYNFNmUMbuyd0L.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||ASHA warriors in Ludhiana facing hard time at work amid residents’ apathy||ASHA workers, also termed front-line Covid warriors, are facing a hard time in fulfilling their duties. As the number of infections rise in the district, their problems at work are also increasing. Residents of micro-containment zones, particularly affluent classes, are posing a major impediment for the health department in conducting surveys. Many residents are either not opening the door or threatening health workers against pasting stickers outside their houses. Currently, there are 31 micro-containment zones in the city. ASHA workers are visiting these areas to get details of residents living there. The attack on a health worker, Mastan Singh, at Prabhu Da Dera in Khanpur village on August 12, has highlighted how health care workers are being treated cruelly, said Harmeet Kaur, an ASHA worker with mobile team no six of the health department. “In Haibowal, our colleague was scolded by a woman when she was conducting survey of houses to collect details of residents living in an area where a family was found infected by coronavirus,” Kaur said. “Recently, the family of a Covid patient in civil lines started yelling at us when we pasted a sticker outside their house. They told us to remove it and started dropping names of senior officials. As we refused to remove the sticker, a youngster came out of the house and peeled it off in front of us,” another ASHA worker said. Dr Parminder Kaur, in-charge of mobile team number 1, from civil surgeon’s office, also complained about the indifferent attitude of people. “We visited Rajguru Nagar to collect samples from micro-containment zones, but people are not cooperating. They told us that they are responsible for their health, and would provide sample only if they showed symptoms of the virus,” she said. Balbir Kaur, president of the ASHA workers’ Union, said, “We are facing a real challenge in posh localities where people who are suppose to be educated lot of society are reluctant to come forward for tests. Most of the times they do not open the door and if they do they speak rudely. We have brought the matter to the authorities and demanded that a medical officer should accompany the ASHA worker,” she said. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, expressing his anguish over the situation, said that ASHA workers are putting their life at risk to save others and people should empathise with them.“People living in micro-containment zones should come forward and get tests done. So far, it has been observed that asymptomatic patients have been a carrier and end up infecting patients with comorbidities. The health department employees are visiting micro-containments zone and asking people to get their tests done but people are still not coming forward,” the civil surgeon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asha-warriors-in-ludhiana-facing-hard-time-at-work-amid-residents-apathy/story-l4D9ZeKi1gzouNC8QnD2QI.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Solan accounts for a quarter of Himachal’s Covid case load||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally rose to 4,538 with 127 more people testing positive for the disease since Wednesday night, health officials said on Thursday. Sixty-four cases were reported in Solan, 24 in Sirmaur, 19 in Mandi, seven in Hamirpur, six in Una, three each in Chamba and Kangra and one in Solan. Of the 64 cases in Solan, 22 were registered on Wednesday and 42 on Thursday. Solan had recorded the steepest single-day spike among all 12 districts in the state with 73 new cases on Wednesday. Of these, 39 cases were reported from the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt. Most of them are industrial workers besides 12 police personnel. On Thursday too, the maximum cases were from BBN. Earlier, Solan had recorded 69 cases in a day on July 14. With this, the district’s coronavirus tally so far has reached 1,097. It is the worst hit among the 12 districts of the state and alone carries 24% caseload in Himachal Pradesh. Also, the hill state had witnessed its steepest single-day spike on Wednesday with a total of 198 cases. Earlier, the highest spike was on August 16 when 163 people tested positive across the state. Meanwhile, in Mandi maximum cases have been reported from Balh and Sundernagar. Sirmaur cases are mostly from Paonta Sahib. Two people have tested positive in Dalhousie area of Chamba and one in Tissa sub-division. TWO FATALITIES, DEATH TOLL 21 Two more people succumbed to the virus on Thursday, taking the death toll to 21. A 48-year-old man succumbed to the contagion in Dharamshala . The deceased, who belonged to Shahpur area of Kangra district, was a lawyer by profession and lived in rented accommodation in Shamnagar locality of the town. The 41-year-old had travel history to Shimla. He was suffering from fever and was brought to Dharamshala Hospital on Wednesday night when his condition worsened where doctors declared him dead on arrival, said chief medical officer GD Gupta. The second fatality was reported in Nalagarh of Solan, where a 51-year-old man succumbed to the virus. The deceased was suffering from renal failure. STATE POWER MINISTER RECOVERS Himachal Pradesh power minister Sukhram Chaudhary and his two daughters have recovered from Covid-19. Their follow-up samples tested negative on Wednesday, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said, adding that the minister will be discharged from hospital in a few days. Chaudhary had tested positive on August 6. His wife and nephew were also infected and had recovered earlier. 1,390 ACTIVE CASES IN STATE Himachal Pradesh has 1,390 active Covid cases at present, while 3085 patients have recovered. The recovery rate in the state is 67.9%. So far, more than 1.87 lakh people have been tested in the state for the virus and of them, 4,538 have been found to be positive. The positivity rate in the state is around 2.3%. The case fatality ratio is 0.5% with 21 deaths, so far. The confirmed cases per million are 612 and the number of cases have grown at a rate of 3% in the past one week. Solan has the maximum 1,097 positive cases followed by Kangra (639), Sirmaur (561), Hamirpur (427), Una (349), Mandi (371), Chamba (312), Shimla (253), Kullu (244), Bilaspur (210), Kinnaur (69) and Lahaul and Spiti (six).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/solan-accounts-for-a-quarter-of-himachal-s-covid-case-load-of-4-500/story-8jLW1EgXdSYvrpKgS1ueGL.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two suicides reported from Chandigarh||Two suicides were reported from different parts of Chandigarh on Thursday. A 45-year-old driver, working with a private company, was found hanging in his house in Sector 40, Chandigarh. No suicide note was found at the spot. A 50-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his house in Dadumajra. Police received information that a man was found unconscious in his bathroom and rushed him to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead. Both bodies have been kept in the mortuary and postmortem will be conducted on Friday after receiving their Covid-19 test reports. Police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-suicides-reported-from-chandigarh/story-JuNHQ6D97Xf8MZ0EfFjpGP.html
20-08-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka Assembly, Council sessions to begin from Sept 21, govt ready to answer queries: Minister||Karnataka minister of law, parliamentary affairs and legislation JC Madhuswamy on Thursday announced that Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council Sessions will be held between September 21 and 30, and added that the government will answer all the queries raised by the opposition parties.“Karnataka Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council sessions will be held between 21-30 September 2020. Opposition parties are ready to attack the state government over the issues of APMC Amendment Act and Land Reform Amendment Act,” Madhuswamy told ANI.He said that the Congress has alleged malpractice and misuse of funds in Covid-19 management in the statement and asserted that it may raise these issues in the Assembly. The minister said that the government is ready to answer all the queries.“H K Patil, the head of Public Accounts Committee, has alleged that the government has misused the power and the money in purchasing Covid-19 equipment including masks, PPE kits, etc,” Madhuswamy said.“Chief minister B S Yediyurappa has asked Siddaramaiah and other Congress leaders to prove the allegations made by him and D K Shivakumar against the state government. Revenue minister R Ashok and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and Heath Minister B Sreeramulu have targetted opposition parties and asked them not to make baseless allegations without any evidence,” he added.Madhuswamy said that the state Cabinet has also decided to withdraw 62 cases.When asked if the cases were related to Bengaluru violence, he said, “That’s a different issue. Those are different cases, not related to the violence. Those are cases from 2015, 2016. It’s a routine affair of the government, we keep withdrawing cases where they have fought for some genuine reason.”Speaking about the alleged role of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in the Bengaluru violence that took place on August 11, Madhuswamy said that the state government will initiate appropriate actions under the law.“I can’t say that we will ban them (SDPI), we will initiate action under the law. If required, we will recommend the case to the government of India and seek their guidance to ban or see that some action is initiated. At present we will estimate the loss and say that it has to be compensated from those who are instrumental in this activity,” he said.Earlier on Thursday, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai said that chief minister B S Yediyurappa will discuss with the Centre regarding the banning of the SDPI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-assembly-council-sessions-to-begin-from-sept-21-govt-ready-to-answer-queries-minister/story-Q7OYNjhwnabKXNVsOYzWHO.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students refuse proposal for staggered fee payment, demand complete waiver||Students in a meeting with Panjab University officials on Thursday refused the varsity’s proposal for payment of fee in three to four installments and demanded complete fee waiver.Dean students welfare (DSW) SK Tomar and dean university instructions (DUI) R.K Singla attended the meeting, which was boycotted by leaders of various student organisations.This was the second meeting of students with PU authorities amid growing demand for semester-fee waiver. During the meeting on Thursday, officials put forward the suggestions of allowing students to pay semester fee in instalments and giving scholarships to needy students. However, they failed to convince students.A university official, who attended the meeting, said, “We proposed the suggestions made by a panel, but students did not accept it. We had also suggested to them that a coordination committee will be formed with representation from students, but they refused that as well.”PU students have held multiple protests on campus this month, prompting the varsity to extend the last date to deposit semester fee to August 31 and constitute a committee to find a solution. The panel has suggested many solutions for students, but maintained that complete fee waiver is impossible for the varsity, which is already staring at revenue loss due to pandemic.Nikhil Narmeta of National Students Union of India (NSUI), said, “We have rejected the proposal of the university. We demand that students be given relief as many are not in a situation to pay fee.”“We have demanded complete semester fee waiver and will continue protesting unless the university makes a decision in the best interest of students,” said Chetan Chaudhary of Students’ Organisation of India (SOI).PU’s DSW, SK Tomar, said, “We have made many offers to students and given them opportunities according to what the university can afford. We will communicate their demands to the university authorities and seek relief for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-refuse-proposal-for-staggered-fee-payment-demand-complete-waiver/story-tIVDXf3DaBDthd491VRxrO.html
20-08-2020||Noida||Noida’s Covid-19 tally reaches 6,776; death toll at 43||79 people on Thursday tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in Gautam Buddh Nagar, taking the total number of cases in the district to 6,776, according to official data.The total cases include nearly 800 active cases, 5,939 recoveries and 43 deaths, as per the data released by the Uttar Pradesh health department.Gautam Buddh Nagar dropped to 14th position with regards to active cases and has recorded third-highest recoveries in the state after Lucknow and Kanpur Nagar, the data showed.Also read| Russia looking for partnership with India to produce Covid vaccine: RDIF CEOThe district’s recovery rate remained at 87.64 per cent with no change and the mortality rate among positive cases dropped to 0.63 per cent from 0.64 per cent on Wednesday, according to the health bulletin. As per the union health ministry’s dashboard, Uttar Pradesh has logged nearly 50,000 virus infections so far. The death toll stands at 2,638 whereas 115,227 have been cured or discharged.Also read: Delhi records 1,215 fresh Covid-19 cases, takes tally to 157KRecording the highest single-day spike, India on Thursday lodged 69,652 fresh cases and 977 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the nation’s Covid-19 tally to over 2.8 million and total deaths to nearly 54,000.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-6-776-death-toll-at-43/story-UvB9hlyexwaNA0sc2Xa26O.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Jumbo facility at COEP likely to be ready by August 24||Incessant rains over the past one week has delayed the work at the jumbo Covid-19 facility being prepared at College of Engineering Pune, Shivajinagar, which will now be ready by August 24, said officials from the civic administration. Earlier, the administration had claimed that the work is going on at war footing and the facility will be ready by August 19. However, the incessant rains delayed the work. On Wednesday, Pune Member of Parliament Girish Bapat along with local Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) Bhimrao Tapkir and Mukta Tilak visited the facility at College of Engineering Pune, Shivajinagar and inspected the work. Bapat, who had previously planned an agitation to protest against the delay in the work, cancelled the protest saying that this isn’t the time for confrontation. “We know that the city is witnessing rains. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has now told us that facility will be ready by August 24,” said Bapat. The PMC and state government together are spending Rs 84 crore for the jumbo Covid-19 facility, which will have 800 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/jumbo-facility-at-coep-likely-to-be-ready-by-august-24/story-wv4265bFKyesuIVZMb1QHO.html
20-08-2020||Pune||37-year-old held for pelting stones at Covid-19 facility in Chandannagar||Police arrested a 37-year-old on Wednesday for hurling stones at a hospital, a Covid-19 facility in Chandannagar, as he was upset with the clanking of oxygen cylinders at the facility.The incident was reported on August 17. The arrested accused has been identified as Ganesh Dnyaneshwar Gade (37), a resident of Pandharinagar, Kharadi.The said centre has been dedicated as a special Covid-19 treatment facility for the citizens since June by the Pune PMC’s health department. A doctor from the hospital lodged a complaint with the police.Muralidhar Mohol, Pune mayor, said, “Covid-19 centres have been sanctioned as per the policy of the PMC and we expected citizens from all sections of the society to fully co-operate with the hospitals and at the same time it must be ensured that the citizens too are not disturbed in their respective areas.”Ramesh Krishnamurthy Iyer, general secretary, Congress, said, “Residents must follow the law and not resort to physical violence. The hospital authorities must also remember that the loading and unloading of oxygen cylinders make noise.”The accused has been arrested under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty), 341(wrongful restraint), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50), 504 (intention insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Additional commissioner ( Crime ) Ashok Morale, said, “Citizens must abide by the law and ensure that they don’t violate the pandemic guidelines at any cost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/37-year-old-held-for-pelting-stones-at-covid-19-facility-in-chandannagar/story-uecuXnAjevRg3dPkxa2xHP.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s recovery rate improves to 78.80 per cent||Pune’s recovery rate is showing signs of improvement despite the city overtaking Mumbai in the total number of Covid-19 positive cases across the country. As on Wednesday, city’s progressive case tally stood at 77,368 of which 60,963 have recovered, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data. The overall recovery rate stood at 78.80 per cent, which was almost 2 per cent more as compared to one week earlier. At the same time, the city’s active ratio is at 18.81 per cent from 20.92 per cent a week ago. On August 6, the city’s recovery rate was 70.29 while the active ratio was 27.36 per cent. With an improved recovery rate, the bed availability situation in hospitals in the city and adjoining areas has also improved. The city, till Wednesday, had reported 14,556 active cases of which 815 are in critical condition with 483 on ventilator and 332 in intensive care unit (ICU) without ventilator. Also, 2,470 patients are undergoing oxygen treatment. As on August 13, the city’s recovery rate was 76.73 per cent with 53,958 patients recovered out of total 70,723. “The active cases trend over the last ten days show that it has come down to 19 per cent from 27 per cent. I am happy to see this,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). In case of the doubling rate too, the PMC has reported a doubling rate of 43.69 days, which was 38.69 days on August 13. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said that Pune’s overall Covid situation is improving. “While on one hand, the recovery rate has gone up to 78.80 per cent, the percentage of those undergoing treatment has come down to 18.81. Both these numbers are good signs,” said Mohol. On Tuesday, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, Pune city’s R0 (R naught) has come down to 0.70 as of August 17 and the data forecasts that the Covid-19 positive case curve will flatten by the end of this month. R0 is a mathematical term that gives a general idea about how contagious an infectious disease is. The figure tells the average number of people who will contract a contagious disease from one person with that disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-recovery-rate-improves-to-78-80-per-cent/story-cN04zQGpZR7NMUXIRRJJqM.html
20-08-2020||City||27.7% people in containment zones have Covid antibodies||Chandigarh Antibodies against the Covid-19 infection have been found in 27.7% of people in Punjab’s five containment zones, as per the findings of a serological (sero) survey that was conducted between August 1 and 17, covering a systematically selected random sample population of 1,250 people. A sero survey is conducted to determine the extent of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease. Punjab’s first such exclusive survey was conducted by the health department in containment and micro-containment zones where the risk of infection spread was the highest. The survey findings, submitted to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh during a Covid review meeting on Thursday, showed the presence of antibodies against SARS-CoV2 virus among 40% population in the containment zone of Amritsar district, followed by 35.6% in Ludhiana, 33.2% in SAS Nagar, 19.2% in Patiala and 10.8% in Jalandhar. For the survey, five containment zones with highest number of Covid cases were identified, each in Patiala, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar cities. The samples included 250 people from each zone, and from each of the selected households, an adult above the age of 18 was randomly tested. “However, in the remaining parts of the cities, prevalence of SARS-CoV2 antibodies will be lower, and in the rural areas the prevalence will be the least. The survey was done using Rapid Antibody Testing kits,” said an official spokesperson of the government. ‘Not much to be made of survey’ State government’s health advisory expert group headed by Dr KK Talwar said not much conclusions should be made from this survey as it reflects the scenario in containment zones and micro-containment zones only. “This survey only shows us the results of our containment strategies. The herd immunity can only be determined by the state-level survey that the ICMR is expected to start in all states this week,” said Dr Talwar. He said team of trained field assistants and laboratory technicians collected the data under the supervision of a medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/27-7-people-in-containment-zones-have-covid-antibodies/story-A13K6K51xu800RQvqFIHNP.html
20-08-2020||Dehradun||Aam Aadmi Party to contest Uttarakhand assembly elections in 2022||The Aam Aadmi Party will contest the 2022 Uttarakhand Assembly election, party’s state in-charge Dinesh Mohaniya said on Thursday.As part of its election campaign, the AAP will raise development issues as it did ahead of the Delhi assembly polls held earlier this year, he said.“We will contest the election (in Uttarakhand). We will reach out to people with solutions to the problems faced by the state,” Mohaniya said.He said the AAP will tell the people of Uttarakhand how it plans to resolve issues of migration, education and employment, he said.Citing a third party survey, Mohaniya said 62 per cent people in Uttarakhand want the AAP to contest the state assembly election.“There is a need to bring a change in the state and we have found that even people want that,” he said.Delhi chief minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal said the AAP will try to solve the problems faced by the people of Uttarakhand.“This time the people of Uttarakhand will fight for their rights and new expectations in collaboration with the Aam Aadmi Party,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.The Uttarakhand assembly polls will be held in February 2022. The House has 70 seats. Currently, the BJP rules the state, while the Congress is in the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/aam-aadmi-party-to-contest-uttarakhand-assembly-elections-in-2022/story-Og3nvDCaeFluZadk70BDcL.html
20-08-2020||City||ABVP student wing hold protest at SPPU||Pune: The student volunteers of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) staged a protest outside the main building of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on Thursday for various issue related to students in Pune district. Volunteers stopped the vehicle of SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar and gave their demand letter to him. Karmalkar was made to walk till the varsity’s main building as students did not allow his official vehicle to move ahead.“Since the lockdown started in the country, students are facing several issues related to exams, fees, results and admission process. Our major demands include waiver of exam fees except for final year students, reduction of fees by 30 per cent with 15 per cent of fee collection during admission and remaining in four instalments. As students hardly stayed in university hostel, so half of the hostel fees should also be returned to students,” said Dayanand Shinde, ABVP president of SPPU unit.The protest started at 12.30 pm from Aniket canteen inside the university campus before reaching the main building and stopping vice-chancellor’s vehicle. Later, SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar met the protesting students and gave assurance to hold a meeting to discuss their issues in the next seven days.“We will soon hold a meeting to address their issues,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abvp-student-wing-hold-protest-at-sppu/story-YLk47WY19FPci7SLWHdAQN.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to see light to moderate rain in coming days: Met||After 1.6mm of rain on Thursday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to moderate rain in the city up to 50mm in the coming days. IMD officials said, “The rain intensity will be maximum on Friday but it is likely to come down over the weekend. Thunderstorms and winds up to 45km/h will also be likely in this duration.”Till date, 648.7mm of rain has been recorded in the city against a normal of 630.4mm, with monsoon in 3% surplus now.The maximum temperature of the city went up from 30.7°C on Wednesday to 32.1°C on Thursday. The minimum temperature went down from 27.4°C on Wednesday to 25.4°C on Thursday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 31°C and 33°C while the minimum temperature will remain around 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-see-light-to-moderate-rain-in-coming-days-met/story-YHWsCFTPkqSWnLxffG2VeN.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 1,215 fresh Covid-19 cases, takes tally to 157K||Delhi on Thursday recorded 1,215 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, taking the total infections in the national capital so far to 157,354, with the number of single-day deaths being the highest since August 7 at 22, according to official data.The death toll mounted to 4,257 on Thursday, a day when official findings of a serological survey in the city showed that about 29% of the total population may have been exposed to the virus, which has claimed at least 790,000 lives globally.Of the total infections recorded, 1,41,826 people have recovered from the disease at a recuperation rate of 90.13%, the Delhi health bulletin showed. There are 11,271 active cases — 5,707 of these are under home isolation. A total of 13,75,193 tests have been conducted so far, with the test-per-million-population figure of 72,378, it added. The positivity rate — the rate of positive cases among the total tests conducted — in the previous 24 hours was 7.14%.Official data shows that there has been a gradual rise in daily cases in Delhi over the recent weeks. The positivity rate, however, is much lower than the June peaks of about 30%.Delhi showed an improvement in handling the public health crisis in early July by ramping up testing and its health care infrastructure.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday there was a time when the cases in Delhi were increasing by 4,000 daily and the positivity ratio was 30%. “It is also reassuring to see that the positivity rate in Delhi has reduced to nearly 7%, which is much lower than the national average. The situation in Delhi is improving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-215-fresh-covid-19-cases-takes-tally-to-157k/story-KUyDtHO7Z5S8hB0nl2THNK.html
20-08-2020||City||Ganpati preparations albeit with less enthusiasm||Pune With one day remaining to welcome Ganpati Bappa, there is lukewarm response from the city which sees more than 3 lakh ganpati at home, especially for buying the makhar (throne decorations) and the necessary offerings. The streets and shops on Laxmi road wore an empty look with owners showcasing their wares and following the social distancing norms by tying ropes outside their stores, and waiting for last-minute shoppers. “We haven’t got many orders for makhar and rangoli colours this year because of the pandemic,” said Yusuf Gheewala, showing the foldable ecofriendly makhar in Raviwar peth. He is among the many popular shops selling decorations, rangoli colours during the 10-day festival. Jewellers are looking forward to welcome customers for the usual buy for the Lord. “We are expecting good footfalls and orders for Ganesh Chaturthi. While celebrations are low-key this year, we believe the focus of people would be more on decor making it a more intimate celebration. We expect strong consumer interest in silver puja articles, ornaments to adorn the Ganesh idols. These ornaments and articles, including hibiscus flowers, crowns, necklace, mushak, modak, durva, paan supari and trishul, see a strong demand every year,” said Saurabh Gadgil, chairman and managing director, PNG Jewellers. Sayali florist on Fergusson road wears a melancholy look, despite blooms in many colours for attention. “So far, I have received only one order for fresh flower makhar and no one has ordered any flowers for decorations.” Kothrud-resident Dhanashree Sant, who visited the shops on Thursday, said, “We ordered shadu mati Ganpati online and thought of visiting shops at Mandai for vastra, flat paat, but found the shopping place crowded with last-minute shoppers not following social distancing norms and hence I came back. As flowers and rest of the material is very expensive this year, we have decided to make decorations at home using coloured marble paper. We don’t feel like celebrating because of the virus situation, but I am doing to keep the tradition.” For Amruta Joshi, resident of Warje, it was a last minute decision to celebrate the festival. “No one in the family wants to celebrate. The rules like only one person can go to pick up the idol a day before seems like a blow. My son looks forward to playing the manjira while bringing the Bappa home.” “We cannot call our relatives home this year as the festival used to be the occasion that brings all generations together. This year, it will be all alone, with others following us online,” said Shraddha Chaitanya, a homemaker. There are others who are looking at the pandemic as an opportunity to be a part of the festival. Financial advisor Sachin Ekbote said, “Every year I don’t get sufficient time to concentrate on Ganapati preparation and decorations. The work from home this year has given me time to welcome Ganpati Bappa. Right from items required for installation of Bappa, including the decor and puja items, I prepared a check list and am enjoying it to the fullest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganpati-preparations-albeit-with-less-enthusiasm/story-iyXVDR2jJVMBY1In11dlyJ.html
20-08-2020||City||Manjhi’s party exits GA||PATNAFormer chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S) on Thursday announced it was leaving the opposition’s Grand Alliance and would decide on its next move in a few days.“HAM(S) is no longer a part of Grand Alliance. The party’s executive committee has authorised Manjhi to take a decision on the future course of action,” said party’s spokesperson Danish Rizwan. Sources in the party said HAM(S) may either merge with the JD(U) or forge an alliance with it for the Assembly polls.“The decision to walk out of the five-party opposition coalition in Bihar was taken at the party’s core committee meeting convened at Manjhi’s residence here,” Rizwan said.The HAM, which contested the Lok Sabha elections as part of the Grand Alliance, had issued an ultimatum for formation of a coordination committee in the alliance by June 25 to start seat sharing talks.The Grand Alliance in Bihar is now left with RJD, Congress, Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Mukesh Sahni-led Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP).During the last few months, Manjhi had also been exploring options of alliance with different parties, including Owaisi-led AIMIM.Manjhi had fallen out with Nitish Kumar after he was made to quit the CM’s post in early 2015. He walked out of the NDA after a poor show in the 2015 Assembly polls. Of later, Manjhi has been heaping praise on the Nitish government.HAM-S has one member each in the Bihar Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council.Sources in the party said the HAM(S) becoming a part of the NDA is all but a formality. “The party has laid no preconditions on seats,” said a senior party leader.NDA leaders feel that if at all Manjhi joins their alliance, JD (U) will use it to silence LJP, which of late has been embarrassing the government by raising different issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manjhi-s-party-exits-ga/story-sj3ihGnVHZ1iyZJRRxpO0I.html
20-08-2020||City||Families come to blows over Covid patient’s cremation in Mohali||The relatives of a Covid patient, who died on Wednesday, had a scuffle over his cremation at the Mohali cremation ground near Balongi village on Thursday.The patient’s wife and in-laws alleged that his brother and his family cremated him without informing them.Police said the deceased, Sarbjit Singh, 44, lived with his wife and in-laws in Sector 66. After his death at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, the family went to the hospital to collect the body, but were told to wait till Thursday morning.The next morning they found out that Sarbjit’s brother Baljeet Singh had already taken the body to the cremation ground where the last rites were held at 9am. The family rushed to the cremation ground and a scuffle broke out between them and Baljeet’s family following heated arguments. Police reached the spot and pacified the families. An inquiry was initiated after recording the statements of Baljeet and the deceased’s brother-in-law Rajinder Kumar.ASI Avtar Singh said, “We have started an inquiry under Sections 107 and 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure after recording the statements of both parties. They were produced before the SDM on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/families-come-to-blows-over-covid-patient-s-cremation-in-mohali/story-i801xTa2oOBxNUEItLYDtM.html
20-08-2020||Patna||Bihar flood fury: Toll goes up to 27, over 81.79 lakh affected in 16 districts||With two more deaths, the toll in Bihar flood climbed to 27 on Thursday as 81.79 lakh people were affected in 16 districts, Disaster Management Department bulletin said.The two deaths have been reported from Khagaria district, the bulletin said.Nearly 11.59 thousand more population were hit by flood fury on Thursday.The calamity has affected 81,79,257 people in 1,317 panchayats of 130 blocks till Thursday against 81,67,671 sufferers till Wednesday evening, it said.Of the 27 deaths, Darbhanga district reported 11, followed by six in Muzaffarpur, four in West Champaran and two each in Saran, Siwan and Khagaria.The Ganga is flowing 13 cm above the danger mark at Gandhi Ghat, 27 cm above the mark at Hathidah (both in Patna) and more than 31 cm above the mark at Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur, a bulletin of the Water Resources Department said.Prominent rivers which are flowing above the danger mark included the Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Khiroi and the Ghaghra.Additional Secretary of Disaster Management Department M Ramachandrudu said, of the total six relief centres, five centres are operating in Samastipur and one in Khagaria.A total of 5,186 people are living in the relief centres, he said.About 5.50 lakh people have been evacuated by 26 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) till now, he said.The state government has so far transferred Rs 555.60 crore into the bank accounts of 9,26,077 flood-affected families in the state, said Ramachandrudu.An amount of Rs 6,000 is being transferred to the bank account of each affected family as gratuitous relief, the official said.The distribution of gratuitous relief is currently underway and the remaining families will be given the amount very soon, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-flood-fury-toll-goes-up-to-27-over-81-79-lakh-affected-in-16-districts/story-OGWT6j2F9qvVziADUtW2hP.html
20-08-2020||City||32-year-old auto driver found murdered at Mohali’s Airport Road||A 32-year-old auto driver was found murdered in his vehicle near Singhpura Chowk on Airport Road on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Harwinder Singh, a resident of Gulabgarh Road in Dera Bassi. Police said injury marks on Harwinder’s neck and back indicated that he was strangled to death after being tied up with a wire. “He was missing since Wednesday night and found dead in his auto-rickshaw on Thursday. Further investigation is on,” said Jaswinder Singh, the investigating officer at Zirakpur police station.The deceased’s brother, Jatinder Kumar, told the police that Harwinder took Rs 7,000 from him on Monday. He went missing on Wednesday night and they got a call on Thursday that he was found murdered, he added. The deceased is survived by his parents and a brother. A case of murder has been registered at the Zirakpur police station against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-year-old-auto-driver-found-murdered-at-mohali-s-airport-road/story-ieFJHV2rs9gaz7vhbCHFlJ.html
20-08-2020||City||Six newly appointed trainee IPS officers meet Himachal governor||Six newly appointed trainee officers of the Indian Police Service Himachal cadre 2019 batch met governor Bandaru Dattatreya at the Raj Bhavan in Shimla on Thursday. The governor appealed them to contribute in making a corruption-free society. The officers included Abhishek S, Amit Yadav, Mayank Chaudhary, Charu Sharma, Jina Afroz and Kamya Misra. All the officers also apprised the governor about their home states and educational qualification. The governor congratulated the officers and wished them a bright future. He said it is a matter of pride that they have got the opportunity to work in a developed and peaceful state like Himachal. He advised them to work with commitment, conviction and impartially towards the society particularly the downtrodden and poor. He said a police officer has an important role in maintaining law and order in the state. “Therefore, it is in difficult circumstances that the efficiency of the officer is tested and they should work with dedication,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-newly-appointed-trainee-ips-officers-meet-himachal-governor/story-w9RDw77kYawHLogApN6tRI.html
20-08-2020||City||Ludhiana couple hire pick-up auto, then make away with it after injuring driver; arrested||A couple has been arrested for allegedly robbing a pick-up auto driver of his vehicle and some cash, in Ludhiana on Wednesday night. The accused have been identified as Baljit Singh, 36, of Mamdot of Ferozepur and Kirna, 32. They were arrested from Sahibana Chowk when they were hatching a conspiracy to loot another vehicle, with their accomplice Sunil Kumar of Bedi Nagar, Moga. Sunil managed to escape with the vehicle when police reached the spot. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh, Ramgarh police post in-charge, said the accused had hired the pick-up auto of Dalbir Singh alias Ravi of Lalru, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, on August 16 on the pretext of shifting household items to Ludhiana. On reaching Jandiali village, the accused injured Dalbir and escaped with his pick-up auto and Rs 17,500 cash. Dalbir had lodged a police complaint in this regard on August 17. The case was registered under Section 379-B (snatching with hurt, wrongful restraint or fear of hurt) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.The ASI said that the couple has an eight-year-old son, who has been handed over to the relatives after their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-couple-hire-pick-up-auto-then-make-away-with-it-after-injuring-driver-arrested/story-M7jgY9xDYac4wrcizXZwiI.html
20-08-2020||City||Chandrika Rai, 2 more RJD MLAs join JD(U)||PATNAThree more RJD MLAs, including former minister Chandrika Prasad Rai, the estranged father-in-law of Tej Pratap Yadav, joined the ruling JD(U) on Thursday, just three days after as many MLAs crossed over to the Nitish Kumar-led party.Rai’s entry into the JD(U) was widely speculated since the beginning of this year after the marriage of his daughter with RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son ended on a bitter note and the latter moved the court for divorce.Rai is an MLA from Parsa and had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha seat from Saran.Soon after joining the JD(U), Rai directly attacked Tej Pratap Yadav. “He worked against me during the Lok Sabha polls, but the party did nothing against him. I have full faith in Nitish Kumar as he has drawn a big line of inclusive development and it will be difficult for anyone to come even near it,” he said. He even hinted that his daughter could also contest and took a dig at the RJD for looking for safe seats for Tejashwi and Tej Pratap.The surprise induction today was that of Jaivardhan Yadav, first-time MLA from Paliganj. He is the grandson of former Congress leader Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav, who wielded enormous clout among Yadavs and backward classes before the emergence of Lalu Prasad in the 1990s. Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav also served as minister in the state and the Centre. He was MLA six times and MP twice. He had later joined the Janata Dal.All the three MLAs later called on the chief minister at his official residence. JD(U) leader and minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said the RJD leaders switching to his party was a natural corollary as they all had clearly seen the writing on the wall.Bihar’s health minister and BJP leader Mangal Pandey claimed more leaders from the opposition were waiting to switch to the NDA due to the “dictatorial style of RJD leader Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandrika-rai-2-more-rjd-mlas-join-jd-u/story-wnsecB2l9klewmWiWx1uvI.html
20-08-2020||City||Jobs for outsiders in J&K: Panthers Party accuses BJP of double standards||The National Panthers Party on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of maintaining double standards and betraying the people, especially youth of Jammu and Kashmir, by opening job opportunities for outsiders following revocation of Article 370 last year.Party activists led by its chairman and former minister Harsh Dev Singh staged a protest here against what they called “sheer betrayal” by the BJP. While addressing mediapersons, Singh said, “After many years, the J&K administration advertised 8,575 Class IV posts for which a whopping 5.62 lakh youth have applied so far because the BJP has allowed people from Bihar, UP, MP, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and other parts of the country to apply here.” “If outsiders apply in such big numbers then what will happen to our youth. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has recently announced that his government will be exclusively for its youth. So, why the BJP has been handing a raw deal to the youth of J&K. Why are they maintaining double standards,” he said. He said his party will fight for the youth and people of J&K and hold BJP accountable for all its misdeeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jobs-for-outsiders-in-j-k-panthers-party-accuses-bjp-of-double-standards/story-k5kkWQdd8fNHM63HSr6HRP.html
20-08-2020||City||Seven held for gangraping women in Kangra||A 32-year-old married woman was allegedly abducted and gangraped by seven people in Gaggal area of Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district on Wednesday, police said.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sunil Rana the crime took place when the woman was returning home and sought lift in a car. The victim, who lodged a complaint at Gaggal police station, stated that the accused took her to a poultry farm at a secluded place in Salol area and took turns to rape her. “They then took her to a hotel at McLedoganj where she was again gangraped by the accused,” the DSP added.A manhunt was launched soon after the complaint was lodged and the accused have been arrested. “They will be produced before a court on Friday. The medical examination of the woman has been conducted and the report is awaited,” the DSP said.A case has been registered under Section 376D (gangrape). A team of forensic experts had visited both the crime spots to gather evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-held-for-gangraping-women-in-kangra/story-WCIozlw5Ix4DhGf0fJLZ3M.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC summons probe records of Chandigarh’s PG fire tragedy||The Punjab and Haryana high court has summoned the probe records of the PG fire incident in Sector 32, Chandigarh, which led to the death of three girls. The incident had taken place in February this year when a fire tore through the illegal paying guest (PG) accommodation, owned by Gaurav Aneja, who had further rented it to Nitish Bansal and Nitish Popli, who ran the PG. As per information, the duo had started the business in August 2018, allegedly without registration with the UT estate office. The record was summoned by the bench of justice Karamjit Singh, acting on the bail plea of Aneja, who is behind bars since the incident was reported. Aneja had argued that being the owner of the premises in question, he is not liable for prosecution as he had only rented out the place. “This bail application cannot be disposed of in the absence of the entire police record. Accordingly, the state is directed to produce the entire police record of this case on the next date of hearing,” the bench said, posting the matter for September 2. The bail plea had been filed on July 3. Bansal, Popli and house owner Gaurav Aneja were booked under Sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code in February in view of the widespread public outrage over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-summons-probe-records-of-chandigarh-s-pg-fire-tragedy/story-sbLCbMM3I1Y35uTM1WrMbL.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar second cleanest city in Punjab after Ludhiana||Amritsar city was ranked the second cleanest city in Punjab after Ludhiana, slotted 39 and 34, respectively, among 47 cities across the country with a population of more than 10 lakh in the Swacch Survekshan Awards 2020 announced on Thursday. The city also registered a steep rise up the rankings from 184 last year and 208 in 2018. In the previous years, however, the results were not categorised on the basis of population. The cities were each scored on 6,000 points, of which 1,500 points each were allotted to direct observation, service level progress, citizen feedback and urban local body (ULB) documentation. Amritsar was awarded 2459.31 points and scored 1,046.27 points in citizen’s feedback, even higher than the state and national average.Commenting on the matter, municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Komal Mittal said, “The MC had initiated awareness campaigns in schools and colleges pertaining to cleanliness. The city has already been declared open defecation free, which has contributed to the improved score. We are working to improve the cleanliness and waste disposal in the city and have already started segregation of wet and dry waste from households. A biogas plant at the Bhagtanwala dump is also scheduled to be set up which will improve the cleanliness of the city.”However, authorities can hardly afford to be complacent as Amritsar still has a long way to go. Garbage remaines piled up in many parts of the city, most public toilets are in a bad shape with no maintenance or water supply. Plastic is yet to be banned and there are not enough dustbins and cleaning equipment. The green belts are unkempt and require proper care. Also, the biogas plant project at the Golden Temple is still hanging fire after 1.5 years as MC is yet to get approvals from the Amritsar Development Authority.“We are working on numerous cleanliness projects in the city as our ranking is not up to the mark. We have hired a new private company for looking after cleanliness in the city and efforts are being made to get a more improved ranking next year,” Mittal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-second-cleanest-city-in-punjab-after-ludhiana/story-sz7eA6N2h5pkHcpPmdP2fP.html
20-08-2020||Noida||Noida jumps to 25th rank from 150 in Swachh Survekshan 2020||Noida has been adjudged 25th cleanest city with a population between 1 and 10 lakh in the country and the first in Uttar Pradesh in the Centre’s Swachh Survekshan 2020, officials said.Noida, adjoining Delhi in western UP, was ranked 324th in 2018 and 150th in 2019 in the survey. The results of the Swachh Survekshan 2020 were announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri.There were 382 urban local bodies competing in the category in which Noida got 25th rank across country and first in the state, the Noida Authority said.“Noida has already got into the ODF++ category as well as got the 3-star rating on garbage-free city category of cleanliness,” the Authority said in a statement and lauded the citizens for the achievement.Also read| Swachh Survekshan Awards 2020: List of winning citiesThe Authority said it has 168 sectors and 65 villages in its domain where it started the door-to-door waste collection. It credited, among others, this initiative as a key element to Noida’s upward climb in the cleanliness ranking.“About 900 metric tonne segregated waste is collected every day in Noida under the door-to-door initiative from 79,210 houses. 21 compact transfer stations and more than 250 vehicles are engaged in the daily waste collection,” it added.Over 2,000 dustbins were installed at public places in Noida, 60 community toilets, 140 public toilets, 10 pink toilets, 119 urinals were also made and their regular cleanliness ensured, the Authority said.Special focus has been laid on proper disposal of e-wastes. 20 e-waste bins have been installed at various places here besides installation of some machines for disposal of plastic bottles, and other material, it said.The Authority claimed it ensured mechanical sweeping on 214 km of road stretches in Noida while 326 ‘dhalao’ (open waste dumping sites) that existed till a year ago have now been beautified and converted into selfie points”.Indore was adjudged India’s cleanest city for the fourth straight year in the central government’s cleanliness survey announced on Thursday. The second and third positions in the category were grabbed by Surat and Navi Mumbai, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-jumps-to-25th-rank-from-150-in-swacch-survekshan-2020/story-WeohxGREH7WTsJl0p0DOKP.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||From non-SCS to IAS: HC stays final selection of candidates||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the final selection of candidates for the five posts of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) from amongst the non-state civil service (non-SCS) officers in Haryana.The order was passed by a high court bench of Justice RK Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma on the plea of Surender Singh Dahiya, 52, additional director, agriculture department, who had challenged the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order of August 7.The CAT had upheld the Haryana government’s June 9 order on Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) conducting a written test to shortlist non-SCS officers to fill five IAS posts observing that there was no merit in the plea and “by no stretch of imagination, the HPSC is entering the realm of central government or UPSC”.As per the Haryana government, HPSC was only to conduct a written examination and then forward list of 25 meritorious candidates to the chief secretary and he would then forward this list to the UPSC. Before the HC, it has been argued that HPSC can conduct the exam only with respect to state civil services and not the all-India services. Further, the only criterion for adjudging the outstanding ability and merit of the candidate is by way of service record of a candidate while performing his duties as a non-SCS officer. The court was also told that a change in selection rules has been made through an executive order and no specific delegation of power has been conferred upon the state by the Centre for the same. The move goes against the provisions of the All India Service Act, 1951, and the Indian Administrative Service (Recruitment Rules), 1954, the court was told. The hearing will now resume on August 26, when Centre, UPSC, HPSC and Haryana government have to respond to the issues raised in the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-non-scs-to-ias-hc-stays-final-selection-of-candidates/story-InERIAyfsPtwbXiYjY69rJ.html
20-08-2020||City||Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, gets nod to run in double shift||The 145-year-old Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, near Rekhi Cinema in Ludhiana, has got a nod to run in two shifts in view of the increased student strength.The school enrolled as many as 1,827 new students in Classes 6 to 12 this academic year, taking its strength from 1,700 last year to 3,527.School principal Navdeep Romana said that many new students are the ones who have shifted from private schools due to the pandemic-induced financial crisis. “Though there are new students in every class, the maximum new enrolments are in Class-11. As we have over 1,800 new students in the school, we wrote to the higher authorities to allow us to operate in two shifts for maximum optimisation of our resources.”“We require more teachers and classrooms to ensure delivery of quality education,” he added.School education secretary Krishan Kumar, while permitting the school to run in double shift, directed the district education officer (secondary) to identify schools with surplus teachers and shift them to this school.Currently, the school is closed due to the pandemic outbreak but once it reopens, students of the humanities and science streams will attend the morning shift (7.30 am to 12.30pm) while those in the vocational and commerce streams will attend the afternoon shift (12.30pm to 5.30pm). Students of Classes 6 to 10 will also have the afternoon shift. ABOUT THE SCHOOLThe school is 145 years old. It had turned co-educational last year. This year, it topped the district with 100% new enrolments. The school currently has 43 teachers and requires 19 more to adjust to the new strength. In terms of facilities, the school is equipped with smart classrooms, closed circuit television cameras and other essential infrastructure etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-senior-secondary-school-multipurpose-gets-nod-to-run-in-double-shift/story-g3cO71MwgGPfv6F1sFlqUL.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||PM unable to interact with ragpickers, Hardeep Puri steps in||Two ragpickers had a brief virtual interaction with Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Puri when the Swachh Survekshan Awards 2020 were announced on Thursday .When Puri asked the two whether they were getting basic facilities, Bachi Devi, said she was among 290 persons who had been given identity cards by the Karnal municipal corporation.Devi also adding that she had an Ayushman Bharat card and had been provided other facilities by the government. It is to be noted that Prime minister Narendra Modi was to earlier interact with ragpickers from four cities that had performed well in the Swachh Survekshan, but as he had to cancel at the last minute, Puri stepped in his place.Earlier, in the run-up to the announcements, Karnal municipal corporation commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “There are 250 registered ragpickers in Karnal and they have been provided all facilities, including Ayushman card.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-unable-to-interact-with-ragpickers-hardeep-puri-steps-in/story-EvxVyTNK5V5GZP6sUaCGuL.html
20-08-2020||City||Second round of sero survey starts in J&K’s Pulwama||A day after releasing the results of the first sero-prevalence survey in Srinagar, Government Medical College has begun the second round in Pulwama district. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is conducting the second round of the national sero-survey to monitor the trend of SARS-CoV-2 infection transmission across the country. The first round was held in May and June this year. The prevalence of IgG antibody titers was found to be 0.73% among the general population.GMC, Srinagar, head of community medicine and nodal officer for the ICMR sero survey for Pulwama Dr S Muhammad Salim Khan said in the second round, data be collected through an app and blood samples will be taken to assess immunoglobulin-Gamma (Ig-G) against SARS-CoV-2, which will determine the prevalence of infection in the recent past and the body’s immune response to the SARS CoV-2 infection. “Each selected site collects data and blood samples of 400 participants, including children over 10 years of age,” Khan said.ICMR is conducting the study through its regional centres. However, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare secretary and ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava has asked Government Medical College, Srinagar, to conduct the study in Pulwama district on its behalf .“A team from Government Medical College, Srinagar, comprising faculty, resident doctors and medical interns from the department of community medicine (SPM) have been deputed by Dr Samia Rashid, dean, GMC, Srinagar, for conducting the survey in ICMR-assigned ten clusters in Pulwama,” said Khan, adding that the blood samples will be sent to the ICMR lab at Chennai.In the first round, the sero-prevalence in district Pulwama was found to be 2%, which was higher than the national average of 0.73%, while a recent study by GMC Srinagar in Srinagar showed a 3.8% prevalence among the general population, which is almost twice the prevalence in Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-medical-college-begins-second-round-of-national-sero-survey-in-pulwama/story-Ljr5UUYW5p6w0TEoJV6AXM.html
20-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand moving ahead in fight against Covid-19, govt scaling up tests, contact tracing: CM Soren||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday said his government was striving hard to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, and the people of the state need to support this endeavour by wearing masks and following other safety measures.In an official release issued by the chief minister’s office, Soren asked people to immediately visit a health centre if they experience Covid-19-like symptoms.“Every day, we are moving ahead in our fight against coronavirus. Yesterday, Ranchi district alone has set a record with more than 10,000 tests.“Now, our focus is on increasing the number of Covid- examinations, beds in hospitals, scaling up contact tracing and quarantine facilities,” the chief minister said.The JMM-led government is committed to serving the citizens of the state, he said.“People should be responsible and not leave the house without wearing a mask. Visit the nearest health centre immediately if you experience symptoms of coronavirus.Remember your alertness is the first shield of protection against the virus,” Soren added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-moving-ahead-in-fight-against-covid-19-govt-scaling-up-tests-contact-tracing-cm-soren/story-wltPU3L8dNgQu8VhpTJnBO.html
20-08-2020||City||Pardon to Langah: Takht summons Taksal’s media adviser, SGPC takes action against 5 employees||AMRITSAR Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, has summoned Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal’s media adviser Sarchand Singh on August 22 for his alleged role in granting pardon to excommunicated former Akali minister Sucha Singh Langah. Besides, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has taken action against its five employees for their involvement in the pardon row.Langah, who also served as a member of the SGPC, was excommunicated in October 2017 as the Sikh clergy found him guilty of misconduct and violation of the Sikh tenets after a video allegedly showing him in an objectionable position with a woman was widely shared on social media. He was pardoned by the ‘panj pyaras’ (five beloved ones of the Guru) at Gurdwara Baba Banda Singh Bahadar in Gurdaspur district on August 3.Confirming the development, Jaspal Singh, personal assistant of Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said: “He (Sarchand Singh) has been asked to submit his clarification on August 22. If his reply is unsatisfactory, the five Sikh clergies will take against him as per the maryada.” People privy to the development in the Akal Takht secretariat said the jathedar, after going through media reports, got Sarchand’s role probed in the pardon row. Sarchand has also been president of Sikh Students Federation (SSF) and media adviser to former Akali minister and incumbent MLA Bikram Singh Majithia. Meanwhile, acting on a report of the probe panel, SGPC has taken departmental action against five of its employees for their involvement in the pardon row. Mahinder Singh Ahli, personal secretary to SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, said two managers of historic gurdwaras — Ranjit Singh (Gurdwara Burj Sahib, Dhariwal, Gurdaspur district), and Jagdish Singh (Barath Sahib, Pathankot district) — have been shifted to Haryana. The former has been shifted to Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin, Thanesar, Kurukshetra, as supervisor, while the latter to Gurdwara Dhamdhan Sahib, Jind, as assistant manager. Both have been fined Rs 2,000 each.Besides, religious preachers Balbir Singh and Jagroop Singh were shifted to Sikh Mission, Haryana, while another preacher Gurnam Singh was transferred from Garhi Gurdas Nangal gurdwara to headquarters Dharam Parchar Committee, Amritsar.Prior to this, Akal Takht declared SGPC member Gurinderpal Singh Gora and Rattan Singh Zaffarwal, who is husband of another SGPC member, ‘tankhaya’ (guilty of religious misconduct) for accompanying Langah and playing a role in pardoning him. A day after both visited the Takht to tender a written apology. On Takht’s direction, the SGPC expelled Gora from all the sub-committees.The next meeting of the Sikh clergy is expected to be held by month-end to take action against the remaining persons, said the PA to jathedar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pardon-to-langah-takht-summons-taksal-s-media-adviser-sgpc-takes-action-against-5-employees/story-srVrV99ZFBizegMziUpxpK.html
20-08-2020||City||Khalistan flag on Moga DC office building: 19-yr-old who filmed incident held, his two accomplices absconding||Moga With the arrest of a 19-year-old youth on Thursday, the district police claimed to have cracked the case pertaining to putting up a ‘Khalistan flag’ on the terrace of district administrative complex on August 14. Two men in their early twenties are absconding and one of them is the son of a Punjab Police inspector. The one arrested has been identified as Akashdeep Singh of Sadhu Wala village in Ferozepur district, while Jaspal Singh, 24, and Inderjeet Singh Gill, 23, of Moga’s Rauli village are absconding. Jaspal’s father is a police inspector, posted in Muktsar. Akashdeep, who reportedly filmed the incident, was arrested from Bathinda. Jaspal and Inderjeet had put up the flag with Khalistan written on it on the terrace of the administrative complex at 8:15am on August 14, police said. While fleeing, the two men also removed and took along the Tricolour hoisted on the premises. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill said the accused indulged in the crime in response to a call given by US-based pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) led by Gurpatwant Singh Pannu who offered a reward of $2,500 for any such act. “A recce of the place was done on August 13 around 1.30pm by Jaspal and Inderjeet and later they contacted Akashdeep. The three reached the district administrative complex around 8am on August 14 on two motorcycles. Jaspal and Inderjeet went inside, while Akashdeep was instructed to make a video of the incident,” SSP Gill said. “The trio left and met in Rauli village where the video was transferred to Jaspal’s phone, who shared it with the WhatsApp number given by Pannu in his video,” he said. SSP Gill said that Akashdeep has confessed to having shot the video. “During his interrogation, he revealed that they were misguided by videos of Sikhs For Justice and committed the crime to make some quick money,” he added. The accused have been booked under sections 115, 121, 121A, 124A, 153A, 153B, 506 and 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act; Section 66-F of the IT Act and Sections 10, 11, 13 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the Moga city police. Meanwhile, some activists of SAD (Amritsar) and Dal Khalsa staged a protest outside the SSP office, alleging illegal detention of a sister of one of the accused and a minor boy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khalistan-flag-on-moga-dc-office-building-19-yr-old-who-filmed-incident-held-his-two-accomplices-absconding/story-eYvRmGtvGJ1tyzg215Nl0M.html
20-08-2020||Lucknow||UP Police may interrogate Vikas Dubey’s sons on Bikru encounter||The Uttar Pradesh Police may interrogate slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s sons with regard to the Bikru encounter that took place last month, Kanpur Rural SP Brijesh Srivastava said on Thursday.Both the sons of Dubey were present in Bikru village with their mother Richa Dubey one day before the encounter. Gangster Dubey had misbehaved with former SI Vinay Tiwari in the presence of his sons that day.Gangster Vikas Dubey was the main accused in the encounter that took place in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur, in which a group of assailants opened fire on a police team, which had gone to arrest Dubey. Eight police personnel were killed in the encounter that took place last month.Dubey was arrested by the Madhya Pradesh Police on July 9 from the premises of the Mahakal Temple in Ujjain after he was on the run for some days following the encounter in Kanpur, where eight policemen were killed.The Uttar Pradesh Police killed Dubey in an encounter on July 10 after he ‘attempted to flee’ while being taken to Kanpur from Ujjain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-police-may-interrogate-vikas-dubey-s-sons-on-bikru-encounter/story-ohlDkpDgXnQgm3QVHfo84L.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Weekend lockdown, curfew from 7pm in Punjab amid spike in Covid cases||Chandigarh: As Covid-19 cases continue to see a sharp spike in Punjab, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a series of emergency measures, including extension of weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7pm to 5am in all 167 cities and towns of the state. Calling for war-like preparedness to deal with the pandemic, the chief minister has ordered a total ban on all gatherings except weddings and funerals across the state till August 31. Government and private offices will work at 50% capacity till the end of this month. Amarinder, who held a virtual review meeting with top officials, also directed the officials to restrict public visitors in government offices and to encourage the use of online grievance redressal system. VEHICULAR CURBS IN FIVE WORST-HIT DISTRICTS In the five worst-affected districts of Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and SAS Nagar, restrictions on vehicular capacity have been imposed again, with buses and other public transport operating with 50% capacity and private four-wheelers not allowing more than three passengers per vehicle. The deputy commissioners of these districts have been directed to allow only 50% of the non-essential shops to open on a daily basis to check crowding. These five districts account for 80% of the active case load in the state. NO POLITICAL GATHERINGS TILL AUGUST 31 Amarinder directed director general of police Dinkar Gupta to strictly enforce compliance of rules with regard to the number of persons allowed to attend weddings and funerals, and also to ensure a total ban on political gatherings till August 31, when the situation will be reviewed. He also asked the DGP to crack the whip on all political protests and gatherings, and asked his own party, Punjab Congress, leadership to enforce the ban strictly. ENOUGH IS ENOUGH: CM “Enough is enough,” said the chief minister, adding, “We need to be tough without affecting the state’s economic activity.” Pointing to the 920 Covid deaths in the state so far, he said “each death pains me, and the projections for the coming weeks are grim.” Underlining the need to promote public participation in creating awareness on the measures to check the spread of Covid, the chief minister asked the health department to promote public participation by involving all other departments, NGOs and local politicians to educate the people. He said the state was in an health emergency, necessitating harsh measures, which might have to be further intensified in the coming days to curb the Covid spread. Though the cases were currently concentrated in urban areas, rural areas were also witnessing an increase, he said, adding that if needed, travel restrictions may have to be imposed. ‘TEST 10 CONTACTS OF POSITIVE PATIENTS’ The CM also asked the officials to increase testing to 30,000 a day, with at least 10 persons in the immediate circle of every positive patient to be tested. The health department has been asked to supply ventilators free of cost to medical colleges and private hospitals. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan said tenders had been floated for the procurement of nine more RT-PCR machines and the same were expected next week. Adviser, health, medical education and research, Dr KK Talwar, in his presentation, said that though deaths per million in Punjab, at 30.8, was lower than India’s 39.9, the situation was grim and the state’s recovery rate at 62.9% was lower than the nation’s 73.9%. The percentage of co-morbid patients was higher in Punjab as compared to Haryana, explaining the greater number of deaths here, he added. Principal secretary, health, Hussan Lal said while the number of tests had gone up to nearly 20,000, the positivity rate had come down slightly to 8.05% for the week from August 11 to 18, as against 9.31% from August 3 to 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weekend-lockdown-curfew-from-7pm-in-punjab-amid-spike-in-covid-cases/story-SOrirs5Y2shu9QylAqo2nK.html
20-08-2020||City||Ludhiana residents hostile to covid frontline workers collecting data||Ludhiana A day after Punjab principal secretary health, Hussan Lal, said contact tracing and testing is key to fighting the covid-19 pandemic in the state, it is proving to be a troublesome task in Ludhiana, already among the worst-hit due to the disease. Around 2,000 Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers, who are tasked with collecting and tabulating crucial data and are thus the frontline warriors, say residents’ attitude towards them is hostile and indifferent. The state has 17,000 Asha workers and all are women.Whenever a covid-19 case is detected, a team of two Asha workers has to survey the area, usually called micro-containment zones, and get details of number of people staying in the zone, the pregnant women, vulnerable section etc. Ludhiana, to date, has 31 micro-containment zones. They are also to paste stickers of quarantine outside houses, wherever applicable. Based on their data and report, mobile teams of the health department visit these zones, if required. Balbir Kaur, president of Asha Workers Union, said, “We are facing real challenges in posh localities, where people who are suppose to be educated, are reluctant to come forward for tests. The majority of the times they do not even open the door, and if they do they speak rudely. We have demanded that a medical officer should accompany Asha workers.” Sometimes, health workers are even attacked. “The attack on health worker Mastan Singh at Prabhu Da Dera in Khanpur village near Jarkhar village on August 12 highlighted the cruelty and bias of the layman towards health workers,” said Harmeet Kaur, an Asha worker attached with mobile team number six of the health department. Dr Parminder Kaur, in-charge of mobile team number 1 from civil surgeon office, said, “We had visited visit Rajguru Nagar to collect samples from micro-containment zones, but people are not cooperating.”Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “People in micro-containment zones should get themselves tested and be compassionate towards health workers. Asymptomatic patients end up infecting patients with co-morbidities. It is unfortunate that people do not come forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-residents-hostile-to-covid-frontline-workers-collecting-data/story-QjQJwaTEV1QFAzn35OJslJ.html
20-08-2020||City||Shimla ranks 65th in Swachh Survekshan 2020, cleanest town in Himachal||Himachal’s capital city, Shimla, ranked 65th among the 4,242 cities surveyed across the country under the Swachh Survekshan survey, 2020. It is also the cleanest among the 54 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in the state, as per the survey the results of which were announced by PM Narendra Modi on Thursday. Among states with less than 100 ULBs, Himachal ranks sixth with a score of 1,124.77. In the 2019 survey, the state was on the 20th position but states had not been categorised as per the number of ULBs. In the 2019 survey, Shimla was ranked 128th. No other town in the state figures among the top 100 cleanest cities. Indore city retained the first position for the fourth consecutive year. Shimla, the ‘queen of hills’ scored 3,695.03 marks out of 6,000. Last year, the hill-town had scored 2,689.5 marks out of 5,000. As many as 3,514 citizens participated in the survey. The city has a total population of 1.69 lakh. It performed well in three of the four Swachh components—service level progress (SLP), certification, and citizen feedback. Shimla scored 1,214.87 marks in SLP, a significant improvement compared to 2019 when the city merely scored 478.19 marks. Similarly, the city has progressed in the certification yardstick, scoring 500 points against the previous year’s 25. In citizen feedback, Shimla scored 1,049.5 marks, a slight improvement against last year’s score of 1,010.3. In the direct observation category, Shimla’s score dipped to 930.64 from 1,176. The ranking of towns with populations less than 1 lakh has been done zone-wise. Among towns with a population between 25,000-50,000, Nahan got the 147th rank, Solan ranked 159; Mandi 172; Baddi 185; and Paonta Sahib 187 in the north zone. Among towns with a population below 25,000, Manali ranked 477th in the north zone and Palampur 533. Dharamshala attained the 629th position. Among the 62 cantonments boards surveyed across the country, Jutogh Cantt slipped 15 places to the 18th position from last year’s third rank. Jutogh scored 2,611 marks compared to 2,796.67 in 2019. It also lost its top position in the state and was replaced by Dalhousie Cantonment that moved to the 9th rank from the 10th position. Dagshai cantonment ranked third in the state and 44th overall. Himachal has seven cantonment boards.Others being Sabathu (49), Bakloh (51), Kasauli (56) and Yol (58).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shimla-ranks-65th-in-swachh-survekshan-2020-cleanest-town-in-himachal/story-M3pWLYs3OdE9AfvcwCvtSL.html
20-08-2020||City||Eco-tourism to be promoted in forest areas of Himachal: Minister||Himachal Pradesh forest minister Rakesh Pathania on Thursday presided over a meeting of the department to explore possibilities of eco-tourism and its development in the state. He said there is immense potential of eco-tourism in forest areas of Himachal and will increase revenue of the state.The minister said the state government is laying special emphasis on development of infrastructure for tourism during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Eco-tourism will be promoted through a web portal so that maximum people can get information about various forest tourism sites in the state,” he said, adding that a tent facility will also be provided near forest rest houses in remote areas.He said possibilities of eco-tourism camping villages will be explored and developed for tourism. “The department will utilize forest destinations for various activities such as bird watching, trekking etc and locals can be associated with it to enhance the economy,” Pathania said.The minister also directed officials to develop lakes for tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eco-tourism-to-be-promoted-in-forest-areas-of-himachal-minister/story-AfkQNRz7y4icMQhSiQxbDL.html
20-08-2020||City||CDSCO declares 11 drugs manufactured in Himachal of substandard quality||Himachal Pradesh’s pharmaceutical industry has once again come under scanner as 11 drugs manufactured in the state have been declared of substandard quality by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), which also includes alcohol-based hand sanitisers. An alert has also been issued by CDSCO regarding this. Of the 11 drugs, nine were manufactured in the Baddi-Barotiwala -Nalagarh (BBN) belt in Solan district, the remaining were manufactured in Sirmaur and Una districts. Most medicines were to treat fever, allergy, infection, hypertension, blood pressure. In July 2020, 808 samples collected across the country were tested, of which 35 samples were declared of substandard quality, while 773 samples passed inspection. State drug controller Navneet Marwaha said stern action will be taken against the units and show cause notices will also be issued to them. Stocks of these drugs will be withdrawn from the market. Drugs manufactured in Himachal, which have been declared substandard after testing are batch 419-412 of Zepara–XT tablets (paracetamol tablets, 650 mg) manufactured by Zee Laboratories, 47 Industrial Area, Paonta Sahib, Sirmaur; batch VG8034 of Ramigal 5mg (ramipril Tablets IP 5 mg) manufactured on October, 2018 by Visa Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd, village Gullerwala, Baddi, Solan; batch no NPE003 of isopropyl alcohol 70% hand sanitiser manufactured on March 2020 in Noel Pharma Pvt Ltd, Baddi; Batch F512 of ethanol and isopropyl alcohol (medi-plus instant hand sanitizer) manufactured in May 2020 by Swisskem Healthcare, Una; batch 393 of isopropyl rubbing alcohol IP (addiisure instant hand sanitizer) manufactured on March 2020 by Addii Biotech Pvt Ltd in Kaundi village, Baddi; batch CVDT-1371 of calcium and vitamin D3 Tablets manufactured on April, 2019 by Wings Biotech 43 and 44 HPSIDC, Industrial Area, Baddi, batch A9123 of Fluconazole Injection USP 0.2% W/V manufactured on April, 2019 by Aishwarya Healthcare in Thana village, Baddi; Batch ATT-110 of Escitalopram Tablets IP 10 mg manufactured on May 2019 by Alliaance Biotech, Katha village, Baddi; Batch CADG904001 of Carvedilol tablets IP 6.25 mg manufactured on April, 2019 by Celebrity Biopharma Ltd, Barotiwala, Solan; batch MT-19I04 of diclofenac potassium and paracetamol tablets (amgesic tablets) manufactured on September, 2019, by Martin and Brown Bio-Sciences, Malkumajra, Nalagarh Road, Baddi; and batch ZRB-12 of Zonerab (rabeprazole sodium gastro-resistant tablets IP) manufactured on July 2019 by VADSP Pharmaceuticals in Industrial Area, Phase- 1, Jharmajri, Baddi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cdsco-declares-11-drugs-manufactured-in-himachal-of-substandard-quality/story-kZeNKVxyr8a5gKlO09RNCI.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s SBS Nagar retains first rank as cleanest city in North India in under 50,000 population category||Jalandhar: Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar retained the first rank for being the cleanest city in North India in the under 25,000-50,000 population category with 5145.17 points. The results of Swachh Survekshan-2020 were declared by the Union ministry of urban and housing development on Thursday. Last year too, SBS Nagar (earlier known as Nawanshahr) clinched the top position. Sub-divisional magistrate Jagdish Singh Johal, who is also the administrator of the local municipal council, said: “It is a matter of pride for the district and state as well. We are determined to retain the top position next year too and more improvement is in store.” Lalit Mohan Pathak, who completed his term as MC president recently, said: “This is the result of hard work of the last five years.” He credited MC employees, particularly the safai karamcharis and those engaged in garbage collection, for the cleanliness in the city and thanked people for their cooperation. “We introduced door-to-door collection of household waste and ensured segregation of dry and wet waste. The waste was directly dumped at the solid waste management project, where compost is made for use in agriculture,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-sbs-nagar-retains-first-rank-as-cleanest-city-in-north-india-in-under-50-000-population-category/story-m8XPbKKm7mlY8oXxMeA44N.html
20-08-2020||City||Skull found in Ramban rivulet, officials suspect it belongs to SPO killed in 2003 police post attack||A skull was fished out of a rivulet in Ramban on Wednesday, officials suspect it belongs to one of the SPO’s killed in the terrorist attack on Ind police post in 2003. Officials believe the skull belongs to special police officer (SPO) Shadi Lal whose throat was slit and head carried off by militants. Ind police post in-charge sub-inspector Mohammad Ramzan said, “The skull was found by locals while fishing. We will take it to Gool to match the DNA with Lal’s family. In case the DNA matches, the skull will be handed over to the family. In all probability it is Lal’s skull.” On the night of March 15, 2003, around 15 to 20 armed Pakistani terrorists had attacked a police post in Ramban’s Ind village and killed eleven policemen and two village defence committee members. Udhampur-based Satpal Sharma, who hails from Ind, and on whose land the police post stood, said, “The attack was carried out to avenge the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen divisional commander Amanullah Peer and three of his commanders in January, 2003, by cops of the Ind post.” “The post was attacked with rocket launchers, grenades and AK-47 rifles. It was then set afire. Lal’s head was taken away by the terrorists and could not be traced. Sadly, a probe is yet to be ordered in the matter. The case should be re-investigated,” said Sharma. “Lal’s father, Tirath Ram, has been informed of the discovery. Lal’s body was cremated without a head in 2003”, said Sharma. Hizbul chief Salahuddin had mourned Peer’s killing saying his right hand had been chopped off and had planned the attack to avenge his death. Among those killed were Khurshid Ahmed, Farid Ahmed, Angrez Singh, Shaukat Ali, Sher Singh, Shadi Lal and Mohammad Iqbal, Bashir Ahmed and Mohammad Altaf. Nissar Ahmed, Manzoor Ahmed, Jan Mohammad and Sher Mohammad were kidnapped and later killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/skull-found-in-ramban-rivulet-officials-suspect-it-belongs-to-spo-killed-in-2003-police-post-attack/story-O2SxIhfdBo02peTfA02SiL.html
20-08-2020||City||Jai Ram, HP Congress chief among others pay floral tribute to former PM Rajiv Gandhi||Himachal Pradesh chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday paid floral tributes to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on his statue at Rajiv Chowk in Chhota Shimla on his 76th birth anniversary. The CM said Rajiv Gandhi had laid down his life for the integrity and unity of the nation and his contributions will be remembered by the people of the country. He also administered an oath of unity and integrity on the occasion.Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, former speaker Vidhan Sabha Gangu Ram Musafir, Shimla MC mayor Satya Kaundal, MC councillors, deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap, MC commissioner Pankaj Rai, SP Omapati Jamwal and others also paid tributes to the former PM.Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore, who also offered floral tribute to Rajiv Gandhi, said he gave India a new direction by encouraging women empowerment, strengthening panchayats and participation of youth in democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-hp-congress-chief-among-others-pay-floral-tribute-to-former-pm-rajiv-gandhi/story-G6ahBMKUo7IM9kYSzEejzO.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan Awards 2020:CM Khattar’s constituency Karnal is Haryana’s cleanest city||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency Karnal was ranked the cleanest city in the northern states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday at the Swachh Survekshan Awards. Karnal was slotted at number 17 in cities with a population of 1 to 10 lakh. It also came in second in the region after the union territory of Chandigarh, which secured 8th position and emerged as the cleanest city in north India with a population of above 10 lakh. Ranked 24 last year, Karnal scored 4,655 marks out of 6,000 in 2020. Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal deputy commissioner as well as commissioner, municipal corporation, said the district achieved the cleanest status not just in Haryana but in several states across the country as well. Around 9,289 residents in the city, which already had a 3-star rating as garbage-free city and was open defecation-free++ (ODF++) had participated in a survey to garner their feedback. Four in top 100Besides Karnal, three cities of Haryana with a population below 10 lakh: Rohtak (35), Panchkula (56) and Gurugram (62) were among the 100 top cities. Faridabad was ranked 38 in the category of population above 10 lakh. Notably, MC had taken several initiatives to improve cleanliness in Karnal such as night sweeping, door-to-door garbage collection and installation of mobile and e-toilets in the city, which helped rankings jump from 65 in 2017 to 41 in 2018 and 24 in 2019. On further improvements, Yadav said, “Now, our focus will be on improving our garbage free rating and in the area of service level progress and certification.” Renu Bala Gupta, MC mayor, congratulated the people of Karnal for the achievement and thanked them for their cooperation. “This is a result of the collective efforts of the residents, especially the sanitation workers who work day and night to keep the city clean. They helped improve our ranking by making Karnal 3 star in garbage free rating.” More projects would be started soon as part of the Smart City Mission, she said, adding that even dairy farms and meat shops were being moved outside the city. “We also took several initiatives like introducing biometric attendance of safai karamcharis and will work more to improve our ranking,” she added. How the others faredAmong notable changes, Ambala, the home constituency of urban local bodies minister Anil Vij, was ranked 120, moving up 26 slots from 146 last year. Ambala Cantonment Board also improved its rank to 27 this year from 50 in 2019. Panchkula improved its showing to 56 from 71 last year; bagging third position in the state, a quantum leap from rank 142 in 2018 and 211 in 2017. Among the laggards in the state, Sonepat ranked 103, Hisar 105, Rewari 118, Ambala 120, Yamunanagar 147, Panipat 160, Bhiwani 166, Jind 168, Sirsa 176, Kaithal 199, Bahadurgarh 216, Thanesar (Kurukshetra) 219 and Palwal 357.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/swachh-survekshan-awards-2020-cm-khattar-s-constituency-karnal-is-haryana-s-cleanest-city/story-CUwhrCmKpqntExJw02gfwJ.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar Cantt is cleanest among 62 cantonments of the country: Swachh Survekshan 2020||Jalandhar: Jalandhar cantonment was ranked first in the cantonment boards category of the Swachh Survekshan-2020 on Thursday. With 3,670 points, Jalandhar emerged as the cleanest among the 62 cantonments in the country. Soon after the rankings of Swachh Survekshan-2020 were declared by the Union ministry of housing and urban development, Jyoti Kumar, the chief executive officer of the Jalandhar cantonment board, said: “The credit goes to our sanitation staff, including superintendent, inspectors, workers, who have all made us proud. It’s because of their hard work that we were able to achieve the first rank.” “We had roped in an NGO for the solid waste management. Our staff started door-to-door garbage collection along with the NGO. The garbage was segregated at source and we made organic compost pits in the every ward,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, Amritsar cantonment has secured the 22nd rank, while Ferozepur Cantt was ranked 26th. Besides, Amritsar was adjudged the best in citizen feedback among cantonments. JALANDHAR CITY NOT EVEN IN TOP 100 Jalandhar, which is among the top five important cities of Punjab, failed to make it to the top 100 in the cleanliness survey for cities with 1-10 lakh population. The city was ranked 119 with 3,096 points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-cantt-is-cleanest-among-62-cantonments-of-the-country-swachh-survekshan-2020/story-ULpqja2yd2PaHurgS7J1FM.html
20-08-2020||Kolkata||Two persons electrocuted at Alipore Zoo in Kolkata||Two persons were electrocuted inside the Alipore Zoo in Kolkata on Thursday. Another was seriously injured and is battling for life in a hospital, said zoo authorities.The dead have been identified as Tarini Ghosh, 31 and Pradip Das, 45. The accident took place around 1 pm when the three persons, all labourers of a private company, were repairing a hoarding in front of the elephant enclosure. “Repair work was going on inside the zoo when two labourers of a private company died after they accidentally touched a live wire. We are setting up an inquiry committee,” said VK Yadav, member secretary of the state zoo authority.The injured person, Litan Das, 37, was rushed to a private hospital where he had to be put on ventilator support as his condition was critical.Rakesh Singh, a union leader of the zoo, said one of the labourers got electrocuted, the other two rushed to rescue him and got electrocuted too.Alipore zoo is the oldest zoological park in India. It has been shut to visitors since March 17 because of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/two-persons-electrocuted-at-alipore-zoo-in-kolkata/story-Y9105nP92LVuKVR9St9dwL.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Nepalese labour shortage amid Covid curbs, strained ties upsets Himachal’s applecart||The Covid-19 pandemic has left apple growers of Himachal Pradesh struggling with challenges of high labour cost due to shortage and strict curbs. With apple picking underway in the lower hill areas of the state, orchard owners are scouting for skilled Nepalese workers, who form the backbone of the Rs 4,500-crore apple economy. Apart from travel restrictions due to the pandemic, India’s strained relations with Nepal after the recent border dispute has hit the movement of labourers from the neighbouring country. The apple economy is the main source of income for most in Shimla, Kullu, Kinnaur, Mandi and parts of Chamba and Sirmaur districts. The apple season in the lower hills is about to wind up but it will continue in the higher altitude areas till mid-October. INSTITUTIONAL QUARANTINE TOUGHER Many Nepalese labourers working in orchards returned home amid the tension between India and Nepal and those wanting to come back to earn a livelihood could not make it due to travel restrictions. Somnath Jaishi, 42, from Nadda village in Nepal’s Accham district worked in an orchard in Rohru for six months a year but this time he could not make it back in time. “Initially, when I wanted to come, we were stopped by Indian border police and when we made another attempt, we were stopped by Nepalese police at Banbasaha,” he said over phone. Now that the Nepal government has eased travel restrictions, the stricter Covid-19 guidelines in Himachal Pradesh have made it tougher for both labourers and orchardists. Earlier, the government allowed apple growers to quarantine labourers coming from outside the state in the orchard for 14 days. Now it has made institutional quarantine mandatory for labourers. They are housed in dingy rooms of nearby government buildings and orchard owners are to provide food and bedding. “What’s the fun when orchard owners have to make all the arrangements in institutions? Isn’t it better to allow them to be quarantined in orchards?” says Narendra Chauhan, an apple grower from Kotkhai. Initially, the government had assured orchardists of facilitating migrant labourers but later left it to apple growers. Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap, however, took the initiative and workers from Lakhimpur Kheri, Azamgarh and Motihari in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were arranged. But these labourers are not skilled in picking and packaging apples. MORE THE DEMAND, HIGHER THE WAGES Gyan Chand Thakur, an orchardist from Kullu, says, “Most of the labour available is local and from Mandi district. This time, there are no Nepalese labourers. We have no choice but to pay up to Rs 1,000 daily.” Apple growers in Kotgarh region of Shimla district are also forced to spend more on wages. The few Nepalese workers available in the region are in high demand and asking for higher wages than previous years. Aalok Chauhan of Banot village in Kotgarh says, “This year, a Nepalese labourer charges Rs 500 a day, which is Rs 100 higher than the wages paid last year.” Kotgarh had a lean crop this time so growers with smaller orchards managed harvesting on their own. “We are three in the family. Two of us plucked the apples and took them to the store in the ‘kilta (a cone-shaped basket). We even packaged the crop ourselves,” says Pratap Singh of Kotgarh. The orchardists say labourers in the area are more interested in construction activities as they get paid better there. “They are paid by the hour by the contractor and earn up to Rs 700 a day so not many are interested in farm work,” says Ajay Thakur of Dadesh village in Kotgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nepalese-labour-shortage-amid-covid-curbs-strained-ties-upsets-himachal-s-applecart/story-0jb7o4Hykrq8qburxU3sKP.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Observe Muharram in simple manner, processions not allowed, says Maharashtra govt amid Covid-19 crisis||The Maharashtra government has issued a circular saying Muharram should be observed in a simple manner and that processions will not be allowed in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis.Muharram is observed by Muslims with abstinence and prayers to mourn the martyrdom of Hazrat Imam Hussain in the battle of Karbala in the seventh century. It marks the first and one of the sacred months of the Islamic calendar.In the circular issued on Wednesday, the state government said ‘matam’ (moruning) processions will not be allowed this year, in line with the ban imposed on social and religious programmes by the Centre and the state government to combat Covid-19.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMuslims should mourn inside their homes, like other religious programmes are being observed during the lockdown period, the circular said.People living in one society also should not congregate to mourn together, and the Majlis (social, cultural or religious gathering) programme should be organised online adhering to norms, the government said.It also said that permission is not granted to take out Tazia (a replica of tomb of Imam Hussain).The government said permission should be taken from the local administration for setting up ‘Chhabils’ (stalls) and not more than two persons should be present there.Water should be distributed only in sealed bottles from Chhabils and cleanliness and social distancing be observed there, said the circular.Also read: Two more officers die of Covid-19, Mumbai police toll rises to 62Not more than four people will be allowed in any programme, the government said, and urged people to undertake health initiatives like blood and plasma donation camps considering the Covid-19 situation.Observing government guidelines aimed at curbing Covid-19 will be binding on all, said the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/observe-muharram-in-simple-manner-processions-not-allowed-says-maharashtra-govt-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-kXtxC6dzGW5IkKzbN6lI1M.html
20-08-2020||Lucknow||Opposition set to corner UP govt on increasing crime rate during monsoon session||Opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh are gearing up to corner the BJP-led government on the law and order front during the ongoing monsoon session of the state Assembly.Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, who is a sitting MLA from Tamukhiraj assembly constituency in Kushinagar district, told PTI, “The Congress will raise issues of the poor law and order situation in the state, women security, problems faced by the farmers and flood”.Samajwadi Party MLA from Mohanlalganj in Lucknow Ambrish Pushkar said, “The UP government has failed on all fronts. Be it the law and order situation or the corona crisis. It also fears that BJP MLAs may corner it on a number of issues, as its own MLAs are angry with it.” Just before the start of the brief monsoon session of Uttar Pradesh Legislature, the main opposition party Samajwadi Party staged a protest in the Vidhan Bhawan on Thursday against the poor law and order in the state and the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic.Also read: Samajwadi Party stages protest against law & order, UP govt’s handling of Covid crisisSP legislators protested in front of the statue of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh in the campus holding banners against the state government while Member of the Legislative Council Naresh Uttam alleged that there was jungle raj in the state .“Incidents like murder, loot, rape and kidnapping are taking place on a daily basis. It appears that criminals have no fear of law,” he said.A BSP legislator requesting anonymity said that the party will be moving adjournment notice in the backdrop of recent incidents in Azamagarh.The killing of a village head of Basgaon in Azamgarh on August 14 triggered mob violence, which was further aggravated after a child was crushed to death by a vehicle, prompting rioters to set several vehicles and a police post in the area on fire.The trouble began when 42-year-old Satyamev, the village head of Basgaon in Tarwan area of Azamgarh district, was shot dead by some miscreants during the day, prompting his supporters to take to the streets and unleash violence in the area.Amid the rampaging mob, a child was crushed to death by a vehicle, further infuriating the people, who set many vehicles on fire.Subsequently, NSA was slapped against four people in connection with the incident.In Lakhimpur Kheri, a 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped and strangled to death following which two men were arrested.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday released the crime statistics, according to which in 2020 (from January 1 to July 31) 1,216 incidents of rape took place as compared to 1,692 for the corresponding period in 2019.Similarly, 38 incidents of dacoity took place in 2020 as compared to 68 in 2019.As far as murders are concerned, in 2020, as many as 2,032 incidents of murders took place as compared to 2,204 in 2019.In 2019, 1,379 incidents of loot took place, while in 2020, 792 incidents of loot took place.The state saw 23 incidents of kidnapping for ransom in 2019, while in 2020, it was 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/opposition-set-to-corner-up-govt-on-increasing-crime-rate-during-monsoon-session/story-cJgX32HOd2Ku4DIGpAHTCN.html
20-08-2020||Jaipur||690 new cases push Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally to nearly 66,000; death toll at 915||Rajasthan reported 690 fresh Covid-19 infections and five deaths due to the disease on Thursday, taking the caseload to 65,979 and the number of fatalities to 915, according to an official report. Three deaths were reported from Jaipur and one each from Ajmer and Bikaner. Ajmer recorded the maximum number of fresh coronavirus infections at 138. Bhilwara district reported 106 fresh cases, followed by Alwar 100, Jaipur 99, Udaipur 82, Nagaur 50, Bundi 38, Jodhpur 36, Chittorgarh 22, and Pratapgarh 19 cases. A total of 50,393 Covid-19 patients have recovered and there are 14,671 active cases in the state at present. Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said the state government is trying to bring down the Covid-19 case fatality rate from current 1.3 per cent to zero. “We are trying to increase the recovery ratio and bring down the death rate to zero in the state,” he said. The minister said that vulnerable groups -- people with ailments, children, the elderly and pregnant women -- will be given special attention in efforts to contain the virus. He said all activities under national healthcare efforts such as the TB programme and vaccination drive will continue during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/690-new-cases-push-rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-to-nearly-66-000-death-toll-at-915/story-kjzTlB8XhJ20xHRSs02hmO.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC to undertake topographical survey, assess ground condition to resolve water logging||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai’s governing civic body, will map the topography and assess the condition of the stormwater drainage system between the chronic water logging spot of Hindmata on BA Road in Dadar East and the Britannia pumping station. The study will help determine reasons for continued waterlogging at Hindmata--Mumbai’s worse flood spot--even after BMC’s massive drain augmentation work at and around this junction over the past two years has been worth over Rs 50 crore, officials said.Mapping the topography will determine if the drains are damaged, have odd elevations preventing the free flow of water, have utility cables, or are blocked with tree roots or crusted garbage.Along with this survey, BMC is also planning to build more drains around Hindmata so that water from this elevated region does not flow downward toward BA Road, according to a stormwater drains department official.BMC in 2018 said it undertook a similar survey to map drains around Hindmata. A civic official from the stormwater drains department said, “This survey was done only in parts and not the entire stretch up to Britannia. We need to find out where the bottleneck is and why the water would not drain out even after the work BMC has carried out. Augmentation of the drain at and around Hindmata has reduced water receding time, but not prevented water logging entirely.”Since Hindmata is saucer-shaped, it used to receive water from Parel, Lalbaug, and Dadar. BMC planned to intercept this water via augmented stormwater drains before it reached Hindmata, and carry it to Britannia pumping station directly. Before the drain augmentation work, this water would flow to Hindmata, and one pipeline at the junction carried water from three localities to Britannia pumping station.BMC also augmented this pipeline to increase its capacity to 50mm per hour from the current capacity of 25mm per hour. It installed a box drain along 800 metres of BA Road from Hindmata.Swapnaja Kishirsagar, assistant commissioner of the F/Southward with jurisdiction over Hindmata, said, “About 10% work on the circular drain around Hindmata is incomplete at Chinchpokli, which may be the bottleneck. Work was affected because of the unavailability of labour due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Work on augmenting the 800-metre stretch of the drain on BA road is complete.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-undertake-topographical-survey-assess-ground-condition-to-resolve-water-logging/story-Prq7Mlvel3VtbzJHu3ushP.html
20-08-2020||City||Chhattisgarh CM writes to centre, seeks funds for bridges||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar seeking ₹1,100 crore for the construction of steel bridges to ensure rural connectivity in the state.In a letter to Tomar, Baghel said the state government has identified 454 long-span bridges (LSB) including 250 steel bridges for construction, which will cost approximately ₹1,100 crore.Baghel said with the construction of these bridges, tribal and rural populations will have better road connectivity which will enable the state to bring them to mainstream development.He said the Bastar division is Maoist-hit and has a geographical disadvantage due to dense forests and borders with other states. Till now, 1,375 roads (7,228 km) have been constructed in Bastar Division and 692 more (3,009 km) are under construction.“Due to Maoist activities and time-consuming construction time, long-span bridges are not feasible on these roads. Instead, construction of steel bridges is preferred owing to the prefabricated nature of steel bridges thus reducing the construction time,” Baghel wrote.He emphasised that even maintenance and upgradation time is also significantly less for steel bridges and these bridges can be relocated or shifted conveniently.Baghel said the Chhattisgarh government is committed to constructing rural roads as part of a multifaceted approach to reduce Maoist activities.Chhattisgarh has a rural population of 76% of which the majority are tribals. The forest cover of Chhattisgarh amounts to approximately 44% of the total geographical area.Baghel wrote the state has till now constructed 7.300 rural roads amounting to 33,622 km along with 264 LSB including nine steel bridges. He added 1,240 roads (7737 km) along with 114 LSB are under construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-centre-seeks-funds-for-bridges/story-bRCFbDhPVCqSZmr7NsMVaO.html
20-08-2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party stages protest against law & order, UP govt’s handling of Covid crisis||Just before the start of the brief Monsoon Session of Uttar Pradesh Legislature, the Samajwadi Party on Thursday staged a protest in the Vidhan Bhawan against the law and order situation and the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said the government needs to answer the queries on various issues like unemployment and the law and order situation. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, “This session of the UP Legislative Assembly is going to be historic in a number of ways. The government has to answer questions raised by the opposition and its own people on coronavirus, unemployment, casteist atrocities and poor law and order.” “The Government’s thoko neeti (encounter policy) has become a point of internal discord (aantarik kalah) instead of becoming a point of reconciliation (sulah),” Yadav claimed. Party members of both houses of the legislature staged a protest in front of the statue of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, holding banners against the state government. Speaking on the occasion, Member of the Legislative Council Naresh Uttam alleged that there was jungle raj in the state . Incidents like murder, loot, rape and kidnapping were taking place on a daily basis and it appeared that criminals had no fear of law, he said. The Yogi government has totally failed to check Covid-19 pandemic. The height is that in the name of this disease funds are being misused, Uttam alleged. Another member of Legislative Council, Anand Bhadoria, alleged that bad law and order has added to the woes of people facing problems due to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samajwadi-party-stages-protest-against-law-order-up-govt-s-handling-of-covid-crisis/story-24NLY3XhUVsEjCTzj9HNlL.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi second sero-survey: All you need to know||The results of the second serological survey conducted in Delhi were announced by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday. The results showed that there has been a six percent increase in terms of prevalence of antibodies among the city’s inhabitants. The earlier survey revealed that 22.86% of the population have developed antibodies but the second survey results show the number has reached 29% now. Doctors and epidemiologists conduct serological surveys to map the outbreak of a pandemic in a particular city or a region. The surveys provide insights to the researchers about the ability of a region’s inhabitants to produce antibodies and what measures to undertake to curb the contagion. This also indicates whether residents of a particular city or a region are headed towards achieving ‘herd immunity’ from a disease. Also Read: 29% of Delhi has antibodies for Covid-19: Second sero-surveyThe second serological survey was undertaken between August 1 to August 7 and the sample size was 15,000. The National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) and the government of Delhi had conducted the first serological survey between June 27 to July 10 with a sample size of 21,387. Also Read: Key takeaways from second sero survey in Delhi and how results are different from firstFor the serological survey, participants are asked to give their blood samples and then it is tested for immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies and infections using ICMR-approved ELISA testing. Also Read: Pune Covid-19 sero survey suggests 51.5% have antibodiesThe second serological survey results also highlighted that the city could be headed towards ‘herd immunity’ but Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain remained sceptical and pointed out that experts put the number around 40%. The survey results outlined that certain districts are developing antibodies faster than the others. Delhi’s southeast district saw prevalence of antibodies go up by almost 11% but southwest Delhi’s inhabitants have not shown any remarkable increase in antibodies. Also Read: High exposure to Covid-19 in urban areas, find sero surveysAlso, people aged below 18 years and above 50 years have higher prevalence of antibodies compared to people in the age group of 18-50 years. The survey also highlighted that women in the city have a higher antibody prevalence compared to men. Several other cities in India have conducted serological surveys to map the growth of coronavirus among the people living in the city. Pune saw more than 51% of its population have developed antibodies. Mumbai conducted a serological survey in three slums and saw that 57% of the sample population have developed antibodies. Bihar, Haryana and Chhattisgarh are among the states who will start the second-phase of their serological surveys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-second-sero-survey-all-you-need-to-know-coronavirus-herd-immunity-vaccine-corona-trial-remdesivir-corona-deaths-india-recovery-rate-updates/story-1awlR6Z2O2tMoV3zGkSgFP.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Two more officers die of Covid-19, Mumbai police toll rises to 62||Two police officers from the city police force succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking Mumbai police’s pandemic fatalities to 62.Police inspector Vishwanath Tambe, 54, of Mulund police station died on Thursday morning. He was holding charge of administration at the police station. “Tambe had some co-morbidities and succumbed to the virus during treatment,” confirmed additional commissioner of police (East region), Lakhmi Gautam.The other police officer who lost his life to coronavirus was also from the east region police. Thirty-five-year-old police sub-inspector Vinayak Babar from Deonar police station died of the virus early in the morning.Babar had undergone tests after he developed some Covid symptoms. On August 9, his test result came out positive for the virus. He was admitted to Dr DY Patil hospital in Nerul, Navi Mumbai, for treatment.As his condition deteriorated, Babar was moved to the intensive care unit (ICU) on Wednesday. During treatment, he succumbed to the disease at around 4am on Thursday.“Babar was an active, and a very good detection officer. The entire police station is shocked as he was so young,” said assistant commissioner of police (Deonar division), Vishwapal Bhujbal.A native of Pune’s Purander district, Babar was a resident of Kamothe, Navi Mumbai. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. His parents live with his brother’s family in Pune.In Mumbai police force, so far around 4,500 policemen have got infected by coronavirus. Most of them have recovered and many of them even resumed work.In Maharashtra, till date, 12,877 policemen from various units have tested positive for Covid-19 and 131 of them have succumbed to the disease. Of the total infected personnel in khaki, 10,491 have recovered and only 2,255 cops are active Covid patients and undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-more-officers-die-of-covid-19-mumbai-police-toll-rises-to-62/story-4JXmD2SO27rr6evON4IFwN.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Rain, thunderstorms may affect flight operations in Delhi, ATC alert to airlines||The national capital has been witnessing rains since morning and flight operation at Delhi’s IGI Airport could be affected due to them, according to the Delhi Air Traffic Control’s (ATC’s) warning issued to all airline carriers.“Between 8:30 am and 10:30 am IST, it is prone to thunderstorms with light and rain and wind speed 3 knots, direction 130 degree. Hence! All airlines take necessary action. ATC also advises airlines to deal with dense clouds near the airport,” Delhi ATC advised airlines.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted thunderstorms along with rains will continue in Delhi and nearby areas.“Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain would continue to occur over many places of entire Delhi, IGI Airport, Dadri, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater-Noida, Ballabgarh, Faridabad, Gurugram, Manesar, Sohna, Modinagar, Pilakhua, Bulandshahar, Sikandarabad. Rainfall over Delhi likely to continue for the next 2 hours and subside thereafter,” the IMD said.Previously, many airlines had informed passengers that flight timings may be affected due to bad weather.“Due to bad weather in Delhi, arrivals and departures may get affected. Please check flight status before you leave for the Airport,” Air India had tweeted.Due to heavy rains since yesterday, waterlogging has been reported at multiple places in Delhi and the NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rain-thunderstorms-may-affect-flight-operations-in-delhi-atc-alert-to-airlines/story-wBtKlRoH3OI1MwfzK24NjK.html
20-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM asks officials to redress grievances regarding power bills||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday directed officials for a quick redressal of people’s complaints regarding their power bills, according to a release. He also asked them to ensure uninterrupted power supply in cities and villages without tripping. Also read: Rajasthan CM Gehlot to launch ‘Indira Rasoi Yojana’ todayChairing a review meeting of the Power Department, the chief minister said complaints of consumers pertaining to their power bills should be redressed as soon as possible, according to the release. Many consumers in the state have complained about inflated power bills. He said engineers should take complaints seriously. Gehlot asked the officials to prepare an action plan to remove power lines passing over houses and other buildings. Power Minister BD Kalla, Principal Secretary (Energy) Ajitabh Sharma and other senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cm-asks-officials-to-redress-grievances-regarding-power-bills/story-JQCTjl10tiUSkF7fT87gSJ.html
20-08-2020||Ranchi||After Jharkhand CM’s order, tribals of Masalia get handpump for drinking water||After Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday ordered Deputy Commissioner of Dumka to provide pure drinking water to the residents of Jojotola in Masalia block, a hand pump was installed at the site later in the day.After the Chief Minister’s direction, Deputy Commissioner Dumka told the Chief Minister that the Engineer and Block Development Officer of Drinking Water Department were asked to go to Masliya to take stock of the situation for necessary action in the case. The drinking water was provided to the tribals of Masalia block by providing a hand pump in the areaThe Chief Minister was informed that the poor tribal people of Jojotola are forced to drink dirty water. The Chief Minister was requested to provide clean drinking water to the people of the village.Soren also directed the Deputy Commissioner of Giridih to inform the families of late Jeevlal Mandal of Baray village of Birni Block by providing them assistance in connection with ration as well as all government schemes. The assistance was provided within two hours of the order being issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/after-jharkhand-cm-s-order-tribals-of-masalia-get-handpump-for-drinking-water/story-BWjxV8cGyc3GOXk3s9GIuI.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out in east Delhi building, family rescued||A couple and their child were rescued after the building in which they live, in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar, caught fire early Thursday. Firefighters said the family was trapped on the first floor as the fire had originated from the electricity meters installed under the staircase, the only exit and entry.Those rescued were identified as Mohammad Aadil, 52, who owns a shop in the same area, his wife Ishrat Aadil and their son Ali Aadil, 12.According to the firefighters, the incident took place around 5.20am. “We received a call at 5.24am at the control room informing us that a residential building in Murti Gali, Krishanganj in Laxmi Nagar has caught fire and there are people inside the building. We immediately rushed eight fire tenders to the site,” said an officer who wished not to be named. The director of Delhi Fire Services Atul Garg said the team that reached the spot found that an apartment building comprising 17 flats was on fire. “We found that the fire had sparked from meters installed under the building’s staircase, which was the only exit and entry point. While most of the occupants had managed to vacate the building and had jumped to adjoining buildings via rooftops, Aadil and his family, who lived on the first floor were trapped because of the smoke,” Garg said.The director said they could also not leave the building as there were 11 two-wheelers parked under the staircase, and all of them had caught fire blocking the only escape route completely. Station officer of the Laxmi Nagar fire station, Mohammad Firoz Khan, who led the rescue, said that since it was raining and the area had a lot of open wiring around, they first got the electricity supply of the area disconnected. “As one team of firefighters sprayed water to contain the fire, another team entered the first floor with hazmat suits and brought all three out, one by one. They were asked if they want to go to a hospital but they refused due to the fear of Covid-19,” Khan said.DFS director Garg said the probable cause of the fire was a short circuit and they were probing further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-east-delhi-building-family-rescued/story-Bs0A19O9Usw2KMFNTRsdpM.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Key takeaways from second sero survey in Delhi and how results are different from first||Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain on Thursday announced the results of second sero survey, that captures the spread of Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes the coronavirus disease.The survey showed that over 29 per cent people were exposed to Covid-19, but Jain said that the encouraging news is that all the people have recovered and are healthy.The first sero survey was held in July.Here are the key takeaways from the second edition of sero survey as against the first:• Antibodies against Covid-19 infection found in 29 per cent of sampled people in latest sero survey. This is a seven percentage point increase from the last survey.• The first survey was conducted between June 27 and July 10. Of those surveyed in that instance, 22.6 per cent had antibodies against the infection.• Increase of 6 per cent to 50 per cent found in sero prevalence of antibodies among people in various districts compared to earlier survey.• Total of 15,000 people sampled in fresh sero survey to detect antibodies against Covid-19. The number was 21,387 last time.• Sero prevalence of antibodies against Covid-19 found in males was 28.3 per cent, in females 32.2 per cent in latest survey.• Prevalence of antibodies found in sero survey in various Delhi districts: 29 per cent in North East, 27 per cent in South, 33 per cent in South East and 24 per cent in New Delhi.• Prevalence of antibodies among those aged less than 18 years is 34.7 per cent, between 18-50 years is 28.5 per cent and above 50 is 31.2 per cent.• The latest round of survey was conducted between August 1 and 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/key-takeaways-from-second-sero-survey-in-delhi-and-how-results-are-different-from-first/story-wzmwGSlT2lOdpxwm8BFT1I.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi faces heavy downpour: List of dos and don’ts in rainy season||Delhi and the national capital region received heavy rainfall on Thursday which caused waterlogging in several parts of the city.The India Meteorological Department has predicted that Delhi and parts of northwestern and central India will receive heavy rainfall over the next 24 hours.Several areas in Delhi and Gurgaon continue to remain waterlogged. Delhi traffic police in a series tweets informed citizens of traffic snarls that resulted due to the waterlogging.The IMD put out an orange alert given the intensity of the rains. In its advisory, IMD has asked citizens to check traffic routes before they leave for their destination. In its press release IMD said that there are possibilities of reduced visibility due to the downpour.THINGS TO DO DURING RAINS -• Keep mobile phones charged in case of emergency communication.• Track weather-related developments from trusted sources.• Keep first-aid, medicines and food stored.• Do protect valuables and important documents stored in water-proof bags.• Batteries, torches and candles should be kept handy.THINGS TO NOT DO DURING RAINS -• Do not venture into waterlogged areas.• Broken electric poles and exposed wires should be avoided.• Do not stand below high-pressure power lines• Do not remain close to debris, sewage lines and wires• Do not stand below trees or park vehicles underneath trees• Consume hygienic food, avoid food from outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-faces-heavy-downpour-list-of-dos-and-don-ts-in-rainy-season/story-3FF9f9TFao95ZkFmsjprGP.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Second sero survey in Delhi reveals more people have developed Covid-19 antibodies||The second serological (sero) survey in national capital Delhi revealed that the percentage of people who have antibodies against the coronavirus disease increased to 29.1 per cent.Out of these, females had a higher rate of 32.2 per cent, whereas 28.3 per cent of males had these antibodies.The results of the survey were announced by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday. “The second serological survey which was conducted between 1-7 August shows that 29.1% of people have developed antibodies against Covid-19. A total of 15,000 samples were collected during the survey,” said Jain.These surveys are conducted to determine the extent of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease.The first such survey was conducted between June 27 and July 10. Of those surveyed in that instance, 22.6 per cent had antibodies against the infection.Compared to the first serological survey, where close to 21,800 samples were collected from across the national capital, the second round comprised of over 15,000 samples which were randomly collected between August 1 and 7. Of the total samples collected this time, half were from people between the ages of 18 and 49.According to the government’s standard operating procedure (SOP), the highest number of samples were collected from the Northwest district (2,200), followed by West (2,145), and Central (1,548). The fewest were from New Delhi district, where over 880 samples were collected.The sero surveys conducted in other states have detected high antibody positivity rates among the population in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi and low rates in primarily rural states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh.These surveys are being conducted in select districts by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and state governments to detect how many people have developed immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies to the coronavirus disease and to gauge the extent of infection through random sampling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/second-sero-survey-in-delhi-reveals-more-people-have-developed-covid-19-antibodies/story-Ajkxid6iz9OMi3RlQjo7rN.html
20-08-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospital penalised for refusing to admit Covid patient without advance payment||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has directed a private hospital in Kolkata to deposit ₹10 lakh after a Covid-19 patient died on August 10. The hospital had refused to admit her if her family members did not deposit an initial sum of ₹3 lakh.“Ideally, the hospital’s license should have been cancelled for this. But since many patients were still being treated and there are no other allegations of negligence, we didn’t want to take such a step. We have directed the hospital to deposit ₹10 lakh while the case is being heard,” said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairman of the commission. The commission has barred the hospital from taking any advance deposit while admitting Covid-19 patients, he added. The 60-year-old woman died on August 10, allegedly while waiting in an ambulance outside the private hospital in east Kolkata. Her son said that the hospital demanded ₹3 lakh as an advance payment, without which they wouldn’t admit her. While the family took an hour to arrange the money, the woman died. “This is the first case in which the commission took suo moto cognizance. It was inhuman and very unfortunate,” said Banerjee. The commission had earlier put a cap on the advance payment demanded by private hospitals in the state. It had said that private hospitals could not charge patients over 20% of the estimated cost of treatment or a maximum of ₹50,000 at the time of admission. In a separate case, the commission recommended that the license of another private hospital be cancelled as it had declined to pay ₹2 lakh to a complainant. The commission had awarded a compensation of ₹3 lakh to the complainant about a year ago. The hospital only paid ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-hospital-penalised-for-refusing-to-admit-covid-patient-without-advance-payment/story-lYFatFTAZdCblnlF1lbVGM.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Agents taking bribe of ₹3,500 each from NRIs for early, fake Covid test report in Punjab’s Moga civil hospital||Moga: Doctors at the Moga civil hospital have been accused of running a racket in connivance with agents to conduct early Covid-19 tests, especially of non-resident Indians (NRIs), in lieu of money. Charanjit Singh, a resident of Dehadka village in Ludhiana district, has submitted a written complaint to deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans alleging he paid a bribe of ₹3,500 for each test of nine of his NRI family members to get the reports early. In the complaint, he said his parents are residents of Hong Kong and they were stranded at India for the last six months due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Our flight to Hong Kong was scheduled on August 4. We had only 72 hours to get the test reports. When I reached the Moga civil hospital along with my parents and my sister-in-law’s family on August 2, the doctors informed they cannot conduct our tests that day due to long waiting. In the meantime, one Om Parkash of Moga came to me and said that if we paid ₹3,500 each the tests would be done that day. We had no option but to pay ₹31,500 for the nine tests.” “I demand a probe to unearth this racket so that no other NRI should be looted by agents and doctors. My call details and the CCTV footage should be checked to confirm my claims,” he said. On Wednesday, Om Parkash also submitted an affidavit to the deputy commissioner, claiming he had given ₹1.7 lakh to district epidemiologist Dr Naresh Amla to get reports of 48 NRIs early. He said that Dr Amla assured him that if any of them is tested positive, they will be given a fake negative test report. The voice recordings of the calls with the health official were also submitted by Parkash, it is learnt. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “The complaint was forwarded to the police for investigation and appropriate action will be taken after confirming the facts.” Civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa said the police are investigating the matter and the guilty will be punished. Dr Amla denied the allegations, claiming he has never met Om Parkash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agents-taking-bribe-of-3-500-each-from-nris-for-early-fake-covid-test-report-in-punjab-s-moga-civil-hospital/story-MBWKRZp43mdvYlpZhQ234M.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||MSRTC resumes inter-district bus services after five months||Inter-district bus services of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) resumed on Thursday morning after a gap of almost five months, officials said.The Maharashtra government on Wednesday permitted the state-owned undertaking to re-start inter-district bus operations, which were stopped in March after the enforcement of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19.On Thursday, the first bus from Mumbai Central depot, where the MSRTC headquarters is located, left around 8.30 am for Chiplun in Ratnagiri district with six passengers boarding at the starting point, a transport corporation official said.More passengers were expected at Dadar and other stops, he said.Bus services from various depots in Mumbai and other parts of state are planned later in the day on some selected medium and long distance routes, sources in the MSRTC said.While allowing the inter-district MSRTC bus services to resume, the state government did away with the condition of e-pass, which was earlier compulsory for passengers in view of the lockdown.The MSRTC said it will be mandatory for passengers to maintain Covid-19 prevention protocols, like wearing masks and adhering to the social distancing guidelines.Earlier, the transport corporation resumed intra- district services from May 22 and also ran special buses to ferry migrants to the state boarders.It was also operating special services for passengers in the Konkan belt ahead of the Ganesh festival, which will begin on Saturday.With a fleet of over 18,000 buses and nearly one lakh workforce, MSRTC is one of the biggest state road transport corporations in the county.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/msrtc-resumes-inter-district-bus-services-after-five-months/story-ieDysVGmYiyeP4gXLRjJFM.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Delhi businessman arrested by Mumbai customs for evading duty||The Customs department has arrested a Delhi-based businessman in connection with a duty evasion case. Officials said the man had illegally imported used and second-hand hard disk drives (a restricted item) by misdeclaring them as new ones to evade custom duty and receive undue benefit.Girlish Vijay Dhingra, 39, the proprietor of South Delhi-based firm Cruiser Technologies, was arrested from Delhi and brought to Mumbai on Wednesday and produced in court. The court remanded him to 14 days’ judicial custody.According to the preventive unit of the customs department, Mumbai, Dhingra has been arrested in connection with a January 2020 case. Customs officials, on January 10, had intercepted a container at Nhava Sheva and seized a huge consignment of second-hand hard drives that had been misdeclared as new ones.Further investigations revealed that Dhingra has unlawfully imported second hand hard drives in the guise of new ones and sold them in the past as well . He is accused of illegally importing old hard disks worth ₹7.40 crore, involving customs duty worth ₹1.33 crore.Officials said the investigation revealed that Dhingra, through his firm, had imported second-hand hard disk drives, but misdeclared them as new ones to evade duty. He allegedly did so because under the Foreign Trade policy, the import of second-hand goods or refurbished or reconditioned spares of refurbished parts of personal computers or laptops are restricted. The import of old hard disk drives requires authorisation from the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Dhingra’s firm did not have authorisation to import second-hand hard drives.His firm also did not have the mandatory permission from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, which is compulsory for the second-hand hard drives that are under the ‘other waste’ category as per the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016, and cannot be imported without the ministries’ permission.Following the seizure of the second-hand hard drives, Dhingra was interrogated by the customs officials in February and was asked to produce relevant documents for the imported items. Dhingra failed to submit complete and accurate information about the imported goods and continued to buy them. He also stopped responding to the summons of the customs department. Dhingra’s lawyer Ravi Hirani, however, said that his client had already paid duty for previous consignments. “How it is possible to clear the goods without completing the customs formalities? It’s a false case against my client,” said Hirani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/delhi-businessman-arrested-by-mumbai-customs-for-evading-duty/story-7H9rgd9K6Yda32x7jEkrPP.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab students, teachers who attended smartphone distribution in Bathinda, Mansa on August 12 at risk of Covid infection||Bathinda: Even as the health department is tracing, testing and quarantining contacts of a Punjab minister, an MLA and a senior police official, who were found positive for Covid-19, since the Independence Day function, none of the students, teachers and others present at the August 12 phone distribution events the three attended at Bathinda and Mansa have been asked to go for testing. Fifty-nine Class 12 students of government schools along with teachers were invited to the smartphone distribution functions attended by state revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Mansa MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia and the Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bhupinder Jit Virk. While Kangar, accompanied by Manshahia, distributed handsets to 20 students in Mansa, SSP Bhupinder Jit Singh Virk was present at the Bathinda event where 39 students from three government schools were given phones by state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. Kangar was found infected three days after the distribution function and Manshahia tested positive after his sample was taken on Monday. The SSP’s report came on August 17. Health officials said as per protocol, all those who were present at the venues should have been tested for coronavirus. “A person is considered to be in high-risk category if they get exposed to an environment where an infected person spends over half an hour. It cannot be ruled out that the minister and two others may have contracted the infection from virus carrier(s) at the function,” said a health official involved in Covid-19 management. Bathinda district education officer (DEO secondary) Iqbal Singh said no one from the students or the education staff was advised to give a sample for Covid test. Mansa DEO Surjit Sidhu said he and few others have been directed to undergo test on Thursday as they were present at the Independence Day function after which Kangar and Mansa MLA tested positive. “The students belong to underprivileged families and they may not be aware of the protocol of quarantine and testing. It has been a week but the administration did not contact any one of us,” said a teacher. Bathinda civil surgeon Amrik Singh Sandhu said the August 12 event was not brought to the notice of the health department. “Testing of those present at the function is important to check their risk status. We still have time and we will try to contact students and all others present at the function,” he said. Mansa officiating chief medical officer Dr GB Singh said they will start the exercise to trace students and others present at the phone distribution function soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-students-teachers-who-attended-smartphone-distribution-in-bathinda-mansa-on-august-12-at-risk-of-covid-infection/story-Y511VbKu1P3ORQKxpUtxkK.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Family of three hurt in roof collapse in Delhi||A couple and their minor daughter were injured when the roof of their rented room collapsed on them, possibly due to the downpour, in West Delhi’s New Multan Nagar near Paschim Vihar on Thursday morning. While the police are yet to determine what caused the collapse, Atul Garg, the director of Delhi Fire Services, said that rain appeared to be the reason. The family of three lived in a small room on the ground floor of the building. Its roof was made of stone slabs. “We received the call about the collapse at 5.23am. We reached the spot to find the family under the rubble and their neighbours trying to rescue them. We have moved them to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital in Mangolpuri,” said Garg. While the woman Kavita received serious injuries to her head and is in a critical condition, her husband Radhey Shyam and 16-year-old daughter Mahak received relatively non-grievous injuries to their heads and limbs, said a senior police officer.Police said that the trio was sleeping in the room when the mishap took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/family-of-three-hurt-in-roof-collapse-in-delhi/story-TdsKp9P84TmqxpUAFviLzH.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Restaurants body asks Delhi govt to allow liquor in eateries||Two months after restaurants were allowed to reopen, restaurant owners are demanding that they be allowed to serve liquor in the national capital. The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) has written to the Delhi government’s excise department in this regard.Restaurants in the city were allowed to operate from June 8, though with restrictions, to ensure social distancing and other precautionary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19.While business is gradually picking up, owners say the sale of liquor in restaurants will help them make up for their losses as they are operating on about 50% occupancy to ensure social distancing.In its letter dated August 16 to the excise commissioner, NRAI wrote that retail sale of liquor was one of the first few activities to start in all states and requested the government to de-link liquor service in restaurants from the generic term ‘bars’.While the Union ministry of home affairs allowed restaurants to operate in June, the sale of liquor in bars was prohibited.“People are anyway buying liquor from retail stores. It makes no difference whether guests consume alcoholic beverages or coffee along with food at a restaurant. People come to restaurants to have a good time and permission to serve liquor will help us cut losses,” said Manpreet Singh, the owner of Zen restaurant in Connaught Place and the treasurer of NRAI.Singh said business will increase if the liquor service is allowed. According to restaurant owners, currently business is just 10-20% during weekdays and 45-55% during weekends of what it was during pre-Covid times .“With liquor service in restaurants, other sales will also pick-up. We will be able to employ more people,” said Singh.The Union ministry of home affairs has prohibited ‘bars’ from reopening in its Unlock guidelines. NRAI members say that dine-in restaurants are being unfairly clubbed with bars.A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to HT’s requests for comment.When contacted, a senior official with the excise department said the Delhi government is following the MHA’s guidelines regarding the pandemic. The official, requesting anonymity, said that there is no concept of a stand-alone bar in the capital.“A liquor licence is given to a restaurant that has all necessary approvals from various government authorities. There is no concept of stand-alone bars in Delhi. For now, there is no plan to allow restaurants to serve liquor as we are strictly adhering to MHA guidelines that prohibit serving liquor in bars,” said the official.The association has cited Punjab and Rajasthan governments’ decisions to push their case. “Punjab allowed restaurants to serve liquor in June, while Rajasthan allowed it recently. The Union home ministry guidelines have prohibited ‘bars’. Dine-in liquor service in restaurants should be removed from the prohibited list,” said Prakul Kumar, secretary general, NRAI.Demanding that dine-in restaurants be de-linked from ‘bars’, NRAI suggested some additional guidelines such as keeping the bar counter closed, can be kept while granting permission.“The restaurant industry is has been hit the worst and is fighting for survival. If liquor service is allowed, it will help restaurants recover quickly,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/restaurants-body-asks-delhi-govt-to-allow-liquor-in-eateries/story-W8D1AUm4xKEiC4Xo2KPO4M.html
20-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Gehlot to launch ‘Indira Rasoi Yojana’ today||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot will on Thursday launch the ‘Indira Rasoi Yojana’ to provide quality nutritious food to the poor at just Rs 8.The scheme will be rolled in 213 urban local bodies of the state, which include 10 locations each in the state capital’s Jaipur municipal corporation greater and heritage area.Jaipur District Collector Antar Singh Nehra said that the scheme will also start in 12 municipalities of Jaipur district from Thursday. The chief minister will launch the scheme through video conferencing from his residence with all ministers joining the conference from their residences or offices.Under the scheme, fresh and nutritious food will be provided at Rs 8 per plate. It will have 100 gms of pulses, 100 gms of vegetables, 250 gms chapatti and pickles. The menu can be altered as per the local requirement recommended by the district-level committees.The food will be made available from 8.30 am till 1 pm and 5 pm to 8 pm.The state government will give grant of Rs 12 per plate and for this Rs 100 crore annually has been proposed in the budget. District-level committees will check food quality from time to time and complaints can be lodged with district collectors.Individuals or institutions can provide financial aid to CM Relief Fund or at district collector offices for this scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-to-launch-indira-rasoi-yojana-today/story-jTll80tB8Z2V09fjAHqVDJ.html
20-08-2020||Lucknow||With doc on video call, S-I helps woman deliver at railway platform||A woman sub-inspector helped an expectant mother deliver a healthy baby girl with help from her doctor friend on a video call, at Jhansi railway station here on Wednesday.Raj Kumari Gujjar, who is with Railway Protection Force (RPF), had no choice but to facilitate the delivery on the platform as pregnant Pooja Kumar, 20, was in no condition to travel to the hospital.She was travelling with her husband in Goa Express when she went into labour pain.Her husband Badshah went out for help and met Raj Kumari on the platform.Watch how a woman cop helped deliver a baby at Jhansi railway stationShe with the help of some her colleagues and women brought Pooja out on the platform, borrowed some bedsheets from the air-conditioned coaches and stretched them.She called her doctor friend Neelu Kasotiya, a gynaecologist, who explained her over video call the steps she had to follow.“It all took more than hour. However, the most pressing moment was when I was asked to cut the umbilical cord, my hands were trembling at that time,” said Gujjar, adding that holding the baby girl then gave her the most satisfying feel.The mother and daughter duo were taken to the local hospital where both of them were stable. Badshah said he was grateful to Raj Kumari and other policemen. “If they hadn’t helped, I may have had lost both of them,” he said, choking with emotions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/with-doc-on-video-call-s-i-helps-woman-deliver-at-railway-platform/story-LtIpcXERAWPYBqy4SPh78H.html
20-08-2020||Jaipur||State govt has resolved to meet people’s livelihood challenges: Rajasthan CM||The Rajasthan government has resolved to save lives and meet people’s livelihood challenges during the coronavirus crisis and ensure that no one sleeps hungry, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Wednesday.Inaugurating 29 buildings and laying foundation stone of eight projects, he said the aim of his government is to make Rajasthan a pioneer in the health sector in the entire country.The government will do its utmost to ensure that no one dies of coronavirus in the state. The number of Covid-19 testing has been increased, the chief minister said. He also said that in the last one year, 15 districts have got medical colleges and the number of such institutes in the state now stands at 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/state-govt-has-resolved-to-meet-people-s-livelihood-challenges-rajasthan-cm/story-hYoj9Hb8Cowh0WOkwujdeJ.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram feared ‘Gurujam’ as seven underpasses went down under||Widespread flooding of arterial roads and underpasses in Gurugram, evoked memories of the 2016 ‘Gurujam’ when commuters were stuck for over 20 hours on city roads.The city received 118mm rain -- not unexpected for August-- in around six hours and exposed the the drainage system.Three underpasses on the Golf Course Road at DLF Phase 1, Genpact Chowk, and Bristol Chowk, two in Cyber City next to Shankar Chowk and Cyberhub, two on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at IFFCO Chowk and Rajiv Chowk were flooded and traffic police closed them off to the public.The only serious motor victim of the rain seemed to have been driver of a sedan who had to abandon his vehicle on the DLF Phase 1 underpass when water rose suddenly. A video of two persons swimming next to the car went viral over social media.Also read: Drained of all hope, NCR cities left to sink or swim“The underpasses on Raghavendra Marg have been in use for the last 3/4 years. Until today, we have never experienced water logging of this magnitude,” said a spokesperson for DLF, the caretaker of the underpasses on Golf Course Road and Cyber City.“The intensity of rainfall received this morning was 6-7 times higher than the designed capacity of the master drainage system of Gurugram. Of the seven underpasses on Raghavendra Marg, six are fully operational. The seventh, Arjun Marg underpass in DLF Phase I was severely impacted due to reverse discharge of rain water from the main drainage system. The DLF team along with government authorities are working tirelessly towards making it operational by tomorrow morning,” they said.Also read: Heavy rain likely in north-west, central IndiaSatyawan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO), said that 11 fire tenders, including four from DLF fire services, were used to drain water from the seven underpasses.As per fire department officials, rainwater from five out seven underpasses was cleared by 5 pm.DCP traffic Chander Mohan said that more than 4,000 police personnel were deployed across the city to manage traffic, 20 cranes were used to tow more than 50 vehicles that had broken down at different points of the city. Mohan said that the Narsinghpur-Hero Honda Chowk stretch on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway was the worst affected, as water rose to more than four feet there, which resulted in the carriageway carrying traffic from Delhi to Manesar slowing significantly.Also read: 11 days account for 80% of Delhi’s monsoon rainfall this yearIn several condominiums and residential sectors situated in low-lying areas, such as Belvedere Park in Cyber City, Suncity on Golf Course Road, DLF Phase 1-2, sectors 27, and 28 there was knee-deep rainwater, which not only prevented residents from venturing outside but in some cases flooded ground-floor houses as well.MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma said that the level of rainwater at Najafgarh drain was extremely high, and, as a result, a large portion of Gurugram’s main drain-Badshahpur drain- flowed back on to the roads, leaving the city without any outlet to drain rainwater.Also read: Why Noida handles rain better than Gurugram“Overall more than 45 pumps were deployed across various points of the city to drain out rainwater. As per our estimates, the city received more than 130mm of rainfall today. The volume of rain was much higher than usual as a result of which there was severe waterlogging across the city. We initiated measures as soon as rains started and in most parts of the city, barring low-lying areas by 6 pm, rainwater was cleared. More than 150 GMDA and MCG officials are still on-ground,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-feared-gurujam-as-seven-underpasses-went-down-under/story-Oq0HV7frhUnkV9PJJp2dqK.html
20-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 967 new coronavirus cases||Jharkhand reported 967 new Covid-19 cases and 9 deaths on Wednesday, according to the State Health Department. The total cases in the state have climbed to 26,300, including 16,566 discharges and 278 deaths.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAt present, the number of active cases stands at 9,456.India’s Covid-19 count reached 27,67,274 and the recoveries crossed the 2-million mark on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry.The ministry stated that the Covid-19 count includes 6,76,514 active cases, 20,37,871 discharged/migrated patients and 52,889 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-967-new-coronavirus-cases/story-bdambNvQmcdQN0OOOU0UOI.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Incessant rainfall, thunderstorm in parts of national capital||Heavy rainfall lashed several parts of Delhi on Thursday morning. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more rainfall in the national capital region till August 25. For two days in a row, heavy rain brought respite from the humid weather as temperature dipped. However, it threw life out of gear in several parts of the national capital on Wednesday as it caused traffic jams, wall collapse and water logging. Areas of Vasant Kunj, Satyam Nagar, Dhaula Kuan and Ring Road were few of the places that experienced traffic snarls throughout the day due to water logging. The boundary wall of Apeejay School in Saket’s J Block collapsed due to rain around 11.30am, damaging several vehicles. No injuries were reported.On Thursday morning, Delhi Traffic Police put out warnings of water logging in areas of Burfkhana Chowk and MB Road. Traffic will remain affected in these areas, the warning read.Out of the five weather stations of Delhi, rainfall was highest in Ayanagar this monsoon, an HT analysis of IMD gridded dataset showed. Enhanced rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy showers is expected over northwest India, including the western Himalayan region till August 20, IMD said in its Monday bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/incessant-rainfall-thunderstorm-in-parts-of-national-capital/story-yIi7LgKMcMlvY7onW2fYiL.html
20-08-2020||Patna||Lockdown impact: 51% report complete loss of income, reveals study||It has been two months since Pankaj Kumar (28), a native of Badirabad village in Arwal district, came back along with his family after losing his job at a cloth factory in Surat.Now, Kumar is barely able to meet his ends, thanks to a small agricultural holding in his village and a roof to live under.But for Sanjay Das, of Basan Bigha in Arwal district and father of five children, things are getting difficult with each passing day. Das worked in a vegetable mandi in Mumbai. But ever since he returned to his native village, things have gone awry for him.These are just two examples.A joint study, titled Qualitative Assessment of Impact of Covid-19 on Migrant Workers and Their Families in Bihar, conducted by Unicef and DMI (Development Management Institute), Patna, reveals that reverse migration of more than 21 lakh migrant workers due to job losses and uncertainty has caused unprecedented hardships and devastating consequences for migrant labourers and their families, according to Dr Urvashi Kaushik, social policy specialist, Unicef in Bihar.Though the sample size for the study was less than 2,000, the findings are an eye-opener. Nearly 51% of the migrants surveyed reported complete loss of income, while 30% reported major reduction of income. Only 7% of the migrants surveyed said there was no impact on their income.About half the households have lost their whole income. Over two-thirds of the households reported complete loss of income due to lockdown and said their finances were just sufficient for less than a month of survival.Job loss was relatively higher among the SC/STs. About one-fifth of them reported that their primary source of income was from government schemes. However, they said they received ration from the public distribution system (PDS), although only 42% reported sufficiency of ration. More than half of the migrant households received financial assistance from the government and the average amount received was Rs 1,320.Lack of work has compelled them to rethink about their return. A large chunk has already returned to different work places, while about 70% said they would go to destination areas in an average time of 4.4 months while nearly 6% of the migrants want to return quickly.Nearly 21 lakh people returned to Bihar during the lockdown and the state government, till June-end, had conducted skill mapping of 14 lakh migrants. Of this, 8.40 lakh were engaged in different spheres, like construction of road, bridges, dams, painter, centering mechanic, unskilled workers in construction, mason helpers, etc.Based on their skills, migrants were broadly categorized into 10 groups -- handicrafts, mechanics, healthcare, general services, electronics and electrical, construction, computer and IT, banking and financial services, agriculture and others.Construction and related activities seems to be the major source of livelihood for all those who returned from different states, while the second largest chunk of people who came back belonged to other services like cooks, drivers, daily wagers, domestic helps, drivers and tailors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-impact-51-report-complete-loss-of-income-reveals-study/story-hsMZMwYZJpLwbDzGUPMB0J.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Nine forest service officers transferred in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla: The state government has transferred nine Himachal Pradesh Forest Service (HPFS) officers. In a notification on Wednesday evening, additional chief secretary, forests, Sanjay Gupta said that the district project officer (DPO), integrated development project, Mandi, Munshi Ram has been transferred as the divisional forest officer (DFO), headquarters, in the office of the conservator of forests, Mandi. Assistant conservator of forests (ACF), wildlife, Shimla, Anita Bhardwaj will now be DFO HQ in the office of CCF, wildlife, Shimla. SDM, forest working division (FWD), Solan, Baldev Raj will now be joint director, Forest Training Institute (FTI), Chail, while the SDM, FWD, Rampur, Krishan Bhag Negi has been posted as divisional manager, FWD, Rampur. Assistant project director, KFW, Dharamshala, Narender Singh, has been transferred as joint director, Forest Training Institute, Sundernagar. Assistant conservator, forest division, Paonta Sahib, Jagdish Gautam has been transferred as DM, FWD, Mandi cum-DM HQ at the office of the director, central, Mandi. ACF, forest division, Una, Rahul Sharma will now be DPO, integrated development project, Una. ACF, Pong Dam, Ajay Kumar has been transferred as DPO, integrated development project, Mandi, and ACF, (HQ), CCF, Wildlife Shimla, Praveen Sharma is the sub divisional manager, FWD, Solan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-forest-service-officers-transferred-in-himachal-pradesh/story-WuA3IKjC0tIQFta7kZrMJO.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A man with possessions||He doesn’t have a house, he says. But he does have possessions.“I carry them all the time with me,” says Vijay Kumar. This morning he is sitting on the steps of a shuttered shop in a central Delhi market. The lane is still largely empty. Mr Kumar’s possessions consist of a bag (with a broken strap) and a wooden walking stick. The black bag is crammed with personal stuff, so much so that it is bulging out on all sides like the cheeks of a naughty child holding water in his mouth, and refusing to swallow it down. While the bag’s zip does work, it is still tied with a strap of red plastic. “This has all my clothes—shirt, pants, kurta, sandals, gamcha and a tauliya (towel).”He pauses for a while and says, “It has a katori (bowl) and chammach (spoon) too.”Mr Kumar says matter-of-factly that he is a beggar. “I worked in an eatery until some years ago.” His only other possession, the walking stick, is covered from top to bottom with a series of colourful rubber bands. “Can’t you see this is for decoration? It looks good this way.”Mr Kumar acquired the stick about three years ago. But isn’t it true that he is able to walk without any support? He nods lazily. “Yes, but the streets always have more dogs than people, and some of them bark at the very sight of me... I use the danda to keep them away.” He silently shrugs his shoulders in response to a query on how he landed into his present way of living. While he generously lets himself be clicked, as well as his bag and walking stick, he requests that his face picture be not shared publicly “since I’m a kind of person who doesn’t want publicity.” He now falls quiet, looking amused with the brief photography session. “Arre, I forgot to show you my teesra samaan (third possession), which is perhaps the most important,” he comments wryly, showing his bundle of beedis, lying by his sandals, along with a packet of matchbox—the matchbox cover shows a ship. “I have travelled so much but I have never been on a boat... I always walk,” he notes. Mr Kumar reveals he has been in the city for several years and locates his roots in Bareilly, UP.“I do have a family but I haven’t gone home for a long time.” He stopped contacting them a few years ago and they too didn’t try to find his whereabouts, he guesses.Absentmindedly running his hand upon his scraggly grey beard, Mr Kumar says he doesn’t regret being alone. “Sometimes I feel lonely but Dilli is a big city and I always find people like myself... these men have living conditions just like mine, and we sit together and talk of important things.”By “important things”, he means the weather and places with easy availability of food.Turning towards his bag and walking stick, Mr Kumar says he doesn’t feel anything for his belongings. “I keep losing the things in my bag... sometimes they are stolen while I’m asleep... but these things are easily replaceable, so there is no nuksaan (loss).”Every night, however, as he settles down to sleep (on the pavement), Mr Kumar does make it a point to remove all the rubber bands from his walking stick. “Because I have collected them over time,” he explains, throwing a hurried glance towards the stick, looking relieved to see it is still there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-man-with-possessions/story-1iuvceH6X6vycC5gsayWoL.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||10.87 crore household toilets constructed across rural India from 2015: Centre to HC||The Union government, in its reply to the Bombay high court (HC) regarding a petition that sought directions to include of sanitary napkins as an essential commodity, said that it has initiated various measures to ensure hygiene among all strata of the society, and under the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), it constructed nearly 10.87 crore household toilets and 85,784 community toilets across rural India. Hence, Centre said, the claim of the petitioner law students that there was failure on the part of the Central government to implement the Menstrual Hygiene Management (MHM) schemes for the poor was not justified. The affidavit filed by the department of drinking water and sanitation (DDWS) in reply to the issues raised in the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Nikita Gore, a law student, through advocate Vinod Sangvikar, has said that the MHM grogramme was included in the SBM since 2015. The Central government scheme is implemented by states under the SBM (Grameen) programme which aims at making villages open-defecation free. Pursuant to this, the department had constructed nearly 10.87 crore household toilets and 85,784 community toilets across India. The affidavit further states that the grouse of the petitioners that the MHM was not being implemented properly, was unfounded as the initiatives had been taken under the SBM (G) scheme to not only distribute sanitary napkins to women and girls, but a mechanism was also put in place to dispose of the napkins. In light of this, the affidavit filed by Magan Lal, under-secretary, ministry of Jal Shakti, department of drinking water and sanitation, has stated that along with toilets, the issue of MHM was also taken care of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-87-crore-household-toilets-constructed-across-rural-india-from-2015-centre-to-hc/story-JZGKZdu9QJ7r0VFi7yBWFL.html
20-08-2020||City||18-month-old girl drowns in open manhole at Nallasopara||An 18-month-old girl, Sweety Pal drowned after she fell in an open manhole while playing in Dhanivbaug, Nallasopara on Wednesday afternoon. She was found by locals who rushed to a hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. Sweety has ventured out of her house to play but when her mother could not find her, the neighbours formed a search party for the girl. Locals later found her floating inside the drain, which was filled with rainwater and muck. “We have registered a case of accidental death and are investigating further. We will register a case against the contractor of the Vasai civic body only after the post mortem report is received,” said an officer from Nallasopara police station. Santosh Yadav, a social worker from the area said the open manhole had no lid since the past few months and the Vasai civic body did not put any cover over the drain, which led to the accident. “We want the guilty contractor punished for the loss of the girl,” he said. Pratap Koli, officer of F ward said, “We will be taking up the issue to Rajendra Lad, executive engineer, Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation, and other officials, on Thursday. We will also take action against the concerned contractor who was awarded the contract.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-month-old-girl-drowns-in-open-manhole-at-nallasopara/story-Nn2tO6Dni648onR4WjWt1L.html
20-08-2020||City||NMMC sets up 135 artificial ponds for Ganesh idol immersion||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has constructed artificial ponds in every ward in its jurisdiction for immersion of Ganesh idols during the upcoming Ganeshotsav festivities. A total of 135 artificial ponds have been constructed in the city. Navi Mumbai has 23 traditional immersion spots, including 14 holding ponds. Abhijit Bangar, municipal commissioner said, “Taking into account the Covid pandemic this year, we have constructed six times more artificial immersion ponds in the city. The 135 additional immersion spots will help prevent crowding in any area and social distancing will be easy to maintain. The locations of the artificial ponds will be publicised through hoardings in the respective wards. They will also be on social media through WhatsApp, NMMC website, Facebook, Twitter, etc.” In the case of containment zones, civic officials will collect the Ganpati idols from the residents at the gate of the containment zone. They will be then immersed as per the religious rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-sets-up-135-artificial-ponds-for-ganesh-idol-immersion/story-lPgtdlNZtMu2tebEURCuhN.html
20-08-2020||City||Gender test racket busted in Haryana’s Jhajjar, 1 held||A team of Jhajjar health authorities on Wednesday busted a gender test racket with the arrest of a man.Deputy civil surgeon, prenatal diagnostic techniques, Dr Anchal Tripathi said they got a tip-off that a tout, Sumit of Wazirpur, was involved in a sex-determination racket. “A decoy was sent to him, who cracked a deal in ₹70,000. He took the decoy to Ghaziabad at a house where the doctor conducted an ultrasound. He was arrested when he returned. From his phone records, it came to the fore that two staff nurses, Neelam and Sarita Dahiya, and another tout Sonu of Bindawas were also involved in this racket,” the doctor added.Beri police have booked the accused under sections 18,29, 3A, 4, 5 (1)(a), 6(a) of the PNDT Act and sections 120-B, 34 and 420 of the IPC.4 booked for hoisting Khalistan flag in Sirsa  Four miscreants have been arrested on the charges of trying to disrupt peace, brotherhood and communal harmony by hoisting a flag with ‘Khalistan Zindabad’ written on it at a village chaupal under Kalanwali police jurisdiction in Sirsa district.A police spokesperson said the accused are Rupinder Singh, Yudhvir Singh and Gurjeet of Singhpura village and Aman Sharma of Talwandi Sabo. During preliminary interrogation, Rupinder confessed to having been involved in the ‘disgraceful act’.A case under relevant sections of IPC has been registered at Kalawali police station and a probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gender-test-racket-busted-in-haryana-s-jhajjar-1-held/story-lqyoyLjWISSDX6Ya3zcU8H.html
20-08-2020||City||Two farmers die of power shock in Bhiwani||Two farmers were killed in Bhiwani’s Hassan village on Tuesday evening when they accidentally came in contact with a high-voltage wire in their fields.The deceased have been identified as Anoop Kumar, 25, and Vinod ,40, of the same village.Umed Singh, a villager, said the incident took place when Anoop was irrigating his fields. He was carrying a pipe which came in contact with the high-tension wires, he added. “Vinod went to rescue him, but also died in the incident. We seek from the government some compensation for their kin as the duo were sole breadwinners of their families,” he added.The police have handed over the victims’ bodies to their family members after conducting autopsy and launched a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-farmers-die-of-power-shock-in-bhiwani/story-Ri9FCbYb93PLWJjuudzukM.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Couple arrested for kidnapping 1-year-old child from Kurla||The Oshiwara and Kurla police, in a joint operation, arrested a couple for kidnapping a year-old child from Kurla area, on Tuesday. According to police, the accused committed the offence as they were not able to conceive. The accused Ibrahim Asaduddin Ali, 32 and Reshma Ibrahim Ali, 30, already knew the mother of the child. They kept a close watch on her before kidnapping her child. The accused following the arrest told police that on August 18, they took the child and her mother for shopping at Kurla (West), where they purchased a dress for the child. Ibrahim then took the child under the pretext of getting her chocolate, and when he did not return after 15-20 minutes, Reshma asked the mother to wait, and that she would go and search for him. The couple then escaped from the area. The mother after waiting for some time registered an FIR with Kurla police station.“Following a complaint by Karishma Aslam Ali we registered an FIR under sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code,” Dattatray Shinde, senior police inspector at Kurla police station. An alert was sent out to all police stations. Based on the location of the accused a team of police officers from Oshiwara traced them to Jogeshwari. Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector from Oshiwara police station said, “Our detection team assisted Kurla police and we tracked his location to Ajit Glass Garden Road in Jogeshwari where we laid a trap and arrested Ibrahim.”The accused has revealed that the kid was with his wife at Malwani. Reshma was then arrested from Malwani and the child was brought back safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/couple-arrested-for-kidnapping-1-year-old-child-from-kurla/story-NQbPt8hkTteU0HqsHGXTQN.html
20-08-2020||City||Baroda abuzz with political activities ahead of bypoll||Leaders of various political parties have started addressing gatherings in the villages falling under Sonepat’s Baroda constituency to win over the support of people ahead of the bypoll. While Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and agriculture minister JP Dalal are canvassing for the saffron party, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda is leading the Congress and Abhay Chautala has taken charge of the INLD.Neither local people nor leaders, however, can be seen adhering to safety guidelines issued to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Wednesday marked the fourth day of Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala’s five-day tour. He visited five villages and while addressing a gathering amid rain in Bichpadi village, he said three ordinances related to agriculture announced by the Union government will “destroy the farmers’ and commission agents”.“The BJP government has prepared a blueprint of damage by aiming to implement three ordinances. You (people) have a chance to teach the BJP a lesson by making their candidate lose the security deposit in the upcoming Baroda byelection. If these ordinances are implemented, farmers will have to sell their produce at minimal prices, which would be decided by the private players,” he added.“When the all citizens was locked inside their homes, ministers of the Haryana government were busy doing liquor scam. The excise minister (Dushyant Chautala) and home minister (Anil Vij) are at loggerheads over the liquor scam. The excise minister has flayed the report of special enquiry teams which reveals that Manohar Lal Khattar is a weak chief minister,” Abhay said.I dare Digvijay to contest this bypoll: AbhayThe Ellenabad legislator has dared his estranged nephew Digvijay Chautala to fight the upcoming Baroda byelection.“My brother Ajay Chautala had stated that I reached the state assembly because they helped me in winning the Ellenabad seat. I want to tell him to bring his younger son Digvijay Chautala to the poll fray from Baroda as he aspires to become an MLA since they formed their own party. They (Ajay’s family) betrayed the state voters by supporting the BJP, which they used to abuse during the assembly elections. The people of Baroda are ready to teach a lesson to traitors,” he added. Meanwhile, Loktrantra Suraksha Party (LSP) chief Raj Kumar Saini was barred from addressing a gathering at Baroda’s Jagsi village on Wednesday. Villagers asked him to go back, urging him not to “spoil the brotherhood”.“Saini sahab aap chale jao. Bhaichara kharab mat karo. Chunav se pehle aap iss gaon mein kabhi nahi aaye, ab maahol kharaab karne aaye ho (Please go back. Don’t spoil the brotherhood. You never visited this village before the elections, and came here now to destroy the harmony),” the villagers said. They asked him whether he helped anyone from their village to secure a job.However, Saini told the people that he had a right to deliver his speech and they cannot stop him from addressing the public.“I did not burn the state. I was always in favour of giving 100% reservation to all communities. I never enjoyed power, so I could not provide job to anyone,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-abuzz-with-political-activities-ahead-of-bypoll/story-JkeCNdYIBnsulbIpJ7BNMN.html
20-08-2020||City||Ulhasnagar NGO promotes red-mud Ganesh idols made by tribal artists||An Ulhasnagar-based NGO is promoting red-mud Ganesh idols made by tribal artists from Maharashtra. Soham Foundation, through this initiative, is not only promoting eco-friendly Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations but also plans to use the funds collected from the sales to help funds the education of tribal children in and around Ulhasnagar. Around 50 idols made of red mud were purchased from Pen in Raigad district, which were designed by local tribal artists. The NGO has set up a shop at Century Rayon staff gate near the Shahad bridge and managed to sell 35 idols within a week. “We pledged to take up the promotion of red-mud idols this year as this mud can be used to plan saplings. During our visits to several places, were came across the Yusuf Meherally Centre in Pen where tribal artists were making idols. We bought 50 idols from them,” said Rajendra Dethe, founder of the Soham Foundation. “We set up a shop in Ulhasnagar and promoted the idols. We got orders for 35 of them. Whatever we earn out of this, we will use for the education of the tribal kids in our region,” said Dethe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-ngo-promotes-red-mud-ganesh-idols-made-by-tribal-artists/story-rOkU9MiN7YvVvxvOrfRZCN.html
20-08-2020||City||Ganeshotsav to skip a beat this year as dhol tasha groups go silent||This year, the dhol tasha and brass band troupes that typically practice at different nooks and corners of the city, especially below the flyovers in Thane, a month before Ganeshotsav, are nowhere to be seen or heard. With the lockdown norms preventing large groups from taking part in the traditional festive procession, these musicians have no employment this year.Vrushali Waghule, 25, member of Veer Garjana Pathak from Dombivli, said, “This year, there are no dhol-tasha pathaks practicing anywhere in Thane, Kalyan or Dombivli. Our prime focus is on the safety of everyone in the team. Thus, we have decided to stay away from any kind of public performances. There are more than 100 of us who gather a month ahead of the festival every year to practice for eight hours daily. We had 10 to 15 bookings a day during Ganeshotsav.”Waghule claims that this time, there will be no performance and no money for the group of performers. Additionally, they will be unable to carry out the maintenance of their musical instruments due to a lack of funds.Aarambh, another group from Dombivli, has over 250 members. Advait Korgaonkar, 23, one of the members, said, “We have performers from nine years to 55 years of age, and all of us await the 10-day festival each year. This year it is not possible to perform, so most of us have started doing social work – distributing food packets or providing ration kits to the needy. We will miss the energy, rhythm and vigour this year.”Brass band members and DJs are facing a financial crisis this year due to a lack of demand. Nitin Shelar, 39, of Thane’s Sanskriti Banjo, said, “We have been performing for the Ganpati festival for the last 12 years. From April we would be busy performing for marriages and festivals. This time, we haven’t received a single order since April. Our families’ survival is dependant on this business. At least during Ganeshotsav, we were expecting orders but we haven’t received any even though we have assured to follow social distancing” The case is the same for DJ supplier and a brass band member, Gajendra Mahadik from Kalyan, who said that no bookings have come through this year. “We would have more than 12 bookings for banjo and 30 to 32 orders for DJs. My team of 62 people has started searching for different jobs as we haven’t received any orders since April. We are not well educated, but we are good artists and popular in Kalyan-Dombivli. Our source of income is completely gone this year, and we are hoping that things will be back to normal soon,” Mahadik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganeshotsav-to-skip-a-beat-this-year-as-dhol-tasha-groups-go-silent/story-rcTa85Vj75srf4s1Mlx20I.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar seeks PM Narendra Modi’s intervention to give justice to cooperative banks||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has criticised the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) over its alleged “untouchable” approach towards cooperative banks and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene in the matter.“The outlook of RBI is that the share of the cooperative banking sector in the overall banking sector is merely 3%... It has been insisting on the conversion of cooperative banks into private banks. It is pertinent to mention here that RBI, since 1993, has been trying to convert urban cooperative banks (UCBs) into private banks by setting up various committees and issuing circulars from time to time to implement recommendations of these committees, but could not succeed,” Pawar said in a letter written to PM Modi on August 15.“In the wake of the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank’s fallout due to a scam similar to that of Madhavpura Cooperative Bank, to end existence of the cooperative banking sector, the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was introduced in Lok Sabha on March 3 by making several amendments in the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, as suggested by RBI. When the Parliament was suspended due to Covid-19 and no discussion it could be held, the bill was converted into an ordinance on June 24,” the letter states.Pawar said that he agreed that there should be financial discipline in the banks, but it would be certainly incorrect to say that such a conversion of the cooperative sector into a private sector would completely or partially prevent misappropriation of funds, financial irregularities and frauds.To prove his point, he shared data published by RBI regarding financial fraud in the banking sector for the last financial year. “In the financial year 2019-20, an alleged fraud of ₹4,355 crore was identified in the PMC Bank scam, while during the first half of the year, fraud of approximately ₹95,700 crore was reported in nationalised banks. Therefore, it is not correct to say that misappropriation of funds or financial irregularities are observed in cooperative banks only. Further, it seems absurd to claim that privatisation of cooperative banks would curb or reduce banking fraud,” the letter mentioned.“I therefore earnestly request you [Modi] to kindly look into the matter personally and give justice to the cooperative banking sector, which has a legacy of more than 100 years and is striving hard not only to exist but to grow despite all odds,” Pawar wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-seeks-pm-narendra-modi-s-intervention-to-give-justice-to-cooperative-banks/story-BFEH4sRpDeGzPRbEknXzmK.html
20-08-2020||City||Potholes on Thane roads: Officials, contractors to be held responsible||With the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) receiving flak for pothole-riddled roads, the civic commissioner has now issued directives that officials and contractors will be held responsible for shoddy pothole filling work. Action will be taken against them if potholes are not filled or quality of work is questionable. The issue of potholed roads was also raised by the Thane mayor on Wednesday. Mayor Naresh Mhaske conducted a meeting with civic officials to start the work of filling potholes on a war footing. According to a survey conducted by the Thane civic body, last week, the city had 1,016 potholes, covering a total area of 2268 sqm. Potholes were reported at Teen Hath Naka, Dalmil Chowk, Kashish Park and Louis Wadi. “I have given orders to fill all these potholes on a war footing. Action will be taken against the contractor or the officer in charge of the roads where potholes aren’t filled. No negligence in the work will be tolerated,” said civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma.Mhaske claimed that the corporation had gained a good name for its Covid handling, which is now maligned due to the road situation. “The basic infrastructure was ignored during the pandemic due to which most roads in the city have developed craters. Commuters are facing a tough time due to these potholes. Every year the city roads develop potholes during monsoon, however, the authorities continue to ignore the repair works before monsoon. We have demanded an inquiry into the officials who have ignored the pre-monsoon road repair works,” he said.The mayor demanded that the roads be repaired before Ganeshotsav begins so that residents can bring home the idol without any bumps along the way. The Congress party decided to take matters into its own hands and organised a pothole filling drive as a mark of protest against the corporation. Vikrant Chavan, president of Thane Congress, said, “We have stationed our volunteers in different wards who will be filling these potholes as a mark of our protest against the shoddy work of the TMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/potholes-on-thane-roads-officials-contractors-to-be-held-responsible/story-hJYUw2IPk3RdZDo9JBl1NO.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Why did Mumbai flood this year too? BMC to find out||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will appoint a technical consultant to understand reasons for waterlogging in the city and suggest a permanent solution. This year, BMC has pumped 17,145 million litres of water from Mumbai during waterlogging. “We are appointing consultant for Mumbai to find a permanent solution to waterlogging in problematic spots. This will be an extensive survey, with special focus on chronic flooding spots and low-lying areas. We need to check if a permanent solution can be found, such as deep tunnelling,” said a senior officer from the stormwater drains (SWD) department. The consultant will have technical and engineering expertise in SWD along with prior experience of handling such projects. They will be given a list of chronic waterlogging spots, including Hindmata, Gandhi Market near Matunga, Chembur Colony and Andheri subway, for the study. The decision comes on the back of allocating and spending dedicated budgets to find solutions to waterlogging at 273 spots across the city, over the last four years. The officer said, “Despite our efforts, waterlogging happened in the city this year too.” After the monsoon of 2018, BMC tried micro-planning to deal with flooding in the city and the SWD department was tasked with studying chronic flooding spots individually and come up with personalised solutions, in addition to cleaning water entrances and laterals, and desilting drains. However, waterlogging has remained a recurring problem. On August 4 and 5, Mumbai experienced very heavy rainfall and various parts of the city experienced severe waterlogging, including locations that usually do not see flooding, like Babulnath, Girgaum chowpatty and Nariman Point in south Mumbai. Waterlogging was reported at nine prominent locations in the island city, four locations in the eastern suburbs, and three locations in the western suburbs. As in 2019, the water took several hours to drain, though the flooding may be partially due to the city recording its highest ever August rainfall 1974 on August 5. BMC’s 2020-21 budget allocated Rs 912.10 crore to the SWD department. The civic body had declared that during the 2020 monsoon, only 24 waterlogging spots would remain since the rest had been dealt with over the past three years. SWD department has spent Rs 2,903.28 crore for capital expenditures including repair and cleaning of drains and water laterals, nullah desilting, widening, repairing manholes, etc, between 2016 and 2019. However, during the lockdown, BMC lost out on crucial months for its monsoon-preparedness work and was unable to complete fixing over 40 waterlogging spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-did-mumbai-flood-this-year-too-bmc-to-find-out/story-NhREmCIZUqtKvvJfE9InVI.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Bandra-Kurla Complex to get art district plaza, fest on lines of Kala Ghoda||Mumbai’s top commercial hub is all set to get vibrant with its own dedicated art district plaza and an annual art festival on the lines of the famous Kala Ghoda Festival in South Mumbai.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is the special planning authority for the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) is planning to develop space under the Kalanagar flyover, connecting it to the Kalanagar junction and the Nandadeep garden and making it completely pedestrianised.Space will include an amphitheatre, seating area, stage, cafeteria, green space, art installations and parking space. MMRDA is also planning to hold an annual art festival where artists can showcase their works, in this area. Besides, it also expects revenue-generation and the art plaza in itself to increase the land value. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said, “The art district will add to the vibrancy of BKC. It will also be a platform for many artists to showcase their talent. We were planning to initiate the festival from December 2020 before the pandemic hit the city.” The total space open for the public will be around 8,343 square metres.Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray recently inaugurated an art installation at the Kalanagar junction as the first step towards this project. He tweeted, “Very soon, the Kalanagar flyover, Nandadeep garden, Kalanagar junction, pedestrianisation of BKC will be completed, and most importantly the BKC art district will be established.” MMRDA has invited bids for the construction and maintenance of the plaza. It is expected to open the Kalanagar flyover for traffic from October, post which works under the bridge will be completed in another six months, MMRDA officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bandra-kurla-complex-to-get-art-district-plaza-fest-on-lines-of-kala-ghoda/story-3b0wyQlg0goUfrdC2j08WL.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||MMRC completes tunnelling below Mithi river||Marking a milestone for the city, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) on Wednesday completed tunnelling under the Mithi river, as part of the construction of Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz). It also marked the 29th tunnel breakthrough of the total 32 for the Metro line.The 1.5-km up-line stretch between Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) and Dharavi was commissioned in August 2019. In March, the down-line tunnel of 1.5km from BKC to Dharavi was completed.Of the total 3-km (up and down-line) stretch from BKC to Dharavi, 484m of the tunnel lies below the active Mithi river channel.Ranjit Singh Deol, managing director, MMRC said, “Notwithstanding the fact that the project is challenging; with high water tables and complex geology, I am happy that our team has accomplished the assigned task despite Covid-19 related restrictions.”Till date, MMRC has completed 85% of tunnelling with the help of 17 tunnel boring machines. Around 59% of the overall construction work for Metro-3 has been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrc-completes-tunnelling-below-mithi-river/story-f0SsTsiwRsJjItJRsMUMDK.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||KEM Hospital to start clinical trial of anti-TB BCG vaccine||King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital in Parel will soon to start clinical trial on anti-tuberculosis vaccination (TB) — Bacille Calmette-Guérin vaccine (BCG) to treat Covid-19 patients. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has selected the hospital for the trial which will be conducted on 200 people of the age group of 60-75 years. KEM Hospital, the biggest civic-run hospital in Mumbai, has been treating the highest number of severely-ill Covid-19 patients since the outbreak of the virus in March. Last week, ICMR informed the hospital about the trial and the proposal to conduct the trial has been sent to the ethics committee of the hospital for final approval. In India, BCG vaccination started in 1949 under the national immunisation programme. The vaccine, an annual vaccine administered to newborns, protects against disseminated tuberculosis and meningitis in childhood. In the clinical trial, the vaccine will be administered to citizens aged above 60 years to examine if it can stimulate the immune response among older people against Covid-19. “ICMR has initiated a multi-centric study to see if BCG can reduce the severity of Covid-19 infection among individuals above 60 years of age. The vaccine is effective among children to control TB, but the study will see its implications on elder people and its correlation with Covid-19,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Despite repeated calls, Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of the hospital, didn’t respond to HT. The trial will be conducted on 1,000 healthy volunteers aged above 60 years of age in six states —Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi. “Volunteers will be tested for antigens to check if they are infected with Covid-19. They will have to undergo antibody test to see if they were infected with the virus in the past,” said Kakani. Often Covid-19 patients develop inflammatory reactions which lead to severity of their infection and even death. In this backdrop, doctors have opined that BCG vaccination, by enhancing innate immune response, may have deleterious effects on coronavirus. “Several researches have shown a correlation that people who received BCG vaccination did not get sick more often or become seriously ill. It has long-lasting effects to boost the immune system. It is believed that despite having such a huge population, Covid-19 fatality rate in India is low because of BCG vaccine which is given to all children since the early 90s,” said Dr Lalit Anande, medical superintendent of Sewri TB Hospital. “Impact of routine infant BCG vaccination in the young generation on prevention of local Covid-19 spread in Japan” — a study published on August 11 — suggested that BCG vaccination does play an influential role in protecting against the spread of infection on a mass scale. In the conclusion, the authors wrote, “Our findings suggest that routine infant BCG vaccination coverage in the young generation had a significant impact on prevention of local Covid-19 spread in Japan.” Another study, Safety and COVID-19 Symptoms in Individuals Recently Vaccinated with BCG: a Retrospective Cohort Study, published on August 5 in Cell Reports Medicine showed the vaccine is safe and induces immune responses. The study was conducted on people who have received a BCG vaccine in the past five years in Netherlands. “BCG vaccination might be associated with a decrease in the incidence of sickness during the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as lower incidence of extreme fatigue…(sic),” reads the report. However, the World Health Organization (WHO) overruled the significance of BCG vaccine in April. In a statement on its official website, it stated, “There is no evidence that BCG protects people against infection with Covid-19 virus. Two clinical trials addressing this question are underway, and WHO will evaluate the evidence when it is available. In the absence of evidence, WHO does not recommend BCG vaccination for the prevention of Covid-19.” Meanwhile, KEM Hospital expects to receive approval from the ethics committee to run the clinical trial on Covishield within the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kem-hospital-to-start-clinical-trial-of-anti-tb-bcg-vaccine/story-jPVHT3zhOSOWFD2Mw2K8zH.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||A conspiracy to defame Aaditya Thackeray: Sena on Sushant Singh Rajput probe||Hours after the Supreme Court announced its judgment to hand over the Sushant Singh Rajput death case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Shiv Sena said the entire episode was a “conspiracy” to defame party leader and Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray. The Sena, which was being cornered by the Opposition through the case, said neither the party nor the Thackeray clan was afraid of the CBI probe. While state home minister Anil Deshmukh stuck to a brief statement to the media on the case being taken over from the Mumbai police, Sena legislator and transport minister Anil Parab, who is known to be close to Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, took on the Opposition. “The Opposition intended to malign Aaditya Thackeray. They are aching as they thought nobody except them can form the government. As they could not point fingers at the government, they came up with the conspiracy. They have no sympathy for Sushant Singh [Rajput]. The entire thing is just political, and the truth in the case will soon emerge.” Earlier in the day, Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said: “It is not a loss for the Thackeray-led MVA government. When there is a legal battle, such things happen.” On being asked if the Sena minister will cooperate with the investigating agency in the case, Parab said it is too premature. “The Shiv Sena has gone through several challenges and has brought the party to power today. The Sena is not afraid of them, and the Thackeray family is absolutely not afraid. We are followers of Balasaheb [Thackeray]. So being afraid of this made-up issue is out of question.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/just-a-conspiracy-to-defame-aaditya-thackeray-sena-on-sushant-singh-rajput-probe/story-fDmUwrCFKCRjjfmKNIWumO.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||22 of city’s 24 wards have fewer than 1,000 active cases: BMC||Of the 24 wards in Mumbai, 22 have less than 1,000 active Covid-19 cases, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) available until August 17. The R-Central (Borivli West) and R-South (Kandivli West) wards are the only two wards with over 1,000 active cases. While R-Central has 1,158 active Covid-19 cases, R-South has 1,006. R-Central ward has a recovery rate of 79.13%, and R-South has a recovery rate of 80.13%, lower than Mumbai’s recovery rate of 81.91% as of August 17. Recovery rate is the number of Covid-19 patients who have been discharged by BMC, in comparison to the total Covid-19 cases recorded in Mumbai so far. The K-East ward corresponding to Andheri East has 940 active cases, and a recovery rate of 82.81%. The B ward, corresponding to areas of Bhendi Bazar, Mohammad Ali Road, Dongri, and Pydhoni, has the lowest number of active Covid-19 cases at 213, but a low recovery rate of 75%. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, BMC, said, “The two wards in the north have a high number of active cases because a comparatively higher number of new cases are still emerging from high-rises in north Mumbai. The general trend is that the virus is shifting from south Mumbai to north Mumbai. Earlier, there were many hot spots in the island city such as Worli, Dharavi and E ward area in Byculla. The infection rate has subsided in those areas. BMC is now concentrating efforts on wards that are showing high cases.” BMC has data on ward-wise bifurcation for 125,782 cases, of which 103,031 have recovered, 15,987 are active, and 6,764 have died, as of August 17. The data also showed that of the 40,969 cases in the island city, 5,399 are active, with an average recovery rate of 81.28%. Of the 51,455 cases in the western suburbs, 6,844, the highest in the city, are active, with an average recovery rate of 81.83%. The eastern suburbs have 3,699 active cases from its total of 33,358, and an average recovery rate of 82.85%. Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 1,132 new cases taking the total to 131,542, and 46 deaths, taking the toll to 7,268. There are 17,194 active cases in Mumbai. On Wednesday, Mumbai had a total of 106,057 recovered patients, with a recovery rate of 80.62%. On any day, there is a slight difference in number of cases registered by BMC and state due to difference in the timing when both record figures from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal which is updated in real time, a civic officer said, requesting anonymity||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-of-city-s-24-wards-have-fewer-than-1-000-active-cases-bmc/story-lKqUc0SeOmoR2UrDRzWw7K.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Shivneri buses allowed to operate||Passengers will now be able to travel between Mumbai and Pune by Shivneri buses starting Thursday. Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will also start its inter-district services in Maharashtra. Maharashtra government, under Mission Begin Again, has allowed MSRTC to resume its bus services within the state. According to a government directive issued on Wednesday, passengers would not require e-pass, permission or approval for inter-district travel in MSRTC buses. However, MSRTC will issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) for travellers.MSRTC stated that bus services will resume phase wise. “The operation of bus services will bring relief to commuters, especially during Ganeshotsav. All types of buses including Shivneri, Shivshahi, long- and medium-range buses will resume. Advance reservations will also be made available. The operations will start in a phased manner,” said Abhijeet Bhosale, public relation officer, MSRTC. Inter-district bus operations in the state were suspended after the nationwide lockdown was enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shivneri-buses-allowed-to-operate/story-pEIczT7n6Rpx86akQhDpbN.html
20-08-2020||City||TMC may convert Covid hospitals into non-Covid ones||With the number of Covid-19 cases decreasing, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is considering to convert Covid hospitals to non-Covid ones. These hospitals will be reviewed, and non-Covid status will be granted based on number of cases in the vicinity of the hospitals. The first Covid hospital to be converted into a non-Covid one is Kalsekar Hospital in Mumbra, as the number of new cases in the area has been in single digits. TMC is especially keen on allowing smaller hospitals to convert to non-Covid ones. TMC commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma said, “We have released this order for Kalsekar Hospital considering the fact that Mumbra has fewer cases now. In the past few weeks, the daily numbers were either zero or in single digits. We have also added hospitals or beds wherever necessary. In areas where the situation is under control, we are ready to allow hospitals to start regular operations.” While releasing the order for Kalsekar Hospital, the civic body has announced a set of guidelines for the same as hospitals are approaching TMC seeking non-Covid status. Dr Afreen Saudagar, chief executive officer of Kalsekar Hospital, said, “Based on the guidelines, we have to discharge all patients currently in the hospital. We will not be admitting any new patients for a week. After all patients are discharged, we will take a few days to sanitise the entire hospital. By the last week of August, we shall start functioning as non-Covid hospital.” The hospital currently has 28 patients in regular wards and 12 in intensive care unit (ICU). Dr Raju Murudkar, civic health officer, said, “All those hospitals that will go back to being non-Covid hospitals will have to ensure that patients who are currently admitted are discharged after completion of treatment and that the hospital is sanitised thereafter. After this, they are allowed to admit non-Covid patients. In case any new patient tests positive, they should inform the war room and ensure a bed is available in a Covid care facility before discharging them.” Non-Covid hospitals have to display a list of Covid hospitals and important contact numbers outside the hospital building for the convenience of patients. “There are patients with monsoon ailments or fever. Such cases will increase and there will be a need for non-Covid beds. With fewer load of Covid cases within TMC jurisdiction, around 50% of private hospitals are keen on getting non-Covid status,” said Dr Santosh Kadam, president of Indian Medical Association, Thane chapter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-may-convert-covid-hospitals-into-non-covid-ones/story-vt53h5ntk0Fa4ytSCMmZ6I.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC starts to shut down some Covid Care Centres||With fewer than 1,000 new cases of Covid-19 being reported on an average in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is shutting down some Covid Care Centres (CCCs). At present, Mumbai has 332 CCCs for high-risk contacts, with bed capacity of more than 48,000. There are 173 CCCs for positive asymptomatic patients, with over 23,000 beds. As the pandemic curve has flattened in Mumbai, almost 70% CCCs are now empty. Consequently, BMC is gradually handing these rented lodges, schools, auditoriums and hotels back to owners. Medical equipment from the CCCs, like oximeters, glucometers, oxygen cylinders and blood pressure monitors, will later be used in secondary healthcare facilities. “At present, we aren’t handing over all the equipment. We have to remain prepared in case Mumbai is hit with a second wave of Covid-19. Annually, peripheral hospitals, dispensaries and health posts have their own demand for medical devices. So these equipment will be sent to these facilities for future usage,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. BMC runs 16 peripheral hospitals, 175 municipal dispensaries, 29 maternity homes with over 200 health posts across the city. CCCs were set up in all civic wards by BMC in March, to quarantine high risk contacts and asymptomatic patients. By June, BMC was conducting around 4,500 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests every day and an average of 1,100 new Covid-19 cases were reported daily. Since the inclusion of rapid antigen tests, daily average testing is over 7,000, with more than 10,000 tests being conducted on some days. Despite the increased testing, the daily average caseload for Covid-19 has remained below 1,000 in the city. The positivity rate has come down from 22% in July to 19.51% in August. The civic body has spent around Rs 850 crore on health infrastructure in the ongoing pandemic, of which Rs 130 crore was spent on essential machines. “Most equipment that was donated by philanthropists will be used at secondary health care facilities along with purchased equipment. Rented equipment will be handed over to owners,” said Kakani. Health activists have welcomed civic body’s decision. Pradeep Patil, who is associated with the non-government organisation (NGO) Jan Kalyan, said, “Even through health posts and peripheral hospitals form the backbone of the healthcare system in Mumbai, they lack basic amenities. It will be a great boost for medical infrastructure if BMC can also shift all additional equipment like ventilators and x-ray machines for Covid-19 patients to these centres once the pandemic is over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-starts-to-shut-down-some-covid-care-centres/story-1eycZgsvErY6sLYRPICGXL.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Limited drainage capacity, delayed monsoon response: Why Gurugram flooded on Wednesday||The city’s limited drainage capacity, which results in Badshahpur drain overflowing during heavy rains, disruption of the hydrological flow of natural drains, which has stopped the flow of water into traditional dams, and delayed monsoon preparedness were the main reasons for Gurugram sinking after Wednesday’s rains, experts said.City-based urban planning experts said that the rain on Wednesday was not an exception but a cyclical phenomenon, which will happen once every few years based on historical rainfall data. The civic agencies in the city, they said, will have to plan for this. Natural drains, which were spread across the district and prominent dams, which were in existence since the British time at Ghata, Wazirabad, Nathupur, Jharsa and Manesar, have vanished and this is the reason that Golf Course Road and areas along near it flood. “Around 100mm of rain is too much too be absorbed but based on hydrological data, exigency plans need to be created and special emphasis should be put on rainwater harvesting and creating small lakes, which can absorb water. Presently the storm water drainage system is inadequate to take this heavy load,” said Prof Sewa Ram from School of Planning and Architecture in Delhi. Another expert, who preferred anonymity as he closely works with local government, said that there was a need to ensure separate storm water drainage and sewage system in the city and both of these need regular cleaning. “The Ghata dam spread to 5 square miles during monsoons in 1940s. Now it is non-existent. Similarly, other dams spread across Gurugram helped save the Aravallis water, which is going waste. The greenery in Aravallis is protecting us but we are bent on changing the status of these forests,” he said, adding that mechanical pumping of rainwater was not a permanent solution. Prodded about the matter, VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), also said that deployment of motor pumps is only a short term relief measure and until the city’s drainage system is augmented, waterlogging will remain a common occurrence.“Due to the heavy volume of rain, the city was severely waterlogged. Motor pumps are only relief measures. Increasing their deployment is not a solution but simply a damage-control measure. The GMDA has done a comprehensive study of the city’s drainage system. We had some measures we wanted to introduce to augment the city’s existing drainage capacity, but could not do so due to officials being engaged in Covid-19 duty. Until, we augment the city’s drain capacity, waterlogging will continue to be a hindrance,” said Kundu.Kundu said that on Wednesday, Badshahpur drain was at its optimum capacity and due to the city witnessing heavy rains, it flowed back and inundated most parts of the city.MD Sinha, additional CEO, GMDA, who is an Indian Forest Service officer, added that there is need to focus on effective rainwater harvesting in every sector of the city. “We also need to develop and implement proper hydrological management plan for Gurugram for a long term solution,” he said. Besides inherent drainage issues, with officials of both GMDA and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) engaged in containing the spread of coronavirus since March this year, monsoon preparedness also took a major hit.In June, HT had reported that due to civic bodies allocating most of their resources and attention towards fighting Covid-19, tenders for cleaning drains in most areas of the city were floated as late as the last week of May and early June, leaving them very little time to do the work and it was likely that in the upcoming monsoon season, most parts of city will witness heavy waterlogging.It usually takes officials more than two months for desilting and cleaning one leg of drains, and hence, the tendering process is carried out in late March or early April every year, usually.In addition, with a large number of migrant workers also returning home, contractors faced an acute shortage in manpower and the work progressed at a snail’s pace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/limited-drainage-capacity-delayed-monsoon-response-why-gurugram-flooded-on-wednesday/story-Jky4BQMdL6A6jZaQP9ieCK.html
20-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Seven of city’s 11 underpasses drown in rainwater||Gurugram At least seven out of city’s 11 underpasses were heavily flooded on Wednesday after a spell of heavy rainfall lashed the city. Most of of the underpasses remained shut for commuters till late Wednesday evening.Three underpasses on Golf Course Road (at DLF Phase 1, Genpact Chowk and Bristol Chowk), two in Cyber City next to Shankar Chowk, and two others at Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway were submerged in rainwater and were closed for commuter use at various points, starting 10am, officials said.Barring the underpass at DLF Phase 1, all the remaining had been cleared of rainwater by 8pm. “The level of rainwater is extremely high at the underpass in DLF Phase 1. More than five crore kilolitres of rainwater has accumulated there. Five fire tenders have been deployed at the underpass, and it will be cleared by tomorrow (Thursday),” said Satyawan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO), after a ground assessment.Samriwal further said that a sedan was recovered from the DLF Phase 1 underpass, after its driver had got stuck midway and had to abandon his car. He said the car driver managed to swim out before the underpass was completely inundated.The officer said that a total of 11 fire tenders were used in draining rainwater from the seven underpasses. “Drainage operations commenced around 11am. Seven fire tenders of ours and four from DLF fire services were used at different points of the city. Two each were deployed at Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk. While the remaining were spread across the underpasses on Golf Course Road and Cyber City,” said Samriwal.The underpasses at Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway had been closed last year too due to flooding during the monsoon. The closure of underpasses on Golf Course Road and Cyber City due to flooding, however, occurred for the first time this year, the officials said.According to officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), rainwater from MG Road and nearby under-construction HUDA City Centre underpass and flyover flooded the low-lying Iffco Chowk underpass, while at Rajiv Chowk, a drainage issue on CH Bakhtawar Singh Road resulted in the flooding of the underpass.“At both the underpasses, we installed four pumps each, to drain out rainwater along with the deployment of four fire tenders, two at each of the underpass. At the IFFCO Chowk underpass, there was additional rainwater from nearby construction at HUDA City Centre which was diverted towards it, as a result of which it got flooded. At the Rajiv Chowk, rainwater from nearby residential areas as well as the disadvantage of the underpass being located on a slope, led to flooding. After intensive clearing operations, the two underpasses were free of rainwater by the evening,” said a NHAI official.“Flooding was observed at MG road underpass, Medanta underpass and Hero Honda Chowk, all of which were tackled well in time by the NHAI, GMDA and MCG jointly, with assistance of local police. While the MG road underpass is already open for public use, at Medanta underpass rainwater was cleared by the evening. However, it likely to be functional by midnight as cleaning of mud is required,” said Ashok Sharma, project director of NHAI.In August, 2018, the Hero Honda Chowk underpass was closed for more than 50 hours after 50 million litres of rainwater had accumulated there. The problem is recurrent due to uncontrolled rain water hitting NH8 at these locations, said experts. Until some permanent arrangement is done by local agencies to control rain water from hitting NH8, it will continue. Officials from DLF, the caretaker of the underpasses on Golf Course Road and Cyber City, declined to comment on the matter.As per Samriwal, the underpasses in these two areas were flooded as the main HSVP drainage line flowed back.“In both these areas, the main drainage line through which the underpasses were connected, was either choked or filled to its maximum capacity. As a result, it flowed back and flooded the underpass. With no outlet for rainwater to get cleared, the volume of rainwater accumulation kept on increasing at the underpasses and eventually they were totally submerged,” said Samriwal.Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi said that the drainage of underpasses in the city, needs a complete overhaul.“It is not the first time that underpasses have been flooded with rainwater in the city. It is obvious that an underpass is located in a low-lying area, hence it will remain vulnerable to waterlogging. The main reason why they get flooded is due to either poor linkage to the main drains or the master drain itself has a low capacity. The entire drainage system needs to be reworked and capacity increased or else this will remain a continuous problem,” said Sewa Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-seven-of-city-s-11-underpasses-drown-in-rainwater/story-d0b3zUB0ZRHd9KSf6DR64I.html
20-08-2020||City||Gurugram: From swimming to escaping floating cars, city residents brave rain aftermath||Gurugram: Amit Kumar, a resident of MG Road said he was going towards DLF 5 when his Hyundai i20 got stuck near the Mega Mall underpass on Golf Course Road. “It was raining heavily around 8.30am. I entered the underpass though it was waterlogged and thought I would quickly pass through. However, when I reached the middle of the underpass, I found my car submerged in water. The engine stopped and the brakes had stopped working. I feared that the automatic system might get stuck so I immediately rushed out of the car to save myself and had to swim to cross the stretch,” he said. His car was removed with the help of a tow-away vehicle and ropes but he had to send it to the workshop directly. Another resident of Sector 109 got stuck near Narsinghpur on Wednesday morning and he had to get down from his Toyota Fortuner to ensure he was not locked inside. “I was driving towards Manesar when my car began floating on the water. I feared that my car would get damaged as there was an open drain on my right side and it could fall into it. The water level kept rising and I barely managed to crawl out of the window to save myself. Some passersby helped me, ensuring somehow that the car remained afloat till help arrived,” said Vikram Yadav, a resident of Narsinghpur.More than 100 commuters were stranded with no cabs while autos and cycle rickshaws charged double the rate to cross even 50 metres on Wednesday as heavy rains submerged the city. Some commuters said they waited for two to three hours for transport before deciding to head back. Most of the inner and outer sector roads in the city were submerged in water.The waterlogging also hit public transport as people were not able to avail of services provided by app-based cab aggregators for at least three hours from 8.30am to 11.30am. High demand for cabs and auto-rickshaws meant that hundreds of people were stranded for long hours to start for office and were seen standing on roadsides. Sohna Road residents said waterlogging in the area had left them virtually ‘landlocked’, and that their basements and courtyards were completely flooded. “There was knee-deep water everywhere. It was virtually impossible to get out of the house. On certain roads, water was waist-high. Using vehicles was not an option at all. People used boats to come out of Tatvam Villas,” said Meenakshi Kapoor who was visiting a friend and came out in a boat fearing that she will be stuck there all day. “I started booking cabs at 9am, but none were available. There was a high demand and I managed to get one at 10am. I reached the office at 12.15pm. The cab aggregator charged Rs 600, though the fare usually remains between Rs 150 to 200,” said Vaibhav Kumar, a resident of DLF Phase 1. Roads leading to Cyber hub, Cyber City, Sohna Road, Udyog Vihar and Hero Honda Chowk were submerged as water showed no signs of receding. These sectors have a huge influx of employees as many IT firms, manufacturing units and corporate offices are based here. Fed up with the situation, frustrated commuters took to Twitter and social networking sites, criticising the authorities.Vehicles also moved at a snail’s pace at major entry and exit roads such as Gurugram-Jaipur Expressway, Sohna Road connecting Badshahpur and Kherki Daula. Traffic police and MCG officials brought in pumps to drain the submerged roads.The Gurugram traffic police also started issuing advisories on its official Twitter handle asking people to avoid congested routes. Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic) said: “Due to water logging, traffic movement slowed down at various places such as the expressway, Signature Tower to Huda Metro Station, Golf Course Road, and Sohna Road. Police remained vigilant at these areas to ensure a jam doesn’t take place. In peak hours, it is a priority that vehicles don’t get stuck and we ensured that help was immediately provided as soon as vehicles were seen stuck,” he said. “The problem in Gurugram will continue till the monsoon ends. It shows the preparation level of the civic agencies. Water barely has any place to recede. Drains are not cleaned and have not been desilted properly before the onset of monsoon,” said Isha Tyagi, a resident of Ardee City, Sector 52. Dr Joyeeta, a resident of MG Road who has a clinic in Galleria market in DLF Phase 4, said she got stuck on Golf Course road at 9.50am and reached the clinic at 11.30, the stretch is hardly a 10 minutes drive but it was the longest ever.Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij said: “I have asked the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gurugram to send a report on why the water drainage measures failed today (Wednesday).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-from-swimming-to-escaping-floating-cars-city-residents-brave-rain-aftermath/story-5cAhmwmVDi3YheLzgCwNnK.html
20-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Woman found dead at her house, husband among three booked||htreporters@hindustantimes.comGurugram A 25-year-old woman was found dead at her house in the Sector 5 area on Tuesday morning. The police have booked the woman’s husband, brother-in-law and mother-in-law in the case after her mother alleged that she was subjected to continued harassment over dowry. The incident was reported around 10.30am by the victim’s brother, the police said, adding that the victim was found lying on the floor. The police said the victim’s mother alleged in the complaint that since her daughter’s marriage in December 2017, her in-laws had been harassing her for dowry. “We had given them an SUV at the time of the wedding. On several instances, her husband and her in-laws harassed her for dowry and put pressure on her to ask for more money. Her husband used to beat her up. On Monday night, my daughter told me over phone that her husband and his family were beating her. I told her that we would visit the next day and discuss the matter,” she said in the FIR. The police said that the victim’s family was informed by their in-laws that she had died by hanging. However, the victim’s mother said that when they reached her house, she was lying dead on the floor and her room had been ransacked. She alleged that her daughter was killed. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The cause of death would be established after the post-mortem report is received. The viscera samples have been sent to the forensic laboratory. We are verifying the allegations. The suspects are yet to be arrested.” A case was registered against the suspects under sections 304-B (dowry death), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 5 police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-woman-found-dead-at-her-house-husband-among-three-booked/story-3NpfJyO9bntbrU7CPsP5dK.html
20-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Over 4,000 cops deployed as rain grinds city to halt||Gurugram At least 4,250 police personnel were deployed at 32 vulnerable points in Gurugram to manage the water logging situation on Wednesday morning after night-long incessant rains. Gurugram police department said a team of police officials, deployed at the Integrated Command Centre set up by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to monitor the CCTV feed, shared real-time data with police teams on the ground to ensure that vehicles and commuters stranded on waterlogged roads could be rescued and the traffic diverted. The police said they deployed 25 PCR vehicles, 30 individual riders, 20 towing vehicles, five earth moving machines and 150 police station vehicles at the affected stretches.According to Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), any major traffic congestion could be prevented as the volume of traffic was less as compared to previous years as not all offices are open, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, and those which are open are not working to full capacity but with only 50% staff. “More than 100 cars broke down at different stretches and at least nine vehicles had drowned, including at the Narsinghpur stretch and the Golf Course Road. We had also roped in a Civil defence team to control the affected areas,” he said. The police control room started receiving calls from 8.30am. Officers said they received 273 calls throughout the day regarding waterlogging, traffic congestion, diversion of roots and requesting tow away help.Gurugram has 5,800 police personnel and about 73% of them were engaged in attending to individual calls for help, shifting of broken-down vehicles and ensuring traffic movement despite the water on roads on Wednesday, said KK Rao, police commissioner, Gurugram. “Real-time information sharing between police personnel on the ground, in the police control room and Integrated Command Centre ensured proper coordination and helped in managing the situation in an effective manner,” he said. The police said communication was sent out to all senior officers and personnel living in police lines and other areas regarding their deployment early morning as soon as it became clear that heavy rain was on the anvil. “Calls were made to all the station house officers and they were asked to reach the most vulnerable spots identified in their jurisdiction and share the status of the situation through videos and pictures on WhatsApp. The senior officers were also on their toes until the situation was controlled,” Rao said. Around 2,500 personnel were sent to different spots, before it started raining heavily, to ensure traffic could be managed early on and the remaining 1,750 personnel were called after waterlogging started at all important junctions. More than 300 ropes were given to the officials deployed to pull broken and submerged vehicles out of which they used close to 250 ropes, the police said.The commisioner said he has granted class 1 certificates to the cops with a cash reward of Rs 5,000 each for exemplary duty during rainy day.Rao said they had prepared a monsoon deployment plan in advance and names of all officials to be deployed were finalised. “Preparations in advance helped the personnel on ground as they were ready for any situation,” he said.Many students missed their entrance exams on Wednesday morning and some of them were lucky as they were picked up and dropped by the traffic police. Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (Traffic), said they transported nearly 30 students to different examination centres. “Parents and their wards were in tears as they missed entrance examination. We tried our best and transported more than two dozen students but parents were stuck at different spots and couldn’t make it to the examination halls,” he said.The worst-hit identified spots in Gurugram where the police was deployed were Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Iffco Chowk and major arterial roads including Cyber City, Shankar Chowk, Signature Towers, MG Road, Old Delhi Road, Ghata Chowk, Sector 15, Vatika chowk, Udyog Vihar, Palam Vihar, Narsinghpur, Sector 10, Sector 5, Bajghera Road, Golf Course extension road and Sector 69 to 71, which witnessed heavy waterlogging and traffic jams due to the deluge.Police also said they had analysed each trouble spot in advance and knew what was needed to deal with the traffic situation. In some areas, Rao said, they had realised that a higher number of personnel was needed to be deployed due to a high volume of traffic seen usually, such as Hero Honda Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Shankar Chowk and Sirhaul. In other areas, like Sohna Road and Golf Course extension Road, the volume of vehicles was low but people had got stuck. Refreshments, tea and food was served at the spot, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-over-4-000-cops-deployed-as-rain-grinds-city-to-halt/story-73XkTHnhCRQu8yd0cuTFkI.html
20-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Rain affects second round of sero survey, 7 of 16 clusters covered on first day||Gurugram The second round of serological survey started in the district on Wednesday, with the collection of 90 samples. However, the health department could not conduct the survey as planned due to heavy rain and waterlogging across the city, officials said, adding that only seven areas out of the 16 identified clusters were covered.The survey in Gurugram is part of the statewide exercise that will test at least 21,000 people to detects IgG antibodies against coronavirus, which they might have developed without showing any symptoms like cough, cold and fever. In the district, 850 people are to be covered under the survey, which includes 500 residents from rural and 350 from urban areas. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that the survey started after 1pm on Wednesday.“There are 16 teams comprising three members each -- one medical officer, a lab technician and a health care worker -- who were to visit different clusters for sample collection. Due to rain and waterlogging, only seven teams could move out to collect blood samples for IgG antibody testing. Four urban areas – Tigra, Patel Nagar, Khandsa and Basai – were covered. In the rural areas, samples were taken from Pataudi, Sherpur and Inchhapuri,” said Yadav.Serological survey detects IgG antibodies against Covid-19, which people might have developed without showing any classic symptoms of the virus like cough, cold and fever. It helps in gauging the extent of spread of and the actual burden of Covid-19 infection in the society. IgG antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 virus develops in the human body two weeks after the onset of the infection and it remains in the body for long time, indicating that the episode of the infection happened in the past.Out of the 16 identified clusters, only four are in urban areas. In the rural areas, the 12 clusters include Daulatabad, Badshahpur, Pataudi, Bajghera, Palra, Sherpur, Sarai, Aklimpur, Inchhapuri, Bhudka, Bhorakalan and Rathiwas. Going by the plan prepared by the state health department, each cluster in urban area will be divided into four quadrants comprising 11 households where 88 samples will be taken from each cluster. Likewise, rural area clusters are divided into four quadrants, with each quadrant comprising 22 households. 42 samples will be taken from each of the clusters. For this, 21 lab technicians have been trained who will take blood samples for antibody detection, the officials said.Gurugram had gone through first round of serological survey from June 24 till mid-July. At that time, 454 IgG antibody tests were done in July, out of which 56 were positive and 398 negative. Along with Gurugram, survey was conducted in Ambala, Faridabad, Panchkula and Sonepat, where at least 1,544 people were tested, of which 180 had antibodies while the remaining 1,364 were negative. To ascertain the overall spread of the infection across the state, the survey is being conducted in all 22 districts this time with a larger sample size.The Gurugram CMO said that the survey will be completed within a week’s time as the overall survey report of the state will be released by August-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-rain-affects-second-round-of-sero-survey-7-of-16-clusters-covered-on-first-day/story-3zyQSXLbZc7ZXIeX8z7nTL.html
20-08-2020||City||Gurugram conducts over 100k tests per million population||Gurugram The Gurugram health department has conducted more than 100,000 Covid-19 tests per million population -- the highest in the state, as per the state health bulletin. At the state level, Haryana has conducted 34,000 tests per million residents till Wednesday, with a test positivity rate of 5.6%. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “ With a total of 1,42,466 samples tested so far for Sars-CoV-2 virus, the tests per million for Gurugram has reached 100,018. It is the highest in Haryana. We are probably the only district in the country to have conducted more than one lakh tests per million population. It shows how extensively people are being tested across the district to identify new cases and control the transmission in areas where multiple cases are being reported.”According to experts, higher number of tests per million is helpful in reducing the positivity rate and controlling the outbreak. Notably, India has conducted 23,002 tests per million people till Wednesday, as per national health bulletin.Gurugram’s tests per million is higher than Delhi’s 70,388. Currently, Gurugram’s test positivity rate is 6.95% while the daily growth rate of the cases is 0.98%. “Gurugram is conducting both rapid antigen tests and gold-standard RT-PCR testing in somewhat equal proportion to identify new cases and get an overall picture on the total positivity rate. Due to ‘test, track and treat’ strategy, the department has been able to locate areas where cases are being reported frequently, bringing down the test positivity rate to 6.95% from 18% reported in mid-June. If the positivity rate reduces to 5% as per the World Health Organisation standard, the testing numbers will be reduced from current 2,000 to 700-1,000 per day,” Yadav said. Meanwhile, Delhi’s current positivity rate is 6.8% while the total number of tests done (till Tuesday) stands at 1,337, 374, leading to 70,388 tests per million population, as per the national capital’s health bulletin. At the state level, Faridabad -- which has the highest number of coronavirus cases -- has done over 56,000 tests per million population, and the test positivity rate is as high as 10.9%. Similarly, Rohtak has also done over 56,000 tests per million, but its test positivity rate is low at 3.6%, as per the state data. “The tests per million indicate how widely Covid-19 tests are being made accessible to the masses. Scientifically, the tests per million comprise testing of samples collected from hospitals, containment zones and overall general population. The data on tests per million population is useful in monitoring the prevalence of infection if it gives details on these three aspects,” Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, had told HT recently. The experts also said that tests per million has nothing to do with the overall population of any district or state. It continues to rise as the number of tests are being conducted. Its impact is seen if the positivity rate declines, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-conducts-over-100k-tests-per-million-population/story-5i7tye69ocbNHwoDl6xHrI.html
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Banker ‘killing’: Police add murder charge to FIR, scan CCTVs for clue||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the death of a 38-year-old senior executive of a private bank, whose body was fished out from a water treatment plant in Delhi on August 7, has added murder charge to the FIR filed in the case. Police said the statement of the victim’s wife was recorded on Tuesday and based on that, section 302 (punishment for murder) of Indian Penal Code was added to the FIR lodged at Sector 50 police station. A police official, privy to the investigation, said, “In the statement, the victim’s wife has said that the family suspects that the man Dheeraj Ahlawat, 38, was kidnapped and then murdered. The family has not named any suspect. Based on her statement, the murder charge has been added to the FIR.” Police said they have also recorded statements of some of the victim’s friends, including a friend from the neighbourhood with whom the victim was taking a stroll before he went missing. “We have scanned footage from CCTVs in the areas where the victim was last seen around sector 39 and sector 46, but no clue has emerged so far,” said the official , adding that no evidence has emerged of the victim receiving any threats in the past. On Tuesday, the police had said that the victim’s last traced location was near Unitech Cyber Park in sector 39 at 8.02 pm on August 5 – roughly 17 minutes after he disappeared. Around the same time, both the mobile phones Dheeraj was carrying were turned off. Dheeraj, who worked in corporate banking, was last seen walking near a service lane around 7.45pm on August 5. His family said that he had gone for a stroll with a friend at 7pm. Around 7.30 pm, his wife had called him and he had told her over the phone that he was nearby and would return shortly. At 8.30pm, when his wife called him again, both his phones were found switched off. The family members had then contacted his friends and relatives and tried to locate him. On August 6, they filed a missing person’s complaint under Section 346 of Indian Penal Code at the Sector 50 police station. A day later, the victim’s body was found by a Delhi police team of K Katju police station from Haiderpur water treatment plant in Rohini. On August 12, a relative in Delhi police had informed his family regarding a dead body that was kept in a hospital in Rohini. The victim was identified through his undergarment and a rakhi, which had ‘veera’ written on it, tied by his sister two days before the incident. After the post-mortem examination in Delhi on August 13, the kidnapping charge was added to the FIR. An SIT was formed on Monday after the victim’s family had met the police commissioner and demanded a probe alleging that police had not carried out a proper investigation after they had initially approached them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/banker-killing-police-add-murder-charge-to-fir-scan-cctvs-for-clue/story-3dv6VVaiY7CI2jjP23Ae1N.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Be clear, avoid calls during classes, BMC tells teachers||The education department of Mumbai’s governing civic body has issued a set of guidelines to teachers about online classes and asked them to speak clearly, avoid compound and complex sentences, answering calls in the middle of classes, and asking questions.Officials said the guidelines have been issued to improve the quality of teaching as schools are holding only online classes because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Teachers have been asked to stick to Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training’s curriculum and state education department’s lesson plan. They have been asked to focus on the background of topics taught in the previous classes to ensure continuity in learning. “In the beginning, they should conduct mock classes and try to use interactive tools like PowerPoint, animation, video clips, etc., to make lessons more interesting. They should use proper intonation, exclamation, pauses, and interrogation while speaking,” said the guidelines of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s education department.The teachers are required to ensure there are no network issues or distractions while the classes are on. “Care should be taken to ensure that students are made to feel at ease,’’ the guidelines said.An official said online method is a new medium for teachers as well as the students and there are bound to be hiccups in the beginning. “However, care should be taken to ensure that learning happens as efficiently as it does in the offline mode...” said the official, who did not wish to be named.The new academic year in the state began on June 15. Officials said the government issued standard operating procedures for online classes earlier. The guidelines issued on Monday are for teachers to ensure a distraction-free and effective learning experience for students, they added.Rajesh Pandya, a teacher at Mumbai’s Fatimadevi High School, said teachers are under immense pressure as online classes are not as easy. “It is a difficult thing for teachers to get used to this transition. There are so many students and one cannot focus on everyone at the same time. ...there are distractions even from the students’ side which we have to get rid of. Teachers should thus be given some time to adapt rather than putting too many rules in place.”A principal from a BMC school said some guidelines were required to help teachers. “Online learning does not mean that it should be a one-way process. It is a good thing that the BMC is trying to make the process easy and student-friendly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/be-clear-avoid-calls-during-classes-bmc-tells-teachers/story-TTVusRh2kR1O2eWV3BeMfM.html
20-08-2020||City||District-level patient management system announced in Thane||With the number of cases decreasing in most parts of Thane district and increase in discharge rate, Thane district collector has announced a district-level patient management system to manage surplus hospital beds available across the district. This will ensure that a patient can get access to beds anywhere in the district depending on availability. Patients will have to call on a toll-free number — 1800 1205282 — to get a hospital bed nearest to their homes. If there are no beds available, bed in a nearby city will be made available to ensure none of the patients suffer due to lack of beds. Thane district has a total of 115,923 Covid-19 cases, of which around 19,541 are active while 3,400 deaths have been reported so far. District collector Rajesh Narvekar said, “Since March, when the first case in the district was detected, we have come a long way in containing the pandemic. Cases are decreasing; however, the district is far from being free of Covid-19. We have now launched a district-level patient management system. Patients can call on the toll free number after testing positive to get a bed near their home.” Narvekar added, “A message will be sent to the patients on their mobile phones as well as the hospital, confirming the bed allotment. The system will be applicable in Thane rural as well as municipal limits. In case, there are no beds available in the patient’s city and a neighbouring city has vacant beds, we will shift patient to that city. No local body can reject any patient from any of the cities in the district.” He claimed that such a system will ensure no patient dies or suffers due to lack of availability of beds in their area. “This will curb deaths due to unavailability of beds and also improve recovery rate due to timely treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-level-patient-management-system-announced-in-thane/story-9mwOlBYDA7u5YDfI6CCkQO.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||State allows cast and crew aged above 65 to attend shoots||In a relief to elderly actors and crews from the entertainment industry, the state government on Wednesday allowed cast and the crew aged above 65 years to attend studios and outdoor shootings. State cultural affairs minister Amit Deshmukh made the announcement.The decision has come after the Bombay high court (HC) on August 7 quashed the state’s previous decision of barring them from attending shootings at studios and outdoor locations. The state had taken the decision in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, but the high court found the order discriminatory in nature. Deshmukh on Wednesday said that cast and crew over 65 years of age can now attend the shootings with all the necessary precautionary measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-allows-cast-and-crew-aged-above-65-to-attend-shoots/story-hs476WZbQsBscp7f0ZWOYO.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Ro-ro service resumes with limited operations||The roll-on/roll-off (ro-ro) ferry service, which is set to resume from Thursday morning, got booking for 100 passengers and 30 cars on its first day. As a precautionary measure, M2M Ferries, which operate the services between Mumbai and Alibag, is looking at limited operations with reduced capacity. A spokesperson said the operator will not be taking bookings for more than 300 passengers and 60 cars for each trip whereas its capacity is close to 500 passengers and 145 cars. It will also be running just one trip to and from Alibag every day. He further said, “Passengers are allowed to access all decks and can be seated across the eight sections on our ship while maintaining social distancing at all times.” The ticket cost will be ₹300 per passenger. The state’s first ro-ro service between Mumbai’s Ferry Wharf and Mandwa in Alibag was launched in March. However, it was shut owing to the lockdown. In a statement issued on Wednesday, M2M Ferries said, “In light of the current times, M2M Ferries has taken considerable precaution to maintain the health and safety of passengers, crew, ground staff and the other support staff on-board as well as at the terminal through their #SailSafe initiative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ro-ro-service-resumes-with-limited-operations/story-vXC78APo6WTGY2DPeDinyI.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Expect heavy rain on day 1 of Ganeshotsav||The city and suburbs could expect an increase in rain intensity between Thursday and Saturday as the weather bureau on Wednesday issued an alert for possible heavy rain across isolated areas on Thursday, Friday and Saturday (August 22) — first day of the 11-day Ganesh festival.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) for Thane and Palghar for Saturday and yellow alert for remaining days up to Sunday. Raigad district is likely to witness maximum rain till Sunday with the possibility of extremely heavy rain across isolated areas. Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune and Satara, too, can expect heavy to very heavy rain, IMD’s forecast said. “With the formation of a low-pressure weather system over northwest Bay of Bengal, which is very likely to move westwards and develop into a depression over the next 24 hours, widespread rainfall is expected over Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat from Thursday to the weekend,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy-director general, western region, IMD. “The possibility of heavy to very heavy rain is maximum between Friday and Saturday (with the arrival of Ganeshotsav). However, rain intensity is likely to reduce for the Mumbai region from Sunday onwards.”On Wednesday, the city and suburbs witnessed partly cloudy conditions with isolated spells of light rain. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm, the suburbs recorded 5mm rain, while 0.4mm was recorded in south Mumbai. Over 24 hours (8.30am on Tuesday and 8.30am on Wednesday), 11.5mm and 13mm rain was recorded in the suburbs and south Mumbai. The day and night temperatures were at the normal mark.Experts highlighted weather factors such as the offshore trough was going to intensify in response to the low-pressure system moving over central India. “This will increase the moisture amount over the Mumbai region, thereby resulting in an increased frequency of showers during 20-21 August. With mostly moderate rainfall, no severe weather threat is expected. Rainfall will substantially reduce after Saturday, and widespread heavy rain appears unlikely through the rest of August,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.With 17% excess rain for the entire state between June 1 and August 19, only three districts — Akola, Amravati, and Gondia — all in Vidarbha have recorded deficient rain this monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/expect-heavy-rain-on-day-1-of-ganeshotsav/story-z1MTj7qXfB1VtMPxY12n1N.html
20-08-2020||City||Seven underpasses, homes, flooded as Gurugram witnesses its worst waterlogging since 2016||Gurugram: The best laid plans were taken and tossed into the drain on Wednesday as rain fell on Gurugram, the likes of which were seen last in 2016. The city received 118mm rain -- not unexpected for August -- in around six hours and made a mockery of the drainage system. Seven underpasses were drowned, people living in low-lying houses were forced out and most of the city’s major roads were flooded till late evening.For Gurugram residents, it evoked memories of the infamous “Gurujam” where commuters were stuck on roads for more than 20 hours in July 2016. In fact, Wednesday received almost double the rain than that fateful day, but this time a repeat was avoided thanks to authorities understanding local drainage issues and taking counter measures and the deployment of first responders -- police and fire personnel -- quickly.But the “great escape” was by a narrow margin.Three underpasses on the Golf Course Road at DLF Phase 1, Genpact Chowk, and Bristol Chowk, two in Cyber City next to Shankar Chowk and Cyberhub, two on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at IFFCO Chowk and Rajiv Chowk were flooded and traffic police closed them off to the public.The only serious motor victim of the rain seemed to have been driver of a sedan who had to abandon his vehicle on the DLF Phase 1 underpass when water rose suddenly. A video of two persons swimming next to the car went viral over social media.“The underpasses on Raghavendra Marg have been in use for the last 3/4 years. Until today, we have never experienced water logging of this magnitude,” said a spokesperson for DLF, the caretaker of the underpasses on Golf Course Road and Cyber City. “The intensity of rainfall received this morning was 6-7 times higher than the designed capacity of the master drainage system of Gurugram. Of the seven underpasses on Raghavendra Marg, six are fully operational. The seventh, Arjun Marg underpass in DLF Phase I was severely impacted due to reverse discharge of rain water from the main drainage system. The DLF team along with government authorities are working tirelessly towards making it operational by tomorrow morning.”Satyawan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO), said that 11 fire tenders, including four from DLF fire services, were used to drain water from the seven underpasses.As per fire department officials, rainwater from five out seven underpasses was cleared by 5 pm. “We had started drainage operations around 11am. The underpasses at IFFCO Chowk, Bristol Chowk, Cyberhub, Genpact Chowk were cleared by 4pm while the underpass at Rajiv Chowk was cleared by 5pm. The underpass at Bristol Chowk we are aiming to clear by 7pm. The underpass in DLF Phase 1, the level of rainwater is extremely high. More than 5 crore kilolitres of rainwater (enough to flood the Tau Devi Lal Cricket Stadium) is accumulated there, it may take us till tomorrow to clear it,” said Samriwal.DCP traffic Chander Mohan said that more than 4,000 police personnel were deployed across the city to manage traffic, 20 cranes were used to tow more than 50 vehicles that had broken down at different points of the city.Mohan said that the Narsinghpur-Hero Honda Chowk stretch on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway was the worst affected, as water rose to more than four feet there, which resulted in the carriageway carrying traffic from Delhi to Manesar slowing significantly.“The volume of vehicles overall was not high across the city as a result of which we were able to ensure vehicles did not stall at one point but kept on moving at a slow pace. Hence, there were no snarls as such. Besides the expressway, due to the closure of underpasses on Golf Course Road and one at IFFCO Chowk, vehicles had to be diverted via MG Road, due to which there was congestion at the stretch till around 2pm. In other areas, we did not experience much hindrance with regard to traffic movement,” said Mohan.In several condominiums and residential sectors situated in low-lying areas, such as Belvedere Park in Cyber City, Suncity on Golf Course Road, DLF Phase 1-2, sectors 27, and 28 there was knee-deep rainwater, which not only prevented residents from venturing outside but in some cases flooded ground-floor houses as well.“Around 11am, such was the extent of rainwater accumulation that the electrical panels were submerged causing the backup power to cut off. We had no electricity till 5 pm. Our vehicles were also submerged and some of them may have developed mechanical issues as well. We reported the issue to our developer following which two motor pumps were used to drain out rainwater. For a couple of hours, we simply couldn’t step outside and were virtually locked in our houses,” said Deepak Malhotra, a resident of Belvedere Park.“As we are situated next to the foothills of the Aravallis, we always remain vulnerable to waterlogging during monsoon. However, today, the extent was even worse as rainwater entered our homes as well. We placed our carpets, bed sheets, to fill the gap between the door and floor to ensure minimal amount of rainwater enter our houses but it was of little use. After three hours of continuing clearing, with help of buckets and mugs did rainwater finally recede,” said Divya Surekha, a resident of Suncity.MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma said that the level of rainwater at Najafgarh drain was extremely high, and, as a result, a large portion of Gurugram’s main drain-Badshahpur drain- flowed back on to the roads, leaving the city without any outlet to drain rainwater.“Overall more than 45 pumps were deployed across various points of the city to drain out rainwater. As per our estimates, the city received more than 130mm of rainfall today. The volume of rain was much higher than usual as a result of which there was severe waterlogging across the city. We initiated combating measures as soon as rains started and in most parts of the city, barring low-lying areas by 6 pm, rainwater was cleared. More than 150 GMDA and MCG officials are still on-ground and efforts are ongoing to for clearing rainwater from remaining areas by midnight,” said Sharma.Heavy waterlogging is a common occurrence across the city during the monsoon season. VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said that deployment of motor pumps was only a relief measure and until the city’s drainage system is augmented.“Due to the heavy rain, the city was severely waterlogged. Motor pumps are only relief measures. Increasing deployment of them is not a solution but simply a damage-control measure. The GMDA has done a comprehensive study on the city’s drainage system, we had some measures we wanted to introduce to augment the city’s existing drainage capacity but could not do so due to officials being engaged with Covid-19 counter measures. Until we augment the city’s drain capacity, waterlogging will continue to be a hindrance,” said Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-underpasses-homes-flooded-as-gurugram-witnesses-its-worst-waterlogging-since-2016/story-rnHKjkZk1mzekYwQIyNIbJ.html
20-08-2020||City||NMMC conducts 59K antigen test in a month||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has conducted more than 59,000 rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 in the past one month. The civic authority started conducting rapid antigen tests from July 16 under its mission Break the Chain and has set up 22 testing centres since. In addition, 34 mobile antigen testing vans and six public awareness vehicles have been deployed to go to housing societies in different parts of the city under Mission Zero Navi Mumbai. Municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “In a month (till August 16), we have managed to conduct 51,323 antigen tests, of which 6,629 came positive. The testing number has increased further to 59791 on August 18. Since August 10, we have covered 69 housing societies and tested 6,999 people. Of them, 325 have tested positive.” Under this initiative, residents who test negative but show symptoms of Covid-19 have to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR test, which gives the result in 24 hours. NMMC has also increased the number of RT-PCR test with the state-of-the-art testing lab in Nerul which can conduct 1,000 tests a day. Bangar said, “Since the start of our lab earlier this month, 3,257 RT-PCR tests have been conducted there, of which 865 came positive. We are targeting high-risk contacts of positive patients, senior citizens and those with comorbidities. Until their test results come, they are kept in isolation. The increased testing is certainly helping us in early identification, isolation and treatment; thereby bringing down fatalities. We appeal to residents to continue to cooperate with us to ensure Navi Mumbai is free of the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-conducts-59k-antigen-test-in-a-month/story-7r9NEuvm4ujJ20qqy5Xn0K.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC slashes water cut from 20% to 10 %||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced on Wednesday that the existing water cut of 20 % will be reduced to 10% from Friday.The stock in all seven lakes that supply drinking water to Mumbai can last the city for nearly 328 days, considering a daily water supply of 375 trillion litres, officials said. The total water stock in catchment areas has reached 85% with three of the seven lakes filled to the brim.The current water stock is less than that of last year (94.28%) and 91.83% in 2018 during the same time. The decision to completely remove the water cut was yet to be taken as BMC said they would wait till all lakes are full. A senior civic official said, “The catchment areas have received heavy rainfall for the past two-three weeks. We still cannot revoke the water cut as the total water stock is yet to reach its full capacity. Previously, there has been instances where it did not rain post mid-August, which led to a water shortage. We cannot rely on the same and we will have to wait till the water stock is full.” BMC had announced a water cut from August 5, owing to low rainfall in catchment areas. The total water quantum in the seven lakes went up to 1,232 billion litres. The total storage capacity of these lakes is 1,447 billion litres. The water stock in Upper Vaitarna is 69.83%, Middle Vaitarna is 91.71%, Tansa is 92.18% and Bhatsa is at 83.38%. The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems: the Vaitarna system, which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city; the Bhatsa system, which supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts. While Bhatsa makes up for 50% of the water supply to the city, Middle Vaitarna, Upper Vaitarna, and Modak Sagar together make up for 37% of the water supply, Tansa makes up for 10%, Vihar makes up 2% and Tulsi makes up 1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-slashes-water-cut-from-20-to-10/story-DzlXKk27xV0A6n1jlNxR5H.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Record rise of 13,165 cases as Maha surge likely till mid-Sept||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 infections with 13,165 new cases, taking its tally to 628,642, even as officials expect the daily caseload record to be broken multiple times owing to increased testing, at least till mid-September. The state also breached the 21,000 mark in fatalities with 346 deaths reported, taking the toll to 21,033. Active cases in the state have climbed to 160,413.The previous highest single-day spike recorded in the state was on August 8 with 12,822 cases. Of the deaths reported on Wednesday, 249 were from the previous 48 hours and 59 were from last week. The remaining 38 deaths were from the period before last week. The recovery rate of the state improved to 71.09%, with 9,011 people discharged on Wednesday. So far, 446,881 have recovered in the state.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1,132 new infections, taking the city’s tally to 131,542. Mumbai reported 46 fatalities, taking its death toll to 7,268. Besides Mumbai, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported 2,318 new cases and 63 fatalities. Senior state government officials said the rate of infection was still high in MMR.An official said the situation in municipal corporations in the MMR needed to come under control as a chunk of population from these areas travel to Mumbai for work and other economic activities. “Mumbai is showing signs of stabilising with a weekly growth rate under 1%. If the movement of people from these areas increases to Mumbai, then cases can go up in the city. The state had not recommended restarting the suburban railway service as cases were high in the MMR,” he said, requesting anonymity. The state government on Wednesday allowed resumption of inter-district bus service of the state transport corporation from Thursday. People wishing to travel between districts in their private vehicles will, however, have to take permission or get an e-Pass.Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar issued an order announcing that inter-district plying of only Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will be allowed under the sixth phase of Mission Begin Again. “No permission/approval/ e-pass will be required for the buses and passengers travelling in the buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation,” the order stated.State transport minister Anil Parab said that the demand for ST buses was increasing and therefore the government took the decision to provide this relaxation. With the Ganeshotsav commencing on Saturday (August 22), several people travelling to their native town or villages will benefit from this relaxation. “We had kept the buses prepared. Looking at the demand of the people, we are starting the ST service. The guidelines for travel will, however, remain the same. Physical distancing will have to be maintained. Only 22 passengers will be allowed to travel on a bus to avoid close contact among the passengers,” he said. The minister added that there has been no revision in the ST bus fares.Maharashtra, meanwhile, is expected to see highs in the daily caseload with an increased number of tests, state health department officials said. As per the data of the health department, 73,464 samples were tested on Wednesday and the state had a positivity rate of 17.92%. On Tuesday, 58,136 samples were tested and 11,119 were found positive and had a positivity rate of 19.12%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 18.83%.“Generally on weekends, the number of samples tested is lower, therefore, the numbers tend to show a decline on Monday and Tuesdays. The number of cases increases around mid-week, but correspondingly the tests, too, has gone up. Largely, the cases that are added daily are asymptomatic. Besides that, districts have been directed to ramp up beds with oxygen supply considering cases have spiked in tier-two cities and rural areas.” the health department official said. The department said that Covid-19 infections will see a downward trend after mid-September in the state.Maharashtra’s case fatality rate (CFR) continued to be a cause of concern for the state government. So far, in August alone the state has reported 6,039 deaths. The CFR in the state stood at 3.35%, much higher than the national rate of 1.91%. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already directed the state administration to control the number of fatalities with interventions. In a Covid review meeting held on Tuesday, Thackeray asked district health officials to engage with the State level Covid task force.On Wednesday, Pune district, which consists of Pune rural, Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad, reported 2688 new cases. Pune city reported 1,233 cases and 38 fatalities, while Pimpri-Chinchwad saw 795 cases and 27 deaths. The rural area of the district reported 660 cases and 21 fatalities. Pune district is the worst-affected district in the state with 1,37,601 confirmed cases so far. Of the total cases, 40,665 are active in the district.Rural and semi-urban areas of the state are reporting a high number of cases in the last month. Nagpur city, the state’s second capital, reported 817 new infections, taking the city’s tally to 11,395. It also reported 23 fatalities. Nagpur rural reported 180 new cases and three fatalities. Nashik rural and Nashik city reported 231 and 520 new infections, respectively.Ahmednagar district saw 603 new infections. While Jalgaon rural saw 496 new cases and Jalgaon city reported 109 new cases. Solapur rural reported 399 new cases and 15 fatalities, while Kolhapur rural saw 387 new cases and 13 fatalities. Sangli district recorded 319 new infections, while Aurangabad district reported 546 fresh cases. Osmanabad and Beed reported 306 and 263 new cases respectively, taking their respective tallies over 4,000 and 3,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/record-rise-of-13-165-cases-as-maha-surge-likely-till-mid-sept/story-r54izJieeH9z9iAZndc2gM.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Heavy rain pours misery on commuters, triggers a wall collapse, but Minto bridge stands tall||Delhi woke up to heavy rain on Wednesday morning that led to waterlogged roads and major snarls in several parts of the city. It also triggered a school wall collapse damaging several cars, but surprisingly, decades-old Minto Bridge fared better this time with hardly any water-logging. While the showers that continued till late evening came as a respite to residents from the muggy weather -- the city’s maximum temperature fell to 27.7 degrees Celsius, six degrees below normal -- it spelt bad news for office goers, who were caught in jams on waterlogged roads. Delhi traffic police officers said jams were reported from Dwarka Link Road, Barapullah, Rao Tula Ram Marg, Moti Bagh intersection, South Extension (Ring Road), Ashram intersection, Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway, Noida Link Road and Vikas Marg. Traffic crawled at a snail’s pace near Dhaula Kuan towards Gyarah Murti, Surajmal Marg, Bhairon Marg, near Sultanpur Metro station on MB Road, near Munirka Metro station, Sanjay T-point towards Rao Tula Ram Marg, Civil Lines police station towards Mall Road, Mathura Road, Chandgiram Akhara Road, Rani Jhansi Road and Mayur Vihar phase-2 underpass. Traffic from Vasant Kunj to the airport was diverted towards Mahipalpur Chowk because of knee-deep water on the stretch. Vehicles were also diverted away from Pul Prahladpur underpass that got inundated. “Portions of roads were under water, slowing down traffic on arterial stretches. Our personnel were stationed to direct traffic, but in many areas, the situation was quite bad,” said a senior Delhi traffic police officer, requesting anonymity. Even residential colonies of Krishna Nagar, parts of Amar Colony, Model Town, Prem Nagar in Kirari, Sant Nagar and Laxmi Vihar in Burari, and Rajiv Nagar in Begampur, among others, were inundated. “It doesn’t look like we are living in the national capital. Every year, we suffer the pain of water-logging. It’s been raining since morning and the colony streets are under water, because of choked drains and sewer lines,” said BS Vohra, a resident of Krishna Nagar and the president East Delhi RWAs Joint Front. According to the Delhi traffic police, civic bodies and road owning agencies, water-logging was reported from over 45 locations in the city. The public works department (PWD) maintained that adequate arrangements were in place to drain the accumulated water. “Temporary pumps have been installed at waterlogged streets to clear roads. Our staff are in the field to constantly monitor and immediately address the water-logging issues,” a senior PWD official said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows that till 5.30 pm, Safdarjung observatory, which is taken as representative of the city, recorded 32mm of rain, Palam observatory 49.4mm rain and Lodi Road 25.1mm rain. Aya Nagar received 66.1mm rain while Ridge recorded 42.7mm rain. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the axis of the monsoon will remain close to Delhi-NCR till Thursday. He said south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea and south-easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal were also adding to moisture in this region, which was causing the downpour. “We will continue to receive spells of heavy rain till Thursday,” he said. At least seven parked cars were damaged after a portion of the boundary wall of Apeejay School in Saket’s Block J collapsed in the rain, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur. Nobody was hurt, he added.Delhi Fire Services officials said it received a call at 11.46am and dispatched two rescue teams. “The debris removal operation is on,” a fire officer said.Residents lodged a police complaint and demanded that school authorities compensate them for the damages. Meanwhile, Minto Bridge near Connaught Place, a rail underpass known for going under water every time it rains, saw no water-logging on Wednesday, largely due to prompt response from the authorities.On July 19 this year, a heavy spell of rain had inundated the underpass; a bus was submerged and a 56-year-old driver of a mini-truck had drowned. After the incident, the PWD and the Delhi traffic police took a number of measures, including installing a monitoring system, additional pumps and imposing restrictions on traffic flow, all of which seems to have paid off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/heavy-rain-pours-misery-on-commuters-triggers-a-wall-collapse-but-minto-bridge-stands-tall/story-v1xAxCzK6fl77kCZ9I8iaP.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai diamond trader duped of ₹1.29 lakh in commonplace KYC update fraud||A diamond trader (63) from south Mumbai lost ₹129,428 lakh after a fraudster posing as a bank employee duped him.The incident, which had occurred in end-July, used the familiar modus operandi of conning the diamond trader in the guise of updating the Know-Your-Customer (KYC) details of his e-wallet account.The complainant, Amit Navindchandra Zaveri, a resident of Babulnath in south Mumbai, had received a message on his mobile phone on July 27, asking him to update the KYC details of his e-wallet account.The message also included a mobile phone number that he could contact for further details.Zaveri called on the mobile number, which was mentioned in the message, at around 10.30am on July 27.A man, who claimed to be the representative of the e-wallet company, answered the phone.The man discouraged Zaveri from visiting the e-wallet’s office to update his KYC details and insisted that he could it online because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Soon, the cyber fraudster sent a link to Zaveri and asked him to fill his credit card details.Later, he asked Zaveri to open the e-wallet account from his mobile phone and punch in any number between one and nine.Zaveri followed the process, while the fraudster made five transactions from his credit card and withdrew ₹34,131, ₹25,099, ₹40,099, ₹25,099, and ₹5,000 within a few seconds.An alert bank employee, who noticed the five suspicious transactions from Zaveri’s credit card, contacted the diamond trader and asked him about the transactions.Zaveri denied making any transaction.This led the bank employee to block Zaveri’s credit card, said an official from Gamdevi police station.Zaveri received the details of the bank transactions of ₹1,29,428 lakh a week later.He filed a complaint with Gamdevi police station after the bank authorities were unwilling to redress his grievances about the fraudulent transactions.A case under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and also under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act, 2000, has been filed at the police station.The police are probing into the commonplace fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-diamond-trader-duped-of-1-29-lakh-in-commonplace-kyc-update-fraud/story-LbhtelIxINHcLlzp6EgB0I.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||IMD predicts heavy rain over central India; showers likely in Delhi too||Widespread and heavy rains are expected over different parts of north-west India including the Western Himalayan region and central India until Thursday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities said on Wednesday.Delhi recorded moderate rains till 5.30 pm and more rainfall is likely in the next 24 hours, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said. In its weather forecast issued Wednesday evening, the Met department said there will be “intense rainfall spell over central parts of the country during the next five days”.It said heavy to very heavy rainfall can be expected in the coming few days in parts of Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, east and west Madhya Pradesh, east Rajasthan, Jammu, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.“There are strong moisture laden winds blowing from Arabian Sea which are bringing heavy rain to the region. This weather will continue till end of Thursday. But on August 23 and 24 also we are expecting heavy rains again because a low pressure area has formed over Bay of Bengal which will intensify into a depression,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Also read: Drained of all hope, NCR cities left to sink or swimA well-marked low-pressure area is lying over the northwest Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to move westwards gradually and concentrate into a Depression during next 24 hours.Due to these favourable conditions, widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy spells is very likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, MP, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Vidarbha during the next four-five days. Extremely heavy rain is also likely over southwest Odisha on Wednesday; Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on Thursday and Gujarat on Saturday.Fairly widespread and heavy rain is likely over north-west India, including Western Himalayan region until Thursday. Very heavy rain is likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh on Wednesday and Uttarakhand and Punjab on Thursday; western Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday; eastern Rajasthan from Thursday until Saturday; and very heavy rain is likely also over northeastern states, except for Arunachal Pradesh, during the next three-four days, the IMD said. Also read: Why Noida handles rain better than Gurugram“Monsoon depressions are fairly common during monsoon. In July we see at least two depressions forming. But this year we had no depressions forming till now. This will be the first depression of the season. Depressions bring heavy rain and strong winds. We are expecting extremely heavy rains in Odisha in association with the depression until end of Thursday; then over Chhattisgarh for 1-2 days; over Madhya Pradesh; and over Rajasthan and Gujarat,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.Monsoon rain over the country since June 1 is 4.4% excess; 25.6% excess over south peninsula; 6.9% excess over central India; 5.8% excess over east and northeast India and 17.9% deficiency over northwest India. There is 16.3% excess rains over the country in August with 68.1% excess over peninsula India; 35.1% excess over central India; 16.6% deficiency over northwest India and 18.3 deficiency over east and northeast India as on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-rain-forecast-for-delhi/story-TtqCeWvOpGiL9DOpT2YEeJ.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Complainant says cops assaulted her in station; HC seeks response||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought a status report from the police on a plea in a northeast Delhi riots case, in which it was alleged that a complainant was roughed up at a police station on August 8 when she had gone to collect the copy on an FIR.The complainant had filed the FIR on August 6 seeking action against several people who put saffron flags across Subhash Mohalla and threatened members of Muslim community living there to leave or sell their houses on August 5 at 1 am.Justice Yogesh Khanna also asked the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), northeast, to ascertain the threat perception to complainant Shanno for the second time and provide additional security, if required, after she said that three police personnel in plain clothes assaulted her and her daughter at the Bhajanpura police station.Also read: Opposition fanned north-east Delhi riots, says AAP; BJP hits backShanno had in May filed a complaint against several people, including BJP leader Jagdish Pradhan, Mohan Singh Bisht and a few police officers, for allegedly helping orchestrate the north-east Delhi riots. However, according to her, the police had been thwarting her efforts to try and get an FIR registered . She had contended that she and her family were getting regular threats to withdraw their complaints.Earlier on July 17, Justice Vibhu Bakhru had directed the DCP to ascertain the threat perception to Shanno and her family and provide them security, if warranted, after she had moved the court seeking protection. In her previous plea, Shanno had alleged that while her husband was stopped at ISBT and his phone snatched. She had also stated that her son and grandson were hit by a car when they were on a motorcycle in which the child was seriously injured.On Wednesday, appearing for the petitioners, advocate Mehmood Pracha told the court that Shanno and other women of the locality had lodged a complaint on August 6 against the nuisance created by the mob . On August 8, she along with the other complainants was called to the police station to collect the copy of the FIR.However, when she went there, the SHO referred to her first complaint (filed in May) and asked her to withdraw the names of the BJP leaders and police officials and instead give the complaint against anonymous persons, the plea said. The plea said that when Shanno refused to take her complaint back, the SHO got angry and left the police station.Later, one police officer — named Manoj Chaudhary — took them to the lobby in front of the SHO’s office, where the three petitioners -- Shanno, her daughter Ilmana and one Shaheen were assaulted, Pracha said. The counsel added that the police officials snatched Ilmana’s phone and also deleted the video she had shot while they were allegedly manhandling her mother.Additional Standing counsel Rajesh Mahajan, appearing for the city police, told the court that after the HC’s order of July 17, protection has been given to the woman and beat constables visit her thrice in a day. He said that CCTV’s have also been installed in front of her house. He said that he would file a status report in this regard.Deputy commissioner of police (north-east) Ved Prakash Surya said, “We are yet to receive a copy of the directions issued by the Delhi High Court. As and when we get it, we will abide by the directions.”A police official who did not wished to be named said that they had investigated the woman’s complaint. However, they did not find anything to substantiate the allegations.BJP leader Jagdish Pradhan, Mohan Singh Bisht had not commented on the issue despite repeated attempts by HT to reach out to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-complainant-says-cops-assaulted-her-in-station-hc-seeks-response/story-BQE11oLcFbeQ7wPte2wUCL.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B students’ virtual avatars will get degrees at convocation||Students graduating from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) will not be physically present for their convocation this Sunday, but their virtual avatars will walk up the stage and receive degrees. The institute has created a virtual reality platform for students to experience their convocation ceremony from the comfort of their homes. Around 2,100 students who are graduating can access their three-dimensional virtual avatars via an application on their smart devices. From Saturday, students can use the application to take a virtual tour of the campus and hang out with friends at their favourite joints. Once downloaded, the application does not require internet connectivity to run.“At the designated time of the convocation ceremony (1.30pm to 3.30pm), the application will work enabling synchronised viewing. We did not want students to miss out on any of the aspects of the convocation function,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of the institute. On August 13, HT had reported that several IITs were planning to hold virtual or online convocation ceremonies this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, IIT-Bombay claimed that such virtual reality convocation is likely the first in the world.The entire campus has been replicated in virtual reality, enabling students to interact with each other as well as faculty members. “The departments, hostels and popular meeting points for students have been created virtually so that students can engage and experience the convocation as they would have physically,” said P Sunthar, co-convenor of the Convocation Committee. Duncan Haldane, Nobel Laureate for Physics in 2016 and professor of Physics at Princeton University, is the chief guest of the ceremony while Stephen Schwarzman, chairperson, chief executive officer and co-founder of Blackstone, will deliver the commencement speech. Their address will be aired through video and they will present awards to students in their virtual avatars alongside the director’s avatar.The award of degrees will be followed by a synchronised oath-taking — the traditional convocation pledge where the graduates swear to be honest in their discharge of duties as professionals. The entire ceremony will be telecast on the institute’s YouTube and Facebook channels as well as Doordarshan Sahyadri.Most students are excited by the prospect. Charit Verma, a civil engineering graduate, said while the virtual convocation is a welcome move, his parents are disappointed that they will not have the opportunity to visit the institute. It took the effort of 20 experts, most of them from the IDC School of Design, to plan, design and create this platform and mobile application. “It took more than 5,000 person hours to build the whole thing,” added Sunthar.“The convocation ceremony is the highlight of a student’s life at IIT-Bombay. We didn’t want to deprive them and their families of the sense of achievement and pride of graduating from India’s premier engineering institute. The virtual convocation is a way of showing how we do things at the institute,” said S Sudarshan, deputy director, academic and infrastructural affairs. Once the ceremony is over, the application will remain as a souvenir for students to cherish their convocation memories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-students-virtual-avatars-will-get-degrees-at-convocation/story-pcws8bBlSzcqd0tG7zy0kN.html
20-08-2020||City||Cars crushed after school wall collapses in Saket, owners demand compensation||New Delhi: At least seven parked cars were severely damaged after a portion of the boundary wall of Apeejay School in Saket’s J-block collapsed due to the rain on Wednesday morning, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur. Nobody was hurt, he added.Delhi Fire Services officials said the fire control room received a call at 11.46am and dispatched two rescue teams. “The debris removal operation is on,” said a fire officer from the control room.Residents of the area lodged a police complaint and demanded that school authorities compensate them for the damage. Pawan Soni, president Saket J-block RWA, said the wall collapsed around 6.30am, burying nearly eight cars. He said it was a 12-feet-high wall with concertina wire fixed on the top.“The wall, grilles and wires fell onto cars parked near the wall. It was not well constructed, as it had no pillars or foundation. The other sides of the school’s walls are also weak. It is a case of negligence on part of the school administration, and have registered a complaint with the police against them. We want them to compensate those whose cars have been severely damaged,” Soni alleged. He added that the South civic body should take cognisance of the incident and serve a notice to the school authorities.A video of the cars buried in the debris was circulated widely on social media by residents of the area. “Due to extremely heavy rains across the city a small part of our boundary wall broke down in an area where vehicles are not meant to be parked. There are no injuries. We regret since school is in Covid-19 mode and therefore an immediate response was not possible. We are working with authorities to rebuild the wall. Our focus is first to remove debris and ensure the safety of everyone there. We are working with all stakeholders involved to arrive at the best possible solution,” the school said in a statement released Wednesday evening.According to civic officials, at least 13 incidents of wall or building collapse were reported till the evening, however, no casualty was reported. Some of the areas where portions of building collapsed include Chirag Dilli, Shahdara, Tahirpur, Gandhi Nagar, Todapur, Moti Nagar, Ashok Vihar, Nangloi Extension among others. Incidents of tree felling due to rain were reported from at least 12 locations across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cars-crushed-after-school-wall-collapses-in-saket-owners-demand-compensation/story-h2Rk8uwiTiUrQuYPTxHaSI.html
20-08-2020||City||Minto Bridge spared of water logging||New DelhiMinto Bridge near Connaught Place -- a rail underpass known for going under water almost every rainy season -- was spared of water logging after Wednesday’s heavy monsoon showers, largely due to prompt response from the authorities.On July 19 this year, a heavy spell of rain had inundated the underpass, where a Delhi Transport Corporation bus submerged and a 56-year-old driver of a mini-truck drowned. After the incident, the public works department (PWD) and the Delhi traffic police took a number of measures, including installing a monitoring system, additional pumps and imposing restrictions on traffic flow, to avoid a repeat.The PWD, which manages the road, had set up a monitoring system comprising CCTVs to keep a check on the water level.A senior PWD official privy to the development said CCTVs had been installed at Minto Bridge last month. One of these cameras monitor levels of water in the underpass while the other one was fixed in the pump room to keep a check on the staff and the pump panel. “There are around 12 permanent water pumps at Minto Bridge. At least two pump operators remain present all the time. Water sensors along with alarms are installed in the sump (underground water reservoir). The alarm goes off as soon as the water reaches a danger level. The pump operator then starts pumping out water and clears the road. If required, we deploy temporary pumps to drain out the water. This is how we stopped accumulation of water in the underpass on the last couple of occasions after the July 19 incident,” the PWD official said.He said the traffic police work in close coordination with PWD authorities and close the stretch for vehicular movement as soon as water starts to accumulate in the underpass. “We now have a provision of registering FIR against those who deliberately try to manoeuvre through the water-logged Minto Bridge even when it is closed for traffic,” the official added.Traffic officials said Minto Bridge had been a priority stretch for them, especially after a 56-year-old man drowned under this bridge during last month’s water logging.“On two previous occasions too, when Delhi received similar spells of rainfall, we had closed the stretch and immediately drained out the water with the help of the civic agencies. We managed it before the situation got worse. In the morning, we did see some water logging under the bridge but it was immediately cleared,” a senior traffic police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minto-bridge-spared-of-water-logging/story-V64FsYb2GYQ5C1Jq4IS0UJ.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Evaluation of DU’s online exams a challenge for teachers as time runs out||As Delhi University heads towards wrapping up its first online open-book examination (OBE) for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students of regular and non-collegiate courses, teachers are now worried about the evaluation process ahead of them.In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the central university – as a one-time measure—introduced the online OBE exams amid much resistance from students and teachers. The exams started on August 10 and will continue till August 31 for around 260,000 students.According to the guidelines, students can either upload their answer sheets on the website or email it to the varsity in the wake of technical glitches. Former academic council member Pankaj Garg, who teaches Mathematics at Rajdhani College, said, “If there are over 2.4 lakh examinees and each of them upload around four pages on the portal, there will be at least 10 lakh answer sheets to sort and compile. Students have four subjects on an average, which will only increase the number of answer sheets. Some students have both uploaded the answer sheets on the website and emailed it to the university as well as their colleges, leading to further increase in the number,” he said.Garg, and several other teachers HT spoke to, said this will create problems for teachers who are not used to conducting a digital evaluation. Many pointed out that not all students have high-end smartphones, which may result in unclear answer scripts.Sanam Khanna, who teaches English at Kamala Nehru College, said moderation can be a factor due to online evaluation of answer scripts. “Teachers rue the fact that there is no clarity even now on the exact modalities of assessment. Generally, we went to the common evaluation centres where a robust moderation was in place, especially for humanities courses where marks can be subjective. Teachers discussed the questions and answers among themselves and moderate marks accordingly. But this time, we don’t know how it will happen.”She said teachers won’t be able to check for the academic quality of the answers since there were no time-tested mechanisms in place. “An open-book exam for which students don’t have to cite sources runs the risk of compromising academic quality. There may be plagiarism as well but where are the checks and balances?” Khanna asked.Another cause of worry is that this time around, teaching for third and fifth semesters for UG courses will overlap with evaluation unlike other times. “Most of the teachers are involved in online teaching. So in addition to reading e-resources and taking online classes, they will also be expected to evaluate papers digitally – something teachers were not prepared for. Many don’t even have the necessary devices. The university should take some measures to print the answer sheets uploaded on the portal and send it to the teachers to offer some respite,” said Garg.The Delhi University Computer Centre (DUCC), the central IT institution of the varsity, is in the process of compiling the answer sheets. “We have a team that is working on this to ensure the same answer scripts are not repeated. A system is being set up where we will filter roll numbers that students mentioned in the e-mail submission and match it with the data uploaded on the website,” said Sanjeev Singh, joint director at DUCC. The university’s Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said it is likely that the evaluators will start receiving the answer sheets by next week.The Delhi High Court directive on Tuesday, asking for expediting the results of final-year students to ensure that their higher education prospects are not affected, necessitated the need for a quicker evaluation process.“While the evaluation process won’t be affected by the offline exams [slated to be conducted from September 14] because different sets of teachers will go for invigilation and evaluation, declaring the results is still a challenge because we have to expedite the process and do it as soon as possible to ensure students don’t suffer,” Pani said.Offline exams only for those who were unable to appear for their papersWhile the Delhi High Court on Monday asked the varsity to conduct offline exams for students who could not appear for their papers beginning September 14, students are confused over the eligibility criteria.“There is a confusion among students whether they are allowed to appear for offline exams for improving their marks. If so, the results of their online exams should be declared before offline exams start,” said Garg. “Else, the university must provide them with details of how many answer scripts were received by them so that the students can take a call on appearing for the offline exams.”DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani, however, clarified that only physically challenged students or those who were unable to appear for their OBE papers will be allowed to sit for the offline exams. Asked about students who may not have appeared for all OBE papers, Pani said, “We will look at it on a case-to-case basis and consider accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/evaluation-of-du-s-online-exams-a-challenge-for-teachers-as-time-runs-out/story-dgjcXHjHt6jNPM2bsoNWCP.html
20-08-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand logs highest single-day jump of Covid fatalities; state tally over 13,000||Uttarakhand on Wednesday reported 14 deaths of Covid-19 patients, the highest jump in deaths in a day so far. The state reported 264 fresh cases, taking the tally to 13,225. Of the 14 patients who died on Wednesday, five died due to Covid-19, while the rest died due to co-morbidities. These deaths also included a two-month-old infant who died at the Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani due to ‘Acute Respiratory Illness, Pneumonia, Septicemia, DIC, Intra Cranial Hemorrhage, Upper GI Bleed, Pulmonary Bleed, Shock, Respiratory Failure.’ A total of 178 patients have died in Uttarakhand so far with 40 dying due to the virus and rest due to co-morbidities and other causes, according to health officials. Out of the total cases, 9,132 people have recovered successfully, bringing the state’s recovery rate to 69.05%. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Wednesday evening, maximum fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district (118), followed by Nainital (60), Haridwar (39), Chamoli (19), Pauri (13), US Nagar (7), three cases each from Tehri and Champawat and one case each was reported from Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts. Haridwar district has reported the maximum cases in total (3,206) followed by Dehradun (2,655), US Nagar (2,394) and Nainital (1,942). Also, 408 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Wednesday with maximum being (175) from the US Nagar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on last seven days now stands at 31.11%, while the infection rate is at 5.12%. Over 2.79 lakh samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state of which results of over 15,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 390 containment zones in eight districts including 333 in Haridwar district. To effectively fight the pandemic, the state government has operationalised 17 dedicated Covid Hospitals and 381 Covid Care Centres (CCC) across the state. It has also started home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients recently. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat interacted with doctors engaged in the treatment of coronavirus patients on Wednesday via video conferencing. “The way you all (doctors) are treating Covid-19 patients in the midst of difficult situations; it can be only be called a great penance. Physicians are performing their duties with patience and readiness. With the help of doctors, we are confident that we will definitely win our fight against Covid-19,” Rawat said. The chief minister also learnt about the status of patients, the availability of ventilators, ICUs, oxygen beds and other equipment needed to treat patients. He said that all possible efforts are being made by the government to control Covid-19. While speaking to the patients of Covid-19 admitted to hospitals, Rawat inquired about facilities of treatment, stay and food..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-logs-highest-single-day-jump-of-covid-fatalities-state-tally-over-13-000/story-NpjvYGsMe08elnohhBgdjL.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Traders with weekly markets in Delhi upbeat, gyms weighed down||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) decision on Wednesday to allow weekly bazaars to open but leave out gyms brought cheer to thousands of traders and individuals associated with these markets but left gym owners disappointed.The DDMA – chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal – on Wednesday approved the Delhi government’s decision to let weekly markets in the city operate on an experimental basis but prohibited gyms from reopening. The central government, though, had allowed gyms to reopen in its latest guidelines on scaling down of lockdown restrictions that were imposed to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The weekly markets are managed by committees and, by now, most of them have drafted rules on how they would ensure safety from potential transmission of the virus. “Shops would maintain at least 1 metre distance from one another, customers will have to maintain distance too from the shops and among themselves. There will be provision for hand wash and all traders have been asked to wear masks, gloves and have sand sanitisers with them,” said Vinod Kumar, secretary of a weekly market committee in Narela.Sanjay Kumar, president of a weekly market at the Yamuna embankment in Geeta Colony, pointed at the challenges ahead. “We shall often have to ask customers to avoid touching the products to ensure safety. But it will be a big challenge because such markets are often visited by families and groups, and it is difficult to monitor who is touching what at which point amid constant haggling. But it has to be done because it is a question of livelihood.” Delhi has around 2,700 locations that host weekly markets by small-scale traders – dealing in literally anything ranging from garments, footwear, utensils, books, toys and everyday kitchen essentials. These markets cater to millions, especially those living in low-income group localities, and provide employment to more than 400,000 people in different roles – from traders to small-time transporters and labourers. The reopening move comes as a huge relief for them, said Brijesh Goyal, president of the Delhi-based Chamber of Trade and Industry.Letting weekly markets on an experimental basis means officials and the police would keep a close eye on whether social distancing norms are followed and submit assessment reports on which the government may revise its call. Delhi has around 5,500 gyms that employ around 100,000 people, ranging from trainers to housekeeping staff. The industry is in a terrible shape and thousands have lost jobs. The central government has allowed gyms to open. So, why should a few state governments restrict them?” asked vice-president of the Delhi Gyms Association.“Gyms have safety protocols in place. They have been asked to ensure time shifts and pre-booking of slots for their clients, distance between equipment and regular sanitisation of every equipment after use by one client and the indoor areas in general, among other things suggested by the central government. They are operating in other states from August 5 and, so far, we have not come across any complaints. It should be allowed in Delhi too,” said Vinay Sangwan, co-owner of a gymnasium chain under the brand Anytime Fitness.Twenty-eight centres of Sangwan’s fitness chain in Delhi are closed but 12 branches are open in NCR cities such as Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traders-with-weekly-markets-happy-but-gym-owners-disappointed/story-dopbMe7YuwMV3m8RRb8XHM.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh carjacking: Complainant’s female friend was in car when robber struck||A day after a property dealer lost his SUV to a gun-wielding snatcher, police found out that the man had left to collect his food order from an eatery, leaving the engine on, even as his female friend waited inside the car. The complainant, Harminder Singh of Badhmajra, Mohali, whose wife is a constable with Chandigarh police, had initially told the police that a masked man had snatched the car from him at gunpoint outside Burger King, Sector 35, but police say he has been continuously changing statements. It now turns out that it was his female friend who had been threatened by the robber.Police have recorded the statement of the female friend, who is said to be associated with the Punjabi music industry. In her statement, the woman said, “I was sitting in the SUV, waiting for my friend to return when a man came, sat in the driver’s seat and asked me to get out. He had a pistol in his hand,” she said.A case under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered following her statement. POLICE SCAN CCTVs IN AREA Meanwhile, cops are scanning closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area to gather more clues but they have so far not got any leads on the identity of the accused. As per the victim, the accused spoke a mix of Punjabi and Hindi and was wearing a green T-shirt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-carjacking-complainant-s-female-friend-was-in-car-when-robber-struck/story-xE87XITCRBKR22FbmjGvfI.html
20-08-2020||Noida||Huge fire at power substation in Noida’s Sector 148, none hurt||A massive fire broke out at a power substation in Safipur village in Noida’s Sector 148 on Wednesday around 8am. According to fire officers, the blaze originated through a transformer and spread to another transformer and both went up in flames. Due to oil and inflammable materials there, the fire spread swiftly and thick black smoke could be seen from far away in the skyline. Harinder Bhati, a resident of Greater Noida Sector Beta 1, said he was feeding his cows when he heard about the fire incident. “I reached the sub-station and saw the fire had spread massively. It was also raining but it could not dampen the fire. Later, the power department informed the firefighters who reached the spot to control it,” he said.Officials said 12 fire tenders were rushed. Officials said a probe will find out the exact reason behind the incident. The repair works may take around one month as the sub-station was badly damaged in the fire.Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire safety officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the fire was doused by 10.30am. “We doused the fire and no one was injured. We and the police will investigate what led to the incident,” he said. The sub-station had come up in October last year to cater to the power supply of establishments and residential sectors along the Noida-Greater Noida expressway. It was also providing power to the Noida-Greater Noida Metro’s Sector 148 station. The power department said the incident took place due to an internal fault and that the supply has been resumed from an alternate line.VN Singh, chief engineer, Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), said there is a 400 KV power sub-station in Sector 148. “We received information that a 500 MV transformer had caught fire due to internal faults. Power department officials swiftly moved into action to control it and also informed the police and fire departments,” he said.The sub-station supplied power to Sector 93, Sector 84 and the nearby metro station at Sector 148 which was briefly halted. “We have made alternative arrangements for power supply. This incident will not affect the power supply in the area,” he said. The power sub-station is about 500 metres away from the metro station. The power department has not filed any complaint in this regard, Varun Pawar, station house officer, Knowledge Park police station, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/huge-fire-at-power-substation-in-noida-s-sector-148-none-hurt/story-3ACAPje7ohqyVj9OCI8UuM.html
20-08-2020||Noida||Noida waives ₹225 crore time extension fee for 16 housing projects||The Noida authority has waived off time-extension charges to the tune of ₹225 crore on as many as 16 housing projects under its zero-period policy.The Noida authority officials said the move that extends the deadline for builders in developing their housing projects without a fee being levied on them will help the latter to complete more than 20,000 units.“We have given a total waiver of ₹225 crore in time-extension fee to 16 housing projects. The move will help in the delivery of 22,064 units in all these 16 projects,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority. Work on these housing projects was disrupted due to court disputes over land, the authority said.On December 3, 2019, the Uttar Pradesh government had approved a ‘zero-period’ scheme that enabled development authorities to give waivers on interest, penalties, and time-extension fees to builders in cases wherein land disputes or court orders had delayed housing projects. These benefits are meant for projects scheduled to be finished by June, 2021. The authority charges 1% of the land cost as time-extension fee if any developer wants to get an additional one year to finish the project.While the authority gave time extension to 16 housing projects without imposing a fee, it rejected the proposals of 23 housing projects on various grounds. It also said that none of the 39 projects were eligible for interest waivers. These housing projects whose time-extension charges have been waived off include those being developed by Logix Infrastructure Pvt Ltd in Sector 137, Logix City Developers Pvt Ltd in Sector 143, Logix Infratech Pvt Ltd in Sector 143, Ajnara India Ltd in Sector 74, Greater Value Projects India Ltd in Sector 107, IV County Pvt Ltd in Sector 121, Kindle Infraheights Pvt Ltd in Sector 143, RG Residency Pvt Ltd in Sector 120, Laureate Buildwell Pvt Ltd in Sector 108, Nexgen Infracon Pvt Ltd in Sector 78, PAN Realtors Pvt Ltd in Sector 70, AVP Buildteck Pvt Ltd in Sector 77, Supertech Limited in Sector 74, Sikka Infrastructure Pvt Ltd in Sector 143B, E-Homes Infrastructure Pvt Ltd in Sector 75 and IVR Prime (Avadi) Developers Pvt Ltd in Sector 118.“After the time-extension and in wake of the Covid -19 pandemic, the 16 developers can deliver their housing projects by December-end in 2021,” said a statement by the Noida authority.The developers, however, are not too happy with the waivers on time-extension.“We were hoping to get the interest waivers for the time when the construction was stopped. We are yet to examine how much the latest move will benefit our projects,” said Shakti Nath, a promoter of the Logix group of companies.The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), a developers’ group, said the time-extension fee waiver will not make much difference to the realty sector.“The authority should have given waivers to all 39 projects who had applied for the waivers because their work got affected by land disputes. We also demand that the authority should give a waiver on interest imposed on the land dues,” said Prashant Tiwari, president, CREDAI’s Western UP wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-waives-225-crore-time-extension-fee-for-16-housing-projects/story-3Ay26T5sAtdnGzXmn0BWfP.html
20-08-2020||City||Lukewarm response at Covid test centres in Vaishali, Indirapuram||Despite an uptick in Covid-19 tests, two of the four sampling centres in Ghaziabad, both in the trans-Hindon (old city) residential localities of Vaishali and Indirapuram, are seeing fewer collections of swabs for testing.The district has two other sampling centres, or static booths, at MMG District Hospital and at IMS College in Dasna in the cis-Hindon region (city). While the MMG hospital is in the middle of the old city, the Dasna centres is in the city outskirts.All four collect for the “gold standard” reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test as well antigen test. According to official data, the booth at Vaishali, a healthcentre, collected 1,644 samples and Indirapuram, at a gurudwara, collected 3,516 over 49 days -- from July 1 to August 18 -- totalling 5160 samples. During the same period, the cis-Hindon area accounted for 9843 samples --- 6,288 at the hospital and 3,555 at the Dasna college. Officials said each booth could collect 150 samples a day -- 7,350 over 49 days. Although this may suggest all four centres were not being used till capacity, factors such as distance, weekend lockdowns and containment zones play a role in collections.The test positivity rate (TPR, which is the total number of positive cases per 100 tests) at these each of these booths were, however, close -- Indirapuram 7.65% (269 positive cases), Vaishali 6.39% (105 cases), MMG Hospital 7.95% (500 cases) and IMS college 7.17% (255 cases). These are, however, not the only ways by which samples are collected. Surveillance teams are conducting surveys and camps to test people with symptoms or those with certain co-morbidities. Many private and government laboratories also offer testing, according to Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines.Residents believe there is a sense of fear in the community and the belief that the declining fatality rate was reason enough to stay away from getting tested at these booths.“There is still a sense of fear among the residents and they do not wish to get tested even if home isolation is allowed. The booth at Vaishali caters to localities of Vaishali and Kuashambi etc. In our areas we approached the health department for a testing camp on Wednesday in order to encourage residents to come out and get tested,” said VK Mittal, president of Kuashambi Apartments’ residents’ welfare association. “There is a sense among residents that as fatality rate is on the decline and those getting recovered is increasing, with majority remaining asymptomatic, so, they somehow feel that testing can be avoided. There had been long queues outside the sampling booth in Indirapuram once, but they are no more now,” said Alok Kumar, founder-member of federation of association of apartment owners in Ghaziabad. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey could not be reached for comments over the issue. The officials of the district health department said that they are trying to maintain overall daily sampling/testing in range of 3000-3500 per day. “To ensure that more sampling and testing is done we have roped in mobile vans besides holding camps in different areas. We have also come up with sampling centres in rural areas. In urban areas we are encouraging residents to come out for testing and suspected cases are being traced with the help of our surveillance teams. Help of local councilors and RWAs is also being taken,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. According to the state health bulletin, Ghazaibad has 1,099 active Covid-19 cases so far. With 85 cases reported in the last 24 hours, the district tally has reached 6,874, including total 5,708 recoveries and 67 deaths. In neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar, a total of 6,700 cases have been reported so far. The tally includes 104 new cases, 5,872 total recoveries and 43 deaths.Overall, the district, till August 18, collected about 160,086 samples of which test reports of 158,239 were received. Of the overall sampling, 90238 samples were conducted through rapid antigen kits. Meanwhile in UP, the state officials said that 107768 samples were tested till Tuesday and overall testing has reached 4075174 tests. “The chief minister has directed for more testing and we plan to conduct 1.3 lakh tests in next phase. This will be done through 45000 tests through RT-PCR and 75000 through rapid antigen kits per day. The CM has asked for names of districts conducting less testing. The increase in testing is helpful in early detection of case and early treatment. This also helps in contact tracing in order to prevent infection from spreading further,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lukewarm-response-at-covid-test-centres-in-vaishali-indirapuram/story-DQp7wb6WbpFiIebP6ofxXM.html
20-08-2020||City||UP-Rera to audit escrow accounts of registered projects||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has decided to audit the escrow accounts opened by builders for projects registered with the authority, and has asked the promoters to submit the account details online till August 31.“Considering the numerous complaints received by the authority regarding non-compliance with the provisions of the Rera Act, the authority has decided to conduct the verification audit of designated accounts,” Rajive Kumar, chairman, UP-Rera, said on Wednesday.According to the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, 70 % of the money realised from the allottees of the project shall be deposited from time to time in a designated separate account (escrow account) to be maintained in a scheduled bank to cover the construction and land cost of the projectonly.UP-Rera said it will penalise promoters for not submitting details of the escrow account within the stipulated time.“It is mandatory for the promoter of a project to adhere to the Rera act, and its rules and regulations governing operation and management of the designated separate account. Section 38 of the Act empowers the authority to impose a penalty in regard to any contravention of obligations cast upon the promoters,” said Kumar.The act mandates that withdrawal of money from the designated separate accounts to cover the cost of the project needs to be in proportion to percentage completion of the project and such withdrawals need to be supported by certificates from an engineer, an architect, and a chartered accountant.Abrar Ahmed, secretary, UP-Rera, said, “The promoters of all the project registered with the authority have been directed to submit online information regarding the details of projects’ bank accounts and any other bank accounts being utilised for depositing the sale proceeds and project finance availed. The last date for submission is August 31, and non-compliance with the instructions will lead to the imposition of penalties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-rera-to-audit-escrow-accounts-of-registered-projects/story-Nb2gmWJvGz3xVedOwbiHAO.html
20-08-2020||Noida||Why Noida handles rain better than Gurugram||On Wednesday morning, as people in Gurugram stared at parts of their city turning into a lake, people in Noida reported little inconvenience. The situation was not entirely trouble-free there -- water accumulated at the foot of flyovers and access/exit ramps to the DND -- but it was nowhere near like the situation in Gurugram, where commuters swam to safety as their cars sank and rescue teams patrolled on rafts looking for anyone marooned.The contrast is explained by how the two cities were planned. The Uttar Pradesh government set up the New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (Noida) in 1976 to develop a planned township on the state’s border with the national Capital. The objective was to blueprint an integrated, modern industrial city with all provisions required for an urban space. On the other hand, Gurugram did not have a metropolitan development authority till 2017 and a municipal corporation till 2007. It had, although, begun finishing its first housing projects in the 1980s. On Wednesday, when 70mm of rain poured down on Noida and 118mm on Gurugram, this difference manifested itself in water-logged roads, flooded homes and serpentine traffic jams that were seen in one city, but not the other. “Noida is a planned city while Gurugram was developed in isolation. In Gurugram, a developer buys 100 acres or 500 acres from a farmer, develops a township, lays infrastructure inside the township and empties rain water outside the campus. It was a piecemeal approach,” said SC Gaur, chief coordinator and planner with the UP national capital region cell, while explaining how town planning methodologies used for Noida and Gurugram were different.“In Noida, the authority develops roads, drainage network and other civic infrastructure before allotting the land to a developer,” Gaur said. Rajvir Singh, former chief town planner, Haryana, who is now a consultant, said urban planning failed on many counts in Gurugram. “Initially, when the development plan for the city was being prepared, it was pointed out that natural drains and dams should not be disturbed. However, real estate development was allowed in a haphazard manner. Also, despite a master plan for the city, most of the features remained on paper and thus the civic infrastructure in the city is still catching up with the urban growth,” said Singh. Experts pointed out that flooding during monsoon is also because of the difference between the topography of the two cities. “Noida is surrounded by Yamuna and Hindon and is located on plains, where stormwater drains empties out in the two rivers. Also, the city has a planned drainage system. Gurugram, on the other hand, is a hilly terrain with a poor gradient. Moreover, with natural drains such as Najafgarh and Badshahpur being encroached upon in many places, stormwater floods on the city roads,” said Professor Dr Gauhar Mehmood of the department of civil engineering, Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. Mehmood worked with the Gurugram Municipal Corporation and helped set up water conservation structures to conserve rainwater in 2010-11.Natural drains, which were spread across the Gurugram district and prominent dams, which existed since the British period at Ghata, Wazirabad, Nathupur, Jharsa and Manesar, have vanished due to encroachments. City officials said it is one of the main reasons for the flooding of Golf Course Road and adjacent areas. “The current stormwater drainage system is inadequate to take the load. Exigency plans need to be created and special emphasis should be put on rainwater harvesting and creating small lakes, which can keep roads free of stormwater,” said Prof Sewa Ram from School of Planning and Architecture in Delhi. VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), said deployment of motor pumps is only a relief measure and until the city’s drainage system is augmented, waterlogging will persist.Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority, said: “Teams from water department were on standby to address waterlogging complaints. We had also set up water pumping stations. At the Mamura underpass, water-logging did take place but we managed to pump out water from all low-lying areas soon after rain stopped. We were able to perform better also because Noida has well-planned roads, drainage network and the irrigation drain takes rainwater into the Yamuna and Hindon.”Gurugram also has a plethora of civic agencies: HSVP, HSIIDC, GMDA and MCG. Noida has one. While the Noida Master plan 2031 defines land use of each sector before it is allotted to builders for housing or for setting up industries, most of the new sectors in Gurugram (from sector 58 to 115) lack roads, water supply, power infrastructure and sewerage system. KK Rao, Gurugram police commissioner, said waterlogging has been one of the biggest challenges for all government agencies, including the police. “Poor road engineering, improper drainage system and human negligence are the reasons which lead to such situations. The drains are not regularly and properly cleaned, the water pumps are not that effective and the terrain is also not friendly. Regular monitoring and joint efforts by all the agencies can only avert a repeat of Gurujam,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-noida-handles-rain-better-than-gurugram/story-Z5GeYoVMwdlGWYpA5nHFKO.html
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Private sector job quota: Haryana governor sends proposed law to President||In a setback to Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s move to provide 75% quota in private sector jobs to local candidates, governor Satyadeo Narain Arya has reserved the proposed quota ordinance approved by the cabinet for the President’s consideration.Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) is BJP’s coalition partner in Haryana.The move to introduce reservation for the local youth in private-sector jobs is on the lines of a law enacted by YS Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh and challenged on the grounds of constitutional validity in the high court.Piloted by Dushyant Chautala’s JJP, the proposed law though did not find much support from the BJP quarters. In fact, chief minister ML Khattar had once sounded non-committal on the prospect of enacting such a law.Thus, Arya’s move to reserve the proposed law for the President’s review has the potential to sour the relations between the two allies. Chautala did not respond to calls made in this regard.After approving the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020, in July, the Haryana cabinet had sent it to the governor for promulgation. Under Article 213 of the Constitution, the governor has the powers to promulgate an ordinance or a law when the state assembly is not in session. However, he can refuse to do so and refer it to the President.The Haryana ordinance which has now been reserved for review would go through time-consuming scrutiny of central ministries before the President takes a final call on it.TOOK LAW SECRETARY’S ADVICEThe governor, who had to deal with two contrary pieces of legal advice from the law secretary and the advocate general, seems to have agreed with the former’s counsel.The law secretary’s advice on referring the proposed law for presidential review was primarily based on two counts. “Section 23 of the proposed law gives it an overriding effect over other laws. Such a broad provision has the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament or an existing law and thereby needs presidential assent. Another provision for preference in jobs to the candidates domiciled in Haryana is seemingly in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before law and Article 19 (1)(g), which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business,” said an official familiar with the developments.Advocate general BR Mahajan, however, had said the proposed rule did not violate any central law. “It also does not come in conflict with Article 14 of the Constitution,” Mahajan had said.POLITICS BEHIND THE MOVEIt came as a surprise to many that governor Arya, despite knowing well that an assembly session has to been convened from August 26, chose to reserve the proposed law for the President’s consideration, instead of waiting for the assembly to replace it with a Bill. The BJP government at the Centre has a very different view on the issue. At least two former central ministers had answered in negative to Parliament questions about possibility of reservation in appointments in private companies. Arya who is a BJP appointee would have weighed the political implications of implementing a law that would put migrants from his home state of Bihar at a disadvantage in terms of employment opportunities in private sector. “He himself is an eight-time Bihar MLA and with Bihar assembly polls later this year, this factor would also have influenced his decision,” said a political analyst. The BJP is a coalition partner in the Janta Dal (U)-led government in Bihar.About the lawTitled Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020, it provides for 75% of the new employment to local candidates for jobs having salary less than ₹50,000 per month in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms, etc situated in the state. Employers will also have the option to recruit local candidates from one district to the extent of only 10%. The proposed law also contained a bail-out clause for the industry if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-sector-job-quota-haryana-governor-sends-proposed-law-to-president/story-P7WXWMIXIGgY1G6Bvb9l3L.html
20-08-2020||Pune||MPCB warns PMC against dumping fresh waste at garbage depot||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) issued a notice to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for non-compliance of solid waste at landfill site. PMC has been warned against dumping fresh garbage at the waste plant. MPCB issued a notice on Wednesday and instructed the civic body to follow the norms as per the solid waste management act and submit a report to its office in the next three days. PMC has landfill site at Uruli Devachi and Phursungi. MPCB, in its letter to the PMC, said, “We did a joint visit at the garbage depots on March 3 along with PMC officials. It was found that PMC is processing fresh 250 to 300 metric tonne waste. It is observed that leachate treatment provided is not adequate and a huge quantity of leachate is flowing through without treatment in the nallah. As the untreated leachate is mixing in water source, it would pollute the surrounding area.”MPCB has directed PMC to stop the processing of fresh solid waste in biomining plants at Uruli Devachi immediately and process it scientifically. PMC solid waste management department head Dyneshwar Molak said, “We received the letter from MPCB and will submit a reply in three working days. The garbage lifting process is smooth in the city.” Recently, residents of Uruli Devachi and Phursungi had demanded permanent closure of garbage depots at their neighbourhood. They also planned to stage agitations on Independence Day [August 15], but police did not permit the protest and arrested agitators because of the Covid situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mpcb-warns-pmc-against-dumping-fresh-waste-at-garbage-depot/story-ztk0pE3V27OLSz9pdzCdlI.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Commuters await completion of six-lane road near Navale bridge in Pune||Commuters using the Katraj to Wadgaon Navale bridge stretch are awaiting the completion of a six-lane concrete road replacing the existing four-lane road on the 4 km stretch. The work is to be carried out by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Central Public Works Department (PWD). The work has been at a standstill since the past few months. The commuters are facing difficulties with the road dug up, construction material lying on the side of the road and some stretch submerged in water at the service road. In February last year, Nitin Gadkari, the union minister for road transport and highways, allocated Rs 135 crore for the project. Until now, Rs 69 crore have been already given for the work. The work of the highway road stretch started in January this year, but was put on hold due to the lockdown. “Due to the countrywide lockdown, the construction work of the highway was halted, but it has resumed now and will be completed in the given time. There will be two pedestrian underpasses coming up on the stretch and the existing two vehicular underpasses will be widened.” said Ganesh Choure, executive engineer of Central PWD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/commuters-await-completion-of-six-lane-road-near-navale-bridge/story-Drr2n4KoVWlmUbLwMuNdsK.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Busiest highway passing through Pune riddled with problems||Located on the national highway number 4 along the Mumbai-Bengaluru route, Rajiv Gandhi Infotech park, Maharashtra’s largest IT park, employs over 3.5 lakh people. Incomplete road works, encroachments and poorly designed service roads have turned the highway into an accident-prone spot, especially for motorists and riders passing through the stretch between Katraj and Balewadi. The 40-kilometre stretch under the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is riddled with potholes. The ongoing road work at Chandani chowk and Balewadi has made commuting a nightmare with no continuous crash barriers, lane markings or reflectors, say regulars travelling on the stretch. Pune police in 2018 had identified 12 accident-prone spots on the stretch and authorities had taken corrective measures at some of these locations. “I travelled to Mumbai last week to drop my relatives to the airport and when we passed through the highway it took more than an hour to connect to the Pune-Mumbai expressway as there were several potholes on the bypass stretch. The potholes were so huge and deep that my car suffered a scratch. The highway authorities should immediately carry out repairs before it causes a major mishap,” said Bipin Gandhi, a commuter on the highway. Atul Namekar, secretary of Sinhgad road-Warje residents association said, “The bypass highway is a busy stretch that connects several parts of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas. Many mishaps have been reported on this road due to potholes, but some patch up is carried out only before monsoons. NHAI should come up with a permanent solution.” The Katraj-Dehu road bypass highway was started in 1989 and the reason behind it was for heavy vehicles to travel from outside the city limits. So, trucks and trolleys coming from Bengaluru and Kolhapur and going towards Mumbai and Gujarat would use this bypass highway. However, the bypass in its 40 km stretch connects several parts of the city starting from Katraj, Sinhgad road, Warje, Kothrud, Baner, Balewadi, Hinjewadi, Chinchwad and Dehu road. NHAI Pune project director Suhas Chitnis said, “We have started repair works on the bypass highway and are aware that potholes have increased on the stretch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/busiest-highway-passing-through-pune-riddled-with-problems/story-XbshhU0ZOuMlIe3oqqhmCK.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Man arrested under Pocso for sexually assaulting daughter||The Chikhali police have arrested a man for allegedly sexually assaulting his daughter. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The victim’s mother lodged a complaint with the police stating that her husband molested and allegedly resorted to wrong physical behaviour with her daughter in the house and was found committing the act. Accordingly, she alerted the police and action was taken after the girl narrated the incident to her mother. According to the police, the victim and mother belong to poor background and the father was a driver by profession. The Chikhali police have invoked IPC 376 (sexual assault), IPC 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and Pocso Act. Police sub-inspector Shyam Mhaske said, “We have booked the father under relevant sections of Pocso Act and also the IPC for his conduct against his own daughter. He has been arrested and a medical test has been done. Once we get the report, a few more IPC sections will be added to the existing FIR. The act took place inside the house where they are staying.” Mhaske added “The accused is a driver and his wife works as a sweeper. The victim is 12 years old.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/father-arrested-under-pocso-for-sexually-assaulting-daughter/story-5c60rL367X5YNaYxlJ0TBN.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Six theft cases in PCMC, two wheelers, laptop, cash stolen||A resident of Samata colony in Chinchwad lodged a complaint with the police after his two-wheeler was stolen by unidentified persons from the parking area outside his residence on Tuesday night. Rudrappa Gurushand Biradar (35) parked his two-wheeler in front of the house and found the vehicle missing when he woke up next morning, according to the Chinchwad police. In a second incident, Bhupendra Suresh Patel (27) lodged a complaint with Chakan police stating that his two-wheeler was stolen from his parking lot on Tuesday. Patel, who works as an engineer with a company, returned home from work, parked his vehicle, but found it missing next morning. In the third incident, Prafulla Suresh Jagarwal (39), a resident of Saubhagya Laxmi residential apartments, lodged a complaint with Chakan police stating that some unidentified thieves decamped with cash estimated to be worth Rs 25,550 kept at his shop on Tuesday evening. The shop was shut when the thieves gained entry by breaking open the shutter locks with iron rods and decamped with the booty, police said. In the fourth incident, Sagar Kisan Rakshe (27), a resident of Bhakti Krupa society, lodged a complaint with Talegaon Dabhade police stating that his two-wheeler estimated to be worth Rs 35,000 was stolen from his residential parking area on Tuesday night. In the fifth incident, Abid Nizamuddin Ansari (31), a resident of River valley road, lodged a complaint with Hinjewadi police on Tuesday stating that his two-wheeler was stolen while he was out of town. In the sixth incident, Seema Deepak Dhotre (34) lodged a complaint with Wakad police stating that her laptop and mobile estimated to be worth Rs 50,000 were stolen from her locked shop on Tuesday. The Wakad police have arrested one person in connection with the shop theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/six-theft-cases-in-pcmc-two-wheelers-cash-stolen/story-deyI7iAgG8hMThIpiz0fpL.html
20-08-2020||Pune||City reports 1,233 fresh Covid-19 cases; 55 critical cases added in 24 hours||The state health department on Wednesday reported 1,233 fresh Covid-19 positive cases in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits which took the progressive positive count to 82,907 in the city. This is the highest number of fresh positives reported compared to any municipal corporation or district in the state. According to the state data, 38 deaths were reported on Wednesday and the death count is now 2,169. The PMC, on the other hand, reported 1,211 fresh positive cases and 35 deaths. However, critical cases which stood at 760 as of Tuesday rose to 815 on Wednesday, 55 critical cases were added in just 24 hours. PMC reported 77,368 progressive positives and 18,49 total death toll. Currently, there are 14,556 active cases in the city out of which 815 are in critical condition with 483 on ventilator and 332 in ICU without ventilator. Also, 2,470 patients are undergoing oxygen treatment. The deaths include ten from Sassoon General Hospital, five each from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital. Two deaths each from Noble hospital and Naidu hospital, one death each from Sahyadri hospital, Ruby Hall Clinic, Jehangir hospital, Aura hospital, Symbiosis hospital, KEM hospital, AIMS hospital, Sahyadri hospital, Karve road and Kasturba hospital. Meanwhile, 12 deaths were reported of those from outside PMC limits. Eight were from Sassoon, two from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and one each from Morya hospital and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-reports-1-233-fresh-covid-19-cases-55-critical-cases-added-in-24-hours/story-nRl4ck8umJ8qaZGkH0yHsL.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Pune reports drop in active cases since past ten days||Despite the Pune district reporting highest active cases in the state, the civic administration has witnessed a dip in numbers in the city since the past ten days. According to the state health department, Pune district has reported 40,665 out of the 1,37,601 progressive positive as of August 19. On Wednesday, the district reported 2,688 fresh cases and 86 new deaths. The death toll is now 3,422. PMC has reported 14,556 active cases as of Wednesday and progressive positives are now 77,368. On August 7, active cases were 17,033, while Covid-19 patients still undergoing treatment or in home isolation, went down to 14,812 as of August 12 and then dipped to 14,442 as of August 17. However, since the past two days, there has been a slight rise in the number of active cases as more fresh positives were being reported compared to the number of people being discharged. While active patients include patients who are still undergoing treatment or the asymptomatic patients who are under observation in isolation, progressive positive includes active patients, those discharged after completing treatment and deceased too. Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “It is good news that we are seeing a drop in the number of active cases since the past ten days. We have gone from 27 per cent of active cases in proportion to progressive positives on 7 August to 19 per cent on August 17.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-reports-drop-in-active-cases-since-past-ten-days/story-t2a1dlzvl6YolUB82i1zaI.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Pune civic body’s hike in biomedical waste disposal charges puts burden on patients||Private hospitals are passing on the additional burden of hike in charges for biomedical waste disposal imposed by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on patients. PMC hiked the charges for biomedical waste disposal from hospitals from April 1. A Covid-19 positive patient’s family had to pay Rs one lakh for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and Rs 1.25 lakh as disposable charges for the same kits, including gloves, foot covers and headcovers for about 97 PPE kits which were used during the 30-day treatment. This amounts to Rs 2,319 per PPE kits, including the disposable charges. Such huge costs cover a major portion of the bill, according to a patient’s relative. The hospitals, on the other hand, say that despite facing losses the civic body is now pressing additional charges under biomedical waste disposal. Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said, “It is true that hospitals have started charging patients for the additional biomedical waste disposal charges that the PMC has hiked recently. We had written to PMC a month ago seeking waiver given the current circumstances, but are yet to get any response.” “Since these charges are drafted as per the number of beds and the waste generated, big hospitals are most affected. They pass these charges to patients,” he said. Dr Ramchandra Hankre, chief, health department, PMC, said, “These charges are not imposed by PMC, but are an annual hike as per the consumer price index drafted by the Government of India. These prices are decided based on the city and follow multiple criteria. We cannot waive off the charges because the civic body has to dispose of the waste which includes manpower and machinery.” Although the government of Maharashtra capped prices, as per the May 21 notification, the annexure C says that these capped prices do not include PPE kits, interventional procedures Covid testing, and high-end drugs, which allows private hospitals to charge for these items as per their standard charges. Sunil Dandawate, who runs a common biomedical waste treatment facility in Pune at Kailas crematorium, said, “Before the pandemic, we received about 3,500 kg to 4,000 kg waste which was of the yellow incinerate waste which we are still getting. In addition, we are also getting about 4,000 kg to 5,000 kg waste related to Covid-19 daily which needs to be incinerated.” “In the beginning phase of the pandemic, the non-Covid waste had gone down drastically which is now back to normal because pending surgeries are now taking place,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-s-hike-in-biomedical-waste-disposal-charges-puts-burden-on-patients/story-J6TFu4nhYq7qlkoRKEGMFO.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Pune civic body audit reveals 36 hospital bills were inflated||An audit carried out by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) of private hospital bills related to Covid-19 patients found that out of the 49 bills scrutinised 36 were inflated. As of Tuesday, the progressive positives of the city are 81,674 and death toll is 2,131, according to the state health department. According to the civic administration, as of Tuesday, the number of active cases went up to 14,469 out of which 760 are in critical condition with 463 on ventilator while 297 in ICU without ventilator. Also, 2,472 are undergoing oxygen treatment. The civic body has appointed auditors to verify bills issued to Covid-19 patients admitted at various private hospitals in the city. The audit is being done from August 14. Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal commissioner, said, “As instructed by state government and district administration, we appointed auditors to verify bills issued by private hospitals to Covid-19 patients. The drive had started from August 14 and will continue. During the audit, 49 bills were scrutinised and 36 were found to be inflated. We corrected the bills and reduced amount to Rs 19 lakh,” he said. Elected members from the city have raised the issue of overcharging Covid-19 patients at various private hospitals in the city. At a PMC general body meeting, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol instructed the administration that they should make the auditors’ names public to help residents verify their bills. Mohol said, “Many complaints related to overcharging are reported. PMC should verify all bills above Rs1.5 lakh and the state government has also instructed us to do so. I have instructed the municipal administration to check bills issued by private hospitals with the help of auditors. Hospitals should not issue bills directly to patients, instead it should get scrutinised by the municipal administration.” “Also, there is a need to check whether hospitals give 80 per cent beds to PMC,” he said. MLAs and MPs have raised the issue at a meeting held by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in Pune. They also asked Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders Sharad Pawar and Ajit Pawar to look into the matter. Recently, guardian minister Ajit Pawar had instructed the administration to take action against hospitals who overcharge patients. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, Congress and Shiv Sena members raised the issue of overcharging at the PMC general body meeting held on August 18. Arvind Shinde, Congress leader, said, “We are raising the issue for the last three months, but the administration is doing nothing.” MNS leader Vasant More, said, “Hospitals and medical shops attached to hospitals are overcharging patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-audit-reveals-36-hospital-bills-were-inflated/story-laQjMMqM7N5rh9GvF9t7kK.html
20-08-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal to interact with Delhi traders in webinar on August 23||The Delhi government Wednesday said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal would interact with traders in the national capital through a webinar scheduled on August 23 to discuss measures to revive Delhi’s economy at a time when states are scaling down restrictions imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.The online registrations for the webinar, ‘Digital Samvaad’, is open till 4pm on August 22, the government said in a press statement, adding that a registration link shall be uploaded to the Delhi government website and participants will be required to give their suggestions in the registration form.“Digital Samvaad is part of a series of initiatives being undertaken by CM Arvind Kejriwal to kick start Delhi’s economy and improve the business environment amid the pandemic. Recently, the chief minister had interacted with various industry associations to discuss challenges being faced by them and measures needed to revamp the post-Covid economy of Delhi. The meeting was aimed at discussing the challenges faced by industrialists, whose factories and businesses were shut due to the lockdown,” the statement further said.It also said, “The trader community in Delhi is more than 1.5 million strong and it is the backbone of the economic structure of the state... Many enterprises downsized their staff strength during the lockdown and have been under considerable cost pressure with limited sales and fixed costs. The ‘Digital Samwad’ initiative ensures that all voices of the stakeholders are heard, before any policy initiatives are planned by the government, in the true spirit of the Delhi Model.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-to-interact-with-traders-in-webinar-on-aug-23/story-JG9bQUPdWgSnWDilL119JK.html
20-08-2020||Pune||Government constituted task force seeks a rethink on Konkan refinery||The task force set up by the Uddhav Thackeray government to revive the state’s economy during the Covid-19 pandemic has recommended starting the refinery proposed in Konkan to boost employment and encourage investment. The chief minister, however, said that the government will approve projects only if locals are in favour of it. Prominent economist and government-appointed task force member Vijay Kelkar asked Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to reconsider the proposal regarding the starting of the refinery at Konkan, which according to him, will help generate employment for one lakh individuals. The chief minister in April had said that the government set up task force, including Kelkar and well-known scientist Dr Raghunath Mashelkar as its members, to help the state recover its economic condition. The proposal came up when members of the Pune International Centre (PIC), a think-tank, whose members are also a part of the task force, held a meeting with Thackeray over video conferencing on Tuesday. According to Mashelkar, proposal on starting the refinery is a part of the report submitted to the chief minister as the post-Covid economic recovery measure. “Based on instructions from the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, we have recommended various measures which include short, medium and long term steps. The chief minister is likely to discuss our suggestions in the cabinet meeting,” said Mashelkar, also president of PIC. During the interaction, members also discussed other proposals to boost investment and revive sectors like real estate during the Covid-19 crisis. The PIC, according to its director Prashant Girbane, has been entrusted by the state government to give inputs, which the think-tank has submitted to the Chief Minister’s Office. “Kelkar sought starting the Konkan refinery so that it will create employment for one lakh individuals and bring in an investment of Rs 3 lakh crore. He also asked about shifting the refinery at Chembur to free up the space, which can be redeveloped,” said a release from the chief minister’s public relation department. Following opposition from the Shiv Sena, the previous Devendra Fadnavis government in 2019 had to scrap a proposed refinery project at Nanar in Ratnagiri. Later, Fadnavis, as the then CM, had hinted that project will be moved to neighbouring Raigad district. The oil refinery, proposed to be built with 50 per cent investment from Saudi Aramco, the state-owned company of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, was being touted as the world’s largest refinery, with a capacity of 60-million tonnes an annum, by the state and central government. It was to help in generating direct and indirect employment for over one lakh people. Responding to Kelkar’s suggestion about the refinery, Thackeray said that for any project to be set up, an interaction with locals and taken them into confidence, is necessary. “Our government will not disrespect sentiments of the local people while bringing any project,” Thackeray was quoted in the release. Besides Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and PIC members, including Dr Raghunath Mashelkar, Deepak Parekh, Ajit Ranade and Vijay Gokhale, among others were also present during the online interaction. “The PIC has submitted multiple reports to the state government in the last four months during Covid-19. These reports are about investment, industry and emergency management. The government has already accepted a few of our reports and have started implementing them,” said Girbane, who was part of the interaction. Among the other proposals discussed during the interaction with Thackeray were decentralising industrialisation across the state, development along the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi expressway and offering sops such as exemption in tax duty to help the real estate sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/government-constituted-task-force-seeks-a-rethink-on-konkan-refinery/story-FmMdn8SpATCdapX71nkqEO.html
20-08-2020||Mumbai||Families of 50 cops who died of Covid-19 get ₹50 lakh||The Maharashtra government has given ₹50 lakh each to the families of 50 Mumbai policemen who lost their lives while carrying out their responsibilities during the fight to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. The government has released a total of ₹25 crore and the police department has ensured that the funds do not get stuck in the usual red-tape, said a senior IPS officer, requesting anonymity.Till August 19, 4,440 Mumbai policemen have been infected with the virus and 59 of them have succumbed. The Mumbai police conducted an internal survey which showed that most policemen who succumbed were either posted near containment zones or lived or worked in a containment zone or close to one. Of the 59 personnel, most were above the age of 50 and some of them were about to retire, added the senior police officer.“Apart from the funds sanctioned by the state government, the Mumbai Police have released ₹10 lakh from the Mumbai Police Foundation for each of the martyrs. We have reached out to the families of 58 of the 59 personnel who lost their lives till now. Rupees 5.8 crore has been provided as compensation by the Mumbai Police,” the officer added.“It’s our responsibility as a department to ensure the emotional and financial well-being of each of our staff members so that each one of us stands fearlessly in the battle against the pandemic,” he said.Apart from the compensation to the deceased personnel’s families, the Mumbai Police have rewarded 3,867 policemen who reported to work despite knowing the risk and got infected with ₹10,000 and an appreciation letter, added the officer.The Mumbai Police have also given ₹1 lakh advance to 121 policemen who tested positive for the virus and needed financial support. The funds were made available through the Mumbai Police Welfare Fund, added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/families-of-50-mumbai-policemen-who-died-of-covid-19-receive-50-lakh-each/story-56hx7uvLVGTd6PYGf79cKM.html
20-08-2020||Jaipur||Menstrual health of adolescent girls in Rajasthan took a hit during lockdown: Survey||Seven out of 10 adolescent girls faced problem in procuring sanitary pads during the lockdown in Rajasthan, reveals a study by a non-government organisation (NGO).“It is deeply worrying that a large number of young female adolescents have had zero access to sanitary napkins during the lockdown,” said Poonam Muttreja, executive director, Population Foundation of India (PFI), which carried out the rapid assessment among 1,000 people across Rajasthan, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.“Things need to change at the ground level. The government needs to distribute sanitary napkins through the ASHA and ANM workers’ network. It takes tremendous convincing on the part of frontline workers to encourage and educate school-going girls to use sanitary napkins,” she added.Muttreja said the unmet need of adolescent girls is bound to have an adverse effect in the coming months. “The unavailability of sanitary napkins can push up the worrisome school drop out rates for girls. This could impact the young girl psychologically as well as lead to health issues,” she said.The idea behind the study was to understand the level of knowledge of the young population (15-24 years) regarding Covid-19; how it has impacted their lives and mental health, and their needs and priorities.The survey gave several critical insights into some of the worst fears that health care experts have had about adolescents during the lockdown, Muttreja said.The main areas of impact were the effect on mental health; sources to obtain information on Covid-19; increase in workload at home and increase in unmet need for sanitary napkins since schools were shut.The other findings in Rajasthan were that 23% of the total respondents listed schools as a reliable source of information on Covid-19. The school administration worked in disseminating information about the pandemic. A whopping 84% said that TV was the main source of information on Covid-19The study also revealed that 33% of young adolescents in Rajasthan witnessed an increase in tension and fights at home during the lockdown.Two out of every 10 adolescents that PFI spoke with felt depressed due to the lockdown. The study further revealed that many feelings of anxiety or depression could be traced to economic uncertainty, the inability to move outside and socialise, and fears of the virus itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/menstrual-health-of-adolescent-girls-in-rajasthan-took-a-hit-during-lockdown-survey/story-7JO47d2Y0SGyIoXEc4EblM.html
