21-08-2020||Delhi||DU entrance exams notified, to be held from September 6 to 11||Over 220,000 aspirants who are to appear for Delhi University Entrance Tests (DUET) to get admitted to DU’s various undergraduate, postgraduate, and MPhil/PhD courses will do so between September 6 and 11, as per the examination schedule released by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Friday. “Keeping in view the academic interest of a large number of students, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has agreed to the proposal of MHRD (now MoE) for conducting various entrance examinations in the month of September 2020,” NTA said in the public notice. The central government body has been conducting entrance tests for DU for since 2019. Earlier this week, the Supreme Court had rejected a plea seeking to postpone the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which are also slated to be conducted by NTA in September. DU conducts entrance tests for all postgraduate courses and nine undergraduate courses, including BA (Honours) Humanities and Social Sciences, BA (Honours) Multimedia and Mass Communication, and BTech IT & Mathematical Innovations. Varsity officials said around 140,000 students had applied for the entrance tests to various postgraduate courses while approximately 70,000 had applied for the nine entrance-based undergraduate courses. Around 14,000 students have applied for MPhil and PhD programmes. According to the bulletin on NTA’s website, entrance tests will be conducted across 24 cities, including Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Jaipur, Patna, Chennai and Mumbai. “The exams will be conducted online but the students will have to go to the test centres. It will be similar to how JEE exams are conducted. In a day or two, students will receive their admit cards as well,” a senior DU official, requesting anonymity, said. “Hand-held metal detectors will be used for frisking candidates while maintaining a distance. These will be sanitised at regular intervals. Admit cards will have specific barcodes which will be scanned and rooms will be allotted to students accordingly,” Vineet Joshi, director general, NTA, said. “We have prepared a standard operating protocol that will be followed to ensure safety,” Joshi said. He also added that the number of exam centres are currently being finalised and each centre will have gloves and masks for all staff and students. The exams will be conducted in three “two-hour” slots on all six days to reduce crowding. Dean (admissions) Shobha Bagai said, “According to the NTA, there will be around 50-60% reduction in the number of students per centre to ensure social distancing. This will lead to an increase in the number of centres across cities. Students will have to wear masks and gloves and follow all protocols. Isolation rooms have been prepared for those feeling unwell.” JP Dubey, honorary director of Delhi School of Journalism, said, “Students are willing to take the tests as there is no alternative available. When Parliament and Assemblies are running while maintaining protocols, exams too can be conducted. Parents and students are expressing concerns over exam dates clashing with other papers.” Students have expressed concerns over social media about two exams – the common law entrance test (CLAT) and IIM-Indore’s Integrated Programme in Management Aptitute Test (IPMAT) – that are scheduled for September 7, clashing with an undergraduate entrance test for DU.Harshit Singh, 18, a resident of Kanpur, who applied for a undergraduate management course, said, “My nearest centre is in Varanasi for which I have to go by train or road. If I go by train, there is a severe health risk. By road, the journey would be too expensive. My family is not keen on me appearing for the tests by risking my health.” Taddo Tayeng, a resident of Roing in Arunachal Pradesh, who applied for a postgraduate course, said,“ It is unlikely that I will be able to appear for the paper since my nearest centre is in a different state. If I travel to that state, I will have to quarantine myself there for 14 days and then again when I return to my state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-entrance-exams-notified-to-be-held-from-september-6-to-11/story-k9I9gh8XqMHLYmyjUBPqqK.html
21-08-2020||City||Ranked 3rd dirtiest in country, Abohar pays price for stalled civic works||Bathinda Started with much fanfare by the then local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu in October 27, 2017, work to develop the Abohar town in Fazilka district stalled soon thereafter. The home town of state Congress president Sunil Jakhar has since seen road roads dug up and clogged drainage, with even a walk on the road a challenging task.In the recent Swachh Survekshan, the centre’s annual survey on cleanliness under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the results of which were announced on Thursday, the town ranked as the third dirtiest in India with a population between 1 and 10 lakh on cleanliness and sanitation.In the work that was to be done under the Centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) Yojana, Rs 82 crore was earmarked for the sewer system and Rs 23 crore for drinking water supply for Abohar. Besides, 8-km new water supply pipeline, work was allotted for the 72-km lateral sewer line in Abohar city.As the city’s roads remained inundated a day after heavy rain on Thursday, residents blame the state machinery for slow-placed work. “Abohar is considered to be a VIP city as this is the native place of the politically influential Jakhar family of the Congress party. State Congress head Sunil Jakhar represented Abohar assembly segment for three consecutive terms in 2002, 2007 and 2012. Congress is in power since 2017 and Abohar can be an example of governance by the present dispensation,” Sanjeev Kumar, a resident said.Another resident Deepak Kathuria rues that even quality of the drinking water supply has been hit due to dilapidated infrastructure. “Road accidents are frequent due to battered roads. Incomplete work of laying sewage and road work leads to traffic jams. No one is accountable for inordinate delay,” he said.BJP MLA of the area Arun Narang said, “The Centre-funded AMRUT was announced in 2017 after a delay of one year. To date, work under this scheme has not been completed by the Punjab government. Water-logging is usual even after moderate rainfall. It is shocking that a city that is the base of the state Congress president is graded so low in terms of hygiene and sanitation.”Municipal commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish said the private firm engaged under the AMRUT project was found to be inefficient. “Over 50% of work is incomplete. The MC is contemplating action against the firm,” he added.“Dissatisfied with the private contractor’s performance, the MC has already allotted work of Rs 11 crore to another firm to expedite development work. We are in the process of giving operation and maintenance work to another firm after competitive bidding,” he said. Kaplish added that Abohar would improve its grading in next year’s cleanliness ranking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranked-3rd-dirtiest-in-country-abohar-pays-price-for-stalled-civic-works/story-6IshFd8qaJD1Qtinpu4MBI.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||No Covid positive inmate at Delhi’s three jails, says prisons DG||There is no inmate with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection at the three prisons in Delhi, prisons director-general (DG) Sandeep Goel said, after the last of the two Covid-19 positive patients was declared recovered on Thursday. However, two members of the Tamil Nadu Special Police (TSP), the force that provides security inside the prison, are yet to recover from the disease, Goel said. The three prison complexes -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini -- have reported 232 Covid-19 cases till date. These include 63 prisoners, 87 jail staff and 82 members of the TSP, Goel said. Two inmates have succumbed to the virus infection so far. “Both were senior citizens jailed in Mandoli,” the prisons DG said. The dead included a 1984 riots convict Mahender Yadav, who had succumbed to the disease at a private hospital in Dwarka during treatment. The officer said of the 63 inmates, only two were detected positive this month -- both on August 3. “Now, both of them have recovered, leaving us with no Covid-19 positive inmates. But two staffers continue to remain infected while the remaining 167 have recovered,” he said. Tihar jail is the most populated prison complex in the country and houses around 18,000 prisoners. Since March, around 4,000 prisoners have been released on interim bail and emergency parole in a bid to “reduce overcrowding” and to contain the spread of Covid-19. Many of them have since returned to jails after they were allegedly found involved in crimes. Prison officials said they have managed to contain the spread of Covid-19 among prisoners by implementing measures such as isolating all new prisoners for 14 days before lodging them with the others. In March, the prisons department had also suspended the bi-weekly family visits of all prisoners. All court hearings are also being held via video conferencing. The prisons department has also started a virtual visit (video conferencing) facility with family members in Tihar. This facility will soon be extended to all 15 sub-jails of the three jail complexes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-covid-positive-inmate-at-delhi-s-three-jails-says-prisons-dg/story-WIri2UizraxI9Rfi0rBJtL.html
21-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram drowns as drainage plan delayed by over a year||A ‘comprehensive drainage plan’ for the city, conceived by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority in May last year, which envisaged a long-term plan to deal with repeated monsoon flooding in Gurugram, has been delayed due to prolonged talks with stakeholders that stretched out to over several months in the second half of 2019, and then due to the outbreak of Covid-19 early this year, officials privy to the matter said on Thursday.Officials in the GMDA’s infrastructure-2 division (which deals with water supply, sewerage, and drainage) said the plan which was also approved by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, proposes the construction of recharge wells, water harvesting structures and focuses on building stormwater drains to carry rainwater as part of its strategy to fix Gurugram’s monsoon woes.The proposal identified the Badshahpur drain, which runs from Ghata to Najafgarh, as most critical for channeling the monsoon run-off. “Gurugram’s total stormwater catchment area, including Aravalli foothills, is about 50,000 hectares,” the proposal states, adding that the Badshahpur drain carries the run-off from almost half of this catchment area, making it a vital natural resource. However, given that the drain’s carrying capacity has been severely hindered due to encroachments and increased concretisation in recent years, the authority had proposed to build a parallel 2.5 km-long open drain, and another 3km box drain to connect Vatika Chowk to NH48, to channel the run-off that the Badshahpur drain can no longer accommodate. The work on the drains was supposed to start earlier this year but is still in the tendering process.“This construction of the two drains, which will be known as Leg 4, is a long-term solution that will fix flooding issues in the city, but there was prolonged back and forth with the National Highways Authority of India in finalising the terms of agreement. The work was to commence earlier this year, but then we lost four months due to the outbreak Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown. The project is at a tendering stage now and should be completed within 18 to 24 months,” said Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA.The plan, which has a budget of ₹298 crore, is meant to be implemented in four phases over four years. Kumar also added that the plan will include construction of box drains, recharge wells and water harvesting structures along the Southern Peripheral Road, for which ground surveys have been conducted. The plan is unlikely to come to fruition completely before 2022, he added.Based on the city’s topography, the GMDA had divided Gurugram into four zones— non-urbanised areas along the Gurugram-Faridabad Road up to Ghata village, areas lying east of Gwal Pahari in the Aravalli foothills, areas lying between Ghata and Sohna Road (beyond Sectors 58-67), and areas lying between Sohna Road and NH-48.Given the delay in the construction of the two drains, earlier this year, the GMDA identified 35 ‘choke points’ in the city’s drainage system, officials said, and the authority undertook remedial measures to increase the drainage system’s carrying capacity in these areas. “This exercise largely paid off as despite heavy rainfall on Wednesday water-logging in areas, which used to become a challenge in monsoons in the last four or five years, such as MDI Chowk, Vatika Chowk or Hero Honda Chowk did not persist for a long time. However, unfortunately, new choke points have emerged in other parts, such as Golf Course Road, which could not handle the unprecedented downpour. That’s why the flooding happened in the last two days,” said Rajeev Bansal, superintending engineer, GMDA.This view was echoed by VS Kundu, chief executive officer, GMDA, who said, “The new choke points will be investigated by a flood control committee comprising engineers from the GMDA, municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and DLF. We have constituted the committee on Friday and an order will be issued regarding its formation tomorrow (Saturday). I will have a meeting with them in the next week, following which a field investigation will be conducted and a report will be filed with recommendations for long-term remedial measures.”A senior GMDA official, seeking anonymity, however, disagreed with the GMDA’s approach on dealing with drainage during monsoon. “We are still looking at rainwater as something to be disposed of through stormwater drains. Stormwater drains are in bad shape. The infra division has done a good job in fixing some perennial choke points. However, because of poor vigilance during the lockdown, other areas have become prone to flooding, either because the drains haven’t been routinely de-silted or because of encroachments. This pattern will keep repeating itself until we understand that we don’t need a drainage plan, but a water management plan. We need to revive green belts and water bodies, and to stop construction in floodplains like Ghata village which have changed the hydrogeology of Gurugram,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-drowns-as-drainage-plan-delayed-by-over-a-year/story-KSzyyWe4JA5q7cnskv6QGO.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Airport incurs ₹40 crore loss in 4 months, 90% drop in footfall||hillaryvictor@hindustantimes.com  Even though domestic flights resumed at Chandigarh International Airport from May 25, it incurred Rs 40 crore losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown and a 90% drop in footfall, airport authorities said on Thursday.Sixteen stores retailing high-end brands out of 28 wound up operations and the other 12 closed down temporarily as crowds thinned outFlight operations at the airport ceased on March 24 due the Covid-19 lockdown and footfall reduced drastically by 90% with just 1,000 passengers per day passing through instead of 12,000 before the outbreak.Only 22 flights are operating now instead of the regular 44 and two international flights before March 22. Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Airport, said, “We have suffered a loss of around Rs 40 crore in the past four months as we are losing Rs 8.5 crore every month. As far as waiver of rent of shops at the airport goes the authorities will take the decision soon.” Even if the outbreak was controlled it would take around six months to one year to normalise operations, Bhardwaj added.The airport earns most of its revenues under the aeronautical category, whereby it charges Rs 800 per passenger from the airlines. For instance: An airline flying to Delhi with 80% occupancy pays around Rs 65,000 to the airport per flight. Commercial revenues come from rent of retail shops, office space rent, car parking and advertisements, and total revenues under the two heads come to around Rs 30 lakh per day. Chandigarh Airport was earning around Rs 90 lakh per month from the shops as rent, but since March 25 no rentals had been paid.A senior Air India official said, “Since the past four months we have been operating flights with 50% occupancy and sometimes 30%. People are not moving out due to Covid-19 and only travelling for important work. We are suffering a huge loss, but are helpless.” The owner of a high-end brand store at the airport who did not wish to be named said, “We have already given our proposal for the waiver of rent for the shop for the past four months and hopefully the authorities concerned will consider it. Otherwise we will be forced to vacate the shop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-airport-incurs-40-crore-loss-in-4-months-90-drop-in-footfall/story-4ZtTSA8uynq4ydDLmhjy1H.html
21-08-2020||City||Artist distributes Ganpati idols for free to customers who lost jobs during pandemic||An assistant art director from Nanivali, Boisar has been giving out Ganesh idols, free of cost, to the families who have lost their earning source during the Covid-19 pandemic, and could afford to buy the idol this year. So far, he has distributed 60 Ganesh idols.Swapnil Gharat, 29, who has worked for many Bollywood films, has been making Ganesh idols since 2016. Gharat initially started making idols as a hobby and later took this up as a profession. “More than 250 Ganesh idols are sold every year. But this year, due to the pandemic situation, not many of my regular did not make any bookings,” he said.He later called his regular customers to enquire about the orders, but unfortunately many had lost jobs and were facing a financial crisis. He then decided to distribute idols for free. “Almost 70% of my customers have lost their jobs. Some amongst them who have businesses were incurring losses. Some of them are saving money to pay for school fees. Those who were admitted due to Covid-19 have lost their savings in treatment. Around 20% of the customers brought the idol. I decided to give out the Ganesh idols for free to rest 80% of them. I know these idols will bring a smile to their faces,” Gharat said.A customer Ramchandra Makhane, said, “We have been celebrating this festival since the past 26 years. My father started this ritual. I lost him 10 years back, but we decided to continue with the festivity, in his memory. I work as an electrician, and since the past five months, I have been earning a mere ₹2,000. Hence, we decided to not bring Ganesh idol this year. Swapnil then gave us the idol and he did not charge us for it. We are grateful to him for this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/artist-distributes-ganpati-idols-for-free-to-customers-who-lost-jobs-during-pandemic/story-E1YBhGQImS1Jsiluem9XsI.html
21-08-2020||City||Two minor boys drowned in pond filled with rainwater||Ghaziabad: Two minors drowned Friday evening after they went for bath at a pond behind the Shalimar City highrise located at Sikanderpur in Sahibabad. The police ruled out foul play, based on initial investigation as five friends of the victims were present with them during the incident.The police identified the two boys as Mohammad Zeeshan, 10, and Mohammad Hanna, 11. They added that the two, as well as their friends who went there, are residents of nearby Shaheed Nagar locality and all seven had come to the pond to have a bath. The area of Sikandarpur has several open deep pits which have filled up with rain water during past several days. “The seven boys had come for a bath or for swimming at the pond. The two minor boys went deep into the water and drowned. Other five boys are safe as they did not venture into the water by the time their two friends went inside. The pond is flooded due to heavy rains which lashed the city recently,” said Keshav Kumar, assistant superintendent of police (Sahibabad). He added that the body of the two boys was sent to the mortuary for further legal formalities. “There is no foul play into the incident as only the seven boys were there at the spot. After the two boys got drowned, the other five shouted and locals arrived for help. We informed their families upon getting information,” Kumar added. The cops added that the pond probably had about 5-7 feet of water due to which the boys could not escape. They added that the other five boys were safe and did not suffer any injuries. The incident site is also close to the new civil terminal near the Hindon airbase from where regional flights are operated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-minor-boys-drowned-in-pond-filled-with-rainwater/story-U1O2LXHajyrO0N0OQp91BI.html
21-08-2020||Noida||Six developers booked for illegal construction in Shahberi||Police have booked six developers for illegal construction in Shahberi. Greater Noida authority filed the complaint in Bisrakh police station after they were found developing the projects at night to escape surveillance. The developers were identified as Krishna Chand Pandey, Alka Rani, Anil Choudhary, Seema, Nirmala Gupta and Rajendra Saini. Greater Noida Authority’s circle officer Amit Kumar filed a complaint alleging that these people were earlier served notices against illegal constructions. “But they continued the unauthorised construction despite the High Court stay,” the complaint read. Shahberi area has been under lens since 2018 when an illegal construction collapsed and killed nine persons. An IIT Delhi audit later found that only three out of 437 buildings in the area were safe for living. When contacted, Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO) of Greater Noida Authority, said that additional CEO KK Gupta was the nodal officer on issues related to construction in Shahberi. Gupta could not be reached for comment. The authority had, last week, issued a fresh notice informing people that land in Shahberi was notified and that there was no permission for any sort of construction. Bisrakh police have registered a case against the six persons under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings), Section 420 (Cheating) and Section 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central said, “We are investigating the matter,” he said. Police have so far registered 81 cases against over 100 developers and also charged 19 of them under Gangsters Act and four of them under National Security Act. Local residents allege that despite the crackdown, some developers continue to develop their projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/six-developers-booked-for-illegal-construction-in-shahberi/story-hG56a338SDkJWGuDQVh05M.html
21-08-2020||City||UP-Rera to publish progress report of projects for benefit of stakeholders||Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) will publish a detailed report on the performance of all projects registered with it that will include progress so far, list of approvals and schedules.Expected in September, the report will be disseminated among various stakeholders. “The authority will utilise the details available on its website for the purposes. However, it has been noticed that in many of the projects, the required information has either not been furnished or is erroneous. It is imperative that all the project-related information are complete and error-free,” said UP-Rera chairperson Rajive Kumar on Friday. “We will collect the up-to-date and error-free information from the promoters through an online form. Promoters have been directed to submit details latest by August 28 so that we can publish the report in first week of September.”“This report will help home buyers, promoters, real estate agents, competent authorities, development authorities, the banks or financial institutions,” said Balvinder Kumar, member, UP-Rera.Abrar Ahmed, UP-Rera secretary, said ,”The report will use only details obtained through the online form. The existing project details available on the project registration page of UP-Rera portal will not be modified. For that the promoter needs to use the edit facility as per existing procedure.”“We have sought physical progress details too. Promoters have to submit details of project tower wise mentioning number of units. Detail regarding allotments and building plan approvals and project completion schedule. Authority dues and extension approvals where construction period may have expired,” said Ahmed.Home Buyers Welfare Association representative Ramesh Mehta said, “These latest updated details will help the buyers to know the current status of their project.”CREDAI Uttar Pradesh representative Sudhanshu Vadera said, “We have appealed the promoters to provide project details in the format requested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-rera-to-publish-progress-report-of-projects-for-benefit-of-stakeholders/story-zBKKeSLt6fzQTTATYIThMN.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||CBI sets up 4 teams, quizzes Sushant Singh Rajput’s staff||A day after the Supreme Court (SC) ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a team of CBI officials arrived in Mumbai late on Thursday night. The team started its investigation on Friday. CBI questioned Neeraj Singh, who was employed as Rajput’s cook, and the actor’s house manager Samuel Miranda. The Central agency will also question the actor’s manager Deepesh Sawant, said sources in the CBI. CBI has set up four teams to investigate the circumstances surrounding Rajput’s death. One team will focus on translating documents from Marathi to English, while another will question people involved in the case. Another team will coordinate with superiors in Delhi and handle logistics in Mumbai. Another team of officials met deputy commissioner of police (Zone 9) Abhishek Trimukhe at his office in Bandra to collect documents, including the forensic report and post-mortem reports as well as statements of more than 60 people whom Mumbai Police had questioned as part of its investigation. These and other material evidence were handed over to the CBI team, said sources in Mumbai Police. CBI will also collect other evidence, including Rajput’s personal items including, three mobile phones, a laptop, clothes, a blanket, bed sheets, a green kurta, a glass; and CCTV footage of his house and building, added sources in CBI. According to sources, once the documentation is complete, CBI plans to visit the actor’s flat in Bandra and recreate the scene of his death scientifically, using weights. The actor was found dead in his apartment on June 14, following which Mumbai Police had registered an accidental death. Later, Rajput’s father filed a complaint in Bihar, accusing actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting Rajput’s suicide and misappropriating his money. A first information report was filed by Bihar Police on the basis of the complaint and later, it later handed over the case to CBI. Enforcement Directorate also filed a case on July 31, to probe the allegations of money laundering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-sets-up-4-teams-quizzes-sushant-singh-rajput-s-staff/story-2qCN8uAvmArlBsKca5Y6rL.html
21-08-2020||City||Greater Noida: Good Samaritans come together to feed stray animals amid pandemic||Greater Noida: A group of Good Samaritans in Greater Noida have been feeding a langur, some monkeys, ducks, fishes, cows, dogs and other stray animals since in the initial stages of the lockdown. Every morning, they fill their cars with bread, milk, bananas, mangoes, fodder, fruits, etc., and visit the Jaitpur village temple near Greater Noida authority’s office. The temple has some dense trees and a pond spread over 20 acres where stray animals, birds and fish live. The residents say that when they reach the area, the fauna flock towards them every morning, and that this has become a routine. They have been feeding the stray animals for over four months, they said.Harinder Bhati, a resident of Sector Beta – 1, said: “When the lockdown began, the shops and markets were closed and people shunted themselves indoors. Some also lost their jobs. So we started a community kitchen and helped them. But soon we realised that if people are facing so much difficulty, then the stray animals’ survival would be an even worse deal. We then decided to feed them every morning,” he said.A group of 8-10 volunteers, under the banner of Active Citizens’ Team [ACT], identified the Jaitpur village temple which has a sprawling landscape with dense trees and a pond. Sardar Manjeet Singh, another ACT member, said that there is one langur, around 150 monkeys, 50 ducks, 15 dogs, 20 stray cows, and scores of fishes in the pond.“We are locals and we know that stray animals live in this area. Every morning we pack our car with fruits, milk and eatables and come to this spot. The monkeys, cows and other animals flock to us as soon as we reach here. We have developed a good bonding with the animals and they now identify us and our vehicle. They feel good when we visit here,” he said.Pooran Singh, temple priest, keeps the langur in the temple premise while the other animals freely move in the green patches.Raisuddin Siddiqui, who runs a tailoring shop in Jagat Farm, is another volunteer. “Human beings can express their needs and desires through words but animals can’t. At this difficult time of coronavirus and lockdown, people should help each other and also feed stray animals around their neighbourhood,” he said.It costs around Rs 1,500 per day to feed the animals, and the Good Samaritans bear it. Sometimes local residents also volunteer and support the initiative financially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-good-samaritans-come-together-to-feed-stray-animals-amid-pandemic/story-fjgyS0qn3XoPGXcDPIBb3N.html
21-08-2020||Noida||Nigerian arrested for beating up pet dog in Greater Noida society||A 30-year-old Nigerian national was arrested was arrested for allegedly beating up his pet dog in Mahagun Mywoods society in Greater Noida west on Thursday afternoon. The suspect, identified as Ibrahim Fadipe,lives with his wife in a rented accommodation of the society. Kaveri Rana Bharadwaj, a People For Animal (PFA) activist, said that a local resident informed her organisation about the incident on Thursday, post which action was taken. “The suspect had dragged his brown male American Pit Bull Terrier to the balcony and thrashed it badly,” Bharadwaj said. A resident captured the video and informed Bharadwaj, who filed a complaint.Bharadwaj tweeted the video and later also reached the spot with the animal rescue team. BJP MP and animal right activist Maneka Gandhi too took cognisance of the incident and asked Noida police to take action. A leading Bollywood actress also reacted to the video circulating on social media and demanded action be taken against the suspect. PFA members and a police team from Bisrakh that reached the spot said they found two American Pit Bull Terriers (one male and one female) and a white Labrador puppy in the house. The suspect had locked himself in a washroom after the incident for about half an hour and the police team had a hard time convincing him to come out. “The suspect ill treated his dogs frequently and they had become weak. We rescued the three dogs and brought them to our residence after a medical examination. We are keeping them with us for now and not at the shelter home because they are pure breed,” Bharadwaj said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a case was registered against him under Sections 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) and Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. “The . man’s wife told police that the dog had broke a glass while playing which angered Ibrahim . He then kicked the dog in the balcony,” Chander said. On Friday, the suspect was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nigerian-arrested-for-beating-up-pet-dog-in-greater-noida-society/story-xIIdpchngeS9MlpSN5LAnI.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||SSC students struggle to change revised scores on portal||Several first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants whose SSC exam scores have increased after revaluation, were struggling to get their scores updated on the online admission portal until Friday, which was last day to fill forms for the general admission round.Schools said that in the absence of guidelines about editing their scores, they are unable to help students who were struggling to get their marks edited. “We are getting requests from students who have got their revised scores from the board, but the portal does not allow us to edit scores,” said an official working at a guidance centre.One of the students approached her school based in Malad where she was told to wait for instructions from the education department. “I got five more marks after revaluation. I approached the school since I could not edit the marks by myself. Officials asked me to wait until they hear from the department about what is to be done in such a situation,” she said on condition of anonymity.Dinkar Patil, secondary education director, said students can make the changes through the grievance section on the admission portal. “There is a mechanism to make these changes. The scores can be changed through the guidance centre of the office of the deputy director. For this, students can raise their grievances from their accounts and share details of their revised scores. The deputy directorate will correct it. Students can do it from their homes. We will issue a notification about this soon,” he added.This year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the entire process for FYJC admissions is online. Until Friday evening, over 2.15 lakh students had filled their forms for admissions to colleges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The provisional general merit list for students will be declared on August 23 where they can check their scores and raise objections in case of errors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ssc-students-struggle-to-change-revised-scores-on-portal/story-CMao5PBvXv08YobJm6uLzH.html
21-08-2020||City||Noida authority ties up with oil firm to recycle plastic waste||NOIDA The Noida authority on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding with the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) to start work on a project related to the resurfacing of city roads using plastic waste.BPCL has agreed to recycle the plastic waste and make road under the ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’, authority officials said, adding that the public sector oil marketing major will bear the cost for this project.The Noida authority general manager, Rajiv Tyagi, and BPCL executive director Sanjay Bhargav signed the MoU in the presence of other senior officials.“We are committed to follow the laid down guidelines of the waste management rules, 2016, and handle the waste scientifically. Now, BPCL will reuse the plastic waste in making roads in the city. In the time to come, the authority will try to recycle all the plastic waste generated by the city,” said Tyagi.To begin with, BPCL will resurface 500-metre stretch of a sector road in Sector 129 that runs parallel to the Noida-Greater Noida expressway. The stretch, which is 12 metre wide, covers an area of 6,000 square metres in the sector, the officials said.BPCL has a research institute that is conducting a research project to devise a methodology to recycle plastic waste in cities, officials from the company said, adding that it will recycle 20-25 tonne of plastic waste on 6,000 square metres road construction in the Noida sector. “If the project becomes successful, then we will start recycling plastic waste at large scale in Noida and also other cities,” said Mahesh Kasture, chief manager (research and development) at BPCL. The Noida authority has roped in BPCL with an aim to recycle the entire volume of plastic waste in future.“It is a pilot project. If all goes well, then we aim to recycle the total plastic waste in future with different schemes. In this 6,000 square metre area, the authority will provide a truckload of plastic waste. The BPCL will now start taking required steps so that we can resurface the stretch by October 2,” said Tyagi.In September last year, the Noida authority had started a campaign to make Noida a plastic-free city, where single-use plastic is prohibited in order to make the city pollution free. The authority had also built a 2.5-km stretch of Delhi-Noida Link road by using plastic waste collected from various city areas.The authority also has plans to set up a plant to generate shredded plastic for construction use in future, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-authority-ties-up-with-oil-firm-to-recycle-plastic-waste/story-2gBhxiNaPwfDau5NoxZqoN.html
21-08-2020||City||Noida authority meets RWAs to address civic issues in new initiative||NOIDA: The Noida authority assured residents that it will address civic issues prevailing in their respective areas during a meeting held with members of the federation of Noida residents’ welfare associations (FONRWA), an umbrella body of at least 165 RWAs of the city. The meeting, during which a range of civic issues were discussed between the two parties, was held at a community centre in Sector 19 on Friday.This comes as part of a fresh drive by the authority to meet with residents of a particular sector every week, discuss their civic issues and plan a solution with the FONRWA office-bearers.“Friday’s meeting was held with the Sector 19 RWA office-bearers wherein various civic issues were discussed, such as issues regarding road repair, maintenance of footpath, drains, sewer line, park and street lights, among others,” said Yogendra Sharma, president of FONRWA.The authority’s general manager Rajiv Tyagi, along with his staff, was present during the meeting. He directed staff to address all grievances raised.The Sector 19 RWA representatives put forth issues related to the department of health, civil engineering, horticulture, water, sewer and electrical. Residents said that the dysfunctional street lights were not being repaired, roads were riddled with potholes and culverts of drains needed maintenance, among other issues. They also demanded proper sanitisation of city parks.“We have demanded that there should be sanitisation regularly in our parks and sweepers should also clean the roads, parks and other areas properly. We also demanded that the street lights should be repaired in community centres and other areas,” said SS Rana, Sector 19 RWA president. “We have started this drive to reach out to residents in every sector to understand their civic issues and try addressing them promptly so that the citizens do not have to face any inconvenience. We have directed the electrical, civil and water department officials to address each and every issue in a time-bound manner so that the residents do not face trouble at all,” said Rajiv Tyagi general manager of the Noida authority.The authority now will meet with representatives from the Sector 105 RWA next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-authority-meets-rwas-to-address-civic-issues-in-new-initiative/story-uQJoNIPNC2BwGcdSSgRh4K.html
21-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: District to be divided into five zones for better Covid monitoring||Ghaziabad: With the rising number of Covid-19 cases as well as of Covid patients being discharged, the district administration has come up with classification for different zones which will also include areas marked as “Corona-free,” “observation” and “inter/intra district” zones. Officials said they have a different plan laid out for each of the five zones.The district till August 21 had a total of 7,049 Covid-19 cases, which includes 5,846 patients (82.93%) discharged and 67 dead, besides 1,136 active cases. The district at present has 338 active containment zones in different parts of the district.“The idea for dividing areas into different zones is to have a separate plan laid out of activities which will be specific to each zone. Every zone will be monitored by different teams of officers in order to prevent spread of infection. So, in this way, different resources will be dedicated to different zones in order to take up measures,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The Corona-free zones will be marked in areas where no case has come up in the past 28 days and regular health related activities will be taken up besides awareness campaigns will be launched with the help of RWAs and other prominent persons of the areas. The other set of zones will be defined as observation zones where no cases have resulted during the past 14 days. These zones will have deployment teams who will report daily about symptomatic cases so that the virus can be treated at the earliest. “The zones identified as inter-district or inter-state will be the ones where boundaries of nearby districts or states meet. These areas will need special monitoring and door to door surveys will be taken up, in addition to special camps for Covid-19 testing. Since these areas are near the borders, there is special need to pay attention to these areas in order to prevent the local population getting infected,” the DM added.The parameters for the other two zones – containment zones and buffer zones – are already in practice as part of the containment exercise. The category 1 containment zones (having one case) are defined in a radius of 100 metres while the category 2 zones are defined in an area of 200 metres of radius. The major containment zones in the district are 63 each under jurisdiction of Sihani Gate and Indirapuram police station areas and having 124 and 130 active cases, respectively. The Kavi Nagar police station area has 42 zones with 155 active cases while the jurisdiction of Sahibabad police station area has 30 zones with 103 active cases up to August 19. The buffer zones will be defined in areas which have their boundaries close to the containment zones. From these zones, officials will seek information of suspected cases from local doctors, chemists and even clinics. Under the two zones, special surveillance drives to detect influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases will be taken up more vigorously along with household surveys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-district-to-be-divided-into-five-zones-for-better-covid-monitoring/story-xcepw4W16UlU5MK6rjqHVJ.html
21-08-2020||City||Bhiwandi civic body proposes 3-month water, property tax exemption||Considering the effect of the Covid-19 lockdown on the job sector and income of residents in Bhiwandi, the general body of the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) has passed a proposal for exemption of water and property tax for three months, from April to June. The virtual general body meeting held on Wednesday was attended by mayor of BNCMC Pratibha Patil, corporators and civic officials. “Since the lockdown has affected many in terms of income and job loss, the general body has passed the proposal to not collect tax for three months, giving relief to the people. However, this can be only imposed once the state government approves it,” said BNCMC commissioner Pankaj Ashiya. Since the lockdown was imposed, power looms in Bhiwandi were shut, leading to job loss for many locals as well as outsiders. “The loom where I used to work was shut, and we were jobless. Many took up work like selling vegetables or other items to earn a living. The exemption of tax will definitely help many as they will get relief from some amount. Three months exemption is needed, “said Hanif Shaikh, 38, who worked in a loom at Ganesh Nagar in Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-civic-body-proposes-3-month-water-property-tax-exemption/story-IVPJzM5zant1Xa4TzV4vHK.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Cop suspended for fraudulently obtaining bank documents||An assistant police inspector (API) of Mumbai Police was suspended on Wednesday after an investigation found him guilty of cheating and forgery in a first information report (FIR) registered against him and two others at Azad Maidan police station.“API Vilas Vasant Sutar is suspended after an FIR was registered against him at Azad Maidan police station,” said S Jaykumar, additional commissioner of police (ACP), local arms (LA), Mumbai Police.An FIR was registered by Irphan Mogul, a resident of Vile Parle, against his former wife, her lawyer and API Sutar for allegedly fraudulently obtaining his bank account statement in connection with a pending maintenance case.Earlier, the family court at Bandra had granted maintenance only to the two children of Mogul and denied such relief to his former wife.Mogul’s former wife challenged the family court’s decision in Bombay high court (HC) last year, and in February she also filed an affidavit that disclosed her husband’s income. The affidavit contained Mogul’s bank account details.“Mogul questioned his bank on how they had shared his personal details to a stranger without his knowledge. Bank officials informed him that API Sutar had allegedly visited their branch in Fort on August 16, 2019, and sought account details saying that he was investigating a fraud case registered against him at Agripada police station,” said a police official requesting anonymity.Later, Mogul filed a right to information (RTI) petition to ascertain whether Agripada police station authorities were investigating any case against him.Mogul filed the complaint under sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against his wife, her advocate and Sutar at Azad Maidan police station after he found that no case was registered against him at Agripada police station.A departmental probe was initiated against Sutar following Mogul’s complaint. The investigation found him guilty, which led to his suspension from Mumbai Police’s Worli unit of LA department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cop-suspended-for-fraudulently-obtaining-bank-documents/story-7jjjAs6CyGXtaglmM2j7UM.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for raping minor after promising marriage||A 23-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a 17-year-old Borivli girl at Mumbai’s Dadar Chowpatty. The accused allegedly had sexual intercourse with the girl twice after promising marriage to her. Later, the girl discovered the man was in a relationship with another woman.Tushar Jadhav, a Diva resident, was arrested on Thursday.An employee at the Nair hospital, Mumbai Central, Jadhav had reportedly befriended the girl in September 2019 when she had gone to the hospital for the treatment of her aunt. The two had exchanged phone numbers and started chatting with each other.In October 2019, Jadhav proposed marriage to her. He also spoke to the girl’s mother and assured her he would talk to his father too.In December 2019, Jadhav allegedly called the girl to Dadar and the two then went to Dadar Chowpatty.At Chowpatty, Jadhav allegedly took her to an isolated spot and forced himself upon her. He did the same on February 24, this year, at the same place.On March 20, the girl received a phone call from another girl informing her that she and Jadhav were in a relationship for the past four years. When the girl confronted Jadhav, he reportedly told her that he won’t be able to marry her.The girl confided in her parents and they approached Borivli police which directed her to Dadar police.Police registered a rape case against Jadhav under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Ofdense (POCSO) act.Jadhav was arrested on Thursday and produced in court that remanded him in three-day police custody.Advocate Sunil Pandey, who appeared for Jadhav, said the latter had been trapped by the girl’s family as he had a government job. The accused has chat records to support this, he said. He also claimed that the girl had lodged a similar complaint against another boy in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-after-promising-marriage/story-6IknQu3vBUd5ZantJqXNEM.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||HC asks Pakistani national to study Disabilities Act before taking his aunt out of India||The Bombay high court (HC) questioned Mashal Khan, a Pakistani national, as to how he could be appointed as the guardian of his aunt Zarin Ghani Walsh, a Canadian citizen and resident of Pedder Road. Khan submitted that he filed the petition to take his aunt back with him to Pakistan due to her frail health and urged the court to decide on this as he and his family are the only surviving heirs of Walsh. He also added that his other request for appointing him as executor of her properties in India could wait. The court has asked Khan to file an additional affidavit listing Walsh’s properties as well as the remedies available to him under the Disabilities Act, 2016 within 10 days and posted the matter for hearing on September 21. The division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Milind Jadhav, while hearing the petition filed by Khan, a resident of Charsadda, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (North West Frontier Province) in Pakistan, was informed that Walsh, 76, was ailing and living alone in Mumbai. Advocate Mayur Khandeparkar, representing Khan, along with advocate Vaishali Dholakia said as Khan and his brothers and their family in Pakistan were the only surviving relatives of Walsh, they wished to take her to Pakistan so that she may spend her remaining time with them. On a query as to how a Pakistan national could approach an Indian court, Khandeparkar said that he was doing so under Article 21 which the court accepted. The court then said that while it could allow Khan to take Walsh back to Pakistan, his second plea for appointing him as the executor of her estate and bank accounts could not be granted. To this, Khandeparkar cited an order by a previous bench of the HC which allowed a foreigner to be appointed as a guardian. The Union of India and the state, however, opposed the same and said that as per National Trusts Act, Khan could not be appointed as executor of Walsh’s property and bank accounts. Khandeparkar said Khan’s main concern was uniting his aunt with the family back in Pakistan and the issue of her property and bank accounts could be dealt with at a later stage. After hearing the submissions, the court directed Khan to file an affidavit listing the movable and immovable properties of Walsh in India as well as justify the 2013 will of Walsh which named him as executor and heir as it was not approved by any competent court. The court also directed Khan to study the Disabilities Act and directed the Union of India to file an affidavit and rejoinder to the petition and Khan’s affidavit in light of the relevant laws. The matter has been posted for hearing on September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-pakistani-national-to-study-disabilities-act-before-taking-his-aunt-out-of-india/story-64gDfzzz3ODyTk6UR12RAL.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Guarantee students’ safety if exit exams take place||Some things in life are more important than examsBy delaying examinations the University Grants Commission (UGC) can potentially save lives as the risk of students getting infected and carrying the virus to their homes with chances of elderly relatives living there is quite high. Conducting examinations will require a combination of things such as implementing social distancing norms, hand hygiene protocols, and sanitisation, depending on whether the examination centre is near any containment zone. It requires time and planning to make such arrangements. There are chances of transmission of Covid-19 even if one centre does not have safety measures in place. UGC needs to wait till normalcy is restored to complete the final examination process for exit classes in colleges and universities. SK Khosla, Chandigarh Increase number of exam centresFactories, offices and other workplaces are open through the day so why can’t a three-hour examination be conducted peacefully? UGC’s decision to complete the examination process by September 30 is fair and should not be rolled back because students cannot waste time any more this year. A few things to be kept in mind are: Increasing the number of centres to ensure social distancing, proper sanitisation, adoption of water, sanitation and health (WASH) guidelines by UNHCR as a reference to frame guidelines for conducting the exams. Auditors should be appointed at the examination centres to make sure that the guidelines are followed. Other measures such as checking temperature, building sanitisation tunnels, wearing face mask and carrying hand sanitisers should also be followed. Students giving these exams are old enough to understand what needs to be done and so they will act accordingly. Krrish Madaan, Ambala Interests of students importantUGC’s decision to complete the final examinations for exit classes by September 30 is in the interests of students and parents as it will save a precious study year. Subhash Chugh Students should just focus on studiesWhy are exams conducted? To assess a student’s competency to get promoted to the next class or for further studies. However, if we keep postponing exams the students will remain in a state of suspense. We (students) need to co-operate and respect UGCs decision and focus on our studies as this is for our own good. Ankita Tiwari Open more centres, limit number of exam takersWe are making specific changes in our lifestyles to curb the spread of Covid-19, therefore, rules should be followed in the education sector as well. Students and examiners will be gathering at the exam centres and face the risk of getting infected. Online exam is also not a very good option as it’s not something that’s accessible to all students. One way out is by opening more centres in districts and allowing a limited amount of candidates there. There is definitely no doubt that the virus is yet to peak and stay for a prolonged period. So delays are not an option but a more structured process can help both ways. UGC must chalk out a proper plan rather than just focusing on completing the exam. Komal Sharma, Chandigarh Time needed to mentally prepare for examsUGC should revisit the decision that seems to have been taken in a hurry so that the students are not left to fend for themselves as they have already suffered on the academic front this year. If the commission mulls rolling back the decision, a large number of students will get sufficient time to mentally prepare for their respective examinations due this year, as and when new normalcy is restored. Ramesh Dhiman, Chandigarh Cannot be held to ransom by virusThe career of students cannot be held to ransom by a virus, which we have to live with for a considerable period of time. Hence, life must go on. Even the Supreme Court has rejected the plea of a handful of students to cancel exams by stating that the students cannot be made mute victims and spectators by wasting their whole year at the altar of Covid-19. There is no doubt that education has been one of the worst affected fields due to the pandemic, but an entire academic year cannot be disrupted. The forthrightness shown by the highest court of the country will ensure the end of uncertainty and frequent postponement of the key postgraduate courses, and help overcome stress, nervousness and anxiety among the aspirants. The UGC move is very prudent in the current scenario. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur Safety measures should be in placeIt is important to take physical exams and students’ careers depend on final year exams because if they fail to get a high score they might not get a good job or good programme at an institute of higher learning. The only thing is that proper safety measures must be in place at the exam centres. Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh Give priority to students’ futureUniversities and colleges will have to work extra hard to complete the challenging job of conducting the exams. Various suggestions have been made: That grades should be given on the basis of previous performance and assessment. Others say that UGC should send question papers and receive answer sheets by post. All of this is not viable as under the present conditions, the postal department might not oblige and chances of the papers leaking are also high. A well thought out plan should be worked out. Students have been under pressure for long and in the present conditions all stakeholders should give top priority to the students’ future. Usha Verma, Chandigarh Conduct exams as quickly as possibleThe authorities should decide in the best interests of the students. Either the UGC should allow the students to appear in an online test (examination) or grades should be allotted to them on the basis of previous performances. Valuable time should not be wasted. Students cannot plan ahead without mark sheets or degrees. So the exams should be conducted as quickly as possible using any format: Online, or previous performance. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali Previous performance should countStudents should be given the option to choose between written exams or assessment on the basis of previous performances. Online tests are not a good idea because students can cheat and many do not have access to computers or Wi-Fi. Ishita Nara Gives marks on basis of internal assessments, viva UGC should conduct online exams as it’s not feasible and safe to conduct physical exams at centres during the Covid-19 pandemic. Each paper can be divided into internal assessment, viva, speaking at length on a particular topic, project, or group discussions. This is a fair way to evaluate a students’ knowledge. Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali Involve medical experts in taking decisionsWill the UGC be able to maintain physical/social distancing in the examination centres involving all the students and examiners or risk their lives? Let the top officials of UGC work in the Covid hospitals or mortuaries for a few days to have a feel of the exact situation the country is in, instead of dictating their rules from their exclusive air-conditioned chambers. Are the lives of students and examiners more important than an examination? Almost all students have passed almost five semesters of their papers. The heavens will not fall if the situation is put on hold till the situation normalises. We are aware of the standards of education in the government aided schools or colleges in our country. Let the UGC involve experts of medical fields and take a decision one way or the other. Suresh Verma, Chandigarh Wind up the examination process quicklyThe UGC decision to complete examination for exit classes in colleges and universities by September is prudent and its negation will be detrimental to students’ long-term interest. The observation of the Apex Court: “Life has to go on even in Covid times”... students’ career “cannot be put under jeopardy for long,” while dismissing pleas to defer the scheduled JEE/NEET, is pertinent. Corona is not leaving us any time too soon and next academic session (2020-21) has already started. The final examinations must conclude session 2019-20 post haste. Promoting students without examination is not the right step. Examinations are for comparative evaluation of performance and the benefits far outweigh extra efforts required to conduct them under testing circumstances and where there is a will, there is a way! The verdict reserved by Supreme Court of India, likely early next week, will decide whether there should be a final examination for degree students across the country as insisted by the UGC. Better wait and watch!Lalit Bharadwaj , Panchkula Exams must, but with precautionsUGC’s decision to hold exams seems to have been taken after deep introspection. The decision is laudable. Final year exams are crucial in determining admissions in higher courses and for job prospects. However, UGC must strictly impose all precautions to prevent transmission of Covid-19. Students should start preparing for the exams. Dr Karan Singh Vinayak, Chandigarh Students at a crucial stageAs per the circular issued by University Grants Commission (UGC) dated July 6, 2020, universities have been given sufficient flexibility to conduct exams via online, offline or hybrid modes. Further, for the benefit of students, it was also mentioned in the circular that exams will be re-conducted on a later date, in case a student is unable to appear for it on the scheduled date. Therefore, conduct of examinations in online/offline/blended/hybrid mode, instead of physical mode in traditional classroom environment, will be an encroachment on the legislative field of coordinating and determining the standards of higher education in the country. “Learning” is a dynamic process where the only way to figure out what students/learners know is by seeking evidence of their knowledge. In a developing country like India, exams are used as a medium for assessing the knowledge of the students. Because students of the final year classes are at a crucial stage, stuck in between the global epidemic and career, conducting exams is hence a prudent move for securing their future. Pallavi Kapadia Students know bestUniversities should be opened for the students to continue their studies as we are young we have sufficient immunity and as adults can take proper precautions like sanitation and masks.Kasirao Gumadala Who will be responsible if students are infected?I have a few questions for UGC.The Covid-19 outbreak is not under control. Will you be responsible if any student or his or her family member is infected. Get all of us insured and we will give the examsWhat about transportation and stay for outstation students?Yogesh Nehra Students denied opportunitiesI am a BSc physics final year student from Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. I got an admission letter from an international university in France. I will have to provide my provisional certificate or course completion letter. But due to these new guidelines from UGC, I may have to forego this offer. So UGC’s decision to hold final year exams is just a foolish decision and it will deny students a number of opportunities. Ligin Joseph||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-guarantee-students-safety-if-exit-exams-take-place/story-sJK42T3LVIauMsw1lqJefM.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Juhu developer murder: Crime branch arrests third accused||The Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Friday arrested Wasim Pashakar Khan alias Munna Khan, 38, the third accused in connection with the murder of 55-year-old Juhu real estate developer and chairman of Al Sofi Group Abdul Munaf Shaikh. According to police, Wasim had provided his bike to conduct recce and helped the other accused. Earlier, two others — Abdul Rehman Abdul Latif Shaikh alias Sonu, 30, and Nadeem Naushad Shaikh, 29 — were arrested in the case. As per Nadeem’s statement, Sonu had hired him and planned the murder, said a crime branch officer. Initial reports suggested that Sonu had given a contract of ₹5 lakh to Nadeem to carry out the murder. Investigations later revealed that the plot was being hatched since a long time, said sources in crime branch. Nadeem met Sonu few months ago through a common friend and as he was looking for a job, Sonu introduced him to Wasim who hired Nadeem as an office boy for a salary of ₹12,000 per month, said the officer. Wasim had also given his bike to Nadeem to conduct recce before the murder. Police are conducting inquiry to find out if Wasim only helped financially or was involved in planning the murder, the officer added. Investigation has also revealed that Sonu had given a similar contract of ₹2 lakh to one Ankit Trikha alias Ankit Punjabi in October 2019. Trikha had followed the developer for around 10 days and had tried to attack him but had to back off as there were a lot of people nearby. Trikha then changed his mind and contacted Anwar Mullah, who lived in the same vicinity as the developer, and told him about the contract, said sources. “Mullah then took Trikha to meet Abdul Munaf Shaikh. When Ankit narrated the story to Shaikh, he recorded the conversation and approached DN Nagar police station,” said a police officer. DN Nagar police officers, however, did not register an offence but had questioned Sonu and Trikha. The murder was the result of a fall-out over six-acre slum land where Abdul Munaf Shaikh was to start an SRA project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/juhu-developer-murder-crime-branch-arrests-third-accused/story-EFiqrPp1Sj1OsRvXQHmTuO.html
21-08-2020||City||UP’s sero survey to target only people aged 18 to 59 years||Ghaziabad The Uttar Pradesh government, which gave its nod to conduct the serological survey in the last week of August, has decided to include people in the age group of 18-59 years only. The survey will be conducted in 11 districts, including Ghaziabad.The UP’s age bar is surprising as the Delhi’s second round of sero survey, result of which was announced on Thursday, found that prevalence of antibodies among those aged less than 18 was 34.7%. Ghaziabad district officials are, however, clueless about the reason for non-inclusion of those aged below 18 years and those aged over 59 years in the upcoming survey. On Thursday, the UP government’s order for 11 districts was issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). The order stated that random samples will be taken for people in the age group. According to official figures, people aged below 18 years and those over 59 years account for about 19% of the total Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad. This would mean that a good chunk of population will be excluded from the survey. “We are making arrangements for the sero surveillance and identifying teams for the purpose. The government order has included age group 18-59 years for the survey. However, there is no specific reason given why the remaining age group is not included,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. A serological survey checks for an immune response against the coronavirus in the form of antibodies in the blood of a random sample of the population. It can help establish how far the disease had spread and how many people fought off the virus without showing symptoms. Antibodies generally appear around two weeks after a person has been infected and is expected to last several months. The survey will also exclude people who have already recovered from Covid-19, the order said. The survey samples will be sent to King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, said the officials. Regarding the age group limitation, experts said that probably the government is trying to target a focussed group. “The probability of contracting infection in the age group below 18 years and those over 59 years is probably less. So, the survey is being kept on focussed group of 18-59 years as they have high share in number of cases and may provide more positive results in the sero surveillance. The state administration in future may again conduct more of such surveys and then can include the other age groups as well,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.Dr Ashutosh Rawat, microbiologist from Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad, said, “The extreme age groups are probably left out as the immune system is not fully developed or gone weak in old age to develop antibodies. Further, the age group of 18-59 years has more people who are working and more exposed on a daily basis. Meanwhile, the second sero survey in Delhi whose results were made public by the Delhi government on Thursday, included the three age groups -- below 18 years, 18 to 49 years and above 49 years. According to the Delhi’s survey results, almost 30% of the 15,000 people surveyed in the national capital had antibodies for Sars-Cov-2. This suggested that approximately 1.2 million people more may have silently contracted and recovered during the period between July and early August. The prevalence of antibodies among those aged less than 18 was 34.7% and 28.5% for those aged between 18 and 50 years. For those above 50, it was 31.2%, as per the survey. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has conducted an all-India sero survey, the results of which are yet to be published.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-s-sero-survey-to-target-only-people-aged-18-to-59-years/story-eKeWj4m3QUaUmRMweNf80N.html
21-08-2020||City||Months after delay, JEE, NEET aspirants can’t wait to take exam||Stressed over the delay in Joint Entrance Examination and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) due to Covid-19 pandemic, students are finally relieved by the Supreme Court order on conducting the exams next month.However, parents have expressed concern over the risk of infection.Over 2,500 students from Ludhiana will appear in JEE Mains, scheduled from September 1 to 6, and NEET on September 13. As per sources, despite Covid fear, a similar number of candidates has applied for the exams.Students who have dropped a year to appear in the exam stated that they have waited for quite long to appear in the exam and just want to get done with it.Majority of the students have said they have lost the momentum for exam preparation, but would surely appear in the JEE Mains exam to improve their score. As many students were not satisfied with their scores, they decided to take the exam again as best of two scores is taken and the candidate has nothing to lose.Vanshpreet Singh Kohli, a student, said, “I appeared in JEE Mains in January and scored 99.35 percentile. I believe I can improve my score so I will take the test again on September 3. The pandemic has affected my preparation, but am working hard to give my best this time.”Asked if scared of stepping out amid the surge in virus cases, Vanshpreet said full precautions will be taken to ensure health and safety of the candidates during the exam. The 18-year-old scored 97% marks in Class 12 board exams.Medical aspirants, who will appear in the NEET entrance exam on September 13, also expressed frustration over the delay in conducting the exam. Eighteen-year-old Samridhi Manchanda said, “I have been preparing for this exam since last year and postponement twice has irked all students. The decision of conducting the exam in September is a great move as it’s high time, and I am all prepared for the test.”Despite the risks, students want to wait no more for the exams and see their professional education start soon, as sitting idle at home has been very stressful for most of them. Edusquare co-founder and COO Tejpreet Singh said, “Students must revise all concepts again without thinking about whether they have utilised or wasted the past few months. They need to practice well, attempt mock tests and analyse their mistakes. They must also set their body clock as per the exam schedule. They should follow all safety measures on the exam day to keep themselves and their families safe.”SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS AT EXAM CENTRESDue to covid-19 pandemic, the arrangements at the exam centres will be different this time. The National Testing Agency has directed all centre authorities to follow the standard operating procedures and leave two-desk gap while seating the students. Each candidate will be offered a fresh three-ply mask before entering the exam centre. The seating areas will be thoroughly sanitised between every exam shift. All door handles, staircase railings and lift buttons will be disinfected. Wheelchairs (if present at the venue) will be disinfected. Hand sanitisers will be available at the entry and inside the exam venue at various places for candidates and staff.Barcode readers will be available at the entry point to scan the admit cards of candidates.BoxTHINGS STUDENTS CAN CARRYExam-related documents like admit card, ID cardA transparent ball-point penAdditional photograph for the attendance sheetPersonal hand sanitiser (50ml)Personal transparent water bottle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/months-after-delay-jee-neet-aspirants-can-t-wait-to-take-exam/story-sjR549ykKjwPOQCzqOfANL.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for abusive posts on actor’s video||City cyber police on Friday arrested a man from Aurangabad for allegedly making abusing posts on an actor’s video on Instagram which she had uploaded as part a campaign against online bullying and cyber harassment faced by women.Based on a complaint lodged by the actor with BKC cyber police around a week ago, the arrested accused, Shashikant Jadhav, 27, who works at a restaurant in Mumbai, has been booked for cyber stalking and using foul language.Investigations have revealed that apart from the said actor, the accused had been posting abusive content against several Bollywood actors and producers. Jadhav was produced before a court and has been remanded in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-abusive-posts-on-actor-s-video/story-KyvUWPPxVITae3HBQJ19oM.html
21-08-2020||City||Amritsar’s Partition Museum adds Guru Nanak’s rare painting to online exhibition||Chandigarh Partition Museum, Amritsar, has announced that it has included a pre-Partition painting of Guru Nanak by renowned artist Sardari Lal Parasher in its on-going online art exhibition-cum-fundraiser, ‘Memories Unlocked: Partition, Migration, Identity’ organised to commemorate August 17, the Partition Remembrance Day. The painting titled ‘Guru Nanak, Continuous Light’ has a miraculous history. It is closely linked to the turmoil that took place during the Partition, and was almost lost — along with many other works of the well-known artist, SL Parasher, who was then the vice-principal of the Mayo College of Art in Lahore. Parasher had to leave Lahore overnight post-Partition, and many of his pre-Partition works were lost.Fortunately, the painting was saved due to the friendship between him and another famous artist, Abdur Rahman Chughtai. Chughtai managed to rescue this painting and some of Parasher’s other works from the chaos of Partition and sent them across the border. The exhibition is the first-ever online art exhibition cum fund-raiser organized by the Partition Museum with the support of Art Alive Gallery, New Delhi. It showcases 26 exclusive works by 16 eminent and upcoming artists of the country. August 17 was declared Partition Remembrance Day by the Punjab government in 2017, when the museum was completed and opened.Mallika Ahluwalia, CEO and curator of the Partition Museum, and founder trustee of The Arts And Cultural Heritage Trust, said, “We are honoured and grateful to the Parasher family to include such a rare painting by SL Parasher in our ongoing exhibition. Work of this archival nature is not seen anymore as most of the early work by many of Punjab’s artists was either lost or scattered due to the Partition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-s-partition-museum-adds-guru-nanak-s-rare-painting-to-online-exhibition/story-8j1z7L7fGqhG3QFjhpmprL.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Mahul pollution: Two firms to move SC against NGT’s order||Private firms in the Mahul-Chembur area, directed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to pay compensation for environmental damage caused by air pollution over five years, have decided to move the Supreme Court (SC) against the order.Industrial firm Aegis Logistics Ltd (ALL) and SeaLord Containers Limited (SLCL, a subsidiary of ALL), were directed to pay Rs. 142.2 crore of the Rs. 286.2 crore compensation that was ordered by NGT in its order from August 13 (based on a June 30 hearing). The compensation amount was based on a Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) in-house technical committee report using VOC emissions data submitted by the industries themselves. ALL and SLCL have denied the charges against them.“Aegis will appeal to SC against this order and also that it had engaged Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B), IIT Chennai and the Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT) which supported Aegis’s contentions that emission concentrations due to said industries were close to zero; when comparing these concentrations with Indian and United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) standards, there was no breach of any standards,” read the statement issued by the firm to the Bombay and National Stock Exchanges earlier this week. An Aegis official shared the statement with HT. The other two companies, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), will also take steps against the NGT order, which directed HPCL to pay Rs. 76.5 crore and BPCL to pay Rs. 67.5 crore as compensation. “We are in receipt of the NGT order. Appropriate action will be initiated at our end after examining it,” read HPCL’s statement while a BPCL spokesperson said, “We have shared the order with our legal team. Necessary follow-up action will be taken soon.” NGT’s hearing was based on an execution application filed under a 2014 application by Mahul residents Charudatt Koli, Dayaram Mahulkar, Mohan Mhatre and Dattaram Koli, seeking closure of SLCL, which is located less than 10 metres from Mahul and Ambapada villages. NGT held that pollution emissions came from logistic services, storing oil, gas and chemical items, and oil companies releasing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) during loading, storage and unloading or handling of hazardous chemicals at various stages. “Conditions prevailing in the area are sometimes likened to that of ‘Gas Chamber’,” NGT had said. VOCs are harmful toxic pollutants causing exposure related health effects in humans. Meanwhile, apprehending ALL’s move, applicants said they were working out a strategy to respond before the Apex Court. “Environmental restoration costs must be imposed for damages due to air pollution since the inception of these industries. Aegis started functioning in 1984 and SLCL in 2010,” said Koli. Mhatre said the damage cost payable by industries was actually much higher if a report by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) was considered. “Had CPCB considered VOC emissions data by NEERI, Rs. 1,167 crore would be payable by SLCL and Rs. 13,088.3 crore by ALL (damages from 2015 to 2020),” he said. NGT in its latest order said funds would be utilised for restoration through an air pollution action plan while constituting a 10-member joint committee of state, Central bodies and research institutes to prepare this plan. On Thursday, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had tweeted that the NGT order was discussed by state bodies and the role of departments was assessed for further follow-up. “We request the state to implement immediate measures to deal with toxic emissions from these industries and provide a concrete solution as relief for Ambapada and Mahul Koliwada villagers,” said Mahulkar. AEGIS HAD MOVED SC DAYS BEFORE NGT ORDER WAS PUBLISHED Apart from the fresh intention to move SC, ALL had already moved SC on August 10 challenging NGT’s (June 30) order before it was published on August 13. On August 14, the SC had held that NGT will hear Aegis before pronouncing its written order, preferably within a period of two weeks. However, by the time the order was circulated, NGT had already published its August 13 order. Thus, the NGT issued a notice on August 18, in view of the SC order, that the execution application will be taken up for hearing on Monday (August 24). Applicants said these were delay tactics. “These strategies are used to postpone proceedings to benefit industries every time. ALL approaching the SC at the very last hour when the NGT order is to be published as part of the same modus operandi adopted to create confusion,” said Koli adding, “If a hearing was needed ALL should have challenged it immediately after June 30.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mahul-pollution-two-firms-to-move-sc-against-ngt-s-order/story-IBfA4uQhgvbZUfD8JUjl8H.html
21-08-2020||City||KDMC suspends licence of hospital for overcharging||Ten days after serving a show cause notice to Shree Devi Hospital, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has suspended the hospital’s licence till August 31 on grounds that the hospital failed to explain the irregularities in treating Covid-19 patients as pointed out by the civic body. KDMC also said the hospital overcharged patients without following the rate mentioned by the state government. Earlier on August 10, KDMC had served notice to the hospital after the civic flying squad, which is appointed to look after complaints regarding irregularities in Covid hospitals, pointed out irregularities. The civic body said the hospital has overcharged ₹1.6 lakh from patients and asked the hospital authorities to refund the same. “The license of the hospital has been cancelled till the amount is refunded or till August 31. There has been several complaints based on which a show cause notice was served, but since there was no explanation from the hospital we have cancelled the licence,” said Sunil Pawar, additional commissioner, KDMC. The civic body also claimed that the hospital has been treating Covid patients since July without informing the civic body. “The hospital has overcharged patients, did not maintained 80:20 ratio of Covid and non-Covid patients, and also did not cooperate during the audit of bills and documents. The license has been revoked under the Bombay Nursing Homes Registration. Act,1949,”added Pawar. However, the 100-bed hospital, which currently has 30 patients, will be allowed to treat them and haemodialysis patients despite the suspension of licence. No new patients can be admitted to the hospital. The civic body will also appoint a medical officer to keep a watch on the hospital. Bala Shetty, owner of the hospital, said, “We have already refunded the amount mentioned by the civic body to the patients on Friday evening. We had asked the civic body to give us 10-days’ time to refund the money, then why are they cancelling the license? Hospitals are already working under a lot of pressure, and in such situation, instead of getting support, we are being targeted.” Earlier in July, the civic body suspended the license of A and G Hospital for overcharging patients to the tune of ₹9.36 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-suspends-licence-of-hospital-for-overcharging/story-qWvPYmKEmdnYywBPWl4rdM.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Controlling street crime was a challenge: Jagadale on last day as Chandigarh SSP||Controlling street crime remained a challenge, said Nilambari Vijay Jagadale, Chandigarh’s first woman senior superintendent of police (SSP) who relinquished her charge on Friday. “Street crime instils fear in the mind of people and we managed to bring down the snatching cases,” said Jagadale, who had joined office in 2017. In 2017, the city recorded 238 snatching incidents, followed by 191 in 2018. In May 2018, the Punjab and Haryana high court even reprimanded the SSP, taking note of the spike in snatching cases. The figures came down in 2019, with 122 cases. As many as 53 have been registered this year, so far. “Mapping of the snatching-prone areas, making it compulsory for DSPs and SHOs to visit the crime spot and registering of cases against snatchers who stopped attending court hearings helped us bring down the numbers,” said Jagadale, who is returning to Punjab Police as the AIG, cyber, and director, Digital Investigation Training and Analysis Centre (crime), Mohali. Corruption a major concernCorruption in the department remained a major concern, so much so that UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had pointed to it during Chandigarh Police’s 51st Raising Day ceremony in November 2017. During her tenure, as many as 70 cops were suspended for indulging in graft or other immoral practices.Interestingly, as she joined in Chandigarh, the charge of the crime branch — the most important wing of the police department — was taken away from the SSP, and she oversaw only law and order.Projects remained non-starter Taking charge shortly after the infamous Varnika Kundu case, Jagadale started the work on making the city safe for women. However, her project of hiring trained counsellors for women, children and senior citizens in distress by using the Nirbhaya fund could not see the light of the day. Even on community policing front, her plans to have mohalla committees comprising with area residents for each police station could not take shape. “Owing to Covid-19 pandemic, these projects could not be started,” she said, adding that the pandemic helped change image of police and “we got close to the residents”.Wait for new SSP SP (city) Vineet Kumar has been given the charge of SSP till the new officer is appointed. The UT had recommended Punjab-cadre officer Vivek Sheel Soni’s name for the SSP’s post to the MHA. However, the MHA has forwarded Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal’s name to the department of personnel and training. The UT administration is yet to receive the final communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/controlling-street-crime-was-a-challenge-jagadale-on-last-day-as-chandigarh-ssp/story-XVZNUW6c0ZrLsSG31cTgXJ.html
21-08-2020||Gurugram||GMDA committee to submit report on floods within a week||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) on Friday constituted a seven-member expert committee to probe what caused the flooding at numerous spots in Gurugram, including Golf Course Road on Wednesday and Thursday.Named the Flood Protection Committee, the expert group is tasked with ‘submitting a report regarding flooding caused in various parts of Gurugram city due to excessive rains on August 19 and 20.’ GMDA said the committee will comprise engineers from the GMDA, the municipal corporation gurugram (MCG), and a representative of private developer DLF. Their report is expected to be filed within the next seven days.A copy of the authority’s order, dated August 21, is with HT. As per the order, “The flood protection committee will examine the causes of flooding specially in the underpasses at Golf Course Road, Medanta road at Rajeev Chowk and IFFCO Chowk which were submerged with stormwater rendering them unusable for normal traffic and to suggest short and long term solutions... to prevent this from happening in the future.”The order states that the committee will be chaired by former Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) engineer-in-chief, KK Bhugra, who played a key role in formulating a ‘comprehensive drainage plan’ for Gurugram, which was approved in the GMDA’s authority meeting in May last year, but whose implementation has since been delayed.The remaining members of the FPC include Pradeep Kumar (chief engineer, infrastructure-2, GMDA), Rajesh Bansal (superintending engineer, infrastructure2, GMDA), Raman Sharma (chief engineer, MCG), Vishal Garg (executive engineer, MCG) and an unnamed representative of private developer DLF.VS Kundu, chief executive officer, GMDA, said, “I will have a meeting with the committee within the next week, after which they will conduct necessary investigations and submit their report, which will identify the cause of the floods and suggest measures to mitigate such an event in the future.”DLF spokesperson, Akash Ohri, said he had not yet received a copy of the GMDA’s order, but added, “It’s the right step to form a committee to investigate. Every department should do their bit to fix the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-committee-to-submit-report-on-floods-within-a-week/story-uOGzZDTbwtsGgM1gIATX0L.html
21-08-2020||City||Residents take out bathtub on waterlogged lane, protest against civic body in Ambala||The rainfall on Friday morning caused waterlogging in Nadi Mohalla of the city, exposing the poor arrangements made by the civic body for the rainy season. Residents of Nai Basti area took out a bathtub, on the waterlogged lanes, as a mark of their protest against the civic body’s ill-preparedness to tackle the situation.“The rainwater up to four feet entered the houses of low-lying areas like Nai Basti and Nadi Mohalla on Friday afternoon and the residents had to bear the brunt of the flooding. We also blocked a road and when the videos of a bathtub on the roads started circulating, officials reached the area and tried to pacify the protestors,” said Congress leader Davinder Verma.Several localities near the office of the municipal corporation like Jagadhari Gate, TB Hospital Road, lanes near old railway road and posh areas like sectors 8, 9 and 10 were also waterlogged.“I’m witnessing waterlogging for the last two decades and nothing seems to have changed since then. The civic officials have not cleaned the sewage systems and drain,” a shopkeeper near the old cloth market said.Despite repeated attempts, MC Commissioner Parth Gupta could not be reached for comment. However, sources said that the MC officials were out on the field to deal with the waterlogging situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-take-out-bathtub-on-waterlogged-lane-protest-against-civic-body-in-ambala/story-CAOJPRVD6BlyBedGhKV3SL.html
21-08-2020||City||Haryana allows private labs to conduct antigen, antibody tests, puts cap on charges||m The state health department on Friday issued an order, allowing private labs and hospitals to conduct Covid-19 antigen and IgG antibody tests, while putting a cap on the testing charges at the same time. The decision has been taken almost two-and-a-half months after the private labs approached the health department seeking permission to start the testing. Officials privy to the matter said private labs and hospitals all this while continued to conduct these tests without any fixed price.Based on the advice of the experts and after taking the costs of the kits and consumables into account, the department has capped the price of rapid antigen testing at ₹ 650 and ₹250 for the IgG antibody test. The latter does not detect active Covid-19 infection but confirms the history of contracting the virus. The gold standard of front-line Covid-19 test is the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), the price for which has been fixed at ₹2,400.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department said, “Citizens can get themselves tested for rapid antigen and antibody tests in the private labs/hospitals for the diagnosis of Covid-19. They will have to show identify proof and prescription from a doctor to get tested. The process is similar to getting a RT-PCR test done. The fixed price is inclusive of sample pick-up, packing and transportation within the state.” As per the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), states have been advised to use antigen kits for detection of the virus in hot spots and containment zones. Symptomatic people with influenza-like illness, asymptomatic patients who are high-risk contacts of confirmed cases, people with co-morbidities, and high-risk patients, who are either hospitalised or seeking hospitalisation, are to be given priority for testing.Antigen tests look for specific protein associated with the SARS-CoV-2 virus — the pathogen that causes Covid-19. In the antibody test, blood samples are collected to check for antibodies which appear after the person is infected with Covid-19 and stays in the body for months.In the first week of June, as reported by HT, four private labs had approached the district health department and shared the proposed rates for conducting the tests, with antibody tests ranging from ₹600 to ₹1,450 per sample. The proposed rate for antigen test was ₹500 to ₹950 per test. The district health department had submitted its recommendations to the state to fix price for IgG antibody ELISA test at ₹1,000 per test and ₹800 for antigen test. Currently, both the tests are being conducted by the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-allows-private-labs-to-conduct-antigen-antibody-tests-puts-cap-on-charges/story-cPv5nHvt4n73MWVHXh8DkM.html
21-08-2020||Gurugram||Malls, shopping complexes and offices to shut on weekends||All malls, markets, public and private offices and shops, except those dealing in essential goods and services, will remain shut on every Saturday and Sunday in Haryana to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). There will not be any restrictions on peoples’ movement or traffic. The decision is likely to hit traders in Gurugram, already reeling from the 68-day national lockdown induced by the viral pandemic, and people’s reluctance to move out during the initial phase of the relaxation of curbs from June.The decision was declared by state home minister Anil Vij on Twitter on Friday evening. Later, chief secretary Keshani Anand Arora issued the order in this regard. A senior state official privy to discussions said the government had noticed that the people were not following health protocols and were careless. “Since gatherings are taking place and huge rush of people is seen in market complexes, we are noticing citizens are taking pandemic lightly. Due to this, Covid-19 numbers are increasing not in Gurugram alone but other districts as well,” said the official who did not wish to be named. “It is not a weekend lockdown. No curfew has been imposed.”In Haryana, the Covid-19 tally has crossed 52,000 and 585 deaths till Friday, according to the daily state health bulletin. The above mentioned official said the Covid-19 numbers were largely increasing in northern parts of the state sucha as Panchkula, Kurukshetra and Panipat.In a press statement issued from state capital Chandigarh, the government said that these orders shall remain in force till further orders.Shopping malls and market associations in Gurugram were disappointed over the move. Aman Bajaj, member, Metropolitan Mall Association, said that they had not anticipated this. “Business is already affected as malls opened in the later stages of the unlock phase. In a week, there are nearly three to four days with no sale at all. We were gradually regaining our customers on Saturdays and Sundays as people are occupied during the weekday due to work from home. The decision will affect us badly,” he said.Harinder Rana, president, Palam Vyapar Kendra Market Association, said that the business will be affected. “But nothing can be done as it is a government order and we cannot go against them. We have been informed that challans will be issued if shops except those dealing in essential goods are opened on weekends,” said Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/malls-shopping-complexes-and-offices-to-shut-on-weekends/story-Yn4bF9lsjpT6DKuDpaQnPN.html
21-08-2020||City||Robbers decamp with drugs worth ₹6 lakh, ₹2 lakh in cash from rehab centre in Ludhiana||A gang of robbers stole medicines worth Rs 6 lakh and Rs 2 lakh in cash from a drug de-addiction centre on the Samrala-Machhiwara road after holding its caretaker captive on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.The robbers also took away the recording system of the CCTV cameras before fleeing. Dr Rajesh Kapoor, who runs the Navkiran De-Addiction Centre, said the caretaker of the centre, Pintoo, telephoned him in the wee hours of Friday, informing him about the robbery. He rushed to the spot immediately and alerted the police.Pintoo told the police that the robbers barged into the centre around 2am and overpowered him. After restraining him, they stole 19,000 tablets worth Rs 6 lakh and Rs 2 lakh in cash.Dr Kapoor said the medicine was only available at government hospitals and government approved de-addiction centres, and could be misused by the robbers.Inspector Rao Varinder Singh, SHO at Machhiwara police station, said they had lodged a case of robbery and started investigation to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robbers-decamp-with-drugs-worth-6-lakh-2-lakh-in-cash-from-rehab-centre-in-ludhiana/story-YhXErYOn8KZGAnAor0wk7L.html
21-08-2020||Gurugram||Sector 9 shootings may be linked to gang rivalry over land plot: Police||A day after three men were killed in two seemingly coordinated incidents in Sector 9 area, the police on Friday said that the shootings could be linked to a dispute over a 1,000square-yard plot in Basai between two gangs — a rivalry that has led to several violent confrontations, including murders, in the past few years. The police have so far identified three suspects in the case. Four crime branch teams have been assigned to trace them. A senior police official, familiar with the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Prima facie, the shootings appear to be related to enmity regarding a feud over a plot in Basai between two gangs from the area. Joni Kataria, who is currently lodged in jail in a murder case, had an ancestral plot in Basai, which was usurped by one Hari Om. This led to a feud. Joni and his brother Moni joined gangster Ashok Rathi’s group and killed Hari Om’s brother about two years ago. In retaliation, Hari Om had murdered Moni Kataria in Rewari.”The police said Joni and Moni grew up in Bahadurgarh after the death of their father. They had an ancestral plot in Basai and, during their absence from the village, it was allegedly taken over by a rival. The police said tensions had subsided in the past one year after both Joni and Hari Om were arrested. “The victims killed in Thursday’s shooting are associated with Joni’s gang. The police on Thursday had named one Pavan Nehra as the prime suspect. Nehra is allegedly a relative of Hari Om. The police have also announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information leading to the arrest of prime suspect, Pavan Nehra, and his aides. On Thursday around 5pm, unidentified armed men had shot two people – Anmol and Sunny – dead after cornering them in an empty plot near Wings Apartment in Bhawani Enclave. Another person, Sameer alias Vicky, was shot dead in Basai village within a few minutes of the first shooting. The police have recovered a CCTV footage in which several suspects can be seen chasing one of the victims on scooters. In the footage, at 4.58pm, a suspect can be seen conducting a recee before parking his motorcycle in a plot adjacent to Wings Apartments. He makes a phone call and within a few seconds, several suspects arrive on scooters. As a herd of buffaloes pass through, a suspect corners Anmol, who is trying to escape on his motorcycle, and shoots him in the head. The police said after shooting him, the suspects chased Sunny and another person, Angrez, who entered Wings Apartment. Sunny was shot dead in the society while Angrez hid in a staircase and survived. A man, who has a shanty at the plot where the first shooting incident took place, said, “A group of men arrived and started firing shots indiscriminately. I heard about seven gunshots and retreated into the shanty to take cover. One victim was escaping on his motorcycle when he was shot in the head. He walked a few yards before collapsing here.”After the incident, the residents of Wings Apartment have requested the police to deploy police personnel at night at the society entrance for additional security. A resident, requesting anonymity, said, “We have requested the police to deploy three policemen at night for some time. Naturally, there is some fear due to the incident. The victims and perpetrators were outsiders. We are also installing a fibre panel on the entrance gate of the society.”Subash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “A request was received and a team has been assigned to make rounds in the area during the night.”Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “Crime teams are conducting raids to nab the suspects. One FIR has been registered in the case. The enmity between the victims and perpetrators started due to the plot dispute. No arrests have been made.” The police said the post-mortem examination of the victims was conducted by a medical board on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sector-9-shootings-may-be-linked-to-gang-rivalry-over-land-plot-police/story-WWE1radaPCjhXs77Hh72IN.html
21-08-2020||Gurugram||Nearly 30% Covid-19 deaths in state due to multiple co-morbidities||At least 30% Covid-19 deaths in the state are due to multiple co-morbidities, mainly hypertension, diabetes and heart disease, according to the data by the Haryana health department. Senior doctors treating coronavirus patients said that those who could not survive were mostly overweight with high insulin resistance. Based on the data of 538 deaths reported till August 16, nearly 29% had succumbed to the illness without having any previous health issues. On the other hand, patients of liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, hypertension, heart disease, respiratory illness, diabetes and other health issues along with those under investigation when combined contributed to 41% of coronavirus deaths.Data shows that highest number of deaths has been reported in the age group 55-64 years, followed by 65-74 years and then 45-54 years. Based on the overall toll, the mortality rate of Haryana is 1.12%. The death count till Friday was 585. Going by the state figures, of these 41%, at least 8% patients had diabetes mellitus and 6% had history of respiratory illness. Two percent each had liver disease and neurological disorder. It also includes nearly 3% cancer patients and 3% patients with kidney disease. Almost 4% had hypertension and 4% had heart disease. At least 3% had other health issues.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head, pulmonary and critical care medicine department, PGIMS-Rohtak, who is also Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “Covid-19 deaths are due to multiple factors. Firstly, people are getting admitted late to the hospital. It is due to late diagnosis and reporting, and patients shifting between hospitals before getting the final treatment. The process is not seamless. Secondly, the availability of healthcare, diagnostics, medicines and identification of the patient by the health worker at the preliminary stage contributes to the fatality rate.”He said, “Patients who have succumbed to the multiple co-morbidities were found insulin resistant, which is linked to high-cholesterol levels and heart issues. Findings shows these patients are mostly obese.” Over 6% deaths are also under investigation as the patients were brought dead to the hospital and were Covid-19 positive. In Gurugram till now, 10 such sudden Covid-19 deaths have been reported. Since fatality rate helps in identifying high-risk population, severity of the disease and setting up quality of healthcare, every district has constituted a death audit committee to review the cause of the deaths. Earlier this month the state health department stressed upon preparing the audit reports properly to ascertain the cause of deaths. In case of Gurugram, at least 131 Covid-19 deaths have been reported in Gurugram, with a fatality rate of 1.25%. Of the total deaths, 92 are due to co-morbidities and 39 without co-morbidities, according to the district health bulletin. On Friday, out of the 10,756 cases, 811 are active and 9814 have recovered from the illness. Of the active cases, 705 are in home isolation, 8 in government or self-paid isolation centres and 98 are hospitalised. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “More than 320 Covid-19 deaths are reported from Faridabad and Gurugram, while the remaining from other districts. Most of these deaths are largely due to multiple co-morbidities where a patient had diabetes, hypertension and heart disease together.” In Faridabad 160 deaths have been confirmed till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nearly-30-covid-19-deaths-in-state-due-to-multiple-co-morbidities/story-u0rghqFgedlawCsOFYMwIM.html
21-08-2020||City||Sharpest surge of 462 cases in a day takes Ludhiana’s tally past 8,000 mark||With 462 fresh Covid-19 infections, Ludhiana recorded its highest single-day spike in cases, which also caused the tally to cross the 8,000 mark on Friday. The last steepest surge was recorded just a day ago with 398 cases.The district’s death toll due to coronavirus also rose to 288 with eight more people succumbing to the disease.Notably, among the total 288 deaths so far, 200 (69%) have occurred in August alone.Of the total 8,148 cases in Ludhiana now, 5,526 (67.8%) patients have recovered, leaving 2,334 active cases. Friday’s fatalities included seven males and one female. The male patients are a 90-year-old from Mundia Khurd, a 70-year-old from Bahadurke Road, another 70-year-old from BRS Nagar, a 62-year-old from Jagraon, a 60-year-old from Bajra village, a 47-year-old from Tajpur Road and a 35-year-old from Lohara. The eighth fatality is a 40-year-old woman from Dhandari Khurd.Among those who tested positive on Friday, 117 patients have influenza-like illness (ILI) and 129 are contacts of already positive patients. These include 14 police personnel, seven healthcare workers, six domestic travellers, eight undertrials, eight pregnant women and two MC councillors.TWO FEMALE COUNCILLORS TEST POSITIVETwo more MC councillors were found positive for Covid-19 on Friday.Congress councillor Ravinder Kaur represents ward number 7 and BJP councillor Manju Aggarwal ward number 57.Kaur’s husband Monu Khinda and four other family members of Manju, including her husband and former councillor Inder Aggarwal, have also contracted the infection.Health officials said both councillors are under home quarantine.BJP leader Inder Aggarwal said, “After my wife tested positive, samples of all family members were sent for testing. Besides me, my younger son and two granddaughters have also tested positive. Manju was admitted at CMCH after she was having trouble breathing, but everyone else is asymptomatic. She is also stable.”He added that they were not sure of the source of infection, as they dealt with the public.Three other councillors – Manpreet Grewal, Rakesh Prashar and Sukhdev Sheera – have already tested positive for the disease. Besides them, Congress MLA (Ludhiana East) Sanjay Talwar, four of his family members, and SAD MLA (Dakha) Manpreet Singh Ayali had also been infected.Among leaders of various political parties, Congress’ Kamaljit Singh Karwal, Ashok Prashar Pappi and party’s former district president (R) Gurdev Lapran, besides BJP’s Gurdev Sharma Debi, Sunil Moudgil and former district president Ravinder Arora had also contracted the infection in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sharpest-surge-of-462-cases-in-a-day-takes-ludhiana-s-tally-past-8-000-mark/story-SgcarlewyKirtlZfFbthkO.html
21-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Light spells of rain predicted till Tuesday||Gurugram: After two days of moderate to heavy rain, city skies went dry on Friday. Going by the weekly forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), light spells of rain can be expected till Tuesday next week along with thundershowers. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Delhi, said that rain is expected to intensify in the national capital region by the middle of the next week. “Light rain and very light rain will continue to take place till August 25. We are expecting monsoon activity to increase from August 25 onwards. Moderate rain can be expected from August 26 in NCR,” said Srivastava. As per the weekly forecast, cloudy skies with spells of rain or thundershowers will prevail until the weekend.The maximum temperature on Friday was recorded at 35 degrees. The minimum temperature stood at 24 degrees Celsius. Gurugram’s maximum temperature is expected to rise and touch 33 degrees Celsius on Saturday, as per IMD’s weekly forecast. The maximum temperature is expected to hover around 26 degrees on Saturday.Air quality in the city remained in the ‘good’ category on Friday, recording 40 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was an improvement from the previous day’s recording of 90 in the ‘satisfactory’ category. The improvement in air quality was attributed largely to an increase in wind speed and light drizzle. According to the early air quality warning system for NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘good’ to ‘satisfactory’ category on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-light-spells-of-rain-predicted-till-tuesday/story-SwYWAZ1Chmq7Noo6TrUq4K.html
21-08-2020||Gurugram||Three buildings tilt dangerously after heavy rain, owners asked to demolish structures||At least three residential buildings in the city, developed by Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), have tilted dangerously after being battered by two days of heavy rains on Wednesday and Thursday. The owners of these buildings have been asked to demolish these structures at their own cost and HSVP on Friday also formed a committee to probe the reasons for the structural failure of these buildings and make recommendations to prevent such happenings in the future.Around 30 families living in houses alongside these structures have been forced to vacate their homes and take shelter with family and friends, said residents’ associations. Notices to the owners of these buildings were issued on Thursday by the authority telling them to demolish their structures.A visit to the location of these three buildings on Friday revealed that the structures had been constructed on smaller plots measuring between 60 square yard and 140 square yard. Two of the structures are located in sector 47 and 46 and are still under construction. The third, located in sector 27, was completed only five months ago and five families lived as tenants in the building  All three structures have an empty plot adjacent to them where heavy waterlogging had taken place during the two days of the rain that could have led to the weakening of the base of the building. However, officials privy to the matter said that structural defects also contributed to the damage, apart from rainwater playing its part.In sector 27, the four-storey building and the stilt built on a 100 square yard plot was prevented from collapse on Thursday itself, after neighbours and local residents joined hands and brought large iron girders themselves and placed these strategically to support the leaning structure. “We came to the spot around 7am and after seeing the tilt immediately decided to place heavy girders on the sidewalls. It was also ensured that within an hour the five tenant families living in the building evacuated the place. A crane was called and we spent money ourselves so that there is no accident,” said Rajesh Khangwal, a local resident and a civil contractor.Six girders were purchased by local residents from Sadar Bazar and these were improvised and fixed on the side of building, which cost them around Rs 60,000, said Khangwal.Jalender Yadav, who lives in an adjacent building, said that he had vacated his house in the morning itself as he feared that the structure will collapse. “I had asked the owner in the past to rectify structural defects that happened during construction. A thorough probe needs to be done and this structure should be pulled down immediately,” he said.Rohtash Bedi, a local leader, who was on the spot, added that apart from severe waterlogging, structural defects caused the tilting. “Around 10 to 12 families have been affected and have shifted to other places,” he said.A similar incident also happened in sector 47, where a residential structure being built on a 60 sq yard plot tilted dangerously on Thursday after which HSVP officials and local police rushed to the spot.Virender Tyagi, former president of sector 47 RWA who went to the spot, said that poor construction practices coupled with waterlogging in an adjoining plot caused the house to tilt. “The good thing is that the building did not collapse immediately. It will have to be demolished,” he said.In sector 46, local residents said that 21 families have shifted from seven houses adjacent to the tilted building, which was coming up on a xx square yard plot, fearing a collapse. “The reason for this structural tilt is not only waterlogging but leakage of sewage in the structure. The drains and pipes are inadequate in draining out water and this has caused this situation. The authority should ensure that the structure is demolished at the earliest,” said RK Yadav, RWA president sector 46. The building tilted on Thursday morning.HSVP officials, meanwhile, said directions have been given to the owners to demolish the structures at the earliest. “We have issued notices to concerned owners to demolish the structures and department officials are investigating the reasons which may have caused these incidents,” said Vivek Kalia.The authority has also formed a committee led by an executive engineer to look into the reasons, which caused the structural failure of these buildings. “The committee will give its report on reasons for this damage after examining the site, report of architect/ structural engineer and recommend action to be taken,” said Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator.The committee will also look into issues of structural weakness, excess construction and waterlogging, which is said to have triggered the tilting, said officials.Dinesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sadar police station, said, “An under-construction four storeyed building had tilted slightly in sector 47 area. After the information was received on Thursday, a team had gone to the area. People in the vicinity of the structure were told to evacuate. The adjacent plot is vacant. The HUDA officials had submitted a letter for demolition of the structure to avoid any mishap.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-buildings-tilt-dangerously-after-heavy-rain-owners-asked-to-demolish-structures/story-OKAPUySwVSeIJwlD5NUyRM.html
21-08-2020||City||Nuh: Mid-day meal beneficiaries await regular ration||Even as government schools in Nuh have been shut for more than five months in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, many students in the district are still waiting for a regular supply of dry ration as promised by the Haryana government in lieu of the mid-day meals.  With schools being shut down amid the growing Covid-19 threat, the state government in March had decided to deliver ration at home monthly to students who are beneficiaries of mid-day meals. However, many students in Nuh said they had either not received the ration at all or received it only once in the last few months. In a directive shared with district elementary education officers on March 20, the state elementary education department had directed them to deposit cooking costs to eligible students in their bank accounts and provide dry ration as well. The amount of ration and cooking costs were initially calculated for 10 days. Subsequently, ration distribution was extended and is now expected to continue until schools remain closed. On a monthly basis, 150 grams of wheat and 100 grams of rice are to be provided to students. The cooking cost was also revised and increased by 10%. Currently, the cooking costs per day per child is ₹4.97 for primary classes and ₹7.45 for upper primary. The monthly cooking cost is calculated based on the number of working days. 9-year-old Neha, a class 6 student, who studies in the neighbourhood government school in Asaisika village, said she received dry ration only once since the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Her mother Sushma said that officials from the education department had distributed dry ration comprising rice, dry milk powder, and some pulses in April and the family has not received any ration since then . “We received ration once in April but not after that. Most people we know have also received it only once. We have not received any money in lieu of mid-day meals either,” said Sushma. Jan Mohammad, a resident of Kotla village in Nuh, said most families of government school students in Kotla had received ration only once. Three of his siblings study in the village government school and are mid-day meal beneficiaries, he said, adding that only his brother, a class 5 student, had received dry ration from the school sometime in April. “We don’t get prior information about the distribution of ration. If people get to know about ration dispersal through word of mouth, they are able to collect it from the school on the day of distribution, or else they miss the chance,” said Mohammad. He said that students had been called to the school to collect ration kits comprising 100 grams of rice and pulses each. However, he did not receive the cooking cost. “I checked my account but no amount of money towards cooking costs had been deposited,” said Mohammad. Mohammad Jubair, another Kotla resident, whose son is a Class 8 student, said that he had neither received dry ration nor the cooking costs. “Some people in the village collected ration earlier but we did not receive anything,” said Jubair. Kapil Kumar Punia, district elementary education officer, Nuh, however, said that the government had been distributing ration for every month since the lockdown. “Initially, we were asked to deliver ration for 10 days. Later, it was extended for April, May, and June. Sometimes there are delays since funds are released by the Centre but we provide ration to all. Since many blocks need to be covered, the timing can vary but everyone will get the ration,” said Punia. He added that the department was currently distributing ration for four months, to last till October. He said that cooking costs couldn’t be delivered to several students since they didn’t have bank accounts. To counter this problem, the department had started delivering cooking costs to accounts of parents, said Punia. “There are students who don’t have bank accounts. They are deprived of the benefits. To resolve this problem, we have sought bank account details from parents and are sending money,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nuh-mid-day-meal-beneficiaries-await-regular-ration/story-cZQnz3QUx1XgoUHzB8wYLJ.html
21-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram completes second round of serological survey; results by August-end||The three-day exercise of conducting the second round of serological survey in the district was completed on Friday with a total of 850 blood samples being collected to detect IgG antibodies developed against the SARS-CoV-2 virus among the population. The survey, which started on Wednesday, was affected by the incessant rain and waterlogging the district witnessed on that day, said officials. Teams comprising lab technicians, medical officers and health workers collected 90 blood samples on Wednesday, followed by 500 samples on Thursday, and 260 samples on Friday. Similar exercise is being conducted across the state in the 21 other districts to trace the prevalence of the infection and identify individuals who have developed immunity against the infection. At least 21,000 people are supposed to be covered under the survey. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “The state will be releasing the survey results by the end of August. The results from the all the districts will be collated and analysed to understand the prevalence of infection and take measures accordingly.”The purpose of the serological test is not to detect the virus but the presence of antibodies in the blood developed against the virus. It is body’s immune response against the coronavirus that produces these antibodies. Antibodies against the infection are not developed in the early days of infection. As such, these antibodies are not detected before seven to 14 days. It is for this reason the serological test is not used for diagnosing active infection. The test is also used to detect the antibodies level in recovered Covid-19 patients who can donate a part of their blood called convalescent plasma to critical Covid-19 patients.The district’s chief medical officer(CMO), Dr Virender Yadav, said that the survey has been conducted following all the protocols issued by the state government. “Samples were collected from 16 clusters, including four in urban areas and 12 in rural areas. “Urban clusters include Tigra, Patel Nagar, Khandsa and Basai. The 12 clusters in rural areas were Daulatabad, Badshahpur, Pataudi, Bajghera, Palra, Sherpur, Sarai, Aklimpur, Inchhapuri, Bhudka, Bhorakalan and Rathiwas. The district had conducted the first round of serological survey from June 24 till mid-July. At that time, 454 IgG antibody tests were carried out, out of which 56 were found to be positive and 398 negative. The neighbouring state of Delhi on Thursday released the results of its second serological survey, which covered at least 15,000 people and showed that 29.1% of the city’s population has developed antibody against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Findings showed that the prevalence of antibodies increased by over 6 percentage points as compared to the first survey held in June-July. At that time 22.86% people were detected with antibodies. In the first survey, 21,387 samples were collected, while 15,000 were collected in the second round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-completes-second-round-of-serological-survey-results-by-august-end/story-cxGyiV4nB3BB9t4jCxhxiM.html
21-08-2020||City||Night curfew from 7pm leaves traders, restaurateurs in Ludhiana sleepless||Already reeling under losses due to low footfall amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the weekend lockdown, traders, gym owners and the hospitality sector are worried over the Punjab government’s decision to impose stricter night curfew between 7pm and 5am. While traders rue that the decision will dent their efforts to make up for the losses suffered during the lockdown, hotel and restaurant owners claim they may be forced to shut down their establishments. They have sought relief in the night curfew norms to keep their businesses afloat.“Hoteliers are already receiving tepid response due to Covid-19 and now the restaurant business will also be affected at large,” said Amarjit Singh, executive member of the Ludhiana Hotel and Restaurants Association.“To adhere to the curfew starting at 7pm, owners have to close their establishments by 6pm. The government has allowed us to serve drinks in the restaurants, but who will come to enjoy drinks or have dinner by 6pm? The footfall was less than 5% on Friday,” he added.Proprietor of Bistro Flamme Bois, Pakhowal Road, Vishal Malhotra said, “More patrons had started coming in after the government allowed restaurants to remain open till 10pm. But, the new curfew timings in no time again will take a toll on the already shaky business. We have been receiving only around 35% footfall post lockdown.”TRADERS IN SAME BOATTraders have also sought that they be allowed to keep their shops open longer and the lockdown restrictions on Saturday be lifted. “Our business has already dropped by 50%. With increased curfew hours, even fewer customers will come in. We started closing shops around 6pm on Friday as there was less than quarter of the usual footfall,” said Parampal Singh Witty, president of Chaura Bazaar Shopkeepers Association, adding that the government should allow the shops to remain open till at least 8pm.GYM OWNERS SWEATINGGyms are the worst affected as they had reopened only on August 5 after keeping their operations suspended for over four months.Struggling to tide over their losses, they said curfew starting at 7pm will derail their efforts as most customers visit gyms in the evening after work.Director of Gym Ekta Welfare Association, Ramesh Bangar said, “Customers are anyway few and far between due to risk of infection. Many gyms are on the brink of closure due to low footfall and hefty operating costs involving rent, electricity bills and salaries.”“Most fitness enthusiasts visit gyms after 7pm, so how can gyms survive with the advanced night curfew? Residents need to take precautions in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, but the government should also allow businesses to remain open till 9 or 10pm,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/night-curfew-from-7pm-leaves-traders-restaurateurs-in-ludhiana-sleepless/story-cleVCyR8HYuusAiu0hIrlI.html
21-08-2020||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah asks BJP leader to introspect about commitment to social harmony||Presenting figures about the victims of violence in the state, former chief minister of Karnataka Siddaramaiah on Friday said BJP leader Nalin Kumar Kateel should introspect about his commitment to social harmony.“You have said that 24 Hindus were killed in communal violence during 2013-18. But if you include both Hindus and Muslims, the number of victims is not just 24 but 45. Our party had released facts about the deaths. Read it and introspect about your commitment to social harmony,” Siddaramaiah said.“Those accused of the murder of 10 Hindus during 2013-18 belong to PFI and SDPI. And the accused in the murder of 11 Muslims and Hindus are from Bajarang Dal and Hindu Jagarana Vedike. So, which outfits will you ban?” he asked.“Do you remember that your party @BJP4Karnataka had become a laughing stock when you had included a living person, named Ashok Pujari, in the list of murdered people sent to the Central govt during my tenure?” he asked.The former CM asked that in the murder case of Paresh Mesta of Honnavara, why don’t they pressurise CBI to nab the culprits? When will you help his family get justice? he asked“Your best friend Naresh Shenoy is the main accused in the murder of Hindu RTI activist Vinayaka Baliga. Who is protecting your friend? When will you ensure that justice is delivered in this case?” Siddaramaiah asked.“You may be both intellectually and emotionally bankrupt and continue to light communal fires for political gains. But true Hindus are intelligent enough to see through your act of treason!” he said.The comments of Siddaramaiah came after Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai on August 20 said that chief minister BS Yediyurappa will discuss with the Centre regarding the banning of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for its alleged role in the violence which erupted in Bengaluru on August 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/siddaramaiah-asks-bjp-leader-to-introspect-about-commitment-to-social-harmony/story-j9qtsOK71jsTtyNOaoVxrO.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||116 new Covid cases, 2 deaths in Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Fatalities in the city went up to 33 with two more Covid-19 deaths on August 19, as disclosed by the administration on Friday, even as 116 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours.Both the deaths were reported from Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. “A 67-year-old male, resident of Sector 45, a known case of diabetes infected with Covid-19 and a 66-year-old female, resident of Burail, suffering from gall bladder carcinoma and diabetes, also infected with Covid-19 died on August 19,” the UT bulletin stated. Meanwhile, the number of active cases has jumped to 1,170 with total infections counted at 2,631. The new cases have been reported from sectors 6, 7, 8, 14, 15, 19, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41,43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 38 West, Dadumajra, Hallomajra, Manimajra, Mauli Jagran, Ram Darbar and Sarangpur. With 36 more people discharged, the number of persons recovered now is 1,426.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/116-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-chandigarh/story-FYnHXYMrml7KZlXGVMbPFM.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi hotels asked to anti-Covid-19 measures like e-wallets, disposable menus||The DDMA on Friday issued an order, asking hotels to open in the city with various anti-Covid-19 measures, including use of contactless processes like e-wallets, undertaking deep cleaning of washrooms and proper crowd management on its premises.It also prescribed use of disposable menus, social distancing at buffet, restricted numbers in elevators and use of escalators with a person on alternate steps.The representatives of the hotel associations in Delhi also met Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and thanked him for opening the hotel industry.During the meeting, the chief minister said all the stakeholders have to work together to strengthen Delhi’s economy. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its meeting on Wednesday had given its approval for opening of hotels, restaurants and weekly markets in the city.The order issued on Friday by DDMA said “hotels will be permitted to operate throughout the National Capital Territory of Delhi in all areas, except the containment zones, subject to strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on June 4, 2020, and other instructions and guidelines of Government of India and Government of NCT of Delhi from time to time.” According to the Union Health ministry’s SOP, proper crowd management inside and outside hotel premises like parking lots should be ensured and large gatherings at the hotels should be prohibited.Besides general precautions like social distancing, use of face cover and hand and respiratory hygiene, it prescribes furnishing details like travel and medical history as well as identity proof by the guests at the reception.It also states that gaming arcades and play areas for children shall be closed and the hotels must adopt contactless processes like QR code, online forms, digital payments like e-wallets for check-in and check outs.It also prescribes air conditioning to be maintained in the range of 24-30 degrees Celsius and relative humidity at 40-70 per cent. Valet staff will use face covers and disinfect key, steering and door of vehicles of the guest, it said.Earlier, during the meeting with representatives of hotel associations, Kejriwal thanked the hotel industry, saying when coronavirus was at its peak, the hotels supported the government in enhancing the capacity of beds for treatment of patients.Kejriwal said even though the central government was against the opening of the hotel industry in Delhi out of a fear that the cases might rise again, it was a very important step in reviving the economy of Delhi.“The Central government was against the idea of opening the hotel industry in Delhi, and I would not blame them because the Centre must have thought that the cases might rise again. “But I explained to them that the hotels are functioning in areas where the cases of corona are rising in the country. Either the Centre should shut the hotels down across the entire country, or open it in the region where the corona is under control,” he said.  The chief minister said there were two challenges -- how to end the spread of the virus  and reviving the economy of Delhi because businesses have been shut and jobs have been lost due to the pandemic.“I am happy that since June 1, when the central government had opened the lockdown, and after we went ahead to lift the lockdown in Delhi on their directions, we did not have the need to re-impose the lockdown in the capital,” he said.He said Delhi government planned in detail for this and once the lockdown was lifted on June 1, the government did feel that the situation was getting out of hands during first 15-20 days, but it took support of all and reinstated normalcy and control in Delhi, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hotels-asked-to-anti-covid-19-measures-like-e-wallets-disposable-menus/story-Mli9SykpRmQrrNxVR4HgAK.html
21-08-2020||Kolkata||Over one lakh recover in West Bengal, tally reaches 1,32,364||Over one lakh people have recovered from Covid-19 in West Bengal after 3,082 patients tested negative on Friday, which saw the tally reach 1,32,364 after the single-day spike of 3,245, a bulletin released by the state health department said.Friday is the eighth consecutive day that the number of new infections crossed the 3,000 mark in a day pushing the number of active cases to 27,804, it said.The discharge percentage in the state improved to 76.89 per cent as a total 1,01,871 people have so far recovered from the disease, it said.The Covid-19 toll reached 2,689 after 55 people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said.The city accounted for the maximum of 22 fatalities, while neighbouring North 24 Parganas reported 10 deaths, South 24 Parganas eight, and East Midnapore three, it said.Two deaths each were reported from Howrah, Nadia, Malda and Coochbehar districts while one death was reported from Hooghly, Purba Bardhaman, Birbhum and Murshidabad districts, the bulletin said.Out of the 55 deaths, 44 were due to comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental.The number of active cases rose to 27,804, it added.North 24 Parganas reported 764 new cases of infections and the city 462, the bulletin said.Neighbouring Hooghly reported 333 new cases of infections, while in South 24 Parganas the figure was 210, East Midnapore 170, West Midnapore 164, Darjeeling 134, West Burdwan and Malda 116 each and 104 fresh infections were registered in South Dinajpur, it stated.The remaining 672 cases of infections were reported from 12 other districts of West Bengal.Since Thursday, 36,229 samples have been tested in West Bengal. So far, a total of 14,87,844 samples have been tested in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/over-one-lakh-recover-in-west-bengal-tally-reaches-1-32-364/story-sbd7tXTon8v71j1dfWXjhJ.html
21-08-2020||City||No samples taken even as Pinjore man cremated under Covid protocol||An 89-year-old man died under mysterious circumstances at his home in Pinjore on Friday. His son was tested positive for coronavirus after he developed flu-like symptoms on Thursday. It is suspected that the elderly man died of Covid-19. However, the health department cremated the body as per Covid protocol, but no sample was taken after the person’s death. The victim’s son said: “My father was not a Covid-19 patient. On Friday, I was tested positive for Covid-19 and the authorities suspected that my father might also have the infection.”“A few days ago my father was operated as he had a urinary tract infection. On Friday morning, he complained of uneasiness and died at around 5 am,” he said adding that the health authorities did not collect his father’s sample posthumously but cremated the body as per Covid protocol. He said as per WHO guidelines only one family member was allowed to attend the funeral. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “It is still a suspected Covid-19 death. With the shortage of ambulances and with three bodies of Covid-19 victims left to be cremated, we have to ensure the safety of other persons. We presume that there were 50% chances that the elderly man was Covid-19 positive. With the rising Covid-19 cases and limited resources, it really doesn’t matter if one number goes up and down, what matters is ensuring the safety of people.”Public health expert and former dean of PGIMER Rajesh Kumar said: “The Centre has given instructions that on death certificate, there is a provision to declare suspected Covid-19 death on the basis of clinical grounds. If a test is conducted and reports comes positive then the suspected death can be converted to positive death.”He said that in this case the suspicion is quite high as his son was Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-samples-taken-even-as-pinjore-man-cremated-under-covid-protocol/story-akAobYTBZkX6lgZ7LxqpXI.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Routine healthcare services pick up pace in PGI||After a slow start, routine healthcare services that saw a sudden disruption at the onset of the pandemic picked up pace in the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.The institute, which provides tertiary healthcare services to the north Indian states, has seen the number of hospitalisations and surgeries being doubled from April to July. However, no decision has yet been taken to re-open physical OPDs.Statistics shared by the institute show that 1,122 surgeries were performed in April, which have now been increased to 2,717. Emergency ward admissions have increased from 2,022 admissions to 3,773. Trauma and related admissions, indoor patient admissions have also seen a jump.“We are striking a balance between regular services and the Covid-19 services for patients. Regular services which were partially disturbed after the outbreak of the pandemic are being brought back on track,” official spokesperson, Professor Ashok Kumar said.Professor Jagat Ram, director PGIMER stated, “Being a tertiary care hospital, it is our responsibility not only to focus on the pandemic but the regular health needs of our patients. Despite the challenges of infection spread, a huge influx in emergency and rising infection numbers, we are trying to handle it. No decision on restoring OPD servicesEvery day the PGIMER receives 12,000 patients on an average for the consultation services at OPDs that were shut since March 20.“The pandemic is on the upswing and we don’t want the institute to emerge as a Covid-19 hotspot which is also stopping us from reopening physical OPD services,” Professor Jagat Ram said.‘Need for adopting a better model’Professor Ashok Kumar said, “With daily Covid-19 cases crossing the 100-mark, we are in the midst of a big challenge, which can be met only with collaborative efforts.”“It is essential that a model should be adopted where one critical Covid Care Centre for patient capacity as per estimates is set up at PGIMER without hampering normal services,” Professor Ashok Kumar said.Recently in addition to the 200-bed dedicated Covid hospital, PGI will increase the capacity by 100 more beds as directed by the UT administration.As on date, 30-bed capacity has already been earmarked in the Advanced Paediatric Centre and another 80-bed capacity has been earmarked in a dedicated hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/routine-healthcare-services-pick-up-pace-in-pgi/story-oFtuOG5DvpWuN92gB61sEM.html
21-08-2020||City||Urban agriculture need of hour, says World Food Prize laureate at PAU webinar||The next green revolution should be soil-centric, exhorted World Food Prize laureate and renowned scientist Dr Rattan Lal here on Friday.Quoting Guru Nanak Dev in his opening remarks, Dr Lal said, “The great Guru described in very simple language the inseparable link between three pillars of the environment — air, water and earth,” bringing home the message of natural resource conservation.He was interacting with 270 agriculture experts of from across the country at a webinar on ‘Soil- Centric Green Revolution: A Paradigm Shift’, organised by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).“Rather than input-based (depending on varieties, fertiliser and irrigation), the next green revolution, must be soil-based to make it more resilient, ecosystem-efficient and driven by science, management and spirituality,” the PU alumnus stressed.Dr Lal described the rhizosphere (the layer of soil with very dynamic environment where plants, soil, microorganisms, nutrients and water meet and interact) as the only place on earth where life and death become two sides of the same coin, called the soil.He spoke of how PAU was at the fore front of India’s phenomenal green revolution and transformed the to the bread basket of the world.However, he said the dilemma lies in the degradation of soil, polluted waters, impure air and loss of biodiversity.Specifying the chief reasons of soil-degradation in India as water erosion, wind erosion, water logging, salinity/ alkalinity, soil acidity etc, Dr Lal criticised the tendency to take everything from the soil, thereby rendering it deprived of essential resources.He called for stress on urban agriculture, implying recycling of all human and animal waste to produce food and build soil carbon stock and feed 20% of the mega cities.Concluding the session, Dr Lal offered a prudent strategy to empower farmers and land managers to restore degraded soils, afforest denuded lands and return marginal lands for nature conservancy, failing to do which would keep global temperatures on the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/urban-agriculture-need-of-hour-says-world-food-prize-laureate-at-pau-webinar/story-gzwVJdw6CjEhPh0i5TIBcM.html
21-08-2020||City||Two booked for cheating travel company owners||The Kharghar police have booked two men after they allegedly cheated two tour and travel company owners by taking their car on rent and then trying to sell them online. The accused men had rented four cars from the duo worth ₹28 lakh, said police.The complainant Vashi resident Anilkumar Shukla, 41, runs a tour and travels firm based in Belapur. On August 3, he came across a classified ad online and got in touch with one Shailesh Dabhane, a Bhiwandi resident.Dabhane allegedly told Shukla that he and his partner need vehicles on rent. On August 7, Shukla met Dabhane and his business partner Mitesh Bhanushali in Panvel at Bhanushali’s apartment. The duo told Shukla that they drive employees of both private and public firms to their workplaces and Bhanushali even showed him a driver’s identity card as proof.After discussions, Shukla recommended a seven-seater vehicle. The men agreed at a monthly rental of ₹25,000 for the car and additional ₹9 per kilometre if the vehicle is driven for over 6000 kilometres.Shukla then contacted his friend Krishna Behra, who also runs a tour and travels company, and the latter agreed to give his three cars on rent. Bhanushali then made an advance payment of ₹47,000 to Shukla in two separate transactions, said police.On August 13, Bhanushali called Shukla requesting another vehicle on rent as he needed to go to Akola. Shukla gave him his brother’s car at a rental of ₹12 per kilometre. Collectively, Bhanushali and his business partner took four Multi-utility vehicles (MUV) from the Shukla and Behra worth Rs 28 lakh.“Bhanushali told Shukla he will return the car by August 14 evening. However, he did not return that night and instead Shukla received a speeding ticket for his vehicle which was found speeding in Malegaon. When Bhanushali did not answer Shukla’s calls, he visited the man’s Panvel apartment but he was not there,” said an officer from Kharghar police station.On August 15, Behra was shocked to come across an advertisement on WhatsApp where his car was listed for sale at ₹2.65 lakh. They figured out that Bhanushali was attempting to sell the car. They then traced another of Behra’s vehicle in Amravati using GPS location.When the accused duo continued evading his queries over returning the cars, he approached the Kharghar police on Monday where a cheating case was registered. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-booked-for-cheating-travel-company-owners/story-qiX4gule7vZIp8x95HaQqJ.html
21-08-2020||City||Hooch tragedy: BJP stages stir in Ludhiana, says Capt govt burying scandal||The district unit of BJP on Friday staged a protest against the Punjab government accusing chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for burying the state’s worst hooch tragedy which led to the deaths of over hundred people in the Majha region.After handing over a memorandum to additional deputy commissioner AS Bains, BJP district president Pushpendra Singal said the Punjab government is only acting against the small fish to save the real culprits of this scandal, which they will not tolerate at any cost and will continue to protest against the government.BJP district general secretary Sunil Moudgil, secretaries Kantendu Sharma, Yashpal Janotra, Lucky Chopra, Sanjay Gosai, councillors Sunita Sharma, Surinder Atwal, Anne Sikka, Prabhjot Kaur, Maninder Kaur Ghumman, Harsh Sharma, youth front president Mahesh Sharma, media secretary Satish Kumar, leader Naval Jain, former councillor Amrik Singh Bhola, among others were also present during the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooch-tragedy-bjp-stages-stir-in-ludhiana-says-capt-govt-burying-scandal/story-UfzIOabkabLETB980BkBcP.html
21-08-2020||City||Retired panchayat officer booked for embezzling ₹8.62 lakh in Ludhiana||The Sudhar police on Friday booked a retired social education and panchayat officer (SEPO) for embezzling ₹8.62 lakh.As per information, the accused, identified as Balvir Singh of Sangrur, did not respond to the official communication following which the block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) lodged an FIR against him.BDPO Vipan Kumar stated that the accused had embezzled funds and siphoned off ₹8.62 lakh. While scanning the records, they found that the SEPO had got transferred from Pakhowal block in 2017, but after leaving the charge, he had withdrawn the money using official cheques.The BDPO added that the department had asked Balvir Singh to deposit the cash till January 31, but to no avail. Lately, the accused stopped responding to the official communication, so the BDPO turned to the police.Sub-inspector Lakhbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused government employee has been booked under sections 406 and 420 of the IPC and a hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-panchayat-officer-booked-for-embezzling-8-62-lakh-in-ludhiana/story-YrGrMkEMoqqKoAGAWDaDQK.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Temperatures hover below normal in Haryana, Punjab due to rainfall||Maximum temperatures on Friday hovered below the normal levels in Haryana and Punjab due to rainfall in few parts of the two states.The common capital of both states- Chandigarh-- received 28mm of rainfall during the day and recorded a maximum temperature of 29 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal limits, according to the Meteorological Department (MeT).Rain or thundershowers are likely at many places in Haryana and Punjab over the course of next two days, MeT’s forecast showed.In Haryana, Ambala city recorded similar temperature as Chandigarh and received 23mm of rainfall. While Karnal, after 6mm of rainfall, recorded a temperature of 30.4 degree Celsius.Gurugram- the millennium city on Wednesday witnessed heavy waterlogging which left several residents stranded. Limited drainage capacity and delayed monsoon preparedness are some of the reasons behind the city’s devastation, as per experts.Officials from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said the delay in monsoon preparedness was due to the Covid-19 crisis.Also read| Mumbai, neighbouring areas likely to receive ‘heavy to very heavy’ rains in next 24 hours: IMDOn the other hand, in Punjab, light rainfall was seen in Ludhiana and Patiala.Ludhiana recorded a maximum temperature of 27.6 degree Celsius, six notches below normal levels and Patiala’s temperature reached 29.3 degree Celsius, four notches below normal levels.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/temperatures-hover-below-normal-in-haryana-punjab-due-to-rainfall/story-nl954ZYPzyCyumL1bsKMiJ.html
21-08-2020||City||Railway union demands action against Ludhiana contractor for bill discrepancy||Alleging the use of old construction material to build a compound wall, Northern Railway Men’s Union (NRMU) here has demanded action against the contractor.The NRMU has claimed that the contractor used second-hand bricks in the construction, while he produced bill of new bricks, and that the railway authorities were favouring the latter.However, the railway officers have said as the matter is in their knowledge, they will deduct the amount from the bill produced by the contractor.The authorities have demolished worn-out quarters in its railway colonies. In railway colony number 10 near Jagraon Bridge, the contractor has constructed a boundary wall of a park and compound wall of the colony and used the same old bricks from the demolished buildings. He has produced a bill claiming that he has used 1.30 lakh new bricks in the construction.NRMU branch president Gaurav Sharma said there are more discrepancies in the construction work. They have raised the issued before the officers concerned and staged a protest seeking action against the contractor.On August 13, they had protested outside the assistant divisional engineer’s office over the issue, but the officer had lodged an FIR against them at the Division 8 police station for staging a stir and not following social distancing norms.Sharma added that the officers are favouring the contractor. Their protest is on and they seek action against the contractor.When contacted, assistant divisional engineer Kapil Vats said no payment was made to the contractor against the construction. Railway will deduct the amount of old bricks from the bill, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railway-union-demands-action-against-ludhiana-contractor-for-bill-discrepancy/story-IzaVk3eVAplE1a7BXaluhI.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sexual harassment case: Former Panjab University V-C served legal notice for making committee proceedings public||Former Panjab University vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover was served a legal notice on Thursday for allegedly making public the proceedings of the Independent Internal Committee (IIC), which was probing the allegations of sexual harassment against him.The legal notice has been served on behalf of the woman professor who had accused him of sexual harassment. This comes days after the former V-C had received a communication from vice-president Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chancellor of PU, along with the minutes of the meeting of the committee held on June 16, 2020.The IIC, headed by Dheera Khandelwal, additional chief secretary, environment, Haryana government, had recommended closing the inquiry.However, the woman professor, who did not appear before the committee, through multiple representations had questioned its jurisdiction, stating there was no employee-employer relationship between the office of the chancellor and Grover, whose term ended in 2018.Giving reference to the provisions of Section 16 and 17 of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013, the notice states that the provisions of the act clearly mandate that the proceedings or recommendations of the committee are not to be made public. The notice alleged that Grover had shared the proceedings of the committee with the members of the senate on August 18.“That your actions are not only defamatory but also in violation of the statutory norms and therefore through the present notice, you are hereby called upon to submit an unconditional apology to my client and to withdraw all such communications and actions by virtue of which you have published the minutes of the committee, within seven days of the receipt of this notice,” states the notice served to Grover by the lawyer of the woman professor.The notice further stated that in case of failure on Grover’s part to withdraw such publications and submit an unconditional apology within seven days, appropriate civil and criminal proceedings may be initiated against him.The woman professor refused to comment on the matter.Former V-C Arun Kumar Grover said, “The committee report has said that she has not substantiated her allegations against me and they recommended closing the inquiry. I shared the proceedings with senate members only after I was informed that the chancellor has accepted the report of the committee.”Grover had, on Friday, written to Panjab University vice-chancellor and demanded that a senate meeting should be convened to discuss the report of the Independent Internal Committee (IIC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sexual-harassment-case-former-pu-v-c-served-legal-notice-for-making-committee-proceedings-public/story-gTc7l3TV7KSwTgzJVPDBqK.html
21-08-2020||City||Syllabus of Classes 9 to 12 may be reduced: Himachal education minister||Education minister Govind Singh Thakur on Friday said the department is considering reducing the syllabus of Classes 9 to 12 by 30% and provide 30% additional options in the question papers. He was presiding over the review meeting of the department of education that was convened to discuss the National Education Policy-2020. To implement this system principals, teachers and officers of the Himachal Pradesh School Education Board will seek suggestions over video conference from academicians and parents in this regard, after which the policy will be presented before the cabinet.During the meeting, he directed officers to constitute a task force, which would include experts from different fields, who would prepare a report pertaining to the implementation of the new education policy in the state.Thakur said that Himachal Pradesh has always done excellent work in the field of education and the state will ensure successful implementation of the National Education Policy -2020.Thakur said that the state government was already providing vocational training under the National Education Policy-2020. He said that a presentation will be made before the Cabinet regarding the New Education Policy. The implementation of the New Education Policy will ensure eradication of Macaulay’s education system.The minister added that to ensure participation of students in water conservation, the board of school education will soon launch the ‘Water Conservation Scheme’ in the state. Under this scheme, tanks will be constructed for storing water in schools. This water will be used for various purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/syllabus-of-classes-9-to-12-may-be-reduced-himachal-education-minister/story-1sxhTdqPH4Am4lZga7r3HM.html
21-08-2020||City||Himachal BJP president expels six members citing indiscipline||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president and MP Suresh Kashyap on Friday expelled six party members citing indiscipline. Kashyap said, “State IT and social media in-charge of the Kullu Mahila Morcha Archana Thakur, Kullu Mahila Morcha district president Manisha Sood, Mahila Morcha state working committee member and Kullu district in-charge Anjay Bodh, BJP Jubbal-Kotkhai mandal press secretary Rajeev Mehta , Jubbal-Kotkhai Kisan Morcha Mandal media in-charge Raman Resta and Bilaspur Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) district general secretary Manoj Chandel have been relieved of their responsibilities in the party with immediate effect due to indiscipline.”In a statement issued by him, Kashyap said many activists had been making inappropriate comments against the party, party leadership and organisation through Facebook, social media and other means, which the Himachal BJP has taken strict note of. He said that the Bharatiya Janata Party will not tolerate any kind of indiscipline.He said that the party has recently revoked the membership of one person for six years and freed many workers from all party responsibilities. He said show-cause notices have been issued to some workers. Several complaints were also received in written in the last few days which were sent to the party’s discipline committee.All complaints were thoroughly investigated and verified after which action was taken by the party. “Any anti-party activities and indiscipline will not be tolerated in future.”The BJP president said that many institutions are working in Himachal Pradesh such as Namo Again, Namo Prachar Samiti, Joint Business Cell, Namo Yojana Campaign Committee, Atal Sena and Modi Sena . The party has decided that in future, if any party office bearers takes responsibility in these institutions, then they will be relieved of the party’s responsibility.He said BJP is a disciplined party and every leader must work for the party in a disciplined manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-bjp-president-expels-six-members-citing-indiscipline/story-DN6njroNyMjHNH9v1bAH1I.html
21-08-2020||City||Heavy rainfall to continue in Himachal till August 27, says weatherman||Intense rainfall was witnessed in isolated places of Bilaspur and Solan districts, while heavy rainfall was reported in isolated places of Hamirpur and Chamba districts and light to moderate rainfall was experienced in other parts of Himachal on Friday. State meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said rainfall is likely to continue throughout the state till August 27. With the water level of Beas river increasing due the persisting wet spell, authorities have advised people against venturing near the river. A house was damaged in Solan’s Mohal village when a huge boulder crashed into it. However, no loss of life was reported and the debris was removed. There was no appreciable change in minimum temperature across the state while the maximum temperature decreased by one to two degrees in the last 24 hours. A yellow warning has been issued for lower and middle hills for August 25 as routine life may be disrupted due to heavy rainfall in these areas.Naina Devi in Bilaspur received 161mm rain, the highest in the state, followed by Arki, in Solan district which received 158 mm rain, 95mm rainfall was recorded in Bhoranj, Hamirpur; 66 mm in Dalhousie; 60mm in Sundernagar, Mandi; 51mm in Sujanpur Tira; 41mm in Bilaspur; 29.8 mm in Nahan; 29mm in Palampur and Jubbal; 24.6mm in Dharamshala; 24mm in Hamirpur; 21mm in Shimla; 16.8mm in Solan and 16mm in Kufri.The maximum temperature in state’s capital Shimla was 21.7°C while Kufri, which is 14 kilometres from Shimla logged a temperature of 18.7°C. Prominent hill stations Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded a maximum temperature of 21.6°C, 26.6°C. and 16.6°C, respectively.The maximum temperatures in Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Nahan, Sirmaur, Kalpa and Una was 26°C, 29.5°C , 29.2°C, 25°C, 21.7°C and 31.4°C, respectively.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of 11.9°C, while Berthin, a town in Bilaspur district was the hottest at 32.8°C.Rain caused losses worth ₹37-cr in KangraNaresh K ThakurNaresh.kumar4@hindustantimes.com Heavy rainfall has so far caused losses to the tune of ₹37 crore in Kangra district , officials have said. However, this year the district suffered 200% less losses as compared to last year during the corresponding period. This is largely attributed to below normal rainfall this season. The district has so far received 986mm as compared to the usual 1,206mm, logging an 18% deficit.Since the onset of monsoon in June, the cumulative losses in the district are pegged at ₹37.2 crore, said deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. Last year, rain had caused losses to the tune of ₹104.99 crore during the same period.The public works department (PWD) suffered losses worth ₹15 crore, while the National Highway Authority of India lost ₹8.81 crore.Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) department, which is now called Jal Shakti Vibhag, suffered losses of around ₹4.76 crores due to the damage to 104 water supply schemes.Similarly, damage to agricultural and horticultural produce and infrastructure was assessed to be around ₹2.18 crore. The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEBL) suffered losses upto ₹1.02 crore.Last year,PWD’s losses were pegged at ₹46 crores; IPH’s at ₹45.07 crores and HPSEBL’s at ₹11.54 crore. Losses to agriculture and horticulture was ₹15 crores.Prajapati said around 80 houses have been fully or partially damaged causing losses up to ₹50 lakhs.ONE CASUALTY IN HOUSE COLLAPSE“One person died after a house collapsed due to heavy rainfall in the district,” said the deputy commission. He said last year as many as 12 people had died due to rain-related incidents in the corresponding period.The administrative authorities and the district disaster management authority (DDMA) saved two lives by carrying out an aerial rescue with the help of Indian Army. Two women, who were seriously ill, were rescued from the remote Bara Bhangal village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rainfall-to-continue-in-himachal-till-august-27-says-weatherman/story-P9JExC07gsHFpcFSqy0rgM.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai politicians helping Ganesh mandals with Covid free celebrations||Several Mumbai politicians are doing their bit to ensure that this year’s Ganesh festival is celebrated while following the safety protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. They have sensitized various mandals, distributed masks, face shields and sanitizers to organisers.Shiv Sena Parel corporator Sindhutai Masurkar, whose area boasts of a lot of Ganesh Mandals, said he had been helping them with sanitizer stands apart from Pooja kits.“I am distributing sanitizer stands to all the mandals and also other facilities for them,” Masurkar said before adding, “I have till now distributed 1200 Pooja kits to those residents who bring Ganesh idol at their homes.”Mumbadevi Congress legislator Amin Patel has started a special free taxi service for all households wishing to bring the idol home as well as for taking it to the immersion spots. “I am giving free masks, face shields as well as customised sanitizers to all the mandals in my area,” said Patel. BJP Ghatkopar legislator Ram Kadam has been conducting meetings with all the mandals in his constituency. “I am stressing that this year, the festival needs to be restricted to just religious customs and all gatherings should be shunned. Majority of them have subscribed to this,” said Kadam.Also Read: Wet Ganesh Chaturthi expected: IMD predicts heavy rain this weekendThis year, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has framed strict rules for the mandals including restricting the size of the idol as well as the number of people taking part in the festivities. In addition, mandals have to adhere to various regulations to avoid crowding.For years, Ganeshotsava has played an important role in framing both the political and social landscape of Mumbai. It was the Shiv Sena that benefitted the most from the festival. Almost every top Sena leader has headed a Ganesh mandal in the past.Also Read: BMC issues advisory ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi, urges caution on 13 dilapidated bridgesHowever, now, every political party is seen currying favour with the mandals.According to political analyst Surendra Jondhale, no politician can afford to antagonise the mandals. “The politicians need to keep the mandals happy and are hence patronising them. These mandals play an important role during the election process by campaigning for them and connecting them to the voters,” said Jondhale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-politicians-helping-ganesh-mandals-with-covid-free-celebrations/story-KAykh6MYEmt2LXjFcx56JM.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||No Covid-19 positive case among jail inmates in Delhi currently: DG Prisons||The situation of the Covid-19 pandemic has improved a lot in the prisons of the national capital, and there is no Corona positive case among inmates currently, the Director-General (DG) of Prisons, Delhi said on Friday.“In the month of August (till August 21), only two inmates of Tihar were detected Covid-19 positive on August 3. Both have recovered now. Thus as on August 21, there is no inmate who is Covid-19 positive in the three jail complexes of Delhi i.e. Tihar, Rohini, and Mandoli,” said Sandeep Goel, DG Prisons, Delhi.As per Goel, the first case of an inmate testing positive of Covid-19 came forward on May 13 in Rohini Jail.“Two Covid-19 positive inmates of Mandoli Jail had unfortunately died on June 6 and July 4, respectively. Both were senior citizens,” said the DGHe further informed that a total of 169 members of staff were detected Covid-19 positive, out of which 167 have recovered and currently only two personnel are still positive.“Out of 169 staff members who tested positive, 87 were from Delhi jail staff and 82 from Tamil Nadu special police,” Goel added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-covid-19-positive-case-among-jail-inmates-in-delhi-currently-dg-prisons/story-9gTGzx8q8Lc2uavVFECbaK.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Seeking eight-hour shift, Chandigarh cop moves SC||A head constable working with the Chandigarh police has moved a special leave petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court, seeking eight-hour shift for cops. Taking up the SLP, the apex court has issued a notice to Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana. Head constable Jagjeet Singh, thorough this SLP, had challenged the December 2019 order of Punjab and Haryana high court that dismissed the public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the Chandigarh Police and police heads of Punjab and Haryana to introduce eight-hour shift pattern in all police stations, along with weekly-offs, to ensure efficient and people-friendly policing. Jagjeet Singh had demanded that the recommendations of the Bureau of Police Research and Development, 2006, whereby weekly-offs and fixed duty hours were recommended, be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seeking-8-hour-shift-ut-cop-moves-sc/story-8nlG36DAjZpfV7juVSBE8O.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Light to moderate rain likely to continue in Chandigarh||After 28mm rain on Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that light to moderate rain is likely to continue in the city in the coming days as well.IMD officials said, “Chances of rain are likely to go down on Sunday and only light rain up to 20 mm is expected. However, from Monday, rain up to 50 mm is on the cards. Thunder and gusty winds up to 45 km/h can also be expected in the city.”Due to light spells of rain throughout the day on Friday, the maximum temperature fell down from 32.1°C on Thursday to 29°C on Friday, four degrees below normal. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature fell down from 25.4°C on Thursday to 24.9°C on Friday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 30°C and 31°C while the minimum temperature will hover around 26°C.Sukhna water-level goes upFollowing moderate spells of rain this week, the water-level of Sukhna Lake has increased to 1161.7-ft. A week ago, it had just touched 1160-ft after over 200 mm of rain in two days. The water-level is yet to reach the danger mark of 1163-ft. Officials of the UT administration say they are monitoring the situation. “Floodgates of the lake are opened when the water level touches the 1163-ft mark. This was done last in 2018,” they said. Due to the catchment of the lake, water-level increases significantly more during heavier spells of rain. Due to this, officials said the water-level is unlikely to reach the danger mark in the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-to-moderate-rain-likely-to-continue-in-city/story-IjYAgNDGuGbsk7dgocHM5M.html
21-08-2020||Noida||Noida: 1,839 vehicles challaned, 17 impounded for flouting Covid-19 curbs||One person was arrested and owners of 1,839 vehicles were issued challans across Noida and Greater Noida on Friday over alleged violation of the curbs imposed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, Gautam Buddh Nagar police said.Also, 17 vehicles were impounded for similar violations across the district, which has so far recorded over 6,900 positive cases of Covid-19 including 43 deaths, according to official figures.Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four persons, is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar in view of the pandemic. Security checks were also intensified in view of the lockdown-like curbs over the weekend beginning Friday 10 pm.“One FIR was registered and one person arrested for violating the Covid-19 curbs. A total of 4,728 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 1,839 of them while another 17 were impounded,” the police said in a statement.Altogether, Rs 2,64,300 were collected in fines during the action, the police said.The Noida-Delhi border, which was closed for normal public movement since the outbreak of the coronavirus in March, has been reopened since August 1, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-1-839-vehicles-challaned-17-impounded-for-flouting-covid-19-curbs/story-LdWG9BL5f2nRltpJ1UPJDL.html
21-08-2020||City||Himachal logs 2 fatalities, 190 new cases||DHARAMSHALA: Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally mounted to 4,728 on Friday after 119 more people were found infected with the virus. Of the new cases, 80 were reported in Solan, 23 in Sirmaur, 21 in Chamba, 13 in Kangra, 10 in Bilaspur, eight each in Mandi, Hamirpur and Una, seven in Shimla, and one in Kullu. Active cases in the state stand at 1,422 and 3,234 people have recovered. This is the highest single-day spike in the state. Of the 80 cases reported in Solan most are from the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) belt. Nine cases were reported in Arki, five in Chandi and two in Solan. Among the 23 people found positive in Chamba, five are from Pukhri area, five from Bagdhar and three from Goli. In Mandi, four people tested positive in Sundernagar sub-division, two in Mandi town and one in Baldwara tehsil. In Kangra, four members of a family were among the 13 people who have contracted the disease. Chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said a 40-year-old man from Nagrota Bagwan area, his wife aged 27 and two kids aged nine and four have been found infected. A 36-year-old army jawan has tested positive at Sashastra Seem Bal (SSB) Centre, Sapri in Jawalamukhi. The jawan, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir has a travel history to Uttar Pradesh. Solan is the worst-hit district with 1177 infections followed by Kangra with 652 cases and Sirmaur 584 cases. Hamirpur has 435 cases, Mandi (379), Una (357), Chamba (344), Shimla (260), Kullu (245), Kinnaur (69) and Lahaul-Spiti (6). DEATH TOLL RISES TO 23 Two more people succumbed to the disease in Chamba district on Friday. With this, the death toll in the state has risen to 23. Chamba CMO Dr Rajesh Guleri said a 58-year-old woman from Saher Chini village near Chamba town, who was suffering from severe acute respiratory infections and other comorbid conditions was admitted at Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College on Thursday. She tested positive on Friday and was being shifted to Dedicated Covid Hospital, Dharamshala for further treatment, but died on the way. Another patient, a 84-year-old man with multiple comorbidities, died at his home at Bagdhar village early morning. Later, his sample tested positive for the virus. Himachal has recorded six deaths in last three days—three in Chamba and two in Kangra and one in Solan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-two-fatalities-79-new-covid-19-cases/story-wNjWdIGqMknEMfT82iwk7H.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Six rescued as fire breaks out in commercial building in South Mumbai||Six persons were rescued after a fire broke out at a seven-storey commercial building in south Mumbai on Friday afternoon, officials said.Smoke filled up `Raj Gour’ building outside Masjid Bunder Station (east) as the fire started around 2 pm, said a Fire Brigade official.At least five fire engines reached the spot and the flames were doused within forty-five minutes, he said.Four people including a woman, who had climbed on window grills to save themselves, were rescued from the fourth floor, while a person each was rescued from the second floor and the terrace, he said.“Nobody was reported to be injured,” the official added.An employee of a firm which has an office in the building said the fire started in an electricity meter cabin on the ground floor and spread to upper floors through electric wires.Short circuit may have caused it, fire brigade officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-rescued-as-fire-breaks-out-in-commercial-building-in-south-mumbai/story-xMwUvWXYRN2DgDhaxlPwLO.html
21-08-2020||Noida||Covid-19 mortality rate continues to see drop in Noida||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday recorded 127 new Covid-19 cases which pushed the district’s caseload to 6,901, official data showed.The number of active cases stood at 793, down from 794 on Thursday, 785 on Wednesday and 774 on Tuesday, according to the data released by the state health department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith this, the district dropped to the 15th position in the state in terms of active cases.Also, 126 more patients were discharged. So far, 6,065 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, the third-highest among districts in UP after Lucknow (13,557) and Kanpur Nagar (8,024), the data showed.The district has recorded 43 deaths linked to coronavirus till now and the mortality rate among positive cases reached 0.62 per cent from 0.63 per cent on Thursday, 0.64 per cent on Wednesday and 0.65 per cent on Tuesday, it stated.The recovery rate of patients improved to 87.88 per cent from 87.64 per cent on Thursday and Wednesday, 87.61 per cent on Tuesday and 86.96 per cent on Monday, it added.In Uttar Pradesh, the maximum number of active cases are in Lucknow (6,569) followed by Kanpur Nagar (3,694), Gorakhpur (2,535), Allahabad (2,248), Varanasi (1,753), Bareilly (1,535), Ghaziabad (1,136), Aligarh (1,036), Saharanpur (948), Moradabad (921), Kushinagar (871), Deoria (824), Barabanki (818) and Azamgarh (808).The number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh stood at 47,785 on Friday. So far, 1,26,657 patients have recovered across the state, while the death toll linked to Covid-19 stands at 2,797, according to the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-127-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-tally-to-6-901/story-KsgOIiu8FOCI09JzjolcDI.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Pandemic sets back Chandigarh railway station makeover project by a year||The Chandigarh railway station makeover project is set to be delayed by almost a year as no work has been done for the last six months due to the pandemic outbreak, railway authorities confirmed on Friday. The station was to get a world-class makeover by the end of 2021 but authorities say they are now planning to finish the work by December 2022. During an online interaction, Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC)’s representative to Chandigarh, Balbir Singh, said, “The work has been stalled due to the pandemic. We are hopeful that the work is likely to begin between October and December. It will take two years to finish once it is started, so by December 2022, the makeover of Chandigarh railway station is likely to be finished.” The Rs 136-crore project was awarded to Ludhiana-based Deepak Builders and Engineers Pvt Ltd on October 30, 2019, under the public-private partnership (PPP) model. Under this, the station will be beautified and developed from both sides-- Chandigarh and Panchkula. An ‘air concourse’, on the lines of airport terminals, will also be developed for all six platforms with facilities such as a VIP waiting room, a coffee house, ATM machines, etc. Subways will be put in place to segregate passenger flow and prevent chaos at the station. The station will also have new lights, four new lifts, twelve escalators, baggage scanners and bottle crushing machines. Although a delay is expected, DRM Gurinder Mohan Singh assured that all the facilities that were listed in the earlier contract will still be provided. More CCTVs to come up With the expansion of the railway station, more closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras are likely to come up at the station for better safety. Currently, 35 CCTV cameras are installed at the station but their recordings are of poor quality as per sources. DRM Gurinder Mohan Singh confirmed that by the next financial year, the station will have 80 to 100 cameras in all. “Right now, since many trains aren’t working, installation of CCTV cameras will be done by the next financial year, after services have normalised.” The DRM added that during the lockdown, the Ambala division had achieved additional 23 rakes of vehicle loading from Chandigarh railway station. During the lockdown, upto July, the division had been able to increase the revenue from Rs 829.92 crore last year to Rs 944.52 crore this year while they were able to reduce their expenditure upto July from Rs 610.36 crore last year to Rs 530.25 crore this year. As many as 144 Shramik Special trains were run by the division during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pandemic-sets-back-chandigarh-railway-station-makeover-project-by-a-year/story-Er5CWxGwEScuSoL1s2dtBP.html
21-08-2020||Noida||Noida’s Covid-19 tally nearing 7,000; 127 fresh cases reported||As many as 127 people on Friday tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in Gautam Budh Nagar, taking the total number of cases in the district to 6,901, according to official data. The total Covid-19 cases include 793 active cases, over 6,000 recoveries and 43 deaths, data released by the Uttar Pradesh health department showed. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicGautam Buddh Nagar further dropped to 15th position in terms of active cases and recorded third highest recoveries in UP after Lucknow and Kanpur Nagar, as per the data. The recovery rate improved to 87.88 per cent from 87.64 per cent on Thursday and mortality rate among positive cases dropped to 0.62 per cent from 0.63 per cent on Thursday, the health bulletin showed. According to the union health ministry’s dashboard, Uttar Pradesh has registered 48,511 Covid-19 cases till now. More than 120,000 have been discharged or cured and the death toll has reached 2,733. Also read| Explained: How Covid-19 pandemic has impacted daily commute to officeIndia on Friday recorded nearly 69,000 Covid-19 cases and 983 deaths, taking the country’s tally to over 2.9 million. This is the third day in a row that the daily coronavirus tally has been more than 64,000. (with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-covid-19-tally-nearing-7-000-127-fresh-cases-reported/story-HbueFQQXbWIQ3Tfw1fdRmK.html
21-08-2020||City||Social activist booked for hurting religious sentiments||Police have booked a social activist for allegedly hurting religious sentiments.Baljinder Singh Jindu, who runs a “non-profit” chemist shop, “Guru Nanak Modikhana”, near Old Session Chowk, has been booked on the complaint of Ritesh Raja, general secretary of Shiv Sena, Punjab.Jindu was in news last month after his video clips on the alleged fleecing of customers by chemists went viral. In the videos, he had claimed that chemists sold medicines at inflated MRPs after sourcing them for much lesser price. Raja alleged that in a Facebook live session on August 20, Jindu used derogatory language against Hindu deities, hurting the sentiments of the Hindu community.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO, Division Number 8 police station, said a case under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information and Technology Act had been registered against Jindu. On Friday, members of the Shiv Sena, Punjab, led by chairman Rajiv Tandon and Mahant Dinesh Puri met commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal seeking Jindu’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-activist-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/story-oxzeAN57tdUjxZZpJXsz0J.html
21-08-2020||City||Speeding vehicles kill biker, cyclist in separate mishaps in Ludhiana||Speeding vehicles claimed two lives in separate accidents on Thursday.A 28-year-old motorcyclist was killed after a truck ran over him on Dhandran Road.The deceased, Rajat Sharma, was a resident of Ashok Nagar.His brother, Rohit Kumar Sharma, told the police that Rajat was returning home after dropping his wife at school on Thursday. On the way, a truck hit him from behind and mowed him down before he could react.Passers-by rushed a grievously injured Rajat to a local hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries.The truck driver fled the spot, leaving his vehicle behind. He has been identified as Tara Chand of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar.ASI Ranjit Singh from Sadar police, who is investigating the case, said Chand had been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts are on to arrest him.In the second mishap, a speeding Mahindra Bolero ran over a 56-year-old bicyclist near Sherpur Khurd. The deceased, Madhav Parsad, was a resident of Bal Singh Nagar of Daba.According to his son, Lakshman Parsad, Madhav was on his way to the factory he worked at. As he reached near Sherpur Khurd, a Mahindra Bolero crashed into his cycle, killing him on the spot and drove off. Investigation officer ASI Charan Singh said the car driver was identified as Sushil Kumar of Transport Nagar. He has been booked under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC at the Moti Nagar police station. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speeding-vehicles-kill-biker-cyclist-in-separate-mishaps-in-ludhiana/story-GCSVqIPvKArYZJSglO4bbI.html
21-08-2020||City||Kapurthala without a single bed to treat critical covid-19 patients||Kapurthala Even as the last one-and-a-half-month has recorded a spike in the number of covid-19 patients in the district from 98 to 781 and in deaths, due to the disease, from five to 30, the government hospital here does not have the required infrastructure to treat critical patients. Consequently, residents have been left with no other option, but to rush to neighbouring Amritsar and Jalandhar districts for treatment.The district health department has 100 beds in the isolation ward of the civil hospital and 100 in the PTU for level-1 and level-2 patients only, and the district does not have any level-3 bed to treat critical patients.Level 1 is for patients requiring advanced respiratory support alone or monitoring and support for two or more organ systems; Level 2 for patients requiring more detailed observation or intervention including support for a single failing organ system or post-operative care and those ‘stepping down’ from higher levels of care and Level 3 for critical and in need of ICU and ventilator, including pregnant and aged patients.As on date, only 88 patients are being treated at government hospital in the district, 152 are in home isolation, but many prefer to take treatment from private hospitals in Jalandhar. The district has reported 110 positive cases over the seven days. Over the same period, seven deaths have been reported, of which six were being treated at Jalandhar private hospitals.Most of 30 patients who have died, to date, were over 50, and had co-morbidities. A senior doctor said many died due to not getting timely treatment, as a critical patient needs attention on ventilators equipped with two high-flow nasal oxygen therapy machines, multi-para monitors, pulse oximeters, infusion pumps and suction machines. “On August 19, a 54-year-old man died at the isolation ward of the hospital on August 19,” the doctor added. District nodal officer Dr Sandeep Dhawan admitted that the district does not have any level-3 bed. “We have tied-up with Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, and critical patients are sent there,” he added. Civil surgeon Jasmeet Kaur Bawa could not be reached for comments, despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kapurthala-without-a-single-bed-to-treat-critical-covid-19-patients/story-0pAubR795cCOULEwaTceGO.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s monsoon session: Not more than two people to accompany ministers: Speaker||In the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, the Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly has capped the number of personnel that will be allowed to accompany ministers during the 12-day monsoon session that is scheduled to commence from September 7.Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar while chairing a meeting of the press gallery committee on Friday, said, “Ministers will not be allowed to bring more than two personnel to Vidhan Sabha sessions. Only 34 media personnel will be allowed to sit in the gallery.”  Only 400 people, including ministers, legislators, media personnel, security personnel and government officers will be issued passes for the session. Usually, 2,000 passes are provided. The Vidhan Sabha is already installing polycarbonate scratch-free sheets to divide the benches of legislators as part of precautionary measures to check the spread of Covid-19. All those on official duty will be provided masks and sanitisers. Besides, thermal scanners will be installed at all entry gates. Parmar said the Vidhan Sabha secretariat has already received questions that are likely to be raised during the session . “From the notices and the questions received so far it is evident that all members are keen to raise questions pertaining to their constituencies, particularly in light of the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-monsoon-session-not-more-than-two-people-to-accompany-ministers-speaker/story-9G6GYO2NJ1orYsa7t8NbgK.html
21-08-2020||City||Pre-wedding shoot at Kelwe beach, 17 booked||Around 17 people from Malad and Borivli have been booked by Kelwe Coastal police for conducting a pre-wedding video shoot at Kelwe beach on Friday. Locals had objected to the shoot citing the restrictions imposed by the Palghar district collector. However as the group continued with the shoot, locals alerted the police. No arrest has been made in the case.Assistant inspection Mansinh Patil, Kelwe police station, said the group, which included the bride and groom along with their family members, had come in their personal vehicles. “After we were informed about the incident, we reached the spot and warned them. We also booked them under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infectious disease), 188 (disobedience to order issued by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. We have asked them to be present before Palghar court after the charge sheet is filed,” said Patil.District collector Dr Kailash Shinde has restricted the movement of people near water bodies, including rivers, dams, sea, waterfalls and beaches in Palghar. Barricades have also been put up near dams and waterfalls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pre-wedding-shoot-at-kelwe-beach-17-booked/story-AHoG8zu4okvaZJQeDhn95N.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal hands over Rs 1 cr cheque to kin of sanitation worker who died of Covid-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday handed a cheque of Rs 1 crore to the family of Raju, a sanitation worker who died due to Covid-19 while being on duty.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhile speaking to the reporters, the Delhi Chief Minister said, “He (Raju) died while serving the people. We are proud of all such Covid warriors.”According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 11,271 active cases in the national capital.On Wednesday, Kejriwal gave an ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore to the family of firefighter Amit Balyan, who died in a fire incident in Peeragarhi earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-hands-over-rs-1-cr-cheque-to-kin-of-sanitation-worker-who-died-of-covid-19/story-6sSn94rkZMtbnWZcpo89MI.html
21-08-2020||City||Ensure active participation of locals in important works: HP forest minister to officials||Himachal Pradesh forest minister Rakesh Pathania on Friday directed officials to ensure active participation of locals in important and ambitious works including forest ecosystem management and livelihood improvement.During a discussion at the headquarters of the “Project for Improvement of Himachal Pradesh Forest Ecosystems Management and Livelihoods” at Potters Hill here, Pathania said equal and active participation of women is a must while moving forward towards increasing green cover and sustainable development of the state. This was his first visit to the project headquarters after assuming charge of state forest ministry. The Rs 800-crore project has been funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). It is being implemented as part of Indo-Japan cooperation. Appreciating the efforts of the project management, Pathania said he will also visit the project areas to take stock of activities. He exhorted the staff to accelerate pace of project implementation and said the target was to increase the green cover of the state from the current 27.2% to 30% by 2030. He added that the project will contribute significantly in achieving this goal. He said 61 nurseries of the forest department had been strengthened with the support of this project. “Due to this, the capacity of nurseries had increased by 3.5 million plants,” he added.Pathania said saplings will be planted on 1,631 hectares of land during current financial year. He said to improve livelihood of forest dependent communities, they will be allowed to cultivate medicinal and aromatic plants on forest land in addition to private land.Turning to the goals and objectives of the project, Pathania said the emphasis will be on sustainable forest ecosystem management and augmentation, biodiversity conservation, livelihood improvement support and institutional capacity building and strengthening. He said the project will prove to be a milestone in the direction of social and economic development and environmental conservation with active participation of locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-active-participation-of-locals-in-important-works-hp-forest-minister-to-officials/story-6UKxvrP1yvnaOlfpfiJ8BN.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC asks cops to show videos of Pinjra Tod member making instigating speeches||The Delhi High Court Friday asked Delhi Police to show the videos of a member of Pinjra Tod group, a women’s collective, allegedly making instigating speeches during the communal violence in northeast Delhi early this year.The police, however, said they do not have the videos of the time when the group’s member Devangana Kalita, a JNU student, was allegedly making instigating speeches during the riots incident.The police said it has the videos of her allegedly instigating people before the riots took place on February 24 and 25 and also of February 22 and 23 when a large gathering was sitting and protesting outside Jafrabad metro station in northeast Delhi against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).While hearing the arguments on Kalita’s bail plea in a case related to the communal violence in Delhi during protests against the CAA, Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said, “Show me any portion of the speech recorded by the media or anyone else which showed that Kalita instigated the mob to commit the crime.” During that period, the media was everywhere and recording everything, the court said.“I want to know what she said which instigated the mob,” the judge said.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) S V Raju, appearing for the police, said there was no media on February 25 when the incident happened and the witness accounts showed Kalita’s role in instigating the mob.When the law officer stated that Kalita’s call detail records showed her location to be that spot, the judge said even she has admitted that she was there.“It was well planned and organised at a time when US President Donald Trump was to come here. It was done to damage the image of the country. Public property was destroyed and a large number of people were injured and one person died,” the ASG argued while opposing the bail plea.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing Kalita, said the police was not showing any instigation or speeches allegedly given by her but was only relying on statements of others recorded under the CrPC.The counsel shared a video with the court to show that the police were recording the protest and said the officials were still not showing any videos to the court. “Accused in not a politician. She is an academician and a research scholar. She has already been granted bail in two cases. Let the police show us the video and the hate speech. The police are not showing us that there is any possibility of her fleeing from justice,” Sibal submitted.The high court, after hearing the arguments, reserved its order on the plea challenging a trial court’s order which had dismissed Kalita’s bail application.During the hearing, the ASG said it was a case where a large number of persons were involved and it is not possible that everyone comes in video footage and the evidence showed that Kalita was involved in the riots.Countering Sibal’s arguments, he said the academic record of a person is not required for considering bail and it is the nature of the offence which is required to be seen for bail and whether she can tamper with the evidence.“Others are poor illiterate ladies who were instigated to turn violent. They were given false statements. It was a case of conspiracy and violation of section 144 CrPC order. Poor people were misled by her that they will be thrown out of the country,” Raju contended.He added “they are very clever operators. She is educated and knows the law, so she also knows how to evade the law. It is a very case.” When the court asked the investigating officer in the case whether he had recorded the speech given by Kalita, he said there was a mob of 10,000 people and even media persons were not there and that she was making the statement a kilometre away.“If she was 1 km away, how did you manage to hear what she was saying,” the judge asked.To this, the IO replied the SHO who had gone near Kalita had heard her making an instigating speech.Kalita and another member of the group Natasha Narwal were arrested in the case in May by the Crime Branch of the Delhi police and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder.They have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law - Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case related to the communal violence, for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.In all, four cases have been registered against her, including in relation to the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year and violence in old Delhi’s Daryaganj area during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December last year.Kalita has secured bail in two cases -- Daryaganj and one northeast Delhi matter. On June 14, a trial court had dismissed Kalita’s bail plea on the ground that there was no merit in the application and that it was amply clear from the charge sheet that the investigation was still pending and it has been filed against other accused persons also Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-cops-to-show-videos-of-pinjra-tod-member-making-instigating-speeches/story-HzmG47v7LHVk29PeO5R9GN.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 negative report must for entry to Punjab assembly||Chandigarh: Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana KP Singh has put in place a detailed precautionary protocol for the one-day monsoon session on August 28, making a Covid-19 negative test report must for entry. Rana KP Singh said that the latest Covid-19 negative report will be mandatory for ministers, legislators, officers, security personnel and staff of Vidhan Sabha to attend the assembly session. The 117-member Vidhan Sabha will meet for the first time since the Covid outbreak. No visitors will be allowed to witness the proceedings. THREE-DAY COVID TESTING CAMP The 12th session of the state assembly has been summoned by governor VP Singh Badnore amid the Covid-19 pandemic to fulfil the constitutional obligation that there should not be a gap of more than six months between two sessions. Covid-19 cases, which are seeing a constant spike, have almost doubled to 38,000 in the past 16 days in the state with one minister, the deputy speaker and some MLAs contracting the virus in the past one week. “The MLAs will have the option to get their coronavirus test conducted in their respective districts or at a three-day camp to be held at MLA Hostel in Chandigarh from August 25 to 27,” an assembly official said. The health department and deputy commissioners have been asked to make arrangements for Covid-19 tests of legislators in districts accordingly. ONLY 20% OF HOUSE STAFF TO BE CALLED The Vidhan Sabha has decided to deploy only 20% of its staff for essential duties and a special camp will be held outside the assembly building to test them for coronavirus. The state government has been asked to deploy only those officers who are required in connection with bills to be taken up when the House conducts legislative business. The official said the House has adequate seating capacity with 105 desks, each meant for two members, but one desk will be assigned to each member to maintain the required social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-negative-report-must-for-entry-to-punjab-assembly/story-AhlQNroMLtocNgfnkogCHK.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||NCB seizes 3,056 ecstasy pills smuggled to Mumbai from Belgium in soft toy parcel||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in Mumbai busted an international drug racket and seized 3,056 tablets of methyl​enedioxy​methamphetamine (MDMA), commonly known as ecstasy. The high-quality part drug was illegally trafficked from Belgium to Mumbai by concealing them in false cavities of parcel cartons of soft toys.NCB investigations have also revealed that the ecstasy was meant to be sold for drug parties in Mumbai. A couple has also been arrested by NCB in connection with the drug racket. The Central anti-narcotics agency said that this is the largest seizure of ecstasy by NCB.According to NCB officers, acting on specific inputs, the Mumbai zonal unit, under the supervision of zonal director Ugam Dan Charan, on August 10 seized a total of 3,010 of MDMA pills, weighing around 969 grams, from a parcel containing soft toys at DHL Express India (P) Ltd, Goregaon (West).Further probe revealed that the drugs were sourced from Belgium. Unlike previous traditional methods in which drugs are hidden inside soft toys, this time the smugglers concealed them inside a false cavity in the cardboard box containing the consignment.During the investigation, the NCB team arrested a couple from Navi Mumbai and recovered 46 tablets (17.5 grams) of MDMA from their residence. H Choudhary and R Batharey had sourced the drug from Brussels, Belgium. They were arrested under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. They were remanded in judicial custody by a Mumbai court.“The ecstasy pills which were in different colours – orange, pink and green – were meant for supply in the party circuits of Mumbai,” said an NCB officer.Deputy director (operations) of NCB, KPS Malhotra said that the agency suspects links of Central European drug traffickers in the racket. “The seized drug is of high quality and it was meant for drug parties. From the findings of the investigation so far, we believe that the racket was using crypto-currency to fund the transfers,” Malhotra said.“The arrested couple would send the drugs to party organisers in India. We investigated the links of this case to the wider syndicate trafficking supply of party drugs into India,” he added.In a statement, NCB said that as per United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) World Drug Report 2020, ecstasy continues to be manufactured primarily in Europe, most notably in Western and Central Europe. Europe accounts for two-thirds of the ecstasy laboratories dismantled worldwide.“The total quantity of ecstasy seized worldwide has doubled over the period 2009-2018. This is also reflected in the rapidly increasing popularity of such synthetic drugs in India,” NCB stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-seizes-3-056-ecstasy-pills-smuggled-to-mumbai-from-belgium-in-soft-toy-parcel/story-mC0G0ceEH2A3WmJLsoAeoJ.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Oval Maidan-sized green cover wiped out from Thane creek section over 10 years: Report||A nine-hectare (ha) green cover, which is around the size of South Mumbai’s Oval Maidan, has been wiped out over the past decade from a section of the Thane creek in the densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).A comparative decadal study, using satellite images, conducted between April 2010 and April 2020 for the Kolshet creek area, adjacent to Kolshet village and Balkum pipeline, located on Vasai creek, which meets Ulhas river and is a part of the Thane creek, has revealed a loss of 9.43 ha green cover.The authorities, who carried out the study, have attributed the green cover loss to debris dumping, encroachments, dumping of plastic and hazardous waste.The loss of mangroves, along with other vegetation, rings alarm bells for Thane, including flooding concerns, according to Muse Foundation, an environmental group that released the report on Thursday.The group submitted their findings to Maharashtra government’s mangrove cell and Bombay high court (HC)-appointed mangroves conservation committee.Stalin D, a member of the HC-appointed committee, said the matter would be taken up during its next meeting.The report, which called for restoring the green patch, highlighted the altered land use and land cover changes and raised concerns over the ecological damage. It identified the alarming scale of encroachments and debris dumping on the site with photographic evidence.“These mangroves are extremely important to Thane due to current climatic conditions and frequent flooding. In the past, Kolshet had reported major flooding because of a swollen Thane creek,” said Nishant Bangera, founder, Muse Foundation.The report pointed out instances of debris being covered by mud and letting weeds grow in a bid to evade surveillance of authorities.The stretch is covered with waste because heaps of plastic from Thane city are routinely washed through the streams.“The debris also consists of construction and biomedical waste, broken liquor bottles and other hazardous waste materials. Encroachments, ranging from shanties to recycling plants, are also threatening the local biodiversity,” said Bangera.He pointed out that the encroachments increased during the recent coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions.In September 2018, Bombay HC had banned mangrove destruction along the Maharashtra coastline and stopped any construction within 50 metres from the trees. “We will investigate the submissions made in the report. However, the majority of Thane mangrove patches, except for Bhiwandi (600 ha), falls under the revenue department or the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) jurisdiction. It needs to be handed over to us for better security,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) (mangrove cell).Rohit Joshi, a member of the Thane district wetland committee, said the site was slated to be developed by TMC under its waterfront project.Joshi had filed a petition before the HC against the project but the court had rejected his submission last September. “Development work in low-lying areas, including Kolshet, near the creek has resulted in submergence during heavy rains causing great risk to both human lives and properties. This year, too, these sites were flooded again due to random ecological destruction,” said Joshi.A TMC executive engineer said the waterfront project was the solution to alleged environmentally destructive activities at the site. “We have planned the waterfront, spread over 2.5 ha at Kolshet, along with seven other such locations in Thane on government land for local residents to use open spaces such as mangrove trail, small promenades, playgrounds, among other facilities. At least 50% of the area will have fresh mangrove plantations. We will ensure that encroachments and debris dumping are stopped forthwith to make way for these projects,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/oval-maidan-sized-green-cover-wiped-out-from-thane-creek-section-over-10-years-report/story-kdUpHNy6MYZ4xSspHWhNFM.html
21-08-2020||Jaipur||BJP panchayat representative goes missing in Barmer||A pradhan, the head of a block-level panchayat body, is missing from Rajasthan’s Barmer district since Tuesday (August 18), according to a report registered with the police on Friday.Anand Sharma, superintendent of police (SP), Barmer, said the father of Pinki Choudhary, the pradhan of Samdari panchayat samiti, filed a missing person’s report on Friday.“Choudhary has been married for eight years and has two children. On Tuesday, she had left her matrimonial home for her parents’ place, but didn’t reach there,” the SP said.“ We have started looking for her after the missing person’s report was filed,” the SP added. Choudhary, who belongs to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had won the panchayat elections in December 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bjp-panchayat-representative-goes-missing-in-barmer/story-qupuKden9rsKOjdz9rGQLK.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai, neighbouring areas likely to receive ‘heavy to very heavy’ rains in next 24 hours: IMD||Mumbai and neighbouring districts of Thane, Raighar and Palghar are likely to receive “heavy to very heavy” rainfall in the next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.An orange warning has been issued for the Vidarbha region for the next 48 hours, Deputy Director General of the IMD (Mumbai), KS Hosalikar, said.Mumbai and Thane earlier received widespread “moderate to heavy” rainfall over a period of 24 hours which ended at 8:30 am on Friday.As per the IMD, Matheran observatory in the adjoining Raigad district recorded 122.20 mm rainfall during the same time period.Also read: Why did Mumbai flood this year too? BMC to find outThe Alibaug weather station in Raigad recorded 49 mm rain, while Ratnagiri district in the coastal Konkan region received 83.6 mm rainfall, the weather department added.On the other hand, Colaba weather bureau, representative of Mumbai’s island city, recorded 63.2 mm rainfall and the Santacruz observatory, representative of Mumbai’s suburbs, reported 31mm.Heavy rainfall was recorded in Mumbai two weeks back, which led to severe waterlogging in several areas of the capital city of Maharashtra. Waterlogging was reported at nine prominent locations, four locations in the eastern suburbs and three in the western suburbs. Also read| Highest monsoon rain of the season recorded last week: IMDIn the aftermath of this, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) decided to appoint a technical consultant who would be responsible for studying the reasons for waterlogging, design of roads and stormwater drains and provide adequate solutions.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-neighbouring-areas-likely-to-receive-heavy-to-very-heavy-rains-in-next-24-hours-imd/story-7vHc3bZKxr4tCs9vOUV9cP.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh govt transfers two IAS and four HPAS officers||The Himachal Pradesh government has transferred two Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers and four Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officers. A notification issued by chief secretary Anil Kumar Khachi on Thursday evening said that Ajay Kumar Yadav, a 2018-batch IAS officer, has been posted as the sub divisional officer (SDO), civil, Solan, while Saurabh Jassal, also from the IAS batch of 2018, has been transferred as the SDO of Theog in Shimla district. The HPAS officers transferred include additional district magistrate (ADM), Kangra, Mast Ram, who has been posted as director, Himachal Pradesh Revenue Training Institute, Jogindernagar, relieving Mandi deputy commissioner Rugved Thakur of the additional charge. SDO, civil, Solan, Rohit Rathour has been posted as the ADM, Kangra, at Dharamshala. Assistant settlement officer, Kullu, Amit Guleria will now be SDO, civil, Kullu, and SDO, civil, Theog, Krishan Kumar Sharma has been transferred as SDO, civil, Jawali in Kangra district. Land acquisition officer, Parvati Project, Kullu, Bhag Chand Negi has been handed over additional charge of assistant settlement officer, Kullu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-govt-transfers-two-ias-and-four-hpas-officers/story-UBUkCVi4oT8CSBgsKrJy5I.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Widening of Parwanoo-Solan highway in Himachal hits Covid hurdle, set to miss second deadline||The National Highway 22 four-laning project between Parwanoo and Solan is set to miss its extended deadline of September 30, 2020, chiefly due to lack of coordination among the multiple agencies executing it. Though the widening of the highway is meant to curtail the travel time to Shimla, work has been in slow progress on the 40-km stretch after hitting roadblocks, the latest being the labour shortage amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Though we haven’t set a new deadline but we hope to complete the work by December-end. The labour shortage due to the coronavirus crisis has hit progress,” says National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) regional officer GSS Sangha. “There were around 1,200 workers deployed on the project, but even now many migrant labourers, who left for their native places amid the pandemic, have not returned,” says Sangha. 88% OF EXPANSION COMPLETE IN STAGE 1 NHAI had allocated the four-laning work on the 40-km stretch connecting Himachal Pradesh’s Parwanoo and Solan towns to GR Infra Projects Limited but lack of coordination between different agencies has delayed the project that was to be completed by September-end. This despite 88% of the work on the expansion of the stretch already completed. Work on the project started on September 21, 2015, and was scheduled to be completed on March 21, 2018. But due to hurdles, the next date of completion of the project was fixed for September 30, 2020. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 748.7 crore for the first stage. HURDLES ON THE WAY The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had halted the felling of trees for the highway widening, while the loose strata of soil in areas where the cutting had taken place led to landslides, hampering the project. The lack of coordination in getting permission for approach roads to the 681-metre flyover in Kumarhatti added to the delay. Land acquisition for 300 metres of stretch on both sides of the flyover was also delayed. At present, work is underway at snail’s pace on the road over the 160-metre bridge near the Timber Trail resort road junction. ONLY 18% WORK DONE IN STAGE 2 Work on the second stage of the project’s 23-km stretch from Solan to Kaithlighat was awarded to Ms Airef Engineer Private Limited and Parkash Esphaltings and Toll Highways Limited on March 28, 2018. The company started work in November that year and is scheduled to complete the Rs 598-crore four-laning by May 2021. So far, only 18% of the work on the project has been completed. There is a proposal to build a 460-metre tunnel and 368-metre flyover in Kandaghat. But the government is yet to allot a dumping site for debris being extracted for the road widening. Work on the 27.5-metre road stretch between Kaithlighat and Dhalli has been hit after the government terminated the concessionaire agreement in 2019 even though the agreement for work was reached with M/s Shiv Valley Highways Limited. The Himachal Pradesh government plans to enhance amenities along the highway between Parwanoo and Shimla. There is a proposal to construct shopping malls along the highway. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the public works department charge, has directed the NHAI to complete the project by the year-end. WORK IN PROGRESS September 21, 2015: Work on the 40-km Parwanoo-Solan four-laning project starts. March 21, 2018: Initial deadline for project to be completed. March 28, 2018: Work on second stage for 23-km stretch from Solan to Kaithlighat allotted. September 30, 2020: Extended deadline for completion of project that is set to be missed, too. COST FACTOR Estimated cost of project’s stage 1: Rs 748.7 crore Estimated cost of stage 2: Rs 598 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/widening-of-parwanoo-solan-highway-in-himachal-hits-covid-hurdle-set-to-miss-second-deadline/story-wpfNPDHU1qKqfVO70lbavL.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Supreme Court dismisses bail plea of Tarn Taran blast case accused||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the bail application of Malkit Singh alias Shera, one of the accused in connection with the blast that took place in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district in September last year. A bench headed by Justice NV Ramana dismissed the plea saying it cannot grant bail to the accused. The accused, Malkit Singh, had earlier applied for bail on health grounds in the Punjab and Haryana high court and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Mohali, both of which were dismissed by the respective courts. Before the NIA court, he had sought bail contending that he was falsely implicated and that he was a patient of diabetes. The prosecution had submitted before the NIA court that during the course of investigation, incriminating role of the accused had emerged and that he was highly radicalised towards the Khalistan movement and he was part of a gang that had planned terrorist activities. The NIA court observed that evidence pointed to the accused was an active member of the pro-Khalistan terrorist gang, adding that it was of the opinion that there was sufficient ground for believing that accusation against the applicant/accused is prima facie true. The NIA had in March this year filed a chargesheet against nine accused in connection with Tarn Taran blast case before a special NIA court. Two persons were killed and one was injured in the blast, which took place in Tarn Taran on September 4 last year, when the victims were reportedly digging a pit to retrieve a concealed explosive consignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/supreme-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-tarn-taran-blast-case-accused/story-qkGPGFTzpMOAaTmlTvsgNO.html
21-08-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt to table 17 important Bills in Assembly on Saturday||The Uttar Pradesh government would table 17 important Bills in the state assembly on Saturday and it is expected to be approved instantly.These 17 Bills were slated to be tabled on Friday but due to death of a BJP member Janmejay Singh, the assembly was adjourned for the day and all the agenda have been shifted to Saturday.Official sources here on Friday said the government is prepared to bring these bills and is ready to reply to any queries of the members.The state government had implemented major ordinances after the outbreak of Covid-19, related to the postponement of MLA funds, cuts in the salary of ministers and legislators and preventing attacks on frontline workers.The ordinances brought by the state government are required to get the approval of the Legislature under constitutional obligation. After the passage of the Bill, the Governor will also have to approve them, after which they will be considered as finalised.In March this year, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel had promulgated an ordinance for recovery of damages to public and private properties from rioters and protesters, and to provide the setting-up of tribunals to adjudicate claims for damages and recover them. As per the statement of object and reasons (SOR) of the ordinance, it aims at dealing with “all acts of violence at public places and to control its persistence and escalation, and to provide for the recovery of damage to public or private property during hartal, bundh, riots, public commotion or protests.”The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet had approved the ordinance on March 13, a day after a vacation bench of the apex court, comprising justices UU Lalit and Aniruddha Bose, refused to stay the Allahabad High Court’s order for removal of the government’s anti-CAA stir, name-and-shame posters. While hearing an urgent plea by the state government seeking a stay of the high court order, the apex court had refused to grant relief to the government saying that there was no law to support its action.After various incidents of assaults on healthcare workers emerged in the state, the amendment to the Epidemic Act 1987 was done to ensure stricter punishment for those harassing coronavirus frontline workers, which includes doctors, paramedical staff, police personnel and sanitation personnel. Spitting on any worker is also considered an offence under this.Meanwhile, in the month of June earlier this year, the BJP government had approved the Cow-Slaughter Prevention (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The amendment calls for stricter punishment for violators and allows the publication of pictures of the accused in prominent spots in the city. It also permits the prosecution of the driver and owner of the vehicle, which was used to carry a cow for the purpose of slaughter.A cabinet meeting chaired by CM Yogi Adityanath approved the amendment to Section 5A of the UP Cow Slaughter Prevention Act 1955. It penalises cow slaughter with jail terms ranging from a minimum of one year to a maximum of 10 years and imposes monetary fines between Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh.The new law will also allow the recovery of expenses incurred on the maintenance of recovered cows till they are released to their owners or for a time period of one year, whichever is earlier. The amendment to the Act also makes space for a provision that allows the denial of bail to the accused unless the special prosecutor gets a chance to oppose it.Other key bills that are to be presented during the session include -- Contingency Fund (Amendment) Bill 2020; Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Second (Amendment) Bill 2020; Uttar Pradesh State Legislature Members Achievements and Pension (Amendment) Bill 2020; and the Uttar Pradesh Public Health and Epidemic Disease Control Bill 2020.Some bills related to labour law and industrial management will also be tabled in the assembly, namely, the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Bill 2020; Uttar Pradesh Factory Disputes (Amendment) Bill 2020; Uttar Pradesh Industrial Area Development (Amendment) Bill 2020 and Temporary Exemption from Certain Labor Laws (Amendment) Bill 2020.The Prisons Act 1894 (Amendment) Bill 2020; Prison Uttar Pradesh (Amendment) Bill, 2020 will also be tabled. Meanwhile, the Value Added Tax Amendment Bill 2020; Ministerial Pay Allowance, and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Bill 2020; Agricultural Produce Market (Amendment) Bill 2020; Uttar Pradesh Govt Prevention (Amendment) Bill 2020; Uttar Pradesh Self-financed Independent Schools (Fee Regulation) (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Prison Uttar Pradesh (Amendment) Bill, 2020, will too be put forth for approval in the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-table-17-important-bills-in-assembly-on-saturday/story-xY45XdnPssCQHjiB9TjogJ.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Girl, brother die as roof collapses after rain in Punjab’s Abohar town||Bathinda: A 12-year-old girl and her 10-year-old brother died when the roof of their house collapsed due to heavy rain in Abohar town on Thursday night. Police said the family of daily wager Rinku was asleep when the incident occurred at Jammu Basti. The parents and their youngest child, Sahil, 8, were injured and undergoing treatment at the civil hospital in Abohar. The children who died were identified as Nisha and Aman. Sahil’s condition was stated to be serious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/girl-brother-die-as-roof-collapses-after-rain-in-punjab-s-abohar-town/story-M3Lz71kvZbmna8umWbUvRL.html
21-08-2020||Patna||9 personnel deployed for Lalu Prasad Yadav’s security test positive for Covid||Nine security personnel deployed for the security of RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav have tested positive for Covid-19. “Nine security personnel deployed for Lalu Prasad’s security, have tested positive for Covid-19. The security personnel have been removed from their duties,” Dr Umesh Prasad, physician of RJD chief said.“The Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) has requested concerned authorities to deploy nine new security personnel,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/9-personnel-deployed-for-lalu-prasad-yadav-s-security-test-positive-for-covid/story-BadxFnMlDrElbTi0VnDoZP.html
21-08-2020||Jaipur||Uproar in Rajasthan assembly over issue of Covid management, House adjourned thrice||The Rajashtan assembly on Friday witnessed uproar during a debate on Covid-19 management and economic impact of lockdown leading to repeated adjournment of the proceedings.Health Minister Raghu Sharma opened the debate and highlighted the management of Covid-19 done by the state government and efforts to strengthen health infrastructure. Speaking on the debate after the minister, BJP MLA Kalicharan Saraf accused the Congress government of distributing ration and food kits among its supporters.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic The charge invited a sharp reaction from Parliament Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal. The House saw heated arguments between Transport Minister Pratap Singh and Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria. Amid the uproar, the House was adjourned for 30 minutes. When the House reassembled, the uproar continued and Chairperson Rajendra Pareek adjourned the House for another 15 minutes. Immediately after the House reassembled after 15 minutes, the chairperson announced another adjournment till 2 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/uproar-in-rajasthan-assembly-over-issue-of-covid-management-house-adjourned-thrice/story-PZ5Bp3uMKyNSwF8MEPp6rK.html
21-08-2020||Kolkata||Cancer patient, father die in Bengal car accident; four critically injured||An 18-year-old cancer patient and her father died while three other members of their family and the driver were critically injured when the car they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Thursday. The family was on their way back from Kolkata, where the teenager was undergoing treatment. Their relatives said the car was speeding as the family wanted to return home before the beginning of the 48-hour statewide Covid-19 lockdown from 6 am on Thursday.The accident took place around 4.30 am at the Dak Bungalow intersection on NH-34 at Dhulian, barely two kilometres from the family’s home.The relatives of Saidul Islam, 50, a resident of Tinpakuria village, said he went to Kolkata two days ago for the follow-up treatment of his younger daughter, Nadiba Tabassum. Tabassum, a high school student, was detected with cancer a few months ago and was being treated at a private hospital. Tabassum’s sister, brother and mother also accompanied them to Kolkata.Islam’s wife, Nasima Bibi, elder daughter Nurain Sultana, son Asif Hossain and the driver were admitted to Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in a critical condition. Islam and Tabassum died on the spot.An officer from Shamserganj police station said, “We have learnt that the car was moving at high speed. We suspect that the driver dozed off and rammed into the parked truck.”Altaf Hossain, a relative of the family, said, “Saidul Islam was unaware that there would be a state-wide lockdown on Thursday and Friday. He had initially planned to return to Murshidabad on Friday. On Wednesday, we told him about the lockdown. It appears that Saidul decided to come home before the lockdown started to avoid running into trouble with police. Apparently, he was ignorant of the fact people travelling for medical emergency are exempted from the restrictions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cancer-patient-father-die-in-bengal-car-accident-four-critically-injured/story-85kbgktyFUid7RL2eluuJL.html
21-08-2020||Patna||Nothing has changed in Bihar in the last 15 years: Chirag Paswan||Chirag Paswan, Lok Jan Shakti Party president and a Member of Parliament from Bihar’s Jamui constituency, has been vocal in his criticism of the Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government, even though his party is an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). He pulls no punches in criticising the Bihar government for its alleged failure to take adequate measures in tackling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the annual flood woes. He maintains that the upcoming assembly polls, slated to be held in October-November, should not be a priority. In an interview to HT, he said he has conveyed his concerns about holding elections to pick a new assembly to both the Election Commission of India (ECI) as well as the NDA allies. Edited excerpts from the interview: Your party is an ally of the NDA. Yet, there seems to be a disconnect between the LJP and the Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), and there are disagreements on some issues. There is a lot of disagreement between the LJP and the JD(U). The basis of my disagreement is that a lot of promises were made to Bihar that were not delivered. Consider the present scenario. Bihar is facing dual challenges such as the unprecedented Covid-19 outbreak and the annual flood fury that have affected a lot of people. It is a matter of grave concern the way the state machinery is working. I expected my chief minister and my government to perform better and to deliver more, but he (Kumar) has disappointed us all. What has disappointed you the most? Because the government claims it has reached out to people who were stranded during the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions, it has offered cash through direct benefit transfer (DBT), provided relief materials and made efforts to give jobs to those who returned to the state .The day the migrant worker crisis started I had expected the government to help them and not to leave them to die on highways. I expected that buses would be sent to ferry them back home, as was done by Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath. I don’t know if any DBTs have been done because a lot of people whom I have met don’t seem to have received any. People told me that they had to pay for their train fares. I don’t know if any of these measures reached people on the ground. But the biggest issue right now is the way our government is playing with the lives of the Biharis. A few days ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had held a meeting with a few CMs through a video-conference. Soon after the meeting the PM had tweeted some states are required to improve their testing records and Bihar had topped the list. On that day though about 75,000 tests were conducted, the PM said categorically that there is a need to improve. This implies that something is wrong somewhere. What is also going wrong is that until now about 90% of the testing is being done through the rapid antigen detection (RAD) test, which even the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said should only be conducted in Covid-19 containment zones or during emergencies in hospitals. So not only are we not testing enough, but we are also not doing it the right way. When I say life of Biharis is in danger, JD(U) leaders call me the poet Kalidas for sawing off the proverbial branch I am sitting on. In such a scenario, are you willing to be a part of the NDA? At present, I am not even thinking about elections; I don’t understand how my CM is thinking about elections at a time, when 18 of the districts in the state are flooded and Covid-19 cases are increasing by leaps and bounds on a daily basis. Also Read: Parties see opportunity in Dalit assertion in BiharYou have said this to the ECI, but have you mentioned this to the BJP or raised it at an NDA meeting? At a meeting with the national president of the BJP, JP Nadda, a few weeks ago I had mentioned this to him. I had said our priority should be to control the pandemic and we should not be thinking about the elections. I am neither thinking about the alliance nor assembly polls. So will you participate, if the ECI decides to hold the polls on schedule? The call has to be taken only by the ECI. And if that happens, then we will participate because we are prepared for the elections but we would prefer not to hold them now. As a head of a political party, it is my responsibility to give a correct picture about the state of affairs to the ECI. Political parties are not meant to only contest elections -- to win or strategise. We have a much bigger social responsibility as well. You have listed shortcomings in response to the pandemic and the workers who returned to the state during the lockdown restrictions. What do you think have been the achievements of the Kumar government? Forget about the last five years with which I have had major issues. Let’s talk about the past 15 years. What has changed? If you look at your own archives and compare the pictures of floods from 2005 onwards you will see nothing has changed. This is the primary issue with my state government. Repeatedly, I have shared a road map on how to make our state more developed; I made suggestions on how to counter the flood problem such as by interlinking the state’s rivers. Look at my Lok Sabha constituency Jamui, half of it is affected by droughts and the other half by floods. None of my suggestions have been accepted or acted upon to date. What has been done in the past 15 years to improve the revenue in the state? I agree we need a special state’s status. But why do we need it even after 15 years? For instance, so much could be done to promote religious tourism. Our students spend millions of rupees every year to attend coaching centres in Kota, Rajasthan, where the teachers are also from Bihar. Why can’t this model be replicated in Bihar? Why can’t we hold investment summits in Bihar? With so many differences have you considered walking out of the alliance? This government should now have a common minimum programme (CMP) because unless and until my Bihar First, Bihari First vision document is not incorporated in the new government , there is no point being a part of it. They (the Kumar-led government) have not been listening to us. And if you are going to return to power because of the BJP’s and my party’s support and not listen to us, as you’re (JDU) doing right now, then what can we do? It is important for the government to function on the agenda that comes out of the CMP and not on the one that was formed during the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) in 2015. Why am I saying this? Because right now, it is the mahagathbandhan agenda, drafted by Kumar and Lalu Prasad five years ago, which is being followed. What has changed? Only the deputy CM, earlier it was the RJD (Rashtriya Janata Dal), now it is the BJP. There is a talk of a third front with you as the CM. I am not overambitious and not saying make me the Bihar CM. But I have hope from my party and we are working hard. And why not? Eventually, there will be a CM from the LJP. At present, my priority is to only rein in Covid-19. Are you going to release your vision document anytime soon? I will release it within 24 hours of the ECI announcing the date of election. I will also request the ECI that they should make it a mandatory for all political parties to release the manifesto at least five-six weeks before the polls, otherwise, they should not be allowed to contest. In the absence of a vision document, politics, invariably, boils down to Hindu-Muslim, caste and identity politics, where development agenda goes for a toss. You said the focus should be on the Covid-19 pandemic and the flood fury, but there is a perception that there is undue attention on the alleged death by suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput If things had happened in the right manner the undue attention would not have been needed. I remember when he had passed away on June 14, I called my CM four days later and asked him to proactively intervene because I knew the (Rajput) family and they suspected something fishy. I also spoke twice to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray. Unfortunately, I got no response. Why this is a matter of concern for me is because a high-profile Bihari died in another state, how will my CM assure the others living outside that they will be taken care of? If the state had put pressure was on the Maharashtra government, the latter would have acted in a different manner. You started off as an actor. What are your views on the debate about nepotism in the film industry? I never had any such experience. I think it’s too early to come to any conclusion, as there are many theories floating around. Whether it is nepotism, or something else, or a personal angle, as suggested by his family, the truth must come out. I don’t know about nepotism in the film industry. I never faced it. But a lot of my acquaintances and friends suggested a theory of too insular and clubby, where a group of biggies keep the outsiders at bay. But truth be told, I don’t know what the facts of the matter are.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/what-has-changed-in-the-in-bihar-last-15-years-chirag-paswan/story-aU4KQCJOyvnx95J2rvLi1O.html
21-08-2020||Indore||Man throws chilli powder on jeweller in attempt to steal gold, locals foil bid||A man threw chilli powder in the eyes of a jewellery shop owner and tried to escape with around 50 grams of gold in Indore on Thursday evening. However, his plan was foiled by locals around the shop who nabbed him.The entire incident was recorded in the CCTV camera installed at the shop. The accused is currently in police custody. During interrogation, he revealed his identity as Anand from Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas. “Laveen Soni runs a jewellery shop in Sarafa area. At around 6:30 pm, a man came to his shop. A few minutes later, he threw chilli power in Soni’s eyes and started fleeing from the spot with 45-50 gram gold. When he was escaping from the spot, people who were present around the shop nabbed him,” Amrita Singh Solanki, Sarafa police station in-charge told ANI.“In CCTV footage, it is clear that he was trying to snatch the gold. We are taking action against him based shop owner’s complaint and the CCTV footage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/man-throws-chilli-powder-on-jeweller-in-attempt-to-steal-gold-locals-foil-bid/story-K6RhB55nKsgoTdABPAS8kK.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Blow to business but Covid curbs needed, say traders as Punjab extends night curfew from today||Amritsar: As Punjab gears up to implement stricter Covid-19 restrictions from Friday night amid surge in coronavirus cases, businessmen, including retailers, traders and restaurant and hotel owners, are concerned about the financial implication of the extended night curfew from 7pm to 5am and weekend lockdown. “When the government had announced a complete lockdown in March, people were serious about the pandemic and were following the guidelines. However, when Covid cases started rising, the government announced relaxations and people stopped following social distancing. The government failed to control the situation and the police inaction against violators led to the rapid spread of the virus. Industry and trade in Punjab has already suffered huge losses and these restrictions will further hit business,” said Pyare Lal Seth, the president of the Punjab Pradesh Vyapar Mandal. “The government has given no respite in taxes and bills to the public. It should help businessmen by waiving bank interest on loans and administrative charges,” Seth said. Surinder Singh, a member of the hotel federation in Amritsar, said: “The tourism sector is already in loss and hotel owners are worst hit. But this is a time to cooperate and help the government in controlling the situation. Covid cases have to be brought down for normalcy to return.” “We are cooperating and following all restrictions and emergency measures. The rules should be implemented strictly so that the chain of infection can be broken,” said Jatinder Singh, a cloth market wholesaler. OPEN MARKETS ON SATURDAY: LUDHIANA TRADERS The Ludhiana-based president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Amarvir Singh, said: “Restaurant business will be affected the most. The night curfew begins from 7pm so owners will have to close establishments by 6pm. Who orders dinner at 6pm? Some restaurant owners may be forced to shut down business.” He said traders want the government to extend the closing time till 8pm besides easing lockdown restrictions on Saturday. Model Town Market Association, Ludhiana, president Amarjit Singh said, “There has been a low footfall as it is and most residents venture out only in the evening. What’s wrong in opening shops on Saturday if markets are open on weekdays?” Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, however, said that market associations have been briefed and police will implement the night curfew strictly. “No one will be allowed to venture out after 7pm except in case of emergency cases,” he said. PUBLIC HEALTH A PRIORITY: BATHINDA RESIDENTS Stricter Covid curbs got a mixed response in Bathinda. While residents welcomed the government’s decision, traders called it a blow to business. Baljit Sandhu, a local resident, said, “The curbs are needed to check the spread of coronavirus infection. People may face hardship but public health deserves priority.” Senior citizen NK Gosain said the state government should have worked more diligently to handle the Covid situation. He said residents have a crucial role to play in following the safety protocol. “The resumption of public transport should have been avoided as physical distancing is not being followed,” he said. Deepak Jindal, a grocer, said sale would be affected but such efforts are needed to curb the spread of the infection. Bathinda-based Satish Arora, who is the state president of the Punjab Hotel Restaurant and Resorts Association, said the hospitality sector is fighting a battle for survival. “The government should plan a relief package for the sector,” he said. “Restricting unnecessary movement of people will be a priority. Residents should understand the gravity of the situation and cooperate,” a police official said. STRICTER ACTION AGAINST DEFAULTERS THIS TIME: PATIALA DCPatiala district has recorded nearly 4,500 coronavirus cases so far and seen 98 Covid deaths. With the district administration set to implement the new guidelines from Friday evening, traders and residents say they have no choice but to abide by the government’s orders. Anant Jain, a shoe trader, said, “We are facing losses but the restrictions are for our and our customers’ safety.” Rajinder Singh, a restaurant owner, said that he had been following the guidelines but found residents were reluctant to dine out. Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit warned of stricter action against defaulters this time round. Traders and shopkeepers in neighbouring Sangrur were also worried about incurring further losses. “Cases of coronavirus are up and business is already down. The weekend lockdown is for public safety but it will affect business,” said Amarjeet Singh Teetu, the president of the Vyapar Mandal in Sangrur. Savinder Singh, a local shopkeeper, said curfew from 7pm would mean shutting shop an hour earlier. With inputs by Harsimran Batra, Vishal Joshi, Navrajdeep Singh and Avtar Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blow-to-business-but-covid-curbs-needed-say-traders-as-punjab-extends-night-curfew-from-today/story-auH70YvKF8O9YvwUkkMFOL.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: CBI takes over investigation||A day after the Supreme Court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a team comprising a dozen CBI officials arrived in Mumbai late Thursday. CBI currently is questioning Neeraj Singh, the actor’s cook, at the DRDO guest house in Mumbai and will later question his manager Deepesh Sawant, said CBI sources. CBI has formed four teams to investigate the case. One team first met deputy commissioner of police (zone 9) Abhishek Trimukhe at his office in Bandra to collect documents, including the forensic report, autopsy report, statements of over 60 people that the Mumbai Police has recorded, and other material evidence, said Mumbai police sources. The team is currently camping at the Bandra police station next to the DCP office to complete the documentation process. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’ sister expresses faith in CBICBI sources said that once the documentation is complete, another team will visit the actor’s Bandra flat to recreate the scene. One of the CBI teams will focus on translating documents from Marathi to English, while another will be questioning people. The fourth team will be coordinating with superiors in Delhi and handling logistics in Mumbai. The actor was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14, following which Mumbai Police had registered a case of accidental death. Later, based on a complaint by the actor’s father which accused actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting the actor’s suicide and siphoning of his money, Bihar Police registered an FIR and handed the case over to CBI. The Enforcement Directorate also filed a case on July 31 to probe money laundering allegations against Chakraborty and her family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-cbi-takes-over-investigation/story-MfrNB5H09jYA36cGbD9x2L.html
21-08-2020||Kolkata||Orlando the dog cracks his first case: Gaur poaching||Under two months after he joined the forest department, Orlando—a Belgian Malinois dog—helped crack a case of gaur (Indian bison) poaching at the Gorumara National Park in north Bengal on Thursday. “This was his first assignment. While we have already arrested one person from a hideout near Borodighi tea garden in Jalpaiguri district, we have launched a search operation for seven others,” said a senior official of the forest department. Thanks to Orlando, the raiding team recovered some cooked and raw meat, sharp weapons and liquor from a hideout, and sent the samples for forensic analysis. US Navy Seals used the Belgian Malinois breed during the 2011 operation that killed Osama Bin Laden. They also used them to chase down ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi before he was killed at Idlib in Syria. On Thursday morning, the forest department staff of Gorumara National Park found a gaur carcass in the forest. Some portions of the carcass were missing. Later, the forest department received a tip that it could be a case of poaching and that some villagers had cooked the animal’s meat. The department formed a team which raided at least three houses. Orlando found the meat hidden in the roof of a one of the raided huts, said a forest official. “Orlando joined the West Bengal forest department late June. He was trained at the police dog training school at Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh. While Orlando was sent to Gorumara, another Belgian Malinois named Shyana was sent to the Sunderbans to join the department,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, the chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. The CRPF was the first to introduce the breed in India, and over the years it has become one of the Indian security forces’ favourites, even to conduct anti-maoist operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/orlando-the-dog-cracks-his-first-case-gaur-poaching/story-QlNJdC2jPUDa0AELkDgUDP.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Tansa, fourth lake in Mumbai to overflow, BMC may revoke water cut||The Tansa Lake located in Shahpur in Thane district, which is among the lakes that supply water to Mumbai, began to overflow at 7.05 pm on Thursday. This is the fourth of the seven lakes to overflow this monsoon. Earlier, Tulsi and Vehar lakes at Sanjay Gandhi National Park had overflowed followed by Modak Sagar lake on Tuesday. This could mean that Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may revoke the water cut as the civic body had earlier said it will re-examine the 10% cut in water supply to the city once the lake levels cross 90%. As of Friday morning, Mumbai’s lake levels are at 90.88%, in comparison to 94.91% on the same day in 2019, and 93.91% in 2018. The seven lakes have 1,315,423 million litres of useful water content. On Friday, the water cut in Mumbai was reduced to 10%, from the earlier 20% imposed on August 5 due to low rainfall in catchment areas. BMC announced this decision on Wednesday, after the water levels in the seven lakes crossed the 85% mark. In the past years, the Tansa lake started overflowing much earlier; on July 25 in 2019, on July 17 in 2018, on July in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tansa-fourth-lake-in-mumbai-to-overflow-bmc-may-revoke-water-cut/story-crBZoecIC4ymnvjlsdDkLO.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||PM CARES Fund, HC reserves verdict||The Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench on Thursday reserved its verdict on a public interest litigation demanding appointment of three trustees, including two from opposition parties, to manage Prime Minister’s Citizens Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund.The petitioner, lawyer Arvind Waghmare, has also sought removal of private auditing firm M/s SAARC Associates since public money is involved in the fund. According to him, the appointment of an auditor before filling up vacant seats of three trustees is illegal and, therefore, should be cancelled. He amended his petition in the wake of the Supreme Court’s order on Tuesday dismissing a plea seeking the transfer of money collected by the PM Cares Fund to the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF).In his petition, Waghmare has sought a direction to the government to declare funds received and expenditure of the same on a government’s website periodically.A division bench of the high court reserved the verdict after a hearing that lasted for more than one-and-a-half hours and witnessed sharp exchanges between the petitioner and the respondents.Additional solicitor general of India Anil Singh opposed the petition. He called it politically motivated while doubting the intentions of the petition. He maintained total transparency has been maintained in the fund.The petitioner said three trustees have not been appointed till date despite clear guidelines even as crores were being accepted. Being a donor to this fund, he insisted on the appointment of other trustees for “fortifying confidence of the general public”.This is not a personal fund of any political party, said Waghmare while seeking appointment of leaders belonging to opposition parties to make the working of fund more transparent and inclusive.A three-judge Supreme Court bench on Tuesday held the establishment of PM Cares Fund was necessitated by the situation borne out of Covid-19 pandemic and requirement of financial resources to deal it. It added the court cannot object to the same.The Centre set up the PM Cares Fund on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pm-cares-fund-hc-reserves-verdict/story-8LJZ6fEpFZYTjfyjIuJtiK.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC to not interfere with compulsory Covid-19 test for those travelling to Konkan for Ganeshotsav||The Bombay High Court has refused to interfere with the directive of the state disaster management authority, making it mandatory for people visiting their hometowns in the Konkan region after August 12 for Ganeshotsav to undergo a Covid-19 test.A bench comprising justices KK Tated and Milind Jadhav upheld the clause in the Government order issued on August 4, 2020, observing that it has been issued to ensure that the population of Konkan region stays safe and does not “get infected or come in contact with corona virus”.The bench said that effective steps need to be taken to contain the spread of the deadly infection, especially where transportation of citizens from one region to another is concerned. The bench then dismissed the petition filed by one Santos Gurav of the Konkan region.Gurav had moved the high court, represented by advocate Harshal Mirashi, contending that the government order, especially the clause making the Covid-19 test mandatory, had curbed his freedom to travel to Ratnagiri district in Konkan region for the festival. The test was mandatory irrespective of whether people travel in state transport buses or private vehicles and they would be allowed to travel only if the test result is negative, Mirashi pointed out.The high court, however, refused to accept the contention. The bench said if people travelled from one place to another to a different region or district, then there was a likelihood of the infection spreading and effective steps need to be taken to contain it.Also read: With 68,898 Covid-19 cases, India’s tally surges past 2.9 million; recovery rate over 74%“Not very long ago, Maharashtra, Mumbai in particular, had the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Even today the number of total active cases is significantly high,” said the bench. “Despite the strict enforcement of lockdown and quarantine, the number of cases has not reduced and the mortality rate in the state is higher than the mortality rate at the national level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-to-not-interfere-with-compulsory-covid-19-test-for-those-travelling-to-konkan-for-ganeshotsav/story-4TSVhGTwiPPvteQAYN9eUK.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to a clear blue sky||Residents in many parts of Delhi woke up to an azure sky, an unusual sight in one of the most polluted capitals in the world. A similar natural phenomenon was also noticed by many Delhi residents on August 6, when the sky was unusually blue. Meteorologists have attributed to Delhi’s unusual blue sky to a raft of factors, albeit what, they said, could be a short-lived affair. The blue sky would be a temporary natural phenomenon because easterly winds have started blowing and low-pressure area is lying over eastern Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh and that would lead to overcast conditions over the north-western parts of the country as well, according to meteorologists. Also read: Five reasons that led to Delhi’s monsoon messDelhi recorded two “good” air quality days until Thursday (August 20), as compared to the corresponding period last year. However, the average air quality index (AQI) was lower than last year at 66.1 (satisfactory). In 2019, the average AQI for the same period was 73.9 (satisfactory). The blue tint is due to sunshine, a lack of cloud cover and a rain-washed clean atmosphere, meteorologists said. “However, a blue sky can only be seen for a brief period. We must all enjoy the moment, which is pure physics. The radiation has seven colours, and blue gets scattered more because of shorter waves. The blue is more evident than usual because of a lack of cloud cover, sunshine and clean atmosphere,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC). Delhi-based Regional Meteorological Centre’s office doesn’t track blue sky days, but officials said that such natural phenomenon was visible in the national capital and north-western parts of the country for the first time in several years. “We started observing this after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions were imposed. Newspapers also published pictures of the Himalayan peaks being visible from the north-western plains in May following thunderstorms. Delhi was lashed by heavy rains this week that washed away pollution particles. Molecules in the atmosphere scatter white sunlight in all directions. Blue light is scattered more because it travels shorter waves. The obstacles to this scattering are clouds, fog, pollutants and smoke. Now, we have high clouds over Delhi, but they will clear up in a few hours. We will again be able to see a blue sky,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC), Delhi. Delhi recorded a “good” air day on Thursday, as the AQI was only 50.Date 2020 2019August 20: 50 good 97 satisfactoryAugust 19: 57 satisfactory 81 satisfactoryAugust 18: 72 satisfactory 49 goodAugust 17: 66 satisfactory 49 goodAugust 16: 52 satisfactory 53 satisfactoryAugust 15: 67 satisfactory 75 satisfactoryAugust 14: 58 satisfactory 63 satisfactoryAugust 13: 50 good 69 satisfactoryAugust 12: 63 satisfactory 57 satisfactoryAugust 11: 75 satisfactory 68 satisfactoryAugust 10: 72 satisfactory 59 satisfactoryAugust 9: 74 satisfactory 75 satisfactoryAugust 8: 87 satisfactory 79 satisfactoryAugust 7: 54 satisfactory 75 satisfactoryAugust 6: 69 satisfactory 76 satisfactoryAugust 5: 86 satisfactory 105 moderateAugust 4: 62 satisfactory 87 satisfactoryAugust 3: 67 satisfactory 89 satisfactoryAugust 2: 61 satisfactory 84 satisfactoryAugust 1: 81 satisfactory 89 satisfactory||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-a-clear-blue-sky/story-WQF1qMuTurko5O7LQ4lMvJ.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||55 years after former Punjab CM Partap Singh Kairon’s assassination, son opens political conspiracy chapter||Chandigarh Fifty-five years after the assassination of Partap Singh Kairon, who was chief minister of an undivided Punjab for eight years (1956-64), a book co-authored by his younger son Gurinder Singh Kairon has raked up political conspiracy in the murder that has so far been considered a closed chapter in turbulent history of the border state.“This is an honest effort to tell the true story of the man who had such a deep and long-lasting impact on Punjab, says the preface of the book, Partap Singh Kairon: A Visionary, which shares authorship with Panjab University historian M Rajivlochan and his civil servant wife Meeta Rajivlochan. “If he had more time, the history of this region would have been different”. Curiously, the book puts the spotlight on the rivalry between Kairon and then Punjab Congress leader Chaudhary Devi Lal, who later became deputy prime minister and Haryana chief minister, raising a question mark on the “closeness” between the latter and one of the four assassins of Kairon, who was a favourite of then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and one of the tallest leader in post-Partition Punjab.The book records how the Kairon family suspected “political foul play” after a CBI probe into the assassination was denied despite requests from Punjab MLAs. “Why would an unknown person who was already wanted by the police for murder attract even more police attention by killing someone who was no longer a chief minister? Could there have been a deeper political conspiracy?” the book says, quoting the Kairon family. “The question that continues to remain alive is this: Who was the real murderer? Why was political conspiracy ruled out?” THE ASSASSINATION A year after US-educated Kairon stepped down as chief minister in 1964, he was waylaid and shot dead on February 6, 1965 on Grand Trunk Road near Rai in Sonepat when he was on way from Delhi to Chandigarh. Also, killed with him were three others — Kairon’s friend Baldev Kapur, a director in Punjab government; his personal assistant Ajit Singh and driver Dalip Singh. Three of four assassins Sucha Singh, Baldev Singh and Nahar Singh Fauji, were sentenced to death by a trial court in Rohtak, which was confirmed by the high court on September 21, 1970, and they were hanged to death. The fourth assassin, Daya Singh, was arrested in 1972 and sentenced to death in December 1978. Police investigations had linked Kairon’s assassination to personal revenge by the main accused Sucha Singh and had found no political conspiracy.The book records how Devi Lal, one of the opponents of Kairon, began to take interest in pardon for Daya Singh. “It’s not clear how much of Lal’s influence worked, but in April 1991, the Supreme Court of India converted the death sentence of Daya Singh into life imprisonment and was finally freed in 1994,” reads the book. Devi Lal was deputy Prime Minister then. “The closeness between Lal and Daya Singh indicated an underlying conspiracy,” says Gurinder Singh, adding the book is based on facts. WAS AGAINST PUNJAB REORGANISATION“Kairon was of the firm opinion that the greatest strength of Punjab was its large size and tremendous geographical and cultural diversity, with the Punjabi language and culture providing a unifying template,” reads the book. Masters in economics from University of California,Berkeley, and political science from Michigan State University, Kairon’s love for Punjabi language was exceptional. When he took over as the chief minister, he introduced Punjabi in official work and also in the courts. THE GOLD HUNTA few months after he resigned as CM in June 1964, the compound of Kairon’s village house was dug up to “extract hidden gold” and police were looking for ₹3 crore worth of yellow metal that never surfaced. “Did the police dig deep enough,” Kairon’s disparagers asked in the Vidhan Sabha, says the book. The authors highlight how troubles mounted for Kairon after the death of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in May 1964. Within three weeks of Nehru’s demise, Kairon announced to retire from public life and sent his resignation when Lal Bahadur Shashtri took over, it says. By then Kairon was already facing an inquiry by the Das Commission into the alleged wrongdoings during his tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-years-after-former-punjab-cm-partap-singh-kairon-s-assassination-son-opens-political-conspiracy-chapter/story-a4Mb8uwjPXB4ibNHb6vtYL.html
21-08-2020||Kolkata||Second day of 48-hr lockdown; Over 750 arrested for violations||Police has arrested over 750 people on Thursday for violating lockdown norms on the first day of the 48-hour shutdown across West Bengal that has been enforced by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in a bid to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Also read: How tribal women in West Bengal district got sanitary napkins, baby food for ₹1 in lockdownPeople were confined to indoors in Kolkata and its surrounding areas on Thursday because of the lockdown that was accompanied by incessant monsoon showers. Earlier, the Bengal government had announced that lockdown would be enforced on certain days in August. The state government changed lockdown dates at least five times in a bid to accommodate religious festivals and public holidays such as the 74th Independence Day that was observed on August 15.Initially, though nine days were decided for the lockdown in August, later it was brought down to six.“We have arrested 756 people for violating lockdown norms in Kolkata on Thursday. At least 387 people were arrested for not wearing masks and another 64 for spitting in public,” said a Kolkata Police official. On Thursday, Kolkata recorded around 45 millimetres (mm) of rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities have issued a warning for heavy rainfall in Kolkata and its surrounding areas until August 25. Bengal has recorded 1.29 lakh Covid-19 cases until Thursday, including 3,129 in the last 24 hours. North 24 Parganas district has overtaken Kolkata as the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in Bengal. On Thursday, North 24 Parganas district recorded 747 new Covid-19 cases, as compared to 583 in Kolkata. “There has been a surge in Covid-19 cases because of aggressive testing. However, the positivity rate, which had shot up to around 17% in mid-July, came down to 12% over the past few weeks. At present, it is less than 10%,” said a state government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/second-day-of-48-hr-lockdown-over-750-arrested-for-violations/story-obC9XuuHq4yVzUSfaQK7wN.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||Money heist, Delhi edition: Instances of uprooted ATMs increase over six months||In the past six months, a dozen ATMs have been uprooted and stolen in the national Capital, causing a loss of over Rs 1 crore. In August, two ATMs were uprooted and stolen from Narela and Rajokri. The increase in number of such instances has prompted the city police to take steps to curb such crimes and bring the perpetrators to justice. Senior police officers said that the modus operandi in all ATM thefts was about the same—the thieves drive a stolen SUV, spray black paint on CCTV cameras installed at the ATM booth, uproot the machine by tying it to their vehicle and flee with the machines and the CCTV camera footage storage device.An analysis of the reported cases shows that while a majority of the thefts took place in February and March, before the nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), one case was reported in south Delhi’s May during the lockdown. Of the 12 reported cases, seven are from southeast Delhi areas, such as Jaitpur, Badarpur, Pul Prahladpur, Govindpuri and New Friends Colony—all bordering Haryana’s Faridabad.Between February 9 and 14, four such cases were reported—three in southeast Delhi’s Jaitpur, Govindpuri, and Badarpur and another in Mandawali in east Delhi. On March 5, two cases were reported from Jaitpur and Pul Prahladpur.During Unlock 3.0, two consecutive cases involving the uprooting of cash dispensing machines from ATM booths in outer Delhi’s Narela and Rajokri in south Delhi were reported within three hours on August 5. They not only left the city police baffled but also forced its top brass to constitute multiple teams and intensify their manhunt for the perpetrators of such crimes. Soon, the police arrested three suspects from Haryana involved in seven reported ATM uprooting cases after an exchange of fire in two separate operations between August 9 and 14 in Delhi and Haryana’s Rithath village in Mewat district.Two of them, identified as Arshad Khan, 27, and Ahmad alias Kalma,35, were injured in the leg. Khan was caught on August 9 from south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj, while Ahmad and his associate Saddam, 32, were arrested from Rithath village on August 14 by a joint team of Delhi and Haryana Police.When the team caught up to the suspects, it was surrounded by a mob that assaulted them with lathis and pelted them with stones, the deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said in the press statement released on August 15, a day after the operation.“Nearly 25 bullets were exchanged between the raiding party and the two suspects. One assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Haryana Police was also shot in the hand while Ahmad was shot in the right knee,” Kushwah said in the press statement.A senior police officer who was part of both operations said on condition of anonymity that Khan and the other two men belonged to the same gang that was involved in most ATM uprooting cases reported in southern parts of Delhi.“This gang comprises nearly 12-15 members, and each member has a specific task to perform in the uprooting’s execution and theft of ATMs. Khan’s job was to drive around the city during odd hours, look for unguarded ATM booths in isolated areas and conduct detailed reconnaissance before passing on the information to other gang members, who would enter Delhi only to execute the crime,” said the officer.Equipped with necessary tools such as gas cutters, belts or ropes, the officer said, the men would enter Delhi in their own vehicles and before heading to the selected ATM booth, they would steal an SUV. One of them would carry out the final reconnaissance to ensure there was no security guard, police or any danger lurking around.After getting a go-ahead from the assessor, another man would immediately blacken the lens of the CCTV cameras with spray while the others would cut the cables to disable the security alarms, if any, tie the machine to their stolen vehicle and uproot it, said another police officer from the special cell, requesting anonymity.“This ATM uprooting technique is new. Earlier, the thieves would cut into the machine using a gas cutter at the booth. But since a lot of currency notes would burn, the thieves devised this new way of uprooting and stealing the machine. Their earlier process was time-consuming as well. But now they hardly take four-five minutes to complete the job,” the officer added.Senior police officers said that apart from neutralising the perpetrators of such crimes, they are also holding meetings with bank officials, asking them to take preventive measures such as strengthening the foundations of ATMs, installing hidden cameras in the ATM booths and deploying security guards with firearms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/money-heist-delhi-edition-instances-of-uprooted-atms-increase-over-six-months/story-0xSTAuwdBGQ4DEjxOTbJlK.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC issues advisory ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi, urges caution on 13 dilapidated bridges||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has urged people to take precaution while using 13 bridges that are in a dilapidated condition during the upcoming 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festival, which will start from August 22.The civic body had urged devotees in its August 15 advisory not to wait on these bridges for a prolonged duration, avoid dancing on these structures and ensure fewer people participate in the immersion processions.Officials said the advisory was issued taking note of the deteriorating structural stability of these bridges — Ghatkopar rail overbridge (ROB), Curry Road bridge, Chinchpokli bridge, Marine Line bridge, Sandhurst Road bridge, and Dadar Tilak bridge, important for east to west connectivity over the years.The civic body and the police have also appealed to people to not travel in herds during the festival in a bid to avoid accidents which might cause due to the condition of the bridges. The civic officials said the load on Currey Road and Chinchpokli bridges should not exceed 16 tonnes due to their dilapidated condition.Last year, the civic body had issued an advisory for 20 bridges that were found dilapidated in a structural audit, prompted after the Himalayan bridge collapse at CSMT.The BMC has also urged Ganesh mandals in prominent areas of Mumbai to follow the concept of ‘one ward-one Ganpati’ during this year’s Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Vishwas Mote, the assistant municipal commissioner of K-West ward which covers Andheri, Juhu, Versova and other such areas, made the appeal through a letter to the mandals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-issues-advisory-ahead-of-ganesh-chaturthi-urges-caution-on-13-dilapidated-bridges/story-ismQ4Loxr0kq6kfg6AP1CM.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai wakes up to downpour||After two days of light to moderate rain, Mumbai received continuous showers with spells of intermittent intense rainfall on Friday. The city and its suburbs woke up to thick cloud cover and active monsoon conditions from 6 am amid forecast for light to moderate rain.Also read: 4 electrocuted as heavy rain lashes south Bengal, flood low-lying areasFrom 8.30 am Thursday to 8.30 am Friday, the Santacruz weather station recorded 31.6 mm rain while Colaba 63.2mm, both under the moderate category. South Mumbai received heavier rain (55mm) between 5.30 am and 8.30 am, followed by light continuous showers post 8.39 am. During the same time, the suburbs recorded 10 mm rainfall.Dahisar at 128.5 mm recorded the highest rainfall across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.The meteorological department said moderate rain to heavy rainfall was expected throughout Friday and its intensity may increase further over the weekend with a yellow alert (heavy rain warning) in place.“A well-marked low-pressure weather system has begun moving from interior Odisha adjoining Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand westwards over parts of central India activating weather systems over the Arabian Sea. This has strengthened the south-westerly monsoon flow enhancing rain activity over the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, and parts of interior Maharashtra,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department.Mumbai has recorded 944.8 mm rain between August 1 and 21, which is 404 mm more than the average rainfall for the month (540.8 mm). So far this season (June 1 to August 21), Mumbai suburbs recorded 64% excess rain against the normal quantum of rain for the period while south Mumbai recorded 63%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-wakes-up-to-heavy-downpour/story-Mlkm0N2AkDydZV6Xq20ieL.html
21-08-2020||Lucknow||SDM suspended for beating people in UP||A sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) was suspended on Thursday after he had thrashed some local residents and traders near Bilthara road tehsil in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Ballia district in a bid to enforce social distancing norms owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Also read: 37-year-old held for pelting stones at Covid-19 facility in ChandannagarThe video of the SDM’s high-handedness went viral on social media following which Arjun Rajbhar, a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national executive , drew UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ‘s attention to the incident. Rajbhar said local residents are angry because of the brutality unleashed by SDM Ashok Chaudhary and his security personnel. Several people had also sustained injuries. “I request you to ensure action against the SDM,” Rajbhar had urged CM Yogi.The CM took note of the incident and suspended SDM Chaudhary with immediate effect. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sdm-suspended-for-beating-people/story-85ANUj6xm1YRfLAiquEC5N.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Wet Ganesh Chaturthi expected: IMD predicts heavy rain this weekend||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities have downgraded its yellow alert --- heavy rains across isolated areas – for Mumbai and Palghar for Friday, but retained it for the festive weekend. The annual 10-day Ganesh Utsav begins in Maharashtra on Saturday.   The weather bureau has retained the yellow alert for Thane until Monday, but upgraded it to an orange alert --  heavy to very heavy rain across isolated areas -- for Ratnagiri, Raigad, Pune and Satara districts for the weekend.According to IMD Mumbai’s bulletin issued on Thursday, a well-marked low pressure weather system over interior Odisha, which is adjoining Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, is likely to move westwards over the next three-four days to over parts of Madhya Pradesh, activating weather systems over the Arabian Sea. “The low-pressure system has strengthened the south-westerly monsoon flow enhancing rain activity over the Konkan coast and interior Maharashtra,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.Also Read: IMD’s monsoon heavy rain forecast accuracy has improved to 70% in three yearsOn Thursday, Mumbai received light to moderate rain and isolated intense heavy spells for brief periods amid a persistent cloud cover.South Mumbai received 26.8 millimetres (mm) of rain, while the suburbs recorded 15.4 mm between 8:30 am and 5:30 pm. The city and its suburbs have received light rains over the past 24 hours.  The weather bureau also warned that there would be gusty winds at 45-55 kilometres per hour (kmph) along and off the coast over the weekend. There are possibilities of waterlogging, localised flooding and minor damage to homes and roads in areas, where orange alert has been issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wet-ganesh-chaturthi-expected-imd-predicts-heavy-rain-this-weekend/story-Er5UXNOfwFPpFhOT30XBkI.html
21-08-2020||Jaipur||Swachh Survekshan: Jodhpur gets ‘Fastest Mover Big City’ title||Jodhpur in Rajasthan has been adjudged as the “Fastest Mover Big City” in the Swachhata Survey 2020, results of which were announced by the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing on Thursday.Jodhpur has been accorded the 29th rank in the survey among 47 cities with a population of over 10 lakh, which is a huge jump from its 243rd rank in the previous survey. The ministry observed that Jodhpur has made tremendous improvement and has a huge potential for further improvements.Jodhpur has earned a total of 3,615 points out of 6,000. It had bagged 2,091 points in the 2019 Swachhata Survey.JMC Commissioner Suresh Kumar Ola attributed this quantum leap of 214 places in the ranking to immaculate working on all the aspects pertaining to the Swachhata Survey this year.Expressing gratitude to the staff of the Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (JMC) and the people of the city, he said, “We worked on various initiatives, ensuring active participation of people, and it was due to this that Jodhpur occupied the first place in Citizens’ Feedback in the entire state.” Ola said 4,000 “swachhata sainiks”, ward in-charge and chief sanitation inspectors of the JMC played a key role in making this feat possible.“The paintings on city walls, roads and city circles made by the swachhata sainiks kicked off an atmosphere for cleanliness and provided a radiance to the city,” Ola said, adding that because of this, Jodhpur got 1,045 points out of 1,500 in “Field Observation”.Besides, the city has a system in place for door-to-door waste collection, which is being monitored through GPS technology, he said.The ministry had included 4,242 cities in the survey with different categories corresponding to their population and Jodhpur was competing among 47 cities under the population category of 10 lakh-40 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/swachh-survekshan-jodhpur-gets-fastest-mover-big-city-title/story-k77175PuSMocyjxEvGvRVM.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Moga car dealer arrested in 2014 foreign weapon smuggling case||Faridkot: Hours after the Punjab and Haryana high court granted regular bail to Moga-based car dealer Pankaj Bansal in the Behbal Kalan police firing case, the Punjab Police’s Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) arrested him in the court of the judicial magistrate on Friday in connection with the 2014 inter-state illegal foreign-made weapons smuggling case. Chandigarh-based Vishal Gun House owner Satish Kumar was arrested on Thursday and six people, including Bansal, were named accused in the case for buying illegal weapons and forging sales bills. A search is on for the remaining four accused, namely Raj Chopra of Karnal who owns the National Arms Company; Bhupinder Singh of Ferozepur, Amit Goyal of Delhi and Rohit Chabra of Kotkapura. The court of judicial magistrate Amandeep Kaur sent Bansal and Satish in five-day police custody. Bansal was presented before the court on production warrant. The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing incidents had arrested Bansal in the Behbal Kalan firing case on June 20. District attorney Rajnish Goyal said: “During investigation, OCCU found that involvement of purchasers of the weapons also pointed to their culpability in knowingly buying illegal weapons and forging sales bills.” However, in 2015 the police had given a clean chit to these persons, claiming that the accused pass the weapons as genuine in connivance with arms dealers and the buyers did not know the genuineness of the weapons, so those persons were innocent purchasers. At that time, the police chose not to disclose the names of the buyers, who they admitted were usually rich or influential. The case was registered under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 472 and 392 of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act at Faridkot city police station on August 18, 2014. OCCU has added Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) in the first information report. SEARCH ON FOR PRIME ACCUSED In October 2014, with the arrest of Ranjit Singh, alias Dupla, and his accomplice Gurcharan Singh Rinka, Faridkot police recovered 13 foreign-made weapons that gangsters sold to rich youngsters in Chandigarh and Delhi. Dupla and other persons were buying illegal foreign-made weapons from other states and selling them in Punjab by preparing false documents. The police had submitted a final report to the court against accused Ranjit Singh and others on January 17, 2015. A supplementary challan was also submitted against four other accused on April 30, 2015. Prime accused gangster Dupla has been declared a proclaimed offender in the case. Police sources said he has fled the country and OCCU is trying to locate him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/moga-car-dealer-arrested-in-2014-foreign-weapon-smuggling-case/story-otX14y60EabCxKjePc5NfM.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||Unlock 3.0: Boutiques, tailors register a surge in business||With unlock 3.0, there has certainly a surge in the number of people wanting to venture out to shop. But, under no circumstance are these shoppers ready do compromise on the safety of their health. In fact, most are taking more precautions than necessary, and therefore their love to buy new clothes has made them head to boutiques and tailors more than a trip to the market where apparel showrooms stock up hoards of ready made garments. “I always preferred to buy ready made dresses as one doesn’t have to struggle much in that case. But, in these corona times, I have become a little sceptical of buying a dress from a store and there are various reasons for this. First is that others could would tried the same dress, and it could have been touched and handled by various people right from other shoppers to store’s staff. So, when there came up a wedding to attend, I decided to get all my dresses stitched. The safe bet here is that the masterji in my boutique already has my measurements, and all I have to do is collect the dresses once they are ready; he will also get them sanitised and so will I do before I use them. But, at least I won’t be at the risk of wearing a garment that would have passed through many hands!,” says Sakshi Goyal, a resident of Faridabad. Boutiques are keeping all the safety precautions in mind while operating amid the festive rush. “We sanitise the entire shop before opening, and even at the time of closing. And since we have reopened in unlock, the number of orders have increased while the footfall of clientele has decreased. Hardly any customer is preferring to visit the store in person at this point in time as most of my clients are in touch with me on WhatsApp,” says Ishaani Khanna, a boutique owner in sector 51 of Gurugram. She adds, “For the karigars, we have in place strict some rules such as wearing masks, sanitising the inching tape after every few hours, and sanitising other tools once a dress is ready. We ensure to even sanitise the carry bag before handing it over to the customers.” Some are even using video conferencing to check out the designs and patterns, to place an order beforehand, for a perfect dress. Kavita Gupta, owner of Riddhi Creations in Shakti Nagar, Delhi, says, “The number of bookings for both bridal wear as well as day-to-day dresses has increased. People are ordering dresses through video conferencing and other such virtual mediums. We show them the trending patterns and designs, and they make booking over phone. They keep a tab on the status of their dress, alongside matching mask, they make repeated calls. This used to rarely happened before, but coronavirus had also not happened then. Now, thigs have changed much for everyone.”The designs are exchanged through mobile apps to keep the process contactless. “The number of orders we were getting earlier has been increased several times, and we are trying our best to keep our customers satisfied. We receive the designs on WhatsApp. Either we use the cloth that we have, after the client okays it, or else they purchase and bring us a cloth piece of their choice. Once the pattern is ready, we inform the respective clients and they collect it from the store. In case of a fitting issue, we do get it fixed, but only after sanitising the garment,” says Meenu who runs a boutique in Faridabad. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-3-0-boutiques-tailors-register-a-surge-in-business/story-DKvanS92CXXgZckeU0QHKM.html
21-08-2020||Arts||World Senior Citizen’s Day: Artistes share how they are coping with Covid-19 era||Within the guidelines set for Covid-19, it has been said often that those above 60 years of age need to be mindful about maintaining high immunity level. Advised to stay indoors, and hence confined within their houses, the elderly have no doubt been facing a tough time dealing with isolation. So, on World Senior Citizen’s Day, August 21, we speak to some senior custodians of art and culture, and ask how they have been coping with these times. ‘Have seen the Partition, wars, but nothing like this virus’ Painter-photographer Gopi Gajwani, 82, says that the lockdown provided him with an opportunity to complete his half done canvases. “I had a great time [during lockdown]. The projects I could never finish because of some or the other work were finally completed. There has been a lot of me time on hands, and not just I finished the pending work, but also created many new artworks,” he says. Reminiscing about old times, Gajwani adds, “I used to click a lot of photographs, but with age it took a back seat. Now, while at home, I go through all those pictures [taken years ago] and spend some wonderful time with them. I even attended a few online series, lectures and live programmes. I feel aap chahe bujurg ho jaye par aapka kaam nahi hona chaiye. Your work should always be young and energetic... Besides the happy time I spent at home, I observed the problems that were faced by a lot of people in terms of job and livelihood. I’ve seen Partition [of India], and wars, but nothing like this virus!” ‘Touch, feel, smile, are missing in video conferencing’ Handicrafts curator, Jaya Jaitly, 78, who has been working from home since the lockdown was announced, says she misses human touch the most. “I’m very much confined at home since March 15. All the meetings and coordination that takes place between me and my staff has been happening with the use of technology. There are network issues and errors; the other side of technology we deal with. My whole work is with kaarigars (craftsmen) and I feel cut-off from them. I like to touch, feel, smile, and that’s missing in video conferencing. Sometimes when I feel restless, I go on a drive with my daughter; it makes me feel better. After five months (of working from home), I recently invited my staff home, while taking all the necessary precautions.” ‘Raising funds for artistes in Delhi and Manipur’ Going that extra mile is contemporary dancer, Padma Shri Astad Deboo, who has been helping the artist community during these testing times. The 73-year-old says, “I’m in touch with artists from Delhi and Manipur, and have been raising funds for them. I even choreographed some dance clips — with my Delhi-based artistes — and it [the lockdown] was a pretty busy period for me. I was also a part of an Instragram live, and even attended a session conducted by the University of Hawaii, which was based on the subject ‘Artists under Covid-19’. Besides, I’ve also been teaching the students of The Stephen High School for the deaf and Aphasic in Mumbai, which I started doing in 2019.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271 Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/world-senior-citizen-s-day-artistes-share-how-they-are-coping-with-covid-19-era/story-fTuHoHOMAEg2fMhG554jSM.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Chandigarh misses Top 10 spot again, restricted to 16th position||The City Beautiful failed to make it to the top 10 cleanest cities in the country for the second year in a row, but improved its ranking from last year’s 20 to 16 in the latest Swachh Survekshan rankings announced on Thursday.Chandigarh was also adjudged the “Best State Capital/Union Territory” in citizens’ feedback.It was in 2018 last when Chandigarh was ranked among the top 10 cities – the third cleanest. The good run ended with UT dropping to the 20th position in last year’s rankings.Indore in Madhya Pradesh continued to reign as the country’s cleanest city (having population of more than 1 lakh). Surat in Gujarat, which was ranked 14 last year, jumped to the second position. Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra climbed to the third position from last year’s seventh.Indore scored 94.12% (5,647.56 out of 6,000), while Chandigarh got 82.83% (4,970), improving from 2019’s score of 75.74%.The Swachh Survekshan is conducted to study the progress of Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) and rank cities based on cleanliness and sanitation parameters. Four parameters were used for arriving at the overall ranking of a city – certifications (1,500), direct observation (1,500), service level progress (1,500) and citizen feedback (1,500).WHAT PUSHED CITY UP?A major factor in the city’s climb from 20th to 16th position was it doubling its score in the certifications parameter.There are two categories under this parameter - garbage free cities (GFC) star certification and open defecation free (ODF) certification.It achieved ODF++ from the earlier ODF ranking. Similarly, it gained 3-Star GFC status against the previous 2-Star GFC. Consequently, it improved its score from 40% marks last year to 73.33% this year in the certification category.Had the city got the 5-Star GFC certification, which it had applied for, it would have broken into the top 10 list. But, its claim was downgraded to a mere 3-Star rating.WHAT’S HOLDING CITY BACKMunicipal corporation’s poor solid waste management, particularly waste segregation and disposal, led to continued poor showing of country’s first planned city in the 2020 rankings.This was reflected in city’s marks dropping from 90% last year to 76.33% this year in the service level progress parameter, which is largely indicative of efficiency in solid waste management.DIFFERING VIEWSFormer Union railway minister and UT member of Parliament Pawan Kumar Bansal said, “According to a report of the Centre for Science and Environment, based on Swatch Bharat Mission inputs, Chandigarh has recorded 90% waste processing, 100% door-to-door garbage collection and 95% waste segregation in 24 of 26 wards. These high claims are not only untrue but border on the ludicrous and bizarre.”“It is shameful that even after spending crores on the segregation and disposal of waste, the BJP-led MC has failed miserably,” said Devinder Singh Babla, Congress leader of opposition in MC On the other hand, mayor Raj Bala Malik said, “Sanitation and cleanliness has improved since last year, which the positive citizen feedback substantiates. Only due to Congress’s legacy, the waste treatment plant and dumping site has slowed down our progress. We have started mining of legacy waste and taken over the plant. So, we will improve on these parameters also next year.”“We couldn’t be in top 6, because we didn’t get 5-star GFC certification. We have scored well in citizen feedback. The city has become much cleaner, but we need to improve on solid waste management, which we are working on,” said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/swachh-survekshan-2020-chandigarh-misses-top-10-spot-again-restricted-to-16th-position/story-2ekDbzFPz2LrlDKFmbobOM.html
21-08-2020||City||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Mohali slips to 157th spot in worst show ever||Continuing its image of Chandigarh’s poor cousin, in its worst show ever, Mohali further slipped to the 157th position in the Swachh Survekshan rankings declared on Thursday. The city even dropped to the seventh position in Punjab from the 4th spot last year. Mohali performed its best in 2018 when it was ranked 109, only to fare poorly at the 153th position in 2019. This year, the city scored just 46.5% marks (2,790/6,000), against the 94.12% scored by Indore, India’s cleanest city. Reflected in just 215 marks out of 1,500 in the service level progress parameter, failure to get garbage management projects off the ground became Mohali’s undoing.MC’s ambitious solid-waste management project at Samgoli village has remained a non-starter with the state government failing to expedite it.The city also failed to ensure an open-defecation free (ODF) status by constructing adequate mobile and public toilets – crucial for attaining a smart city status. MC’s plans to spend Rs 97.76 lakh on construction of public toilets in eight markets also remain only on paper. Due to this, Mohali scored just 300 out of 1,500 marks in the ODF certification. Besides, the civic body has failed to start garbage segregation at source in most areas, while door-to-door garbage collection also remains irregular.The city scored highest in citizen feedback (1,119/1,500), followed by 1,115 out of 1,500 marks in direct observation.“The city has literally gone to dogs. The municipal corporation has failed to sort out the garbage plant issue for over 10 years. There was no awareness campaign for Swachh Survekshan,” said CL Garg, president of Confederation of Greater Mohali Residents’ Welfare Associations.“We worked really hard, but could not achieve the required rank. We will focus on the grey areas and ensure the ranking is improved next year,” said MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-slips-further-to-worst-show-ever/story-24xPPs2oYBdsyqJTq60wrL.html
21-08-2020||City||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Panchkula ranks 56th in best performance in four years||Grabbing the 56th position, Panchkula has climbed 15 spots from last year’s 71st rank in the 2020 Swachh Survekshan rankings announced on Thursday.This is Panchkula’s best performance after improving its rank for the fourth time in a row. After its lowest position of 211 in 2017, the city rose to the 142nd rank in the following year and further to 71st in 2019.In Haryana, Panchkula has ranked third after Karnal (rank 17) and Rohtak (rank 35) in first and second positions, respectively.While none of the senior officials from the municipal corporation (MC), including commissioner Mahavir Singh, were immediately available for comments, Haryana Assembly speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta gave the credit to the sanitation workers. “The ranking is the result of their hard work. I give special credit to the sanitation staff, who play a crucial role in the city’s cleanliness. Apart from this, residents’ active participation also helped,” he said.Gupta said they were already working on dealing with the dumping ground by setting up a solid waste management plant, which will further improve the city’s ranking in 2021.Former MC commissioner-cum-administrator Rajesh Jogpal said the better ranking this year was possible because of the efforts and active involvement of citizens and MC staff, especially sanitation workers.“However, the city could have achieved a much higher rank if the solid waste management plant was set up and people segregated waste at source,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swachh-survekshan-panchkula-jumps-15-spots-in-best-performance-in-four-years/story-MHpi7U0r0RgMpEU7aBattI.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Tricity records sharpest surge in a day with 349 cases||The tricity on Thursday recorded its steepest single-day spike of 349 Covid-19 cases, surpassing the previous day’s high of 311.Chandigarh and Panchkula recorded the highest jumps within 24 hours with 119 and 98 cases, respectively, while Mohali had 132 fresh cases.The tricity had logged 311 cases on August 19, the day Mohali and Panchkula also reported highs of 134 and 86 cases, respectively.Chandigarh crosses 2,500 markWith 119 new cases, Chandigarh crossed the 2,500 mark to reach 2,505, while the death toll remained constant at 31.Thursday’s 39 recoveries took the number of patients discharged to 1,390, leaving 1,092 active cases.Patients testing positive included DSP Dilsher Singh, sub-divisional police officer, East, and an employee of the deputy commissioner’s office.The office of the deputy superintendent of police has been sanitised and staff who have been quarantined will be tested. The new cases were reported from 25 different sectors, besides Dadumajra, Manimajra, Burail, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Khuda Lahora, Hallomajra, Ram Darbar and DhanasTwo more deaths in MohaliWith two more men succumbing to Covid-19 in Mohali on Thursday, the district’s death toll climbed to 45. As many as 25 people have died in the past 10 days – one on August 10, two each on August 11 and 12, five on August 13, one on August 14, two on August 15, three on August 16, four on August 18, three on August 19 and two on August 20. The district’s tally also rose to 2,270 with 132 fresh cases on Thursday. The latest fatalities include an 82-year-old man from Phase 7. He was suffering from diabetes and was admitted at Indus Hospital in Mohali. The other patient, a 50-year-old man from Kharar, was admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He suffered from hypertension. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the cremations were performed as per protocol under the observation of health officials.Among the 132 new cases, 38 are from Mohali city, 31 from Zirakpur, 24 from Kharar, 10 from Gharuan block, eight each from Dera Bassi and Banur, seven from Kurali and six from Lalru.With 33 patients also discharged on Thursday, the number of recoveries has risen to 1,206, leaving 1,019 active cases.98 cases in Panchkula, 1 deathOne death and 98 positive cases on Thursday took Panchkula’s count to 1,427, according to the Panchkula administration’s daily bulletin. Five cases were reported from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police camp as well.The deceased was a 75-year-old woman from Sector 16. “She reported to the Civil Hospital on August 16 for a test and was confirmed positive. Reluctant to be hospitalised, she was admitted on August 18, but by then she had developed respiratory distress. She died on the night of August 19,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon.The case breakup includes 67 from Sectors 20, 21, 10,11,17,27,5,4,15,12A,25,Moginand Police Line, 16, 26,19, 9,14, Mansa Devi Complex-4 and Indira Colony. The rest have been reported from Old Panchkula, Kalka, Pinjore, Morni, Raipur Rani, Barwala and Industrial Area Phase-1.Apart from this, nine cases were reported from outside Panchkula but tested positive in the district. They include one from the Haryana Civil secretariat, one from the Haryana chief minister’s residence and cases from Chandigarh and Sonipat.Panchkula has 459 active cases, 959 have been discharged and nine have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tricity-records-sharpest-surge-in-a-day-with-349-cases/story-WkD59TOAFsRJJ57TWbMpqL.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to conduct written exam for physical training instructors on August 23||The Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) will conduct a written examination on August 23 to conclude the selection process that began in 2006 for recruiting physical training instructors (PTIs), in compliance with the apex court orders.The exam for the post of the instructors will be conducted in five districts -- Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Kaithal and Hisar -- in compliance with the orders of the Supreme Court, a state government statement said here on Thursday.According to the statement, the HSSC shall conclude the entire selection process initiated by an advertisement and the criterion notified on December 28, 2006, which is holding objective type written test of 200 marks and viva-voce of 25 marks.“As many as 9,273 candidates have been issued admit cards for which total 95 exam centres have been established across five districts,” it said.The district magistrates shall impose Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) banning assembly of four or more people in the vicinity of the exam centres.The statement said the instructors who were terminated due to court orders can also participate in the examination process.A single bench of the high court had on September 11, 2012 set aside the 2010 selections of PTIs on account of changes made in the selection process. The decision was upheld by a HC division bench and later by the Supreme Court on April 8, 2020. An apex court bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice Navin Sinha had said that HSSC’s decision of June 30, 2008, to cancel the written examination, the July 11, 2008, decision to call candidates eight times the number of vacancies on minimum percentage of marks for interviews and the decision of July 31, 2008, to call all the eligible candidates for interviews were arbitrary. Decisions were taken without any reason to change the selection criterion published in 2006 which have the effect of downgrading the merit in the selection, the court said. The sacked instructors, who teach physical education and related subjects in government schools, have demanded that they be reinstated.Senior leader of opposition Congress, Randeep Singh Surjewala, had recently urged the Haryana government to reinstate the sacked PTIs by issuing an ordinance and ratifying it through a Bill passed by the state legislature.According to the state government statement, Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora had held a video conference on Wednesday with deputy commissioners and superintendents of police of all the five districts where the exams will be held.Arora directed the officials to maintain strict vigil and ensure foolproof arrangements for safety and security of candidates, maintaining the law and order and smooth conduct of the examination, the statement said.“The administration shall ensure proper frisking of candidates before allowing entry into examination centres. CCTV cameras shall be installed in each room with live streaming. The HSSC shall ensure proper scanning of QR code/, facial biometric attendance, videography and mobile jammers should be installed,” the statement said.The chief secretary directed the district administrations to depute flying squads for safe carrying of exam material and to maintain the law and order.Superintendents of police of the districts were advised to ensure adequate police force consisting of male and female personnel is deployed at each centre, as per the direction given by Arora.It was further directed that in view of the Covid-19 situation, all the exam centres will be thoroughly sanitised before the exam including classrooms, corridors and washrooms.To ensure social distancing, the number of candidates per room shall be reduced to half.Candidates will not be allowed entry if they do not have a face mask. The HSSC shall ensure thermal screening at entrance and proper hand sanitisation at entry points and in classrooms, according to the statement.“Any candidate with flu-like symptoms will be made to sit separately. A medical team/rapid response team will be deployed in all districts by district administration to deal with any case of medical emergency,” it said, while issuing other exam-related instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-conduct-written-exam-for-physical-training-instructors-on-august-23/story-4VT3qgUSvKNvZidMc1PMKJ.html
21-08-2020||City||67 held with drugs in 1 month: Ambala range IG||In a special operation, the Haryana Police have recovered a huge cache of drugs in Ambala, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra districts of Ambala division in one month. Sharing details, Y Puran Kumar, IG, Ambala Range, said during this campaign, from July 16 to August 16, 14 cases under the NDPS Act were registered in Ambala, 26 in Yamunanagar and 16 in Kurukshetra and as many as 67 accused were arrested with drugs. “8,155kg cannabis, 283.54gm smack, 226gm heroin, 1.56kg opium, 53.15kg bhuki, 140gm charas, 5,258 intoxicating capsules, 1,486 intoxicating pills and 100 intoxicant injections were recovered. Similarly, taking action against those possessing and selling illegal weapons, 36 cases were registered and 49 accused were arrested,” the Ambala range IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/67-held-with-drugs-in-1-month-ambala-range-ig/story-MvdgUdc8BN4HIHdI62QFZK.html
21-08-2020||City||Missing boy’s body recovered from canal in Karnal||Body a 16-year-old boy was recovered from the Western Yamuna Canal near Sataundi village of Karnal on Thursday. The boy, as per his family, had gone missing three days ago. His kin are alleging that he has been murdered.They said he had left the house on August 17 with two other boys. “We later got a phone call that my son was drowned in the canal,” one of his parents said. The family initially refused to cremate his body and demanded the case be probed from a murder angle. Karnal Sadar police station in-charge Baljit Singh met the family members and assured them that a fair investigation will be conducted. Following the assurance, the family members agreed to cremate the body. The cop said a case has been registered under section 302 (murder) against the two minor friends of the boy and an investigation was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-boy-s-body-recovered-from-canal-in-karnal/story-S2558ybeOVa8zyGtrxt8bN.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three DCs among 12 IAS officers shifted in Haryana||Haryana government on Thursday issued transfer and posting orders of 12 IAS officers, including deputy commissioners (DCs) of Nuh, Rohtak and Kurukshetra. Sharandeep Kaur Brar was posted as Kurukshetra DC replacing Dhirendra Khadgata. Khadgata was posted as Nuh DC replacing Pankaj, who was posted as managing director, HARTRON, and CEO, micro irrigation authority. Director, women and child development, Manoj Kumar-1, was posted as Rohtak DC, relieving RS Verma. Additional chief secretary, irrigation and public health engineering department, Devender Singh, was given the additional charge of skill development and industrial training. Additional principal secretary to CM, V Umashankar, was given the additional charge of principal secretary, electronics and information technology. Principal secretary, general administration, Vijayendra Kumar, was given the additional charge of principal secretary, sainik and ardh sainik welfare department. Director general, urban estates, Renu Phulia, was posted as director general, women and child development. Chief administrator, HUDA, Pankaj Yadav, was given the additional charge of director general, urban estates. Commissioner, food and drugs administration, Ashok Kumar Meena, was posted as registrar, co-operative societies replacing Mani Ram Sharma, who was posted as director, sainik and ardh sainik welfare department. Lalit Kumar was posted as commissioner, food and drugs administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-dcs-among-12-ias-officers-shifted-in-haryana/story-2M9GcNg7QU0dkgMkFo8JzO.html
21-08-2020||City||Two women arrested for posing as IT officials in Jind||Two women were arrested for trying to extort money and jewellery from a showroom owner in Jind by impersonating income tax (IT) officials, police said on Friday.The accused have been identified as Swati of Kaithal and Saveta Verma of Delhi.A spokesman of Jind police said the duo had visited at the jeweller’s store on Wednesday evening, claiming to be from the IT department.“They accused the showroom owner of tax evasion and demanded money from him. Then they sought some jewellery from the owner. He got suspicious and informed the police. The women showed us fake identity cards, but we asked them to get their senior on phone. The man who posed as their senior corroborated their story, but we still had our doubts. We arrested them and they later confessed that they were not IT officials,” the spokesman added. The police have registered a case of robbery and cheating against the women and started an investigation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-women-arrested-for-posing-as-it-officials-in-jind/story-sbrS1RsHhEYZYzKkXsVxPN.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana departments set to start sending official files to CMO electronically||The Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana has started the practice of sending official files to the office of chief minister ‘only through the electronic format’.Khattar, who himself is considered tech-savvy, has been pushing for introducing digital tools of e-governance at various levels for reducing delays and ensuring transparency.Now, not only the CM’s office (CMO) but the office of chief secretary (CS) and finance department (FD) will also apply formal brakes on receiving the files, bulky or otherwise, in physical form from at least 22 departments in next one week. A top government functionary said Khattar is likely to formally inaugurate this e-governance project within a week even as electronic movement of the files to CMO and chief secretary has started. “E-governance has been the top priority of the CM, who had been pushing for this major IT initiative being monitored on a daily basis by the chief secretary,” a senior officer, who is implementing this project, said. According to Mukesh Bajaj, assistant general manager of (HARTRON), the corporation training the employees, the government has already issued instructions to the departments to stop physical movement of the files to CMO, chief secretary and finance department. “They want the files to be moved electronically via e-office software developed by the NIC,” said Bajaj. At least 35 departments, Bajaj said, have started sending files electronically within their own branches. “The electronic inter-department movement of the files have also picked up pace now,” he added. On August 17, general administration department (GAD) had informed all administrative secretaries, heads of departments, and divisional commissioners that in phase 1, 22 departments will have to send their files to the government, to the offices of CM, CS and finance department ‘only through electronic format’ from that day itself. In phase 1, departments such as IT, panchayat, employment, HARTRON (corporation), higher education, housing, urban local bodies, and transport were included. From September 1 in phase 2, 20 other departments — agriculture, animal husbandry, civil aviation, forest, industries and commerce — have been directed to send the files electronically. “All the remaining departments are directed to send their files from November 1 onwards in the same manner,” the letter of GAD says, directing that these instructions be brought to the notice of all concerned for ‘strict compliance’. The GAD has said that the e-office software will significantly speed up file movement and improve the operational efficiency of the departments as now, the field offices and head offices can move files electronically. “We are bringing all departments on board, including the ministers who will start receiving the files electronically. While the files of the fresh cases are being prepared using the software, large volumes of the old files have been scanned and uploaded on the portal,” Bajaj said. The software will help in controlling the workflow, work allocation and tracking of the files, besides cutting delays in decision-making.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-departments-set-to-start-sending-official-files-to-cmo-electronically/story-ew3LwSGmUrxXF3fISrBqCN.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Will introduce bill in coming assembly session: Dushyant||Following Haryana governor’s move to reserve the private sector job quota ordinance passed by the cabinet for the consideration of the President, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said it was the prerogative of the governor. Dushyant also said he would follow up the matter with the Union government and the President. “However, we will be tabling a bill, a replica of the ordinance to provide 75% reservation to local candidates in private jobs, during the assembly session starting on August 26,” said Dushyant, who also holds the labour and employment portfolio. The governor’s move to reserve the ordinance for the consideration of the President is being seen as a setback for Dushyant, whose Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) had made a poll promise to implement the quota. Dushyant, though, on Thursday said the development will not have any impact on the JJP’s relations with its coalition partner, the BJP. “The proposed law has a clause which gives it an overriding effect over other laws. Probably, that’s why it was sent to the President,” he said. The law secretary had advised that the proposed law be reserved for the consideration of the President as its Section 23 gave it an overriding effect over other laws and has the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament. The second aspect was that provision providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana seemingly was in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before law and Article 19 (1)(g) that provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. Asked about the move of the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh to provide public employment only to local candidates, the deputy chief minister said the constitutional barriers cannot be overlooked. Responding to a query that the proposed law may die its own death as the BJP government at the Centre has a contrary viewpoint on the issue, Dushyant said he was optimistic about its prospects. ‘No bar on introducing a Bill’Legal experts said since it was the prerogative of the legislature and the government to introduce a bill in the assembly, there was no bar on tabling a private sector job quota bill even if the governor has reserved the ordinance for the consideration of the President. Former Haryana advocate general Ashok Aggarwal said the private sector job quota bill passed by the assembly will be sent to the governor, who will have to reserve it for the consideration of the President. Haryana’s move to introduce reservation for local youth in private sector jobs is on the lines of a law enacted by YS Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh and challenged on the grounds of constitutional validity in the Andhra high court. The proposed law Titled Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020, it provides for 75% of the new employment to local candidates for jobs having monthly salary less than ₹50,000 in private companies, societies, trusts and limited liability partnership firms situated in the state. Employers will also have the option to recruit local candidates from one district to the extent of only 10%. The proposed law also contains a bailout clause for the industry if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-introduce-bill-in-coming-assembly-session-dushyant/story-gBpEklwGLDr5zPOD1688UL.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for threatening Marathi film actor||Sakinaka police on Wednesday arrested two men for allegedly threatening a Marathi film actor at a supermarket in Sakinaka, Andheri (East). Both men were not wearing face masks or maintaining social distance. When the actor and her friend questioned them about the same, they started threatening them.According to Sakinaka police officers, the incident took place at around 1pm when Manasi Naik and her friend had gone shopping at Walkmart Supermarket in Andheri. The arrested accused, identified as Mehraj Nisar Azmi, 28, and Surya Ramesh Dubey, 20, both vegetable vendors, were present at the same store. “Naik and her friend were standing in a queue and were maintaining social distance by standing at the pre-marked area for each customer. But Azmi, unlike others was not keeping social distance and was not even wearing a mask. He was standing very close to Naik and her friend,” said an officer from Sakinaka police station. “When Naik asked Azmi to stand properly at the pre-marked area and also to wear a face mask, he started arguing with her, and then also called his friend Dubey. They then threatened Naik and her friend saying ‘we will see how you both leave from here’,” said Kishor Sawant, senior inspector at Sakinaka police station.Naik then contacted the police control room and sought help. “Our team reached the spot and arrested both the accused,” Sawant said.Following Naik’s complaint, police registered a first information report (FIR) under section 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (2) (punishment for criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-threatening-marathi-film-actor/story-yOhPIvZs7zxbHcOMCpXtuO.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||MNS attacks Mumbai mayor after son’s firm gets Covid centre contracts||The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has accused mayor Kishori Pednekar of favouritism after the contracts for providing labour to Covid-19 centres, constructed in various parts of the city, were given to her son’s company. Calling it a scam, the MNS has demanded Pednekar’s resignation from the mayor’s post. MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande alleged that Pednekar has misused her office to allot contract to Kish Corporate Services Private Limited, where her son Saiprasad is an additional director. “This is clear cut case of conflict of interest as the whole contract was tailor-made to be allotted to the firm of the mayor’s son. The BMC bypassed reputed manpower-providing companies citing emergency requirement and allotted the tender [to Saiprasad] due to the influence exerted by the mayor,” said Despande. “There was no thought given to the experience as well as the competency of this company and the contract was arbitrarily allotted,” he added. Calling it a case of political rivalry, Pednekar has refuted the allegations. “My son’s company has followed all the rules to bag the contract and there was no favouritism from my end. My son has been running the company from 2012 and he has the right to earn his livelihood like any other citizen,” said Pednekar. “Some cannot digest the fact that both, me and the Shiv Sena, have received accolades for our excellent handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and hence, are levelling baseless allegations to malign us,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mns-attacks-mumbai-mayor-after-son-s-firm-gets-covid-centre-contracts/story-1gZozxilRlLNBQEw8AsBnM.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Two more officers die of Covid-19, Mumbai Police toll rises to 62||Two officers from the city police force succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking Mumbai Police’s pandemic fatality count to 62.Police inspector Vishwanath Tambe, 54, of Mulund police station, died on Thursday morning. He was holding charge of administration at the police station. “Tambe had some comorbidities and succumbed to the virus during treatment,” confirmed Lakhmi Gautam, additional commissioner of police (east region).The other victim, 35-year-old sub-inspector Vinayak Babar from Deonar police station was also from the east region police. He succumbed to the virus of Thursday morning.Babar had undergone tests after he developed some Covid symptoms. On August 9, his test result came positive and he was admitted to Dr DY Patil Hospital in Nerul, Navi Mumbai.As his condition deteriorated, Babar was moved to the intensive care unit (ICU) on Wednesday. During treatment, he succumbed to the disease at around 4am on Thursday.“Babar was an active, and a very good detection officer. The entire police station is shocked as he was so young,” said assistant commissioner of police (Deonar division), Vishwapal Bhujbal.A native of Pune’s Purander district, Babar was a resident of Kamothe, Navi Mumbai. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. In Mumbai Police force, so far around 4,500 policemen have gotten infected by the coronavirus. Most of them have recovered and many have resumed work.In Maharashtra, till date, 12,877 policemen from various units have tested positive for Covid-19, of which 131 have succumbed to the disease. Of the total infected personnel, 10,491 have recovered and 2,255 are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-more-officers-die-of-covid-19-mumbai-police-toll-rises-to-62/story-aYawbCluF8POjkjNghZNvI.html
21-08-2020||City||UMC starts repairing roads ahead of Ganesh festival||A day ahead of the Ganesh Chathurthi festival, residents of Ulhasnagar are still complaining about the potholed roads in the city. Locals have raised concerns over the bad roads as repair works this year were delayed due to the lockdown. Social worker, Prashant Chandanshiv, 33, had written to the commissioner of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) asking him to pay attention to the east-west connecting bridge in Ulhasnagar. “The bridge had several potholes and my car got damaged due to it. When I wrote to the civic body, they immediately responded and assured they would take action to repair the potholes. There are several such roads that have potholes and needs to be fixed without delay to avoid any accidents,” said Chandanshiv. The potholes on the bridge were repaired on Thursday by UMC. The roads outside Jawahar Hotel, Golmaidan Road and furniture market road, however, are still in pathetic condition. Every year the civic body initiates road repair works in March, however, this year work got delayed due to the lockdown. According to UMC, pothole filling work was initiated 10 days back and it is still being undertaken at many places. “Due to rain we have not initiated the asphalting work as it won’t last. We are just filling the potholes will stones. We are covering all the main routes that will be taken for immersion. Once the rain subsides we will start with asphalting,” said Mahesh Sitlani, engineer, UMC. This year, the budget for road repair is ₹5 crore, compared to ₹8 crore in 2019. “This time the work is delayed due to lack of labour and the lockdown. Last year 80% of the road works were completed before monsoon,” added Sitlani. Although the work has begun, the civic body is not sure when it will be completed due to the constant rains. Bhiwandi resident protest against potholesResidents and activists of Kamatghar in Bhiwandi staged a protest against the Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) on Wednesday, to highlight the numerous potholes in the area. The residents stood around potholes with fishing rods to indicate how large and deep the craters were. BNCMC commissioner Pankaj Ashiya said, “Work is already going on. Our team does this on a regular basis. Work is being done even during night for Ganpati festival,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/umc-starts-repairing-roads-ahead-of-ganesh-festival/story-IHmcJo03TUm2W8aRxtd1bI.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: Another challenge ahead for MVA government?||Will the Supreme Court’s decision to hand over the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) impact the stability of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government? SC on Wednesday allowed CBI to probe the SSR death case, taking it from the hands of the Mumbai Police. The state had consistently opposed the CBI takeover and insisted the Mumbai Police were competent to investigate the case. In Maharashtra’s political circles, discussions are rife over how CBI probe may heighten tensions within the former allies-turned-rivals, the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and even challenge the tenuous alliance between the three ruling partners – Sena, Congress and NCP. A section of the senior leaders from the ruling parties feel that the handling of the case was solely responsible for the transfer of the probe. “Instead of completing the accidental death report, the police were busy calling the who’s who of Bollywood to probe nepotism and the home minister was over enthusiastic in issuing statements over it. The home department could not act swiftly even when the demand for a probe by CBI was first raised. It did not even challenge the FIR filed in Patna, when the probe was on in Mumbai,” said a senior minister, who did not want to be named. The home department is with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). He also said that with the CBI probe, there was a possibility of the BJP trying to pressure the Sena to join hands with them in the state, to avoid getting the investigation of SSR to the doors of Matoshree. He said the Sena was cornered by the BJP by creating doubts and suspicions about the Thackeray family scion and minister Aaditya through social media. “There is no involvement of any state minister in the case, but the whisper campaign put the government on the back foot. Everybody knows that nothing will come out of it, but the Opposition has succeeded in the maligning the party leader,” he added. Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “The transfer of the case is a setback for the state government, but I do not think it will affect the fate of the government. The three ruling parties, too, failed to put up a united face in the crisis. The NCP was seen as sulking, probably, to avoid any discredit to it because of the transfer of the case. The stand taken by Parth Pawar over the investigation by CBI has further created doubts over unity within the ruling parties.” However, NCP spokesperson and state minorities minister Nawab Malik said the government was stable and in full majority. “Why should one talk about the fate of the government which is in full majority?” Another NCP leader said party chief Sharad Pawar had cleared his party’s stand on statements by Parth. Arvind Sawant, Shiv Sena leader and South Mumbai MP, said the strategy of CBI probe was planned by the BJP to destabilise the state government. “They would want us to pressurise us to join hands with them again, but such tactics will not work. The bitterness between the BJP and Sena is growing further and the ruling alliance is emerging even stronger,” he said.Some Shiv Sena leaders feel the party has become “too tolerant” and failed to retaliate like in its earlier avatar. “There are limitations when one is in power. When the CM was referred to in an insulting language, we expected an aggressive reaction from within as well as other ruling partners, but there was no retaliation. There is apprehension if the Opposition will try something underhand to dissolve the government,” said a senior Sena leader, who did not want to be named. BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar, however, refuted the allegations that his party was trying to destabilise the government. “It was because of the ill handling of the case that Rajput’s father had to register a case in Patna and then came the SC order. It is the Shiv Sena’s imagination that we are trying to destabilise the government or would pressure them to join us. Why should they be worried if the government has the strength of 170 MLAs as they claim? As far as the allegations over defaming Aaditya are concerned, none of our leaders has even named him.” CBI STAFF EXEMPTED FROM QUARANTINE PROTOCOLThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday allowed the CBI team visiting Mumbai for investigation into the Sushant Singh Rajput death case to bypass the mandatory quarantine protocol. A senior civic official from the BMC told HT, “They are on official duty and they have sought exemption. We have given them the exemption. There is no time limit for it. ” A controversy had erupted after Bihar-cadre IPS officer Vinay Tiwari who had arrived in Mumbai on August 2 for the probe was asked by the civic authorities to remain under 14-day quarantine, as per the rule for domestic air travellers. Meanwhile, home minister Anil Deshmukh held a meeting with Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh at Mantralaya in the evening for update on the status of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-another-challenge-ahead-for-mva-government/story-sd8g2OT4ohHrmr947V9mbO.html
21-08-2020||City||Undertrial kills self in quarantine centre of Taloja jail||A 43-year-old undertrial arrested in the 191-kg drugs bust case by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) was found dead in the toilet of a quarantine facility of Taloja Jail in Kharghar on Wednesday night. The accused, who was shifted to the facility merely few hours ago before the incident, is suspected to have died by suicide. Another accused in the same case attempted to kill himself, but has survived. DRI busted the international drug racket and seized 191 kg heroin worth ₹1,000 crore from Nhava Sheva port on August 9, in what is being touted as the largest seizure in recent years in Maharashtra. DRI arrested three people from Delhi in connection with the case and brought them to Mumbai on August 10. The three accused were produced before a court on Wednesday and were remanded in judicial custody from Thursday. The accused — Mohammed Nouman Suleiman, Suresh Bhatia and Mahendra Nigam — were shifted to Namdar Gopal Krishna Gokhale Vidyanagar School around 3.30pm for a mandatory quarantine period.On Wednesday night, Suleiman went to use the toilet around 11pm and allegedly hanged himself using a towel, said police. He was found by the on-duty police officer who went to check as he did not return for a while. “The opaque glass of the door showed some movement but he was not responding to knocks. They broke the glass pane and found him there. A doctor was called for check-up, but Suleiman succumbed,” said Nilesh Jagtap, sub-inspector, Kharghar police station. Police sources also said that, during inquiry, they found Suleiman had attempted suicide while in DRI custody.“We found fresh unhealed cut on his wrist. He had sliced his wrist during DRI custody and was saved that time,” said an officer. It is unclear on what date Suleiman first attempted suicide.Meanwhile, the jail staff found that another accused in the case had consumed several pills to kill self. He was taken to the infirmary where he is recuperating, police sources said without revealing the identity of the accused. Pradeep Tidar, senior inspector, said an accidental death report has been filed following the incident. No suicide notes were found either on Suleiman or on the second accused. Sources in Taloja jail said the third accused has been depressed, but officials have not questioned him yet. He has been kept on suicide watch. Meanwhile, police have recorded statements of the on-duty constables at the facility. Both Bhatia and Suleiman have past criminal antecedents. Bhatia was convicted in a 1,200-kg hashish smuggling case in 2008.Suleiman was a close aide of Bhatia, who co-owns Delhi-based Sarvim Exports Ltd, which had allegedly ordered the seized narcotics to be smuggled in India from Afghanistan, as per DRI. Suleiman looked after the import operation and transportation routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/undertrial-kills-self-in-quarantine-centre-of-taloja-jail/story-3N7WXt1TAnoPVCgtndCwTO.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Saamana slams transfer of Sushant Singh Rajput death investigation||A day after the Supreme Court handed over the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Shiv Sena in its mouthpiece said it was a conspiracy to malign the Mumbai Police and the state government. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The Mumbai Police did not register an FIR in the case and was investigating the matter as ‘accidental death’. Saamana expressed surprise over the apex court’s order even when it found no wrongdoing in the Mumbai Police’s investigation. “While handing over the probe to the CBI, the apex court said, “records of the case produced before this court do not prima facie suggest any wrongdoing by the Mumbai Police”. Then it is surprising that the reins of the case were given to the CBI,” the Saamana editorial remarked. The Mumbai Police’s probe in the case was in the final stages when it was stopped and handed over to CBI on recommendation of the Bihar government, the editorial said. “Getting CBI to probe the Sushant Singh Rajput case in this manner is an attack on the federal structure given by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar... Today, the Indian Constitution will be shedding tears if it is observed that quarantining a Bihar Police official in Mumbai gives rise to suspicion due to which the case is handed over to the case,” it added. It added that it is an “illusion” that only the Bihar police or CBI can unearth the truth in the case. “Several criminal cases in Bihar were investigated by CBI. How many real culprits did CBI arrest so far? Sushant’s case was politicised only to malign the Mumbai Police and the Maharashtra government,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/saamana-slams-transfer-of-sushant-singh-rajput-death-investigation/story-Ez10bOWjxyrn91PJrPEZfJ.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The poet of Galli Hakimji Wali||The works of poets may linger in some high unattainable altitude but they themselves live in ordinary unremarkable streets. Such as Iffat Zarrin. This muggy afternoon the verse writer is standing amusedly on the middle of this cramped lane that is going all the way to her house. A long-time dweller of Old Delhi’s Galli Hakimji Wali, Ms Zarrin writes poetry and also teaches Urdu literature—she is an assistant professor in Delhi University’s Mata Sundri College for Women. “These days I’m conducting classes on Google Classroom,” she informs, posing for a quick photo shoot—from a safe distance. “As a bimari (illness), coronavirus is certainly not good, but it does has given me sukoon (peace) for now I don’t have to go out much,” declares Ms Zarrin in her lecturer-like authoritative voice, which however is larded up with great dollops of friendly affection. In her 50s, she gamely agreed to become a part of the Proust Questionnaire series in which we nudge folks from diverse backgrounds to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore the lives, thoughts, values and experiences of Delhi’s citizens. Exercising the privilege of being a poet, Ms Zarrin obviously peppered her responses with her own verses. Her Urdu was translated into English by poet Saquib Hussain.Your favourite virtue or the principal aspect of your personality ‘It’s been ages since I started on a solitary inward journey, I’m unaware of my destination, but I’m still on the road.’ And while on the way, I try to be compassionate and empathetic to everyone, without an ounce of discrimination of any kindYour chief characteristic Loyalty, punctuality and respectWhat do you appreciate the most in your friends? Whoever stands by my side in adversity is my friendYour main fault I trust people easilyYour favourite occupation Writing and teaching Your idea of happiness To read or write anything profound or beautiful. ‘I’m a painter, and this is what is expected of my talent I’m bound to paint a portrait even of my adversary’If not yourself, who would you be? I would have been a high-flying bird, soaring up along the skyWhere would you like to live? In some serene hill station, with at least one close friend with whom I can share all my feelingsYour favourite prose authors Munshi Prem Chand. He wrote about the plight of poverty-stricken farmers and labourers, and tried his best to fight social inequality through his timeless writingsYour favourite poets Meer Taqi Meer, Mirza Ghalib, Faiz Ahmed Faiz, Firaq Gorakhpuri and Nasir KazmiYour favourite heroes in fiction Afsana Qalandar, aka Iqbal Bakht Saxena, a character in a short story by Qurratulain Hyder—he would always be adapting himself to help others Your favourite heroines in fiction Umrao Jaan Ada. As she took culture and etiquettes to newer heightsYour favourite painters To be honest, I’m not much familiar with the painting world but I loved the persona of late MF Husain saab. He was always barefoot and he always dressed in white. I was lucky to have met him a number of times during poetry gatherings that were routinely held at the Ghalib Institute (near ITO)Your heroes/heroines in real life My father, late poet Musheer Jhinjanvi, who taught me how to lead a principled life. I’m still following his path What characters in history do you most dislike? Hitler, and the people responsible for Bhopal gas tragedy and Jallianwala Bagh massacre in AmritsarYour heroines in world history Raziya Sultana and Zeenat Mahal. Arundhati Roy and Medha Patkar. Their names would be etched in historyYour favourite food and drink Dal-chaawal and roti sabzi. ChaiWhat do you hate the most? I hate hatred, and those people who divide us on religious groundsThe military event you admire the most rather than any particular war or battle, I chose to admire those who protect our nation by putting their life on the line. They have my utmost respect, and I present my salutations in their honour. ‘O country, we love every aspect, every shade of yours, We even consider your soil to be a healer.’The reform you admire the most Women’s educationThe natural talent you’d like to be gifted with To write well. ‘Stones for hands, and feet bound forever in chains, This is what I see whenever I see the mirror.’How do you wish to die? Painless death, surrounded by my familyWhat is your present state of mind? Social distancing, online classes, staying home and hoping to save lives ‘The punishing loneliness has engulfed my heart, All that accompanies me now are these doors and windows. O life, I have been longing for you; come and hold my hand for once.’Faults for which you have the most tolerance When people flatter you to get their things doneYour motto in life I never ever bother anyone for my sake||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-poet-of-galli-hakimji-wali/story-JaVuPO9TdGcuLYo15O3lcL.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Aviation ministry officials call Capt Singh’s allegations baseless||A day after an aviation professional and a fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society (RAeS) in London raised questions about tampering of evidences from the accident spot at Kozhikode International Airport, officials from the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) termed the allegations as baseless. Captain Amit Singh, on August 17, wrote to the ministry demanding a court of inquiry into the Kozhikode Air India Express plane accident citing that stills from videos played by local media allegedly indicated tampering of evidences. The aircraft VT- AHX operating from Dubai to Kozhikode crashed inside the airport perimeter at 7.40pm on August 7. After the accident was reported, locals, airport staff and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) rescued the passengers. Ministry officials said CISF team cordoned off the area with thick Manila ropes on the night itself.A MoCA spokesperson said, “Insinuation of tampering of evidence is baseless. It shows total ignorance of the individual about the investigation process, insensitivity to the deceased, and lack of respect for villagers. The current team of experts from AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau) and its experts are fully competent to investigate the accident.”According to an Air India Express official based in Delhi, the Go Team of AAIB had departed for the accident site by a special flight at 2.30am on August 8 and had reached the crash site by 6am. “The site, at that time, was cordoned off in the required manner and was guarded by CISF personnel,” the official said.An official present at the accident site said that immediate photos and videos of the wreckage were taken in ‘as is where is’ condition. “The documents and specific items were collected and preserved for investigation. The aircraft wreckage was packed and sealed on Sunday, August 9, and this activity was photographed. Ever since its occurrence, the wreckage is being guarded by CISF personnel as per their mandate,” he added.Senior Air India officials had also asked for suggestions on how to stop people from taking photographs while officials are busy in rescue operations to save lives of the passengers and crew. “Assuming the worst-case scenario during the rescue, even if any switches got moved from their position unintentionally while extricating both pilots from the cockpit, investigation would corroborate evidence with CVR, DFDR data. At that critical juncture, it is more important to save lives which the villagers and other locals along with CISF rightly did,” the airline official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aviation-ministry-officials-call-capt-singh-s-allegations-baseless/story-3NBbcHDsuUMywzyeBmJxMM.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Amid losses, RInfra writes to Maharashtra govt for selling Mumbai Metro-1 stakes||Reliance Infrastructure (RInfra)-led Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL) has written to the Maharashtra government, saying that it wants to sell the stakes it owns in the company. Metro-1 has been shut for five months owing to the pandemic and had been suffering losses prior to lockdown. MMOPL is a special purpose vehicle (SPV) that was constituted to develop and run the 11.5 km Metro-1 on a public-private partnership model. RInfra owns 69% stake in MMOPL; the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (MMRDA) owns 26%; and Transdev (formerly Veolia Transport) owns 5%. Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary, urban development confirmed that the department had received MMOPL’s letter. Reply to HT’s query, he said over text message, “Yes, we have just received [the letter]. [We have] not taken any view yet.” At the time of going to print, RInfra and MMOPL had not replied to HT’s detailed questionnaire, sent via email. A senior official told HT that the state has sought MMRDA’s views on the development. MMRDA is a nodal infrastructure authority implementing a 337-km Metro network in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). Recently, MMRDA had invited bids to appoint an independent engineer to monitor the operations of Metro-1. “Since MMRDA is developing the entire Metro masterplan, it will be beneficial if Metro-1 is also under the same authority to provide an integrated and seamless network in MMR,” said the official. The state has also formed the Maha Mumbai Metro Operation Corporation Limited (MMMOCL) to operate and maintain all Metro lines. In March 2019, HT had reported that MMOPL was in talks with lenders to tackle its mounting debt of Rs 1,928 crore. MMRDA had then given a go-ahead to MMOPL, provided the authority’s equity was not diluted. Faced with losses since Metro-1 became operational in June 2014, MMOPL had planned to increase fares, but those plans faced roadblocks. In 2019, the second fare fixation committee rejected MMOPL’s proposal to increase fares and asked the company to re-look at innovative non-fare revenue methods. MMOPL is also in the middle of an arbitration against MMRDA over cost escalation during the construction of Metro-1. While MMOPL claims it cost Rs 4,026 crore to build Metro-1, MMRDA claims the cost is Rs 2,356 crore as per the original contract.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-losses-rinfra-writes-to-maharashtra-govt-for-selling-mumbai-metro-1-stakes/story-NQ1B9dtqTAG0KTICq5GozN.html
21-08-2020||City||19 patients at Thane mental hospital test positive for Covid||Nineteen patients of the Thane Mental Hospital have been tested positive for Covid-19 since August 10, after hospital authorities and the civic body started rapid antigen testing in the hospital. All the Covid-positive patients have been admitted to different Covid Care Centres across the city and an attendant has been deployed to assist each of them with their daily chores. Dr Sanjay Bodade, medical superintendent of the Thane Mental Hospital, said, “As per ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines, we can conduct antigen testing only on those who have mild symptoms. We are also conducting the antigen tests on all those patients who are being admitted or discharged from the mental hospital. We also have an isolation ward in the hospital and are taking all the precautionary measures to curb the spread of the virus.” Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), informed that the civic body has provided antigen kits and training to the mental hospital staff to conduct the tests. “The hospital updates us with daily reports. Some of the patients who have been tested positive are recovering and will soon be sent back to the mental hospital. The testing process will help in providing timely treatment to the patients,” added Malvi. Bodade said that it is difficult to explain the safety protocol to the patients of the hospital. “We have to be very sensitive while dealing with them and approaching them after wearing PPE (personal protective equipment) kits is difficult. Making them wash their hands or wear masks at all times is also difficult. So we have to be careful with the interactions that we have with the patients. We have provided N95 masks, shields and face covers to all the staff members. They can also stay and have food within the premises of the hospital,” added Bodade The testing at the hospital commenced after two patients died of the virus in July. Until now, 178 of the 808 patients have been tested. All the 56 employees of the hospital have been tested negative. The deaths had raised several concerns. Kirit Somaiya, former Member of Parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said, “With more than a thousand people living inside the hospital, only a handful had been tested. We had stressed the need for regular testing. The hospital is now conducting regular antigen testing and many patients have been found positive. Due to our timely action, they will get proper treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-patients-at-thane-mental-hospital-test-positive-for-covid/story-diKnsxBA75LhhvjzhlPlhP.html
21-08-2020||City||Only those below 50 years can opt for home isolation: Mumbai civic body||In a bid to reduce the city’s fatality rate, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now mandated home isolation for patients only below 50 years of age, who are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms and have no co-morbidities. The civic body’s analysis done showed that the fatality rate of patients between 50 years and 60 years is very high. A circular issued by BMC’s health department on Wednesday said that Covid-19 patients above 50 years of age or anyone who has co-morbidities, irrespective of their age, will now have to go to Covid Care Centre 2 facilities for treatment and isolation. So far, the existing guidelines allowed home isolation for asymptomatic patients below 60 years of age with no co-morbidities and those having separate toilet facilities in their homes. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer in BMC, said, “We have observed that patients between 50-60 years of age are at high risk, especially those with co-morbidities. It has also been observed that in a lot of positive patients, the health deteriorates after seven to eight days. In most cases, patients do not follow home isolation properly and there are instances where people need immediate medical support, but are unable to find it while in home isolation. We need to avoid such cases and admit them to institutional quarantine.” The current average Covid-19 mortality rate of Mumbai is stagnant at 5.5%; it is way above than the national mortality rate at 1.90% and state average mortality rate at 3.3%. Another senior civic official said, “We have also seen that a lot of patients in this age group have diabetes and hypertension and we already know that they are at high risk. Considering all these factors, it was decided in a recent meeting to change the home isolation guidelines.” The circular further stated that officials from the solid waste management department should carry out sanitisation at least once in the society, where a Covid case is detected. The home of the patient and common areas of his residence are to be sanitised by BMC. On Thursday, Mumbai reported 1,275 Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 132, 822. The city saw 46 deaths, as the toll touched 7,314. As per BMC’s data, of the 46 deaths, 28 deaths were of patients above 60 years of age, and 18 patients were between 40 years and 60 years The data further stated that 976 patients were discharged on Thursday. A total of 107,033 patients have been treated and discharged, taking the recovery rate to 80%. The total number of active patients in the city is 18,172. The city’s average growth rate is 0.78% and the doubling rate is 90 days.Meanwhile, Dharavi witnessed a sudden spike in Covid cases on Thursday. After reporting single digit cases for the past two weeks, 17 Covid cases were reported, taking the total to 2,697. For the past two weeks, cases in Dharavi were plateauing to single digit and was seen as a sign of relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-those-below-50-years-can-opt-for-home-isolation-mumbai-civic-body/story-V49AP9X9OUxliOl7OVlF1O.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||In a first, companies set to conduct virtual interviews during placement season at IITs||In a first, Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) will conduct their placement season online in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This year, recruiters scouting for talent at the premiere technology institutes will select candidates virtually. After going online for the autumn semester and convocation ceremonies, IITs are now exploring options to best enable students to participate in recruitment drives remotely, from their homes. Online software, tests and virtual or telephonic interviews are on the cards. Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) plans to maintain its placement calendar and kick off the drive on December 1. “The format of interviewing will be through online software via video conferencing and in some cases, telephonically,” said BV Ravishankar, training and placement officer, IIT-B. Over 1,700 students of the institute, from various programmes, will seek employment through the placement drive this year. IITs in Chennai, Delhi, Roorkee, Mandi and Guwahati confirmed to HT that their placements will be done online, in the interest of the students’ health and safety. “The student registration process has not yet started, but we expect around 900 students to register this year. We’ve clarified to students that placements will be conducted keeping in mind social distancing rules and regulations as prescribed by the government,” said Vinayak Kulkarni, head (Centre for Career Development), IIT-Guwahati. “Student registration is currently underway and in two weeks, we’ll know exactly how many students are opting for placements or deferring placements in 2020-21. The entire process will be conducted online this year keeping in mind Covid-19,” said C S Shankar Ram, advisor (training & Placement), IIT Madras. While the lockdown has eased in many parts of the country, IITs are working to ensure placement season is not affected by rising cases of Covid-19. “Lockdown or not, campus visits or face-to-face interviews will be tough at least for the next few months. Therefore, conducting online interviews and group discussions will be adopted by the institute,” said Dr Sunny Zafar, advisor (Career & Placement Cell), IIT-Mandi. The institutes are already readying students for online pre-placement tests and virtual interviews. Recruiters are likely to have the option of choosing from a host of online models. “Not every detail has been finalised, but we have given recruiters a free hand to decide on the hiring pattern,” Zafar added. Among students, the virtual process has added to the anxieties of a batch that is facing an unprecedented placement season. The slump in the economy, the pandemic, revised visa rules in the United States of America, lockdown and internet connectivity are among the concerns for many. “The season started with mock interviews and announcement of the complete timeline for the current season. There are certain changes in the timeline and we had to adjust our preparation schedule. As the complete process, tests and interviews will be online, I am quite worried about the problems I’ll face due to internet connectivity. Usually, preparation is something we do alongside friends, but we are having to resort to video calls for the same now,” said an IIT-B student. “Despite industry projections, we are expecting placements this year to be at par with previous years, if not better. The institute as well as recruiters are very keen on conducting interviews online this year,” said Vinay Sharma, professor in-charge, placement and internship, IIT-Roorkee. For two years in a row, IITs have boasted of at least one student being offered an annual package upwards of Rs 1 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-a-first-companies-set-to-conduct-virtual-interviews-during-placement-season-at-iits/story-CgCJ6VWUQUgD9ZG35thuXP.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||2 IIT-Bombay students in team that identified asteroid that flew past Earth||The SUV-sized asteroid, which zoomed past around 2,950km above the Earth’s surface on Sunday, was identified by an international collaboration that comprises two students from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B). Named ‘2020 QG’, it is the closest known asteroid to fly by the planet without impacting it.The students, Kunal Deshmukh and Kritti Sharma, who are part of a collaboration searching Near Earth Asteroids, identified this object just hours after it passed by Earth, using data from the robotic Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF) in California. While analysing ZTF data, the two reported five streaks as “potential asteroids”, unknown to the fact that one of it was the record-breaking asteroid. “The data looked like all other near-earth asteroids we have seen so far,” said Deshmukh, a final-year student in the department of Metallurgy and Materials Science at IIT-B.“Helping make a discovery like this, so early in my research project, is beyond what I had ever imagined,” said Sharma, third year student of mechanical engineering.The students reported their findings to the International Astronomical Union Minor Planet Center, after which several global telescopes followed up to learn more about the asteroid’s size and orbit. “We at IIT-Bombay are ratified by the Center and study the data recorded by ZTF, California. So when the students reported the discovery to the Center, the same had to be verified by other independent observers too,” said Varun Bhalerao, assistant professor, department of physics, IIT-B, and an advisor to the students. The feat has now been verified by observers.“The asteroid flew so close to the planet that earth’s gravity significantly changed its orbit,” says ZTF co-investigator Tom Prince, the Ira S Bowen Professor of Physics at Caltech and a senior research scientist at JPL, which Caltech manages for NASA. Asteroids of this size that fly roughly as close to earth as 2020 QG do occur about once a year or less, but many of them are never detected, he said.According to a release on the official website of Caltech, each night, machine-learning programs automatically sort through about 100,000 images in search of these streaks, and then narrow down the best asteroid candidates to be followed up by humans. This results in about 1,000 images that team members and students sort through by eye every day.“Asteroid 2020 QG was identified by Kunal Deshmukh, a student at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. Deshmukh had been scanning that day’s images along with Kritti Sharma, also at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, and Chen-Yen Hsu at National Central University in Taiwan,” the release said.Arvind Paranjpye, director of Nehru Planetarium, called it a “very important discovery because it was so close to earth that the planet’s gravity could perturb its course”. “We need more such discoveries of inter-planetary missiles and this discovery is a matter of pride for the country,” he said.Asteroid 2020 QG is about 10 to 20 feet (3 to 6 metres) across, or roughly the size of an SUV, so it was not big enough to do any damage even if it had been pointed at Earth; instead, it would have burned up in the planet’s atmosphere. The previous known record of an asteroid that flew this close to the planet was in 2011. The asteroid, 2011 CQ1, discovered by the Catalina Sky Survey, was around 2,500km higher than 2020 QG.“We are very excited about our next phase: studying such objects with the robotic GROWTH-India Telescope at Hanle, Ladakh,” Bhalerao said. GROWTH-India is a partnership between the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, Bengaluru, and IIT-B, with support from the Indo-US Science and Technology Forum (IUSSTF) and the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) of the Department of Science and Technology (DST). It is a part of the international GROWTH collaboration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-iit-bombay-students-in-team-that-identified-asteroid-that-flew-past-earth/story-E5atLKZxYvCnJN7vmySJ9H.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Maha 2nd cleanest state; Navi Mumbai is 3rd among cities||Maharashtra was on Thursday ranked the second-cleanest state in the country in the Centre’s Swachh Survekshan 2020 — a survey to rank cleanest cities of India — bagging the highest number of awards for the third consecutive year. Mumbai, however, was ranked 35th nationwide (out of 47 cities with a population over 10 lakh), a relatively poorer performance from last year’s 49th (out of 100 cities with a population over one lakh). Chhattisgarh was given the ‘Cleanest State’ award in the category of states having more than 100 urban local bodies, followed by Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Indore was adjudged India’s cleanest city for a fourth straight year. Mumbai’s satellite town Navi Mumbai improved its performance from last year’s seventh position to become the third-cleanest city in the country.State urban development minister Eknath Shinde said the state performed a “hat-trick” by securing most awards for a third year in a row, with four from the 12 nation-wide categories and 13 from various other categories. Chandrapur was another city from Maharashtra to feature in the top 10, securing the ninth spot. Thane was ranked 31st, while Pune ranked 36th and Nagpur was 44th on the list. The fifth annual cleanliness survey of the country — were announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, in which 129 awards were given in different categories. As per the final results, Mumbai scored 3,106.39 out of the total of 6,000 marks. In 2019, the city had scored 3,277 out of 5,000. Over 2.8 lakh citizens from the city gave feedback in this year’s survey, data said. The Swachh Survekshan ranks cities across the country in the categories of cleanliness and sanitation on four parameters— direct observations, citizen feedback, service-level progress and certification — with 1,500 marks allotted for each category. In the category of smaller cities, with a population of below 1 lakh, three cities from Maharashtra bagged the top three spots. Karad (Satara), Saswad (Pune), and Lonavla (Raigad) were the top three cleanest towns, while 17 other towns from Maharashtra features in the category.“From the 12 national categories, Maharashtra has got four awards, the most by a state. In the 100 Amrut Cities list, 31 cities from Maharashtra have featured in the ranking. While in the non-Amrut cities list, 20 cities and towns out of total 25 are from Maharashtra. It is a big achievement. Besides that, Maharashtra is the second cleanest state in India. This is a matter of immense pride for us. The entire state is now open defecation free. Of them, 216 are certified ODF+ and 116 are certified ODF++ [as per the sanitation protocol of the MoHUA,” Shinde told reporters in Mumbai.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/swachh-survekshan-2020-maha-2nd-cleanest-state-navi-mumbai-is-3rd-among-cities/story-YP22gHcD60B8L6dL5nk7fM.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||State records sharpest Covid case spike for 2nd day in a row||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike case, second in a row, with 14,492 Covid-19 cases on Thursday. With the first daily caseload in excess of 14,000, the state’s case count now stood at 643,289, while active cases were at 162,491, nearly 25.25% of the total cases reported so far. On Wednesday, 13,165 cases were reported.The death toll of the state reached 21,359, after 326 deaths were reported. Of them, 231 were reported in the past 48 hours, another 63 deaths from past one week, while the rest 32 deaths were from the period before that, the health officials said.The surge in cases in Maharashtra is not going not down even after 165 days from the first case of Covid-19 detected on March 9. In fact, the average number of cases per day have increased to over 11,000.In 20 days of this month, the state has reported 221,610 cases, which accounts for 11,080 per day, on an average. For the month of July, it was 7,980 cases per day as the state has recorded 247,392 cases in that month, while in June it was 3,405 cases a day as cases recorded were 102,172.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a meeting with district-level officers held on Tuesday had said parts of Maharashtra have reached their peak of Covid-19 cases, while some parts are close to getting there. State health minister Rajesh Tope, too, has said they expect the downward trend of the Covid-19 infection after mid-September. “We have been witnessing peaks across the state, but are not sure how long it will last. We have been witnessing stabilisation of cases in Malegaon, Dharavi and the spread is in control in Aurangabad. In most places, the spread has plateaued and now the downward trend is expected after mid-September,” he said on Tuesday. “Most parts of the state are witnessing their peak as a result increased in daily caseload is observed. We are hoping for downward trend only in September as two festivals — Ganeshotsav and Muharram — are falling on August 22 and August 30 respectively,” said a senior official from health department, wishing not to be named.We have also been doing aggressive tracking and testing following the government orders, which ultimately led to spurt in daily cases, he added.This can be further explained as most of cases used to come from the 19 cities declared as red zones in the past. The scenario was situation changed ever since the lockdown was eased with ‘Mission Begin Again’ starting from June 3.Statistics showed that on June 3, the 19 cities had 67,885 cases, which was 90.68% of the total cases. While on August 20, they accounted for 412,402 cases (64.10% of the total cases). This suggests the rest of the areas have also started contributing in daily cases to a large extent.The 19 cities are Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Nashik, Malegaon, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur.On Thursday, Mumbai recorded 1,275 cases, second-highest cases in the state, taking its tally to 132,822. Of them, active cases were 18,172. The city’s toll stood at 7,314 after 46 deaths reported on Thursday.Pune city continue to contribute maximum infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,682 cases on Thursday. Its tally stood at 84,589 cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad, satellite city in Pune Metropolitan Region (MPR), recorded 1,000 cases, third-highest contributor in the state. Its tally goes up to 37,736. Apart from them, Nagpur city and Jalgaon district have recorded 924 cases and 515 cases respectively.High number of casualties has become another cause of concern for the state. In the last 20 days, the state has reported 6,365 deaths, which indicates that it is going to record highest number of casualties his month. Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 3.32% on Thursday. It is slightly less than Gujarat, which has the highest CFR in the country as present. On Wednesday, Gujarat’s CFR was 3.46% with 2,837 deaths (81,942 cases), according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading the communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said Covid deaths are their biggest worry and there is a need for concentrated efforts to bring them down. “Number of deaths are our biggest worry as it is increasing. It is related to the spike in cases because if cases have risen, then a certain percentage of number of deaths will also increase at the same time. This needs concentrated efforts such as early hospitalization, identifying senior citizens and patients having co-morbidities, which I don’t see happening,” Dr Salunkhe said.As many as 459,124 infected patients have recovered and been discharged from various hospitals across the state till date. On Thursday alone, 12,243 recoveries were reported, taking the recovery rate of the state to 71.39%, against the national average of 73.91%.On Thursday, it has conducted 76,961 tests and total number of tests conducted so far are 3,414,809.Currently, 37,639 people have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities and 1,176,261 people were home quarantined across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-records-sharpest-covid-case-spike-for-2nd-day-in-a-row/story-RkUcxfnO2ArCSPyTZCGPvJ.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||CM Thackeray to appoint expert panel to study National Education Policy||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has announced to appoint an expert committee to study the National Education Policy (NEP) introduced by the Centre, and recommend the steps to be taken for its implementation in Maharashtra. The committee will also recommend the changes needed in the existing laws to incorporate the new policy. The decision was taken during a review meeting held by Thackeray, which was attended by school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, Marathi language minister Subhash Desai, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and officials from the other departments concerned. Thackeray has also asked the state education department to tap the idea of changing the academic year to January from June in the light of the delay in kicking off the academic year. The expert committee will consist of scholars and researchers from education and other departments from across the state. Thackeray said that the state government was willing to make the education system more student-friendly. “The new education policy has many new concepts which will require changes in the existing laws. The inevitable changes will have to be welcomed, while steps will have to be taken to weed out the difficulties in its implementation. Students should be enabled to ask more and more questions, to push their curiosity. The policy needs to be implemented by keeping all aspects, including technical education, vocational courses and education in mother tongue in mind,” he said. Thackeray has also asked the education department to weed out the difficulties the students are facing in online education during Covid-19 pandemic. Gaikwad has directed the department to consider the idea of reopening physical school for at least Class 10 students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-thackeray-to-appoint-expert-panel-to-study-national-education-policy/story-BK7G6f94HMmU8qAC2Q53jO.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||9 get life imprisonment for killing man after tiff over pet dog||A city civil and sessions court on Thursday sentenced nine people to life imprisonment for killing 30-year-old Anil Pandey, an alleged member of Kumar Pillai gang, after a tiff over his pet dog in 2015 at Bhandup. The nine accused — Sameer Chavan, 21; Gautam Ghadge, 25; Suraj Gawas, 26; Sameer Kadam alias Chintya, 26; Ravindra Wanare, 22; Shaurabh Khopade, 18; Vishal Parad, 21; Sachin Hatpale, 23; and Vishwadip Naik, 25 — were convicted after the prosecution, led by public prosecutor Iqbal Solkar, examined 25 witnesses including Pandey’s wife Priya. Apart from the life sentence, the accused were also fined ₹35,000 each. Priya, in her deposition before the court, said Pandey, who would generally return home by 8pm, was late on June 6, 2015. She later learnt from a friend that Pandey got into a tiff with a few local boys as Pandey’s pet dog caught hold of the cricket ball that the boys were playing with and refused to let it go. While trying to get the ball back, Khopade, one of the accused, got injured which led to the altercation, Priya told the court. Pandey was later brought back home in a drunken state by his friend around 10.30pm. Later that night around 2am on July 7, 2015, a group of men armed with knives and swords started banging their door. As the family did not let them in, the men broke their door and attacked Pandey. Before leaving, they also threatened Priya to not reveal their names to the police. Pandey was taken to a hospital soon after, but was declared dead on arrival. Later, based on the complaint lodged by Priya, all the accused were arrested by Bhandup police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/9-get-life-imprisonment-for-killing-man-after-tiff-over-pet-dog/story-jlMAMRdOcEDAREpE0xcVOJ.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Pension a fundamental right, cannot be deducted without authority of law: HC||Pension constitutes a fundamental right and deprivation of even a part of it cannot be accepted, except in accordance with the authority of law, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) held on Thursday. The bench of justice Ravi Deshpande and justice NB Suryawanshi was hearing a petition filed by Naini Gopal, a Nagpur resident who retired as an assistant foreman from Ordnance Factory, Bhandara in October 1994. The petitioner complaining of action by the Centralised Pension Processing Centre of the State Bank of India in recovering an amount of Rs 369,035 from his pension by deducting it in monthly installments of Rs 11,400 The bank responded to the petition stating that an amount of Rs 782 was mistakenly being paid in excess to the 85-year-old since October 2007, due to a technical error. SBI maintained that it was because the petitioner’s pension was fixed, treating him as a personnel below officer rank, instead of a civil pensioner, and claimed that the Reserve Bank of India had authorised it to recover the excess pension paid mistakenly. HC, however, rejected the argument after noticing that the bank failed to demonstrate the technical mistake. The judges held that there was no good reason to deduct the amount from the petitioner’s pension, after the Ordnance Factory pointed that there was no error in fixing the the 85 year old’s pension. The bench struck down the action of the bank observing that it cannot fix pension payable to retired employees. “Pension payable to employees upon superannuation is ‘property’ under Article 300-A of the Constitution of India and it constitutes a fundamental right to livelihood under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The deprivation, even a part of this amount, cannot be accepted, except in accordance with and authority of law,” said the bench. “We, therefore, hold that the action of the bank to reduce the pension of the petitioner is unauthorised and illegal,” the bench said, and directed the bank to stop the recovery and credit the amount recovered so far to the pension account of the petitioner. Irked with the “insensitive” approach of the bank officers towards the senior citizen, HC has also imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on the bank and directed it to deposit the amount in the petitioner’s pension account in eight days, failing which the bank will have to pay a fine of Rs 1,000 for every day of delay. In this regard, the bench said a bank is a trustee of its account holders like the petitioner, and has no authority in the eyes of law to dispute the amount of pension payable to an employee, other than those in its own employment. HC noted that the petitioner is of 85 years of age and has a huge liability of looking after his 45-year-old specially-abled daughter, who also requires costly medical treatment. “Instead of showing sensitivity to the problems of senior citizens, the bank has shown arrogance, and the petitioner was driven from pillar to post to know the reason for deduction of the amount from the pension payable to him,” said the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pension-a-fundamental-right-cannot-be-deducted-without-authority-of-law-hc/story-uek6f9KVD7LKn9JRGq80bI.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||HC restrains state from closing Nashik shelter for distressed women||In a relief to a shelter run by an NGO in Nashik for women in distress, the Bombay high court (HC) has restrained the state from taking any coercive action against the home as it would cause inconvenience to the residents. The NGO, which has been running the shelter from 2009 through funds provided by the Central and state governments under the Swadhar Greh scheme, approached the HC after the state issued them a notice in July asking them to close the shelter as it did not have an approval since 2019. The state refused to give approval to the shelter on the grounds that the NGO was not registered in the same district. The Aurangabad and Nagpur benches of the HC on Wednesday passed similar orders restraining the state from taking coercive action against another 11 such shelters. A division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Riyaz Chagla, while hearing the petition filed by Meenakshi Mahila Vikas Mandal (MMVM), was informed by advocate Satish Talekar that the shelter home housed women in distress and had been functioning since 2009. The shelter was being run under the Swadhar Greh Scheme and was also recognised by the Central government. Talekar further submitted that in 2018 the state government came out with a resolution wherein NGOs and private organisations would be allowed to run shelter homes only in those districts where they were registered. Based on this resolution, the approval of MMVM came to be cancelled in 2019 as the NGO was registered in Nanded whereas the shelter home was in Nashik. Talekar submitted that the NGO had filed a petition in the HC in 2019 but it was not heard. He said that as the state issued a notice of closure in July, there was an urgent need to restrain the government to take coercive action against it. The petitioner’s lawyer also argued that the state did not have powers to order closure of the shelter by passing a resolution as the shelter had the approval of the Centre. He also drew the attention of the bench to orders passed by the Aurangabad and Nagpur benches of the HC on Wednesday in identical petitions filed by 11 other NGOs wherein ad interim protection was granted and the state was restrained from taking coercive action against the shelters. In light of this, he sought similar reliefs. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that as the closure of the shelter would result in inconvenience to the existing residents and render them without a roof, the state should not take coercive action against MMVM. The bench also directed the state to file a reply justifying its decision to cancel the approval of the shelter and posted the matter for hearing after three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-restrains-state-from-closing-nashik-shelter-for-distressed-women/story-WobmWnOo1MfW7QHECSw95M.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows Rao Junior Colleges to conduct admissions||A few months after the state education department rejected the recognition to Rao Junior Colleges in the city, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday allowed them to conduct admissions for the current academic year. In response to a writ petition filed by Rao Educational Trust, a bench of justice Milind Jadhav and justice KK Tated observed that as per the Maharashtra Self-Financed Schools (Establishment and Regulation Act), 2012, “no order or withdrawal of permission shall be passed unless a reasonable opportunity of being heard is given to such trust or society or local authority”. According to the petitioner, the department had not given a chance to be heard. The court has further asked the education department to give a personal hearing to the college within a period of four weeks from the date of the order. Meanwhile, the HC has asked the department to direct the competent authority to ‘publish supplementary notification on the website of standard 11 Centralised Admission Process 2020-21 for Mumbai Metropolitan Region giving information about the petitioner’s colleges for admissions to FYJC Science’. The court order further states that while students are entitled to admissions in the five junior colleges run by the group, it will be ‘subject to outcome of the present litigation’. Similarly, students admitted for Class 12 in the colleges under Rao group can continue to study there. In July, the education department had cracked a whip against eight junior colleges, including five of the Rao group, in the city for not following norms with respect to infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-rao-junior-colleges-to-conduct-admissions/story-8vrhI4FDtBcs56CANpesKM.html
21-08-2020||Mumbai||Artist Chintan Upadhyay, accused of murdering wife and her lawyer, applies for interim bail||Artist Chintan Upadhyay, who is facing charges for allegedly murdering his wife Hema and her lawyer Haresh Bhambani, moved the Dindoshi sessions court for interim bail on Thursday, citing the spread of Covid-19 at Thane jail, where he is currently lodged. Special public prosecutor Vaibhav Baghade said that the plea is scheduled for hearing on August 31, when the prosecution will have to submit its reply over the accused’s bail application. Vijay Rajbhar, another accused in the case, too, has moved a plea for interim bail, which will also be heard on August 31. Chintan was arrested on December 22, 2015 for the murders. Hema and Bhambani were allegedly smothered with a chloroform-laced cloth by another accused in the case, Vidhyadhar Rajbhar, at his warehouse on December 11, 2015. The alleged murderers then packed the bodies of the victims in cardboard boxes and dumped them in a sewer at Kandivli. The bodies were found a day later. The police believe that Vidhyadhar, who has been absconding since the murder, committed the crime at the behest of Upadyay. Vidhyadhar’s last call was reportedly traced to a location in Jammu. Police officers also claimed that Upadyay used a mediator — whose identity has not been established — to arrange meetings with the other suspects in the months leading up to the murders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/artist-chintan-upadhyay-accused-of-murdering-wife-and-her-lawyer-applies-for-interim-bail/story-907J53co1ZTct5knBIMoqK.html
21-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Three murders within minutes of each other in sector 9||Unidentified men shot dead three persons in two separate incidents in sector 9 within minutes of each other on Thursday evening. Police said all three dead men were linked to a criminal gang with a history of violence in the region, but added that it was too soon to conclude whether the killings were a fallout of inter-gang rivalry. Prima facie, they said, the two were not linked.According to the police, the first incident took place around 5pm outside Wings Apartments. Three armed persons arrived and attacked three others -- Anmol from Bhawani Enclave, Sunny from Basai and an unidentified person. Anmol suffered one gunshot wound and collapsed outside, while Sunny was chased and shot him multiple times inside the society after which the suspects fled. Both were rushed to a private hospital, where doctors declared them dead-on-arrival. The third person survived by hiding in the society. Police said preliminary probe had revealed that the Anmol and Sunny had a plot related dispute with the prime suspect Pavan Nehra, a resident of Bhora Kalan. The second incident was reported around the same time near a temple in Basai village three kilometers from the first incident. Armed suspects arrived on a motorcycle, and shot 18-year-old Sameer alias Vicky. He suffered at least four gunshot wounds and was rushed to civil hospital, where he died during treatment. Senior police officers and forensic teams visited the crime scenes and collected evidence. An officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, confirmed that the victims were associated with a gang. “Sunny and Anmol are associated with Moni Kataria and Joni Kataria gang. There has been a history of violence in Basai between gangs,” he said. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, “We are investigating if the two killings are linked. Prima facie, there was enmity regarding a plot in Basai between two groups. We have initiated a probe and more will come out once statements of eyewitnesses, if any, are recorded. It would be premature to conclude a gang rivalry in the cases at this point.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-three-murders-within-minutes-of-each-other-in-sector-9/story-4fuw3ZNuiwxSsehNhcaLRJ.html
21-08-2020||Noida||Noida authority plans to install water metres in over 79,000 households||Aiming to check wastage of drinking water, the Noida authority is planning to install water metres at over 79,000 households in the city. In its 199th board meeting on Tuesday, the authority sanctioned a budget of Rs 99.70 crore for work on a multi-jet water flow technology aimed at improving water flow to each consumer, said authority officials. The authority will initially install water meters in households of 10% of the total 79,210 consumers, they added.The new technology will enable the authority to charge the consumer on the basis of consumption, said officials, and will need installation of water metres. Bills will be generated on the basis of consumption of the water with the help of these metres, and officials hope this will deter residents from wasting water.“We aim to not only check wastage of water but also improve services to the consumers,” said Avinash Tripathi officer on special duty, Noida authority.As of now, the authority levies fixed charges on consumers on the basis of the size of a household. However, once the water metres are installed, the authority will impose a variable charge on the basis of consumption and a fixed charge, said officials.The authority is planning to hire a private agency that will be responsible for installing the meters and taking care of operations and maintenance for 10 years. While the authority has not fixed a deadline for the scheme, it hopes to roll out the plan fully by 2021.Once the metres are installed, the authority may also revise the water charges, said officials. On May 3, 2020, the authority had increased water rates by 7.5% amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, facing flak from residents who were demanding relief in bills.As per old rates, the authority charges ₹175 per month from a middle-income group (MIG) flat owner; ₹ 210 per month from a high-income group flat owner; and, ₹260 from a duplex flat owner. An owner of a 200 square metre (sqm) plot paid ₹250 per month, while the authority charged ₹470 per month from the owner of a 350 sqm plot. Beginning April 1, 2020, each consumer needs to pay 7.5% more, said officials. Usually, consumers pay their bills annually at the end of fiscal in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-plans-to-install-water-metres-in-over-79-000-households/story-cJGSjIW9d9n0GyyNBIW7IJ.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||South-east, north, central districts have highest prevalence of antibodies in Delhi||The southeast, north and central districts of Delhi recorded the highest prevalence rate of antibodies – 33.2%, 31.6% and 31.4% respectively – in Delhi’s latest Covid-19 sero survey, the result of which was shared by the city’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday.Southeast Delhi also recorded the highest increase (of 11.08 percentage points) when compared with the previous sero-survey for which blood samples were collected between June 27 and July 10 to assess the number of people who have developed antibodies against the coronavirus disease, including those who may have contracted the Sars-CoV-2 infection and overcome it without realising it.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereSouthwest district was the one which recorded the lowest prevalence rate of the antibodies – 16.3%. And, at 24.6%, New Delhi district recorded the second lowest, according to the data released on Thursday which suggested that around 29.1% of the capital’s population has developed antibodies against the virus.The sero prevalence rate reflects the number of people out of a given sample size (around 15,000 in this case) who contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus and recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). When infected, individuals develop antibodies in their blood. The sample size is calculated by experts to ensure that at any given point it is fit for extrapolation for reflect trends inclusive of the entire population of a state, city or district, explained a senior official in the health department. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“Sero survey helps in the analysis of trends and better assessment of asymptomatic population, case detection rate and infection-death ratio. The results can be used by the administration and experts ,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). HT on Thursday spoke with several district officials to get a better sense of how they interpreted the data in terms of actions that need to be taken in the days to come. Several of them suggested that both high and low prevalence rate of antibodies found through the sero survey in any district demand more or less the same efforts in testing, isolation and surveillance. “A high prevalence rate of antibodies means a large number of people were infected but they were not diagnosed, even after testing was scaled up. It means more tests need to be done and they have to cover more asymptomatic individuals. We have to scale up testing, with focus on special surveillance groups (SSGs) and individuals residing in densely populated areas,” said a district surveillance official who did not wish to be identified.Another district official said, “Low prevalence rate of antibodies means that a larger population in the concerned area are still vulnerable. This also demands that the district should continue with aggressive testing, surveillance and isolation mechanism to protect the population which is yet to contract the virus.”Also read| 3 in 10 Delhi residents have antibodies for Covid-19: New sero resultRahul Singh, district magistrate (southwest), which has the lowest prevalence of antibodies (16.3%) said the result means the district has the lowest infection rate in the entire city. “It’s a good thing. Based on the latest sero survey results, directions have been issued to all officials in the district to continue aggressive testing and strict enforcement. We are focusing on high-risk groups (HRGs) and SSGs and Covid-19 test is available at all dispensaries in the district. Proactive surveillance and additional camps at all markets and public places for testing have been set up,” he said.In a statement, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal lauded the ‘Delhi model’ of ‘test, track and treat’ and said the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has gone up to 101.5 days, compared to 28.8 days for rest of India. He also said there has been a significant drop in the positivity rate in two months, from 24.59% on June 18 to 5.25% on August 16.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage“The positivity rate has dropped for both RT-PCR tests and rapid antigen tests. On June 18, 9,088 RT-PCR tests were conducted of which 2,804 positives emerged — a positivity rate of 30.85%. In comparison, on 16 August, 4,106 RT-PCR tests were conducted of which 434 positives emerged — a positivity rate of 10.57%. Similarly, on June 18, 3,316 rapid tests were conducted in Delhi of which 247 positives emerged - a positivity rate of 7.42%. In comparison, on August 16, 10,882 rapid tests were conducted in Delhi of which 353 positives emerged — a positivity rate of 3.24%,” Kejriwal said.Delhi’s health minister Jain said: “A few districts witnessed a significant increase in prevalence rate of antibodies in the sero survey because several localities in those districts witnessed a spike in Covid cases in different points in the last one month.”“In the days to come, we will compare this survey with the previous one thoroughly and decide whether we need to draft new strategies or change our approach in certain aspects concerning Covid-19 management.”Senior government officials also said the latest finding that those aged less than 18 years were found to have the maximum antibodies compared to other age groups would play a crucial role in the Delhi government’s decisions on opening schools and colleges in the coming months. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in his Independence Day speech, said the government will not open schools until it is fully convinced the city has put the worst behind it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/south-east-north-central-districts-have-highest-prevalence-of-antibodies-in-delhi/story-W0xYlO3E18lOfDtrbYX4TO.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||Areas under Delhi’s three civic bodies among dirtiest in country||Barring the Lutyens’ zone of the national capital -- administered by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) -- areas under Delhi’s three municipal corporations were among the dirtiest surveyed for the Swachh Survekshan 2020 rankings for cities with a population of more than one million. Swachh Sarvekshan is the central government’s annual survey on cleanliness under the Swachh Bharat Mission. This was the fifth edition of the survey introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2016. This year, the survey covered 4,242 cities across the country in which a total of 19 million citizens participated. The survey is conducted by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. Areas under South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) ranked 31, the North corporation got the 43rd rank, and the East Delhi civic body stood 46th among the 47 cities surveyed -- Patna, incidentally, was in last place. All the three MCDs are controlled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).At the same time, NDMC, which does not follow the same election mechanism the corporations do, earned New Delhi the tag of the “cleanest capital city”. The category of cities with a population of more than one million was introduced this year in order to have a fair comparison among cities that have a major difference in their population indexes. In 2019, when the category it was a part of (425 cities with a population of more than 1 lakh) included more cities, SDMC was 138th out of 425, North MCD 282nd, and the East Delhi civic body was in 240th place.Rajiv Kumar Jain , superintending engineer and nodal officer of Swachh Bharat mission of SDMC said, “This time those cities above 10 lakh and below 10 lakh population were separated which is why it appears that we are lagging behind. However, if the marks scored are compared in the overall list, we are 120th in the 429 urban local bodies surveyed.” South corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh insisted that the civic body has moved up slightly in the rankings. “We have been carrying out various campaigns to segregate waste, improve the condition of landfills by recycling more and more waste. We hope to get even better ranking next year,” she said.Officials in the other two corporations seemed more concerned.North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said he will convene a meeting to look into the various aspects that need to be worked upon to improve the area’s ranking. “Though we have been working hard to clear dhalaos (garbage dumps) located on the main roads and have set up new compost plants, we need to improve segregation of waste at the source,” said Prakash. East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain blamed the change in the criteria for poor ranking. He also said that they could have done better had the Delhi government released the due funds in time. “We have improved much from previous rankings. We could have done much better if the Delhi government had released funds,” said Jain.The government has maintainted that there is no delay in payments from its side.NDMC stood third in the rankings among the 382 cities surveyed in the ”Cities with 1 lakh to 10 lakh population” category. The council, which caters to a population of about 250,000, also got three stars out of five under the “Garbage Free City” award and two pluses in the “Open Defecation Free (ODF)” category -- the same as last year.“NDMC is a bin free city with volume sensor underground bins which are monitored at a command and control centre. Besides, we are carrying out 100% door-to-door collection. No garbage goes to landfill site and the entire waste is incinerated to produce power,” said a senior NDMC official in a statement.Delhi-based waste management expert Swati Singh Sambyal said except for the NDMC, the rankings of the three corporations are the manifestation of the ground realities. “It is high time that the corporations work out a system for sustainable waste management and reduce their dependence on the traditional method of dumping waste at landfills. They should rather focus on turning dhalaos into small waste processing centres for better results.”According to the government, a total of 4,242 cities in multiple categories, 62 Cantonment Boards and 97 Ganga towns were surveyed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/areas-under-delhi-s-three-civic-bodies-among-dirtiest-in-country/story-ierKS9XXZIlTCREjSxV58I.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||Repeat of flood, snarls trauma after heaviest rain this season in Delhi||The heaviest rain so far this monsoon lashed the national capital on Thursday morning, leading to a repeat of the water-logging and commuting hassles seen on Wednesday. At least 50 stretches were inundated and snarls choked parts of central, south and west Delhi.Delhi’s Aya Nagar weather station recorded 122.8mm of rain over 24 hours, the highest this monsoon so far and probably the highest in over a decade in Delhi. But this fact could not be established as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) does not have records for Aya Nagar station for the preceding years. “We don’t have (previous years) records available for Aya Nagar station. It received very heavy rainfall, as the monsoon trough is passing over Delhi and has shifted towards the south. This is the reason that the southern parts of Delhi and the neighbouring regions received heavy rain,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. The IMD only keeps records for Safdarjung station (considered as representative of Delhi’s weather) and Palam station.Going by these, on August 20, 2010, Safdarjung had recorded 110mm rain within a span of 24 hours, which falls in the ‘heavy’ category. This, weather scientists said, was the highest rainfall recorded in the past decade so far. Rainfall between 64.5 – 115.5mm is considered “heavy” rain, while a reading between 115.6 – 204.4mm is considered “very heavy” rain.Also read: After 80% of season’s rain in 11 days, HS Puri says Delhi’s monsoon woes to be over soonOn August 2, 1961, Safdarjung had recorded an all-time high of 184mm rain over 24 hours. Palam’s all-time record of ‘very heavy’ rainfall was on August 6, 1963, when it registered 183.6mm of rain over 24 hours. On Thursday, Palam and Delhi Ridge stations received 89.1mm and 77.3mm rain, respectively, over 24 hours, both considered ”heavy” rainfall. The Safdarjung observatory recorded 54.8 mm rain over 24 hours, in the ”moderate” category. The IMD at 5am Thursday issued an ‘Orange’ alert, warning of heavy rain in isolated places and predicting moderate rain and thundershowers in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) between 5.30am and 8.30am. The Orange alert is issued to allow citizens and government agencies to prepare for heavy rain that may cause traffic disruption, increased chance of vehicular accidents and water accumulation in low-lying areas and on roads. Pul Prahladpur underpass submerged According to civic agencies and the public works department (PWD), at least 50 spots in the city reported water-logging. Some of the prominent locations where roads were inundated include Pul Prahladpur rail underpass, Bhairon Marg, near Hanuman Mandir Kashmere Gate, Rani Jhansi Road, near Vikas Bhawan ITO, the Ring Road near IP flyover, Maa Anandmayee Marg, Raja Garden flyover, Rohtak Road, Zakhira underpass, Joseph Tito road near Okhla Mandi, Kalkaji, Vikas Marg, Vishwas Nagar, Jhilmil underpass, Jangpura, New Friends Colony, Lal Kuan at Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Paschim Vihar, and Pitampura, among others. Images of water-logging at Pul Prahladpur underpass, doing the rounds of social media, showed a cluster bus (orange bus) half submerged. Authorities, however, said no one was trapped in the bus and that there was no casualty. A senior PWD official said the heavy water-logging at the underpass was due to the unusually heavy rain, coupled with a Delhi Jal Board (DJB) sewer line overflow. “We have already asked the DJB to fix the sewer line. We have six permanent pumps installed there with a capacity to pump out 7,000 cubic metres of water per hour. It took us a few hours to clear the underpass,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Commuters were stuck in traffic on Mathura Road, Ring Road, Vikas Marg, Rohtak Road near Punjabi Bagh, Sarai Kale Khan, BRT Road, Raja Garden, Najafgarh-Uttam Nagar Road, and Tughlakabad among others. In the morning, traffic police had to shut MB Road, due to water-logging at Pul Prahladpur underpass. “Why can’t the authorities fix water-logging issues in the national capital? It’s a nightmare to drive on inundated roads and one gets stuck in jams for hours,” Kartik Kumar, a commuter and resident of Maharani Bagh, said.Civic officials said the incidents of trees falling were also reported from around 35 places in the city. They said incidents of building/roof/wall collapses were reported from at least 10 locations.Rain deficit made upIMD’s Srivastava said the good spell of rain this week has already made up the capital city’s rain deficit and it is now in the surplus category. Safdarjung now has a surplus rainfall of 15%. Until August 18, it had a deficit of 14%.The IMD data shows that after this week’s spell, the rainfall recorded in the month of August touched a surplus of 15%. Parts of west, central and south Delhi, which had received only traces of rain have also made up the deficit. At Palam, the monthly rainfall has reached a surplus of 40% over the past two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/heaviest-rain-this-monsoon-batters-and-floods-delhi/story-uC4NWUqSX0UPKqaXNwwWUM.html
21-08-2020||Education||Schools of excellence in each district, exchange plan for students in Delhi govt’s ‘Vision 2030’ plan||Creation of at least one school of excellence (SoE) in each district, teaching foreign language in government schools, connected classrooms, exchange programmes for students and corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding are among the projects shortlisted for the directorate of education’s (DoE) “Vision 2030”.The directorate on Thursday told different departments that it had approved their projects for the implementation of “Vision 2030” after consulting stakeholders and the secretary (education), and set tentative timelines. In the orders, copies of which are with HT, deputy director (administration) Ramchandra Shingare advised department heads to stick to the timelines. An advisor in Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia’s office said “Vision 2030” is a part of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s strategies to uplift public education in the national capital. “Many of these projects were also announced by the government during the budget speech earlier this year. We are targeting to achieve all this much before 2030,” the advisor said.To set up schools of excellence -- the English-medium schools of Delhi government -- in each district, the DoE has asked its SoE branch to identify existing school buildings where new rooms can be constructed and prepare a proposal to declare those institutes as schools of excellence by September 15. The tentative timeline for the introduction of foreign languages in SoEs and Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalayas (RPVVs) is December 31, 2020.Elaborating the plan on connected classrooms, the DoE order stated, “It is decided to convert all classes, including nursery, in all schools into connected classrooms in the period of four years. The project will be implemented in a phased manner.”Integrated digital devices will be installed in all classrooms. Primary and nursery classes will get smart/interactive TVs. In some classrooms, laptops will be provided to improve learning. The project is likely to be implemented by the end of this year, the DoE order said.Smart cards will be issued to all government school students tentatively by September 30. “The smart card will have multiple uses like entry in school, use of health services, utilisation of library services, etc,” it said. The DoE has also ordered its school branch to come up with a proposal by August 30 to send students to other countries for exchange programmes. The Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan branch has been told to develop a CSR portal of DoE by August 30. “It is decided to develop the CSR portal of DoE to facilitate NGOs and corporates willing to support education work in Delhi government schools,” the directorate said. Principals of government schools said these projects will help provide better facilities to students. “If there are schools of excellence in all districts, it will remove stigma attached to government schools. The smart cards will help students to access all government facilities,” said AK Jha, principal of Sarvodya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-of-excellence-in-each-district-exchange-plan-for-students-in-delhi-govt-s-vision-2030-plan/story-U54EmiLF0mWhaQwNjr5aHM.html
21-08-2020||Delhi||AAP criticises MCDs for poor score in cleanliness survey||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Thursday criticised the three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) citing their poor performance in light of the central government’s 2020 cleanliness survey – the report of which was released earlier in the day.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rules all three municipal corporations of Delhi.“The central government’s 2020 cleanliness survey reveals that the BJP-ruled MCDs were the worst performers in the country. The south Delhi civic body was ranked 31, North MCD 43 and East MCD 46 in the cleanliness survey,” said Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s in charge of MCD affairs.He further said, “PM Narendra Modi is campaigning for a clean India, but the BJP councillors and leaders have tarnished his image. From cleaning Delhi to providing primary education and health, the MCDs have miserably failed in all fronts.”The mayors of the three MCDs blamed the AAP for not releasing funds that were due to the corporations, for want of which major development works have remained stuck. Read: Areas under Delhi’s three civic bodies among dirtiest in countryEast corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said, “The AAP has no right to raise allegations when it has not released our funds and we cannot even pay our staff on time. Despite that, our sanitation workers continued to work even during the Covid-19 pandemic.” North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the Delhi government must release funds before pointing fingers at the civic bodies. South corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh said the civic body is working with limited resources and is striving to more revenue so that it doesn’t have to depend on the Delhi government for funds to keep the city clean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-criticises-mcds-for-poor-score-in-cleanliness-survey/story-eWgykXv9QjJCASZBoBz1jK.html
21-08-2020||City||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Ludhiana declared best big city in innovation||Adding another feather to its cap, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has been declared the ‘best big city in innovation and best practices’ under the Swachh Survekshan- 2020 rankings released on Thursday. The results were announced during a virtual ceremony organised by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, Government of India, on Thursday, to celebrate the Swachh Mahotsav. The city stood 34th among 47 big cities (having a population 10 to 40 lakh) in the overall rankings with 3113.06 points out of 6,000. Amritsar, which also contested in the same category, secured the 39th rank. The Swachh Survey is divided into three quarters. In the previous two quarters, Ludhiana had secured the 40th and 38th positions. MC officials said that the city had adopted innovative practices such as composting, segregation of household waste, distribution of cloth bags to do away with plastic bags, encouraging vertical gardens, involvement of councillors and religious bodies for special drives among others. Congratulating the MC staff and residents for the feat, mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “It is an outcome of the hard work put in by sweepers, sewermen, MC officials, MC General House and residents of the city. We will put in more efforts for the Swachh Survekshan 2021 and hope that the residents will also support the civic body.” CITY’S RANKINGS IN THE PASTIn 2019, the city stood 163rd rank out of 4,237 cities, while in 2018, it had secured the 137th position out of 485 cities with over 1 lakh population. The city stood at the 140th position out of 434 cities in 2017 and 34th out of 50 cities in 2016. WHERE THE CITY LAGGED THIS TIME All cities are judged on four parameters-- direction observation, citizen feedback, service level progress, certification. Each parameter has a weightage of 1,500 marks. Ludhiana MC secured 1,115 marks under direct observation, 1,070.27 under citizens’ feedback, 627.29 in service level progress and 300 marks under certification. OPEN DUMPING STILL A PROBLEM HERE The Ludhiana MC is yet to finding a solution to open dumping in the city. Apart from that it has not been able to do anything about 24 lakh tones of legacy waste dumped at the main dumping site. MC officials say static compactors are being installed to do away with open dumping of garbage, however, as per residents, the problem is far from over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swachh-survekshan-2020-ludhiana-declared-best-big-city-in-innovation/story-ANDCi6sBQ66ArUit3kZ0lI.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||2006 J&K sex scandal: HC upholds conviction of four, acquits ex-BSF DIG||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday acquitted former Border Security Force (BSF) deputy inspector general, KC Padhi and convicted four persons, including a former deputy superintendent of police (DSP), in the 2006 Jammu and Kashmir sex scandal.With this, the 10-year jail term to Padhi has been quashed but upheld against former DSP, Mohammad Ashraf Mir and three others Shabbir Ahmed Laway, Shabbir Ahmed Langoo and Masood Ahmed, all locals. All of them were convicted by a Chandigarh CBI trial court in 2018. The trial court had acquitted two persons named in the scandal ­former state law officer, Anil Sethi and Mehrajudin Malik. The ‘kingpin’ of the scandal, Sabeena, and her husband died during trial, who were accused of forcing minors into prostitution for ₹250 to ₹500 in Srinagar. The sex scandal came to light in 2006 after the police recovered some video CDs of minor Kashmiri girls being sexually exploited. The allegations were levelled against the security forces officers, police officials, ministers and other influential people. The names of 57 people had cropped up ,initially.The case was handed over to CBI amidst raging controversy. It was on intervention of the apex court that trial was shifted out of the state. Four victims had turned hostile during the trial and conviction has taken place in one minor girl’s case. As many as 60 witnesses were examined, said senior advocate, Bipan Ghai, who appeared for Padhi. Acquitting former BSF officer, the HC bench of justice Arvind Singh Sangwan took note of a witness statements that his wife used to reside with him and no lady had ever visited his house except Padhi’s two daughters when the alleged rapes transpired. Also, it took note of statements that the BSF cantonment was a highly vulnerable area and entry without proper authorisation was not possible . It also took note of accounts that 40 militants were killed on different occasions in operations led by Padhi. “...By using feeble shoulders of the minor as a pedestal some organisations tried to settle their own agendas against paramilitary forces. Therefore, false implication of Padhi under pressure cannot be ruled out,” the bench observed in its 140-page judgment. As of convictions of four others, the court said it is proved that the girl was minor at the time of incident and argument of convicts of not knowing her age was inconsequential. Don’t remain silent spectator if sexual crime victims are asked lewd questions: HC to trial courts The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed courts in both the states and Chandigarh to not remain a silent spectator if victims of sexual crimes are asked lewd questions by lawyers . The high court bench of justice Arvind Singh Sangwan gave these directions, taking note of such instances reported in trial court proceedings of the Jammu and Kashmir sex scandal. The registrar general will circulate observations made in this judgment to all the courts dealing with cases of crime against women regarding lewd, filthy and indecent questions put to the prosecutrix, which could not be allowed by the trial court, the bench said. While conducting the cross-examination of victims of sexual assault, the court should be vigilant that the defence counsel should not adopt a strategy of questioning the prosecutrix as to the detail of the rape, it said, adding that courts should not sit like a silent spectator while the victim of the crime is being cross-examined by the defence and it should effectively control the recording of evidence to avoid her victimisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2006-j-k-sex-scandal-hc-upholds-conviction-of-four-acquits-ex-bsf-dig/story-KGdyu4fnsFFduU1xbLEuxL.html
21-08-2020||Pune||1,682 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Pune on Thursday||Pune city on Thursday reported 1,682 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 38 deaths, according to the state health department. This takes the progressive positive case count in the city to 84,589. However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its daily report recorded 1,669 fresh positive cases taking the progressive positives to 79,037. While 33 deaths were reported on Thursday taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 1,882. Nine more deaths were reported outside PMC jurisdiction, all others from Pune rural and outside the district. The number of patients in critical care has increased to 802. Also, 1,386 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 62,349. Of the 33 deaths reported on Thursday, the youngest among the deceased was a 30-year-old male from Wadgaon Budruk area admitted to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital who had pneumonia and morbid obesity. While the oldest among the deceased was an 85-year-old male from Dhanori area admitted to Sassoon Hospital who died due to respiratory failure and pneumonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-682-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-pune-on-thursday/story-Sm9VZN6JKwLeCUu9ebB9eN.html
21-08-2020||Pune||Pune gets 15th spot in Swachh Survekshan 2020||Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gets 15th rank in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 announced by the central ministry on Thursday. The civic body’s 2019 ranking was 37.Indore remained on top in the country and Pimpri-Chinchwad was ranked 24.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We took various steps to improve our ranking and our target was to come in the first five cities in the country. Pune’s ranking improved as compared to previous year, but we will try hard to bag top spot next year.”PMC solid waste management department head Dnyaneshwar Molak said, “The municipal staff worked hard the last year to improve our ranking. We carried out various beautification works and steps to keep the city clean. Our efforts would continue. We are not satisfied with the 15th rank though it has improved from 37 to 15. We will work hard in the coming year and definitely improve our ranking next year.”Civic activist Vivek Kumbhar said, “Results are unsatisfactory. We always criticise the administration and municipal corporation. PMC tried its best to improve the ranking, but now it is also citizens’ duty to c-operate and improve cleanliness in the city. Citizens are also responsible for keeping the city clean.”Kumbhar said, “PMC also needs to concentrate on basic cleanliness work rather than just beautification and painting walls in the city. Efforts should be made to improve garbage management, sewage management and increase citizen participation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-gets-15th-spot-in-swachh-survekshan-2020/story-g13ATiLfSw2cOKNFpVaxCM.html
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER pegs Covid-19 test costs at ₹8 crore a month||The Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research estimates that its Covid-19 testing expenditure will come to Rs 8 crore a month, following the Union government orders to Centrally funded institutes to independently procure materials for the tests.Earlier provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research, the testing kits will now have to be procured by the institutes. “Soon after the outbreak there was a shortage of kits and reagents required for testing and thus a centralised system for distribution was set up. However, now there is no shortage and most of the products are available online through Government eMarketplace (GeM). Thus, the Central government is of the view that the institutes can buy as per their requirement directly, so we have started that process,” said a senior officer of the institute requesting anonymity.PGIMER conducts around 900 tests a day on samples from Chandigarh city, parts of Punjab and UT of Ladakh as well, conducting a total of more than 50,000 tests till now.The institute conducts reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), GeneXpert, and Rapid Antigen tests to detect and confirm Covid-19. Testing costs include Rs 2,300 for GeneXpert, Rs 1,300 for RT-PCR and Rs 600 for antigen. Being a costly test, GeneXpert is conducted only in emergency cases while RT-PCR is conducted routinely. Due to less reliability, antigen tests are not being promoted much. Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said the institute conducted nearly 30,000 tests a month for which estimated costs had been worked out and sent to the Central government.The amount also includes other items required for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pgimer-pegs-covid-19-test-costs-at-rs-8-crore-a-month/story-kLJy2CEcDc4yd7ARcBSaUM.html
21-08-2020||Pune||Five two-wheelers stolen in Pimpri-Chinchwad||Pune The spate of two-wheeler thefts continue to haunt residents of Pimpri-Chinchwad residents with five cases lodged in Chakan, Sangvi, Talegaon and Chikhali police stations on Wednesday. In the first case, Ganesh Bajirao Sapre (23), a resident of Khed, has lodged a complaint with the Chakan police saying that his two-wheeler parked in front of Hotel Sai Sidhhi in Karanj Vihare was stolen around 1.19 pm on Wednesday. The Hero Honda Splendor to be worth Rs 15,000 was stolen by unidentified persons late night, police said.In the second case, Balasaheb Shripati Pawale (32) of Kalu Potwade Vasti has lodged a complaint with the Chakan police saying that his two-wheeler estimated to be worth Rs 25,000 was stolen from his parking lot on Wednesday night.In the third case, Rohan Andresh Gaikwad (25), a resident of Ashirwad park in Pimpale Gurav, has lodged a complaint with the Sangvi police saying that his two-wheeler parked at the society parking was stolen by unidentified persons on Wednesday. In the fourth case, Aniruddha Baban Ambedkar (52), a resident of Malavli, has lodged a complaint with Talegaon Dabhade police station stating that his two-wheeler estimated to be worth Rs 10,000 which was parked near the bus depot was stolen by unidentified persons on Wednesday.In the fifth case, Balasaheb Rambhau Manmode (29), a resident of Kadachiwadi in Chakan, has lodged a complaint with the Chikhali police stating that his two-wheeler estimated to be worth Rs 30,000 was stolen from Kudalwadi area in the evening. According to the police, CCTV footage of the areas where the thefts have taken place are being checked for a breakthrough in the said cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-two-wheelers-stolen-in-pimpri-chinchwad/story-iMeeDkRjIwbVsA2nQb27iL.html
21-08-2020||Pune||Pune passengers happy as MSRTC resumes inter-district bus service||Pune: The decision by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to resume public bus services for the upcoming Ganeshotsav was welcomed by residents as many used the facility on the first day on Thursday. The Swargate and Shivajinagar ST stands saw passengers since early morning. “We were already running 100 buses within the district. From 8 am today, we resumed all types of buses running on various routes from all our ST stands. We are getting good response. Each bus is sanitised before allowed to ply and only 22 passengers with face mask are allowed to travel. Drivers and conductors on duty are given sanitizer and face mask. We hope to increase the number of buses and routes in the coming days,” said MSRTC Pune divisional controller Yamini Joshi. Passengers, including families, youth and senior citizens were seen visiting the Swargate ST stand since the first bus resumed service at 8 am on Thursday. Many were boarding buses to go to their hometowns for Ganesh festival. One such family of Mangesh Talekar who was travelling along with his wife and two kids said, “It is the first time that we are going back to our village in Kolhapur after the lockdown. As we come from middle class family and cannot afford to pay for private vehicle, we were unable to travel till now. It was a right decision to resume ST bus service before the Ganpati festival, so we are now going back home.” Many buses plied from Swargate ST stand to places like Kolhapur, Solapur, Baramati, Mumbai, Daund and other parts of the state. As compared to Shivneri or Shivshahi buses that mostly run on Mumbai routes, passengers for normal ST buses on Kolhapur and Solapur routes were more. One of the conductors of Pune-Dadar Shivneri bus said, “I was waiting for more than two hours for passengers, as minimum 10 and maximum 22 passengers can be taken. Finally, the bus departed with seven passengers.” “The day one response was good as we sent 18 buses from Swargate depot to various routes. Solapur and Kolhapur routes saw 400 passengers. We will increase the number of buses tomorrow and hope for more passengers,” said Swati Bandre, Swargate depot manager. The new Wakdewadi ST stand, which was earlier at Shivajinagar, also saw passengers since morning and buses were sent to several routes like Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Jalgaon and Nashik. The platforms, benches and toilets were sanitised by MSRTC. Shivnath Renuse, a senior citizen who travelled to Ahmednagar said, “I am happy today as I am going to my daughter’s place for Ganpati festival. I was stuck at a relative’s home in Pune and was waiting for ST to resume bus service. I am travelling by following all safety precautions.”PMPML service to resume from Sept 3Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will resume its bus service from September 3. “It was decided to start the public transport from September 3. We plan to run 421 buses on 190 routes from 13 depots across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. We are happy that both the civic bodies have given approval to start the service,” said PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-passengers-happy-as-msrtc-resumes-inter-district-bus-service/story-mCswdDrcBJhR8cvOFwmGjP.html
21-08-2020||Pune||Non-payment of vadapav bills costs man his life; five held in Pune||The Wakad police on Wednesday arrested five persons on charges of killing a 22-year-old over non-payment of vadapav bills. According to the police, the deceased, identified as Shubham Janardhan Nakhate (22) of Nakhatenagar in Kalewadi, used to allegedly harass the accused by resorting to abuse and non-payment of snacks that he ate at their stalls. The accused hatched a plan and attacked Nakhate at 8.30 pm on Wednesday. The deceased’s father, Janardhan Atmaram (52), lodged an FIR in connection with the incident. The arrested accused have been identified as Dnyaneshwar Rajendra Patil (23), Pravin Jyotiram Dhumal (21), Avinash Dhanraj Bhandare (23), Ajay Bharat Wakode (23) and Moreshwar Ramesh Ashte (21). Two others identified as Raj Tapkir and Prem Waghmare are still at large. Assistant police inspector HV Mane, who is investigating the case, said, “All the accused run stalls in the area and sell snacks like bhaji and vadapav. Nakhate used to visit them, eat the food items and never paid the bills. He always abused, threatened and harassed them. Fed up with his abuse and insults, the accused hatched a plan to get rid of him.” According to the FIR, the suspects had a dispute with Nakhate as the latter had taken a stand that he would not allow stalls or handcarts to run on Kalewadi road. According to the police, the accused called Nakhate near Dhondiraj Mangal Karyalaya to settle the dispute. However, the discussion led to heated argument and the suspects pulled out choppers and attacked him on his face and neck and fled. The wounded Nakhate was rushed to the hospital by his relatives, but he was proclaimed dead on arrival by the doctors. The accused have been booked under IPC 302 (murder), 120 B (conspiracy), 143 (unlawful assembly ),147 (rioting) ,148 (rioting-armed with deadly weapon), 149 (member of unlawful assembly), Arms Act Section 4 (25) and relevant sections of Maharashtra Police Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-payment-of-vadapav-bills-costs-man-his-life-five-held-in-pune/story-CCz79gfkeQkD3VC8WwmmTP.html
21-08-2020||Pune||Karad tops Swachh ranking among smaller towns; Saswad, Lonavla are second and third||Municipal councils in Maharashtra have bagged top ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2020 in the category of population with less than 1 lakh. Karad, Saswad and Lonavla municipal councils earn the first three spots. The ministry of housing and urban affairs announced the results and ranking of the Swachh Survekshan 2020 on Thursday with Pune getting 15th spot among cleanest cities. Union minister Hardeep S Puri announced and handed over the awards online. The announcement of this year’s results was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry of housing and urban affairs said. The survey was completed in 28 days. Karad municipal council in Satara district bagged number one ranking while Saswad in Pune district captured number two spot and Lonavla, also in Pune district, got third ranking. Among the top 25 municipal councils considered for Swachh ranking, 20 are from Maharashtra while the rest five are from Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Karad is the hometown of former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, who represents the assembly constituency in Maharashtra. Former chief minister and deputy prime minister Yashwantrao Chavan is also from this town. Maha municipal councils Out of 25 top municipal councils, 20 are from Maharashtra in Swachh Survekshan 2020. These urban local bodies are Karad, Saswad, Lonavla, Panhala, Jejuri, Shirdi, Kagal, Ratnagiri, Brahmanpuri, Vadgaon, Gadhinglaj, Indapur, Deolali PRavara, Rajapur, Vita, Murgud, Narkehd, Matheran and Malkapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karad-tops-swachh-ranking-among-smaller-towns-saswad-lonavla-are-second-and-third/story-eYP5cRqpHYUitg5ZBIF8wN.html
21-08-2020||Gurugram||More families and couples seek mental health counselling||The psychiatry division in private hospitals of the city have been witnessing a significant increase in the number of people requiring family and couple counselling in the last four months. According to them, a majority of the cases were through tele-consultations and were related to anxiety disorders and depression arising out of issues between couples and family members.“During the entire lockdown phase, families or couples have lived under the same roof for the longest time. In some cases, psychological issues were pre-existing which augmented as inter-personal conflicts increased between the couples, fuelling extreme anxiety and depression,” said Kanishk Gupta, director and co-founder, Sukoon Health, a mental health unit under Fortis healthcare.“This has led to almost 20% increase in family and couple counselling sessions compared to the footfall of patients before lockdown in April.”According to Dr. Saurabh Mehrotra, consultant, mental health and quality of life division at Medanta Medicity, there have been two sets of patients with psychological disorder over the last few months. “One group comprises people whose anxiety disorders are due to the fear of the disease, while the other group is affected by the consequences of the lockdown and the economic meltdown,” said Mehrotra. Presently, Mehrotra is getting 15-20 new cases every day with mental health issues directly related to lockdown and current Covid-19 situation. “Nearly 80% of the cases are being handled through tele-consultations. Some inter-personal issues, which leads to domestic violence cannot be tackled online. Therefore, we have to call the patient to hospital,” he said.Dr. Jyoti Kapoor, senior consultant, psychiatry, Paras Hospital, said that interpersonal problems have also spiked in vulnerable population where conflicts among parents has caused rise of anxiety and somatization symptoms in children. “The novelty of the situation along with the uncertainty of how things will pan out for global health and economy has left people confused and even frustrated. New cases due to Covid-19 fear have also emerged and almost 25 percent of daily OPD is one or the other way affected by coronavirus fear or lockdown related issues.” She said that even with the unlock process, there is a significant increase in reappearance of anxiety and obsessive symptoms in previously treated stable patient population. The substantial increase is also due to sudden popping up of the middle class section of the society seeking psychological support, said Dr. Soumiya Mudgal, consultant, psychiatry, Max Hospital (Gurugram). “This has led to almost 20-30% increase in the family counselling sessions since April onwards. Before lockdown, there were cases mostly related to families and children. But now middle-class section with their job issues or businesses are coming up with mental disorders. Two out every 10 patients are coming with suicidal tendencies.” Experts are also noticing other consequences of the situation – de-addiction from alcohol. According to Gupta, hospitalization due to alcohol de-addiction has also increased by 35%. “In the last four months, there has been a spike in the hospitalization of patients, who have taken up alcohol again after quitting. Since they did not want any nurse or health staff to visit them at home, these patients prefer getting admitted,” said Gupta. Mudgal has been suggesting her patients not to consider themselves mentally or emotionally secluded from the global pandemic. “The current situation takes a toll mentally if it considered as an individual issue. People should accept that it has affected everyone globally. Second, they should try shifting or extending the time line of their plans made at personal and professional front,” she said. Other experts suggested to seek medical help if they are having severe anxiety, unexplained aggressive behaviour, excessive worrying leading to panic state or severe Obsessive Compulsive disorder (OCD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/more-families-and-couples-seek-mental-health-counselling/story-A6vnEJXWx1Dkvg9AYXt5pI.html
