23-08-2020||Mumbai||Education department extends deadline for part 2 of FYJC application||The state education department has extended the deadline for students to complete the second part of the application for admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJC) to August 25. The earlier deadline for filling up the form, which consists college preferences, was August 22. “This extension is only for students who have already filled their forms but are yet to finalise and lock them due to some or the other reasons,” said an official from the department. In a circular issued on Saturday, the department also stated that students, who have registered on the portal and applied for admissions under various quotas but have failed to validate the one time password (OTP) to confirm their seats, will be given time until August 25 to update their status. As per the schedule, the entire process for quota admissions was supposed to be complete by August 22. “If a student does not get an OTP due to a technical reason, he/she should not be denied admission solely for this. Time will be given until August 25 to update it,” states the circular. This year, the admission process for FYJC has been made zero contact. While admissions under various quotas like minority, management and in-house generally have to be done at the college level, the education department has been facilitating them to make the process zero contact. As part of this, students get an OTP on their registered mobile numbers. The colleges then call the students on the number and feed in the OTP in the online database to confirm a seat. As OTPs are time-bound, several colleges and students struggled to complete the process. In view of this, the department has now removed the time limit on entering OTPs. The office of the deputy director will release the first general merit list on August 25 consisting details of all students so that they can verify and rectify in case of any error. Until Sunday, 2.26 lakh students had filled their college preferences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/education-department-extends-deadline-for-part-2-of-fyjc-application/story-9YlBNaAQoXNHvgv8lF661K.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||Pune jeweller booked for duping another jeweller of ₹2.89 crore||The Mumbai Police have booked a Pune jeweller for duping a Mumbai-based jeweller of ₹2.89 crore. The accused had borrowed jewellery pieces from the victim jeweller under the pretext of showcasing them in an exhibition. However, after the exhibition, the accused ran away with the jewellery.The complainant Dineshbhai Vasant Jadhav alias Dadabhai, 41, is a Kurla resident and runs a jewellery business, in partnership with another jeweller and has a shop at Mumbadevi.Jadhav, in January 2019, through common business friends came in contact with Hitesh Solanki, who owns Vardhman Jewellers in Pune.The complainant in his statement said, “Solanki had convinced Jadhav that he would buy the jewellery from him at a good price. Jadhav and along with his partner then sold the jewellery for the first three months. Solanki made the payment in gold, and Jadhav earned good profit.”After gaining their trust, Solanki requested them for some jewellery pieces to showcase them at an exhibition in Pune, the police said.“Jadhav initially refused, but Jadhav and his partner agreed after Solanki insisted. They gave him jewellery worth ₹2.89 crore and secured, receipts, telephonic conversations and text messages between them in case of any future dispute,” said a police officer.“A few days later, when Jadhav tried to contact Solanki he did not respond. After repeated attempts to contact him, Jadhav and his partner visited Pune and met Solanki’s father and brother who told them that Solanki had cheated many jewellers in past,” Jadhav stated in the FIR.Jadhav then approached the LT Marg police and registered a case.The police have booked Solanki for criminal breach of trust and cheating of the Indian Penal Code. Solanki is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pune-jeweller-booked-for-duping-another-jeweller-of-2-89-crore/story-zF2vovh18lu52r3ymcwArI.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||Guard arrested for molesting minor at Wadala||Antop Hill police arrested a 55-year-old security guard on Friday, for allegedly molesting a six-year-old girl while she was playing in a garden at CGS Colony, Antop Hill, Wadala. According to police, the incident took place on Thursday around 1.30pm when the survivor was playing alone in the garden. “She was sitting under an iron shed when the accused molested her,” said a police officer. The minor told her mother about the incident, following which she lodged a complaint at Antop Hill police station. Based on her complaint, the police registered a first information report (FIR) against the security guard, Sikandar Akbar Khan, under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, and arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/guard-arrested-for-molesting-minor-at-wadala/story-zn7PFgjMpAbh76FZmn7DzL.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||City breaches 1000-mm rain mark in August, 74mm short of 3,000mm mark for season||The city has received over 1,000mm rainfall during August with another week to go till the end of the month, and 74.7mm short of surpassing the 3,000mm mark for the season with over a month of monsoon remaining.The Santacruz weather observatory representative of the suburbs and Mumbai has recorded 1024.4mm rain between August 1 and 23 5.30pm and is just 12.1mm short of breaking the monthly highest rain record for the decade (1036.5mm in August 2010). Against the orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for Saturday and yellow alert (heavy rain in isolated areas) for Sunday, the city and suburbs received only sporadic light showers over the weekend. Between 8.30am Saturday and 8.30am Sunday, 14.2mm rain was recorded in the suburbs while 3mm rain was recorded in south Mumbai. On Sunday, between 8.30am and 5.30pm, 4.3mm rain was recorded in the suburbs and 1.8 mm in south Mumbai.IMD has downgraded all weather warnings for the coming week with the possibility of light to moderate rain till the end of the month. “The impact of the low-pressure weather system over central India was more towards the interior Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh region, the coastal areas, especially north Konkan including Mumbai saw only passing showers. However, more rain was recorded over parts of south Konkan and central Maharashtra districts,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD. Owing to the drop in rain activity and cloud cover, the minimum temperature was a degree Celsius above normal at 26 degrees Celsius on Sunday while the maximum temperature was close to the normal mark.Hosalikar added that some areas towards the northwestern suburbs of Mumbai received moderate showers ranging between 40-70mm. “Satellite images are now showing dense cloud cover over the Gujarat region, which may lead to extremely heavy showers but only a few passing showers are expected for Mumbai and surrounding areas,” he said. Between June 1 and August 21, the suburbs and south Mumbai have recorded 66% and 67% excess rain than the normal for this period. Maharashtra overall has recorded 19% excess rain for the season so far. Lakes supplying drinking water to Mumbai stand at 92.3%. Across the state, maximum rain over the past 24 hours was recorded at Mahabaleshwar at 48mm followed by Dahanu 28mm, Ratnagiri 22mm, Thane 20mm, and Akola 20mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-breaches-1000-mm-rain-mark-in-august-74mm-short-of-3-000mm-mark-for-season/story-L1C8iMUhq03mAs6EHhh9kM.html
23-08-2020||City||‘Masterminds behind Dabholkar, Lankesh murder, still not arrested’||Vinod Nikole, a Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) member of legislative assembly (MLA) from Dahanu, on Saturday questioned the central bureau of investigation (CBI) team’s interest in probing the Sushant Singh Rajput case.“Why the CBI is so keen on probing the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput when the killers of social activists Dr Narendra Dabholkar, labour activist Govind Pansare, Kannada writer Prof MM Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh are roaming free,” Nikole said.“We do not oppose the CBI probe in the death of the actor, but the same alacrity by the CBI is missing in the murders of the above four activists,” said Nikole. The CBI has till now not arrested the mastermind behind Dabholkar’s murder, and till date, no charge sheet has been filed in all the four cases, he said. Nikole also claimed that the CBI was taken up with the actor’s death probe only because the Bihar elections are due in a few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/masterminds-behind-dabholkar-lankesh-murder-still-not-arrested/story-RMQ4tRcI7sh4kZ1wCrznHM.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: CBI records trio’s statements||After questioning for four hours, the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) team on Sunday recorded statements of three main witnesses, Neeraj Singh, Siddharth Pithani and Dipesh Sawant, in DRDO guesthouse in Santacruz (East), in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. On June 14, the day Rajput died, only four people were present in the Bandra house – his helps/cooks Neeraj Singh, Keshav Bachner and Dipesh Sawant, and roommate and art manager Siddharth Pithani. According to sources, the trio was questioned from 10am to 2pm. Around 2.30pm, the team, forensic experts and three witnesses reached the actor’s residence to recreate the sequence of events on the day the actor died. CBI wanted to verify the witnesses’ presence and movement that day. They carried a dummy, with height and weight similar to that of the actor, said a source. CBI team was inside the flat for more than three hours, searching for evidence. They collected the entry register from the security guard and recorded video of the entire building and left around 6pm. Another CBI team visited Bandra police station around 6pm to collect a few papers. A source said the team will visit a resort at Andheri (East) to inquire about Rajput’s meeting with a priest on a few occasions for spiritual healing. On Saturday, a group of forensic experts and CBI officials visited Rajput’s home to recreate the incident in the presence of Pithani and Neeraj. The officials also visited Cooper Hospital to meet the doctors who conducted the post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-cbi-records-trio-s-statements/story-isIDRxTaROUzl3nsjgCQgK.html
23-08-2020||City||Five farmers held with 1kg heroin on border||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday arrested five farmers with 1kg heroin smuggled from Pakistan along the international border in Tarn Taran district.The arrested persons have been identfied as Bikramjit Singh, Nirmal Singh, Nachhatar Singh, Punjab Singh and Raju. All are residents of border village Van Tara Singh of Tarn Taran.As per information, BSF personnel had stopped them at the gate of a barbed security fence and on checking a bag, 1.20kg heroin was recovered from their possession.In Naushehra Dhala village falling under Sarai Amanat Khan police station, more than 2kg heroin was recovered from a field. Tarsem Singh, owner of the land, has been booked under the NDPS Act. However, he is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-farmers-held-with-1kg-heroin-on-border/story-ayDyzvyLHiEl5ytDshZvJJ.html
23-08-2020||City||NGT asks MPCB to monitor noise levels in Pune, publish data on daily basis||PUNE The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to publish noise levels data on a daily basis from different parts of the city.The order was passed by a bench comprising Justice Sheo Kumar Singh, judicial member, and Satyawan Singh Garbyal, expert member, which heard the matter through video conferencing. The order was made available on June 20.The decision was made as a part of an order issued in an application made by a resident of Karishma Society in Kothrud. The application was regarding the noise pollution caused by a construction site near the applicant’s society.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), MPCB, senior police inspector of Alankar police station, and the developer whose site was the subject of the application were the named in the application.“We are currently monitoring noise levels during the Ganapati festival. We collect and upload the data on our website, after the ten-day festival. These are special drives for occasions like Ganpati festival, Diwali among others. A daily monitoring station, I remember, are set up in areas like Kandivali, Goregaon and others in Mumbai. Those could be set up in Pune too but I’m not the right person to comment on it,” said Pratap Jagtap, sub-regional officer, Pune-1, MPCB, Pune.The onus of noise pollution data collection and analysis is on the state PCB as per Rule 4 of Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000.“The respective state pollution control boards or pollution control committees in consultation with the Central Pollution Control Board shall collect, compile and publish technical and statistical data relating to noise pollution and measures devised for its effective prevention, control and abatement,” read rule 4 of Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000.The NGT order states, “The data so collected must be published and daily at a certain time to be fixed by the State PCB and should be put on the public domain.”After the application was filed, the NGT had asked for a committee to monitor the noise levels near the construction site. A committee visited the spot in June and submitted a report to NGT.“The committee found that the construction equipment was causing noise pollution. NGT has taken cognizance that for the citizens of Pune city, state, as well as the country, this is an issue. They have now asked for effective implementation of noise pollution rules. Therefore, the order directs MPCB to collect noise pollution data and put it in the public domain,” said advocate Saurabh Kulkarni who was representing the applicant.“What mechanism is to be used is the decretion of MPCB. If you see the Maharashtra government notification of the Noise Pollution Rules, you will see that the responsibility of reducing noise pollution is that of PMC,” he said.Moreover, the committee readings find that the noise levels were high in the area even when the construction was shut.A 2009 government resolution also points out that the noise pollution complains regarding construction site should be handled by municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngt-asks-mpcb-to-monitor-noise-levels-in-pune-publish-data-on-daily-basis/story-EFK4GOhgF3Xf70cBAFFXvM.html
23-08-2020||City||Officials on toes as Covid patients give wrong numbers, incomplete addresses||District officials across the state are concerned as suspected Covid-19 patients have been giving away wrong phone numbers and incomplete addresses at the time of testing.They said when such persons turn out to be infected, the staff have to put extra efforts to trace them and their contacts.This issue came to the fore after Covid-19 testing was increased in the state last month and many tested positive for the virus. At present, over 40,643 persons have tested positive for coronavirus disease in the state, while more than 8.85 lakh samples have been tested so far.Kapurthala civil surgeon Dr Jasmit Kaur said when people come for their Covid-19 tests, they give incomplete addresses and wrong phone numbers due to which the district administration and police have to put additional efforts to reach them. She revealed that this was detected in 20 percent cases. Bawa said the reason behind patients not disclosing their correct details is the fear of taboo and potential impact on their work.In Jalandhar district, which has the second highest number of coronavirus cases in the state, the health officials said such a problem was faced among 4 percent of the patients. The issue has came down to just four or less percent since August, earlier it was a bit higher, they said. To overcome the problem, Jalandhar nodal officer Navneet Kaur Bal said we have asked the civil surgeon’s office to issue a direction to sample collection teams to take two contact numbers along with their complete address.A senior official of the health department admitted that the ratio of such patients could be less as of now but the problem should be addressed soon to curb the spread as even a single infected person could spread the disease to many.In Amritsar, one of the major hotpots of Covid-19 cases, civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said they have been facing difficulty due to wrong phone numbers and inadequate addresses for the past month, which creates hurdle in contact tracing. “The main reason behind the problem is that people are still not willing to come forward due to social issues,” added Kishore.Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu too acknowledged the problem saying that some people didn’t tell their full address, and when they tested positive for the infection, we had to face an uphill task of tracing them. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said there were just one or two percent of such cases.Ludhiana, where over 9,000 Covid-19 cases have been reported so far, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they were not facing the problem anymore, though in some cases, patients who tested positive had switched off their cellphones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/officials-on-toes-as-covid-patients-give-wrong-numbers-incomplete-addresses/story-eAvrsOM5YkMoohF7cU0orO.html
23-08-2020||Noida||Eight luxury cars, two motorcycles attached for illegal construction in Shahberi||The Bisrakh police on Sunday seized eight cars, including some luxury sedans and two motorcycles, of four developers allegedly involved in unauthorised construction at Shahberi. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said the police have seized a Range Rover sedan, Honda City sedan, Honda BR-V sedan, Maruti Suzuki WagonR car, Maruti Swift Dzire car, Tata Tiago car, two Mahindra Scorpio SUVs, a motorcycle and a scooter in the exercise. The seized vehicles would be worth Rs 2 crore, he added.“The seizure of vehicles was carried against four developers who have developed buildings in Shahberi against the violation of building by-laws. the Bisrakh police have registered cases against them under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986. The exercise was conducted on the orders of Noida Police Commissioner Alok Singh,” Chander. In the first case, police seized the Range Rover, Maruti Swift Dzire and a scooter of a developer. In the second case, a Tata Tiago was seized. In the third case, four four-wheelers and one motorcycle were seized. In the last case, a Honda City was seized from the developer’s house. In the commissionerate system, the city police are empowered to conduct seizure exercises. Earlier, this power was vested upon the district magistrate. Police have so far registered 81 cases against over 100 developers and also charged 19 of them under Gangster Act and four of them under National Security Act. The Bisrakh police are also conducting search operations to arrest people involved in the unauthorised construction in the area. Frequently, local people claim that despite crackdowns, some developers continue to construct their projects at night. Nine persons had died when two six-storey buildings collapsed in Shahberi in July 2018. Following the incident, IIT Delhi conducted an audit and found that only three out of the 437 buildings are safe for living in Shahberi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/eight-luxury-cars-two-motorcycles-attached-for-illegal-construction-in-shahberi/story-XJRqhXbkkrrAXu3ojWbSpI.html
23-08-2020||City||Fake report racket: Police submit initial probe report to Moga DC||Five days after doctors at the civil hospital here were accused of running a fake Covid report racket in connivance with agents to conduct early tests, especially of NRIs, in lieu of money, the district police have submitted an inquiry report to deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans on Sunday.Hans said the police have investigated the bribe allegations against a doctor for conducting Covid tests a report has been submitted to his office. “The report will be forwarded to principal health secretary for further action. Right now, I cannot disclose the report findings,” he added.Last week, Charanjit Singh, a resident of Dehadka village in Ludhiana district, had submitted a written complaint to the DC alleging that he paid a bribe of ₹3,500 for each test of nine of his NRI family members to get the reports early.“Our flight to Hong Kong was scheduled on August 4. We had only 72 hours to get the test reports. When I reached the Moga civil hospital along with my parents and my sister-in-law’s family on August 2, the doctors informed they cannot conduct our tests that day due to long waiting. In the meantime, one Om Parkash of Moga came to me and said if we paid ₹3,500 per person, the tests would be done that day. We had no option but to pay ₹31,500 for the nine tests,” he stated.Later, Om Parkash also submitted an affidavit to the DC, claiming he had given ₹1.7 lakh to district epidemiologist Dr Naresh Amla to get the reports of 48 NRIs early. He said Dr Amla assured him that if any of them is tested positive, they will be given a fake negative test report.SP Jagatpreet Singh said an inquiry report has been given to the DC, but they have asked the complainant to come again for further investigation. “All the persons who had given bribe to get the test reports are in other countries, so we need to talk to them to clear some facts, after which an additional inquiry report will be submitted. Money was taken for the tests, but right now, I cannot comment on who is guilty,” he added.As per sources, the police have named the doctor guilty in its initial report.FARIDKOT HEALTH DEPT HAD FLAGGED ISSUESuspecting that some patients from Moga had paid bribe to get Covid reports early, the Faridkot district health department had also informed the state authorities about it.Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said some patients who came for the tests had demanded reports at the earliest stating they had paid ₹3,500 for each test in Moga. “So, we informed regarding this to the higher authorities,” he added.A health official said the Moga doctor had requested them to conduct tests of some patients claiming their machine was not working. “During the tests, one of the patients got angry due to the delay and said he had paid ₹3,500 for the same at Moga. We were shocked to hear this, so we informed the civil surgeon,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-report-racket-police-submit-initial-probe-report-to-moga-dc/story-eoZeWDjgjtcfGZudaJFInM.html
23-08-2020||City||Three held for shooting at guard, stealing his gun||The Ghaziabad Police on Sunday arrested three men who allegedly robbed a guard of his gun from a fuel station in Muradnagar late night on August 16. The three were identified as Manish Kumar, Vinit Singh and Manoj Sharan, while a fourth suspect identified as Rahul Kumar is absconding. The police said that Manish, Vinit and Rahul had gone to the motorcycle to the fuel station where they snatched the licensed double barrel gun of guard identified as Naresh Kumar, 47, and fled after firing a shot at him from another weapon, an illegal one. “Vinit was riding the bike while Rahul and Manish rode pillion. Manish sat between the two. Suddenly, there was an accidental fire from Rahul’s illegal weapon fired and injured Manish in the back. Thereafter, they took him to hospitals, but all asked them to approach police too,” said an officer who requested not to be identified. “Thereafter, the men took shelter in a vacant house in Govind Nagar and started treating their injured friend on their own. They also sought help from some people, one of who passed on the information to the police.”The three were arrested from Nabipur near the Eastern Peripheral Expressway.“The men were arrested after investigation involving electronic surveillance and information through informers. The gun which was looted was also recovered as well as the bike which was used during the incident,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police. The cops said that a team is trying to track absconding suspect Rahul Kumar and those arrested also have past criminal records registered against their names at Muradnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-shooting-at-guard-stealing-his-gun/story-lIfnNWdx44PfiKmfCgD6nL.html
23-08-2020||City||As Ghaziabad nears one lakh rapid tests, positivity rate records a dip||As Ghaziabad inches closer to conducting one lakh Covid-19 tests through the rapid antigen tests, the test positivity rate here has come down by 2.67 percentage points since the on-site testing methodology was introduced in the district.The positivity rate in Ghaziabad on August 22 stood at 4.28% down from 6.95 on June 25. Antigen testing kits were deployed in the district on June 26 and within a span of less than 58 days, their share in total testing is at nearly 57.14%.According to records of the district health department, the district, till August 22, had completed around 168,896 Covid-9 tests which included 96,522 administered with rapid antigen kits whose share in total testing is about 57.14%. As many as 7.241 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been detected in Ghaziabad so far.The test positivity rate through rapid antigen kits, till August 22, is around 2.5%, while with the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests—considered the gold-standard for Covid-19 testing—it is about 6.78%, according to the data. Given the lower test positivity rate of antigen tests which constitute more than half of the testing done with other contributing factors, the overall test positivity of the district has declined.Antigen tests are inherently unreliable with poor sensitivity, which means that its ability to detect true positives is low and could result in many negative tests turning positive under an RT-PCR test.“The deployment of rapid kits is definitely a big factor behind the reduced test positivity rate. However, in the month of August, unlike June and July, no major spike in the number of cases has been reported. The viral load is also low and not many people with the infection are developing severe conditions. So, people are less scared of the virus now and lesser number of people are getting themselves tested. However, they must continue to observe precautions,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.Ghaziabad officials said the decline in the positivity rate it because of various other reasons and not just reliance on antigen tests. They added the district is conducting about 3000-3500 samples per day which includes those taken through rapid antigen kits and RT-PCR. “The rapid kits are helpful in getting faster results and determining the positive status of the patients. But it is not the only contributing factor which has reduced the test positivity rate. We have focussed on increasing intensive surveillance activities, conducting household surveys and given special attention to early treatment of patients among others. All these factors have considerably helped us in curbing spread of infection. A reduction in test positivity also means that our steps have yielded results in bringing down the rate,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Currently, the state government has assigned the administration a daily target of 2,000 antigen tests and 540 RT-PCR tests.“We are constantly focussing on more number of tests so that every suspected case is detected and provided treatment. This will further reduce spread of infection. With aggressive and focussed testing, we have been able to reduce fatalities in the past two months and plan to bring down the fatality rate further,” he added. With 67 deaths, Ghaziabad’s mortality rate is 0.93%.Health officials also said they are also conducting RT-PCR tests in some cases where rapid kits produce negative results. The subsequent RT-PCR testing is also done for samples of symptomatic patients who turn negative through antigen tests. Follow-up RT-PCR testing is also done for symptomatic and asymptomatic cases with co-morbid conditions.“We have about 20 teams deployed for testing across the district and also have a stock of about one lakh antigen kits at present. There has been a decline in the number of residents coming in for testing in August which could be a contributing factor in the declining positivity rate apart from the increased surveillance, treatment the administration has been focusing on,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.According to official records, it has been a little over eight weeks since June 26 when the rapid kits were deployed. Every subsequent week since June 26 the testing figures increased gradually and peaked to 16,451 rapid tests for July 24- July 30. Thereafter, every subsequent week starting July 31, the use of rapid antigen kits is on the decline. at 10,068, the least number of antigen tests were conducted between August 14 to August 20. The officials also attribute the low testing due to disruptions by incessant rain earlier this week.“The present situation of the severity of the infections and the stabilisation of the number of daily cases can be termed as a plateau situation. The proposed sero-surveillance study will bring more insight in the near future as to where we stand in terms of the spread of infection,” Dr Jindal said.Sero-surveillance which tests for antibodies for the Sars-CoV-2—the pathogen that causes Covid-19—is conducted to check the exposure of a population to the infection. Sero surveys will start in Ghaziabad, including 10 other districts, from August 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-ghaziabad-nears-one-lakh-rapid-tests-positivity-rate-records-a-dip/story-cDx3aOhaee8HEtTbQwWNJJ.html
23-08-2020||City||Only one day of ‘good’ air quality in Noida so far||Noida: Despite lockdown and heavy rains, the city has so far seen only one day of air quality that could be categorised as ‘good’ on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin.The city, which is experiencing its best air quality of the year in the month of August, with the AQI oscillating within ‘satisfactory’ level, saw its first ‘good’ category AQI on Saturday, due to consistent rains during the evening hours. However the air quality deteriorated again on Sunday.According to data from CPCB, Noida’s AQI has been at its best in August this year.On Saturday, Noida saw an AQI of 50 on a scale of 0 to 500, which is considered ‘good’, against 84 or ‘satisfactory’ a day earlier. However, the AQI of the city deteriorated again to 65 or ‘satisfactory’.“In Uttar Pradesh cities like Noida, there is a lot of residential construction. There are also a good number of vehicles. Construction and vehicular emissions are the main sources of pollution. Rains do settle down pollutants, but when emissions from other sources are continuous, it affects the overall air quality. Also it has been seen that the region sees patchy rains, which could be a possibility that the average AQI is affected and it hardly reaches a good category,” says Shambahavi Shukla, program officer, air quality, centre for science and environment (CSE). According to the India Meteorological Department’s data, Noida so far saw an average rainfall of 65.3mm till Sunday, up from 32.2mm on Friday August 21.According to the records from CPCB and Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), the AQI for Noida in April oscillated from 73 to 184 on a scale of 0 to 500, the AQI for May oscillated between 97 to 160, for June it was between 63 and 272, in July it was between 62 to 160, while in August it has been ranged from 53 to 119 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-one-day-of-good-air-quality-in-noida-so-far/story-XdPQ5OsZubeH2B8FV9H1eK.html
23-08-2020||City||Man arrested for exchanging fake notes||Noida A 37-year-old man was arrested for allegedly for exchanging money with fake notes in Noida. The suspect identified as Khalid Akhtar, is a resident of Mandawali in Delhi and had been on the run for one year. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the suspect was wanted in three criminal cases, including that of the Gangster Act 1986. Police said Akhtar and his accomplice Rahul used to visit banks and strike up a conversation with people before duping them of their money. In November 2019, a victim, Satyendra Kumar, had filed a complaint against the duo in Sector 49 police station. Kumar, in the complaint, said that he had visited a bank in Hoshiyarpur to deposit Rs 1.05 lakh. Two people stood in queue behind him and engaged him in a conversation. They said that they had no bank account and hence they were not being able to deposit their cash,” he said. “They told me to deposit their money in my bank account and promised commission. They exchanged their money with my Rs 1.05 lakh. When I opened the bundle, I found they were merely paper pieces, with just two notes on the back and front. I searched for them but they had fled the spot,” he said. A case was registered against the suspects under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC. Noida Sector 24 police also filed a case against the two suspects under theGangster Act in July this year. The police said the duo had been exchanging fake notes and making easy money. The DCP Noida said that a police team on Sunday conducted a search at Akhtar’s residence in Delhi and arrested him. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search to arrest his accomplice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-exchanging-fake-notes/story-9Ej70uxlnim1viLcSv1KbJ.html
23-08-2020||City||Noida franchise racket: Three more, including mastermind’s wife, arrested||Noida A day after four persons of a gang were nabbed for allegedly duping several investors of nearly ₹50 crore through shell companies, the police on Sunday arrested three more persons, including wife of the gang’s kingpin. The suspects have been identified as Neha Chauhan, Sonam Verma and Upendra Kumar Verma, all residents of Raj Nagar Extension in Ghaziabad. Neha is wife of mastermind Rajesh Kumar, while Sonam is his sister, the police said, adding that Rajesh is still at large. The police have recovered a Hyundai Venue car and some forged documents from their possession.The gang duped scores of people on the pretext of inviting investment for opening retail grocery stores, cafés, salons, among others, through franchise. More than three dozen people had made investments ranging from ₹10-30 lakh, said the police.On Saturday, the police had arrested four suspects — Ankur Verma and Sunil Mistri — residents of Indirapuram in Ghaziabad, Ravindra Kumar from Sahibabad, and Sunil Kumar from TP Nagar in Meerut, in connection with the case. Amit Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Phase 3 police station, said that the suspects arrested on Saturday revealed that some more people were involved in the racket. “Mastermind Rajesh Kumar and Ankur Verma are brothers. Ankur revealed the information about involvement of other persons,” he said. On Sunday, the police received information about the suspects’ movement near Electronic City metro station. “A police team was deployed at the spot to check the suspects. The team arrested the trio from the spot,” SHO said. The police said that Upendra was made the director in a shell company while the mastermind’s wife and sister handled the company’s management and finances. “The three persons were produced in the court and sent to judicial custody,” the police officer said. A manhunt has been launched to arrest the kingpin of the gang, the police said, adding that searches are on in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. On Saturday, the police had also seized cash, luxury cars, gold jewellery, and other valuables with a total worth of ₹10 crore from the suspects.According to the police, the gang had floated several shell companies in the past six years. The suspects had put up online advertisements to lure people for making investments with the shell companies for opening various outlets through franchise.The first complaint in the matter was filed by one Krishna Yadav, a resident of Gurugram, on August 5 this year at Phase 3 police station. In his complaint to the police, Yadav said he had seen an advertisement online about a franchise scheme for a retail outlet and invested in it. The gang had been duping people since 2014. So far 38 investors from different parts of the country have contacted police about the fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-franchise-racket-three-more-including-mastermind-s-wife-arrested/story-posu7rFBKaQ4fLG0ZFciCN.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 10,441 new Covid-19 cases, 258 deaths||With 10,441 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra’s state tally reached 6,82,383 on Sunday, a state health official said.Maharashtra reported 258 deaths due to coronavirus in last 24 hours, taking the state’s toll to 22,253. There are 1,71,542 active coronavirus cases in the state at present.So far, as many as 4,88,271 Covid patients have recovered in Maharashtra, including 8,157 people who were discharged on Sunday.According to reports, Maharashtra so far has conducted 36,16,704 virus tests across the state.Whereas Pune district in Maharashtra reported 2,580 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 1,45,041, according to PTI. With 61 new deaths reported in last 24 hours, Pune’s toll went up to 3,556.The commercial capital of India, Mumbai reported as many as 991 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, with Dharavi reporting six fresh cases in last 24 hours.Overall case count of Mumbai rose to 1,36,348, including 18,567 active cases. Thane, a district close to Mumbai, reported 2,670 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, which took the district’s tally to 3,09,008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-10-441-new-covid-19-cases-258-deaths/story-GG0nXK5rwrtfxd6v2LwgxH.html
23-08-2020||Noida||Birders concerned after Dhanauri camera snatching incident||Saturday’s robbery at Dhanauri wetlands has triggered fear among the city’s birder community, with many expressing apprehension that the incident may project the wetlands in a bad light.Birders said that the incident may incite fear and compromise their liberty of freely birding. On Saturday, three armed men on a motorcycle looted a professional camera, which was worth ₹5 lakh, from 42-year-old Noida-based photographer Narinder Kohli and his uncle Shyam Bhagra, while they were in their car. “We are regular visitors to the area and were shooting a documentary on Sarus cranes. As wildlife enthusiasts, we understand that such incidents are bound to happen but things could be better if patrolling or security is provided to that area,” said Narinder Kohli, who lives in Sector 137, Noida. While the birders stated that they are shocked by this incident, they say a little deterrence like police patrolling in the area could build some confidence among the birders.“It’s shocking and sad as Dhanauri doesn’t deserve bad publicity. Earlier too, there had been an incidence of violence and robbery with birders at Okhla and Surajpur wetland. But never imagined it would ever happen at Dhanauri. Locals are very friendly and helpful there. I just hope that the criminals are nabbed and that they are not locals. Birders will be scared at least for some time to go there,” said Jaswinder Singh Waraich, a city-based birder. “It’s a worrying incident and is bound to instil fear among birders. I have been going to Dhanauri since four years and locals have been very friendly and helpful; they often interact with us and children are curious about the cameras and the lenses, so it’s doubly shocking that it happened there. This (incident) might change some things such as avoid interactions with strangers. A police post in the area or regular patrolling, so that it builds some confidence among the birders, is needed,” said Col (retired) Shyam Sundar Sharma, a Greater Noida-based birder. Narendra Singh Khaira, another birder in Noida, stated that while he would continue solo birding in the region, he believes people would be worried and prefer going in groups. “People will get cautious and go in large groups after this incident. I hope that the culprits are nabbed by the police, which might instil confidence among the birders,” said Khaira.When contacted, Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. said: “We are not aware of the incident as yet. Also, the wetland is not under our jurisdiction yet, it’s a Gram Sabha land, of which some portion is privately owned as well.”According to Noida-based eminent birder Anand Arya, legal protection to the wetland will mount pressure on the authorities to provide security to the area. “I have been going to the area since over six years and never heard about such an incident, which makes it shocking. I urge the authorities to speed up the process of notifying the area as a wetland and a Sarus crane sanctuary. Once notified, the administration will be bound to maintain law and order in that area,” said Arya. “We are working on the case and will solve it soon. It seems the criminals could be local, as they were deep inside the village and were interacting with the victims. We are investigating and ensure that soon we work it out,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.Spread over an area of 101.21 hectares and divided in two water bodies, the Dhanauri wetlands in Greater Noida are home to over 211 species of resident and migratory birds. The area is also believed to be one of the largest roosting and breeding grounds of Sarus cranes in the region. In 2018, the district forest department had sent a proposal to declare the waterbody as a wetland under Wetland Rules 2017, after which the government in 2019 initiated the process of declaring it a Ramsar site and appointed a nodal officer to the task. As of now, the survey is under process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/birders-concerned-after-dhanauri-camera-snatching-incident/story-9ARJtNB9djSDNOJUClFlML.html
23-08-2020||City||Greater Noida: Wildlife photographer’s camera snatched at gunpoint in Dhanauri Wetlands||Greater Noida: A 42-year-old wildlife photographer’s professional camera worth ₹5 lakh was looted by three armed men in the Dhanauri wetlands on Saturday afternoon. The incident took place when photographer Narinder Kohli and his uncle, Shyam Bhagra, were shooting a documentary on Sarus cranes from their stationary car when three motorcycle-borne men came, and fled with the camera. The Dankaur police have registered an FIR and launched a search for the suspects.Kohli lives in Paras Tierea Society in Noida’s Sector 137 while Bhagra, 52, is a resident of Eldeco Utopia in Sector 93A.“We had parked our Maruti Ciaz on the side of the road and were shooting photos and videos from the car. My uncle was on the driving seat while I was sitting next to him, when three men, presumed to be in their early twenties, approached us on a black motorcycle at around 3pm. They were wearing masks,” he said. Two suspects got down from the motorcycle, approached Bhagra and struck a conversation, Kohli said, adding that the suspects asked them about the camera, about photography, and they wanted Kohli and Bhagra to take their photos. “We informed them that this was a zoom camera which takes photos of distant objects. We told them that next time, we would return with another camera and shoot their photos,” he said. Suddenly, the two youths took out a countrymade gun and pointed it at Bhagra, he alleged. “They tried to snatch his professional camera which weighs about 8-10 kg with lenses. The camera got stuck in the car’s steering and they failed to snatch it. The suspects punched Bhagra in the face, then jumped to my side and pointed a gun at me. One of them shouted, ‘goli maar…goli maar.’ We got scared for our safety. They snatched my camera and fled,” Kohli said. Kohli has fixed a camera on the car’s dashboard in which the incident was captured. “We scanned the footage and found that the suspects had been chasing us for some time,” Kohli said. The victims informed the police and some birders who reached the spot. Dankaur police registered a case against the three suspects under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt while committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. Vishal Pandey, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Zone 3) said it appears the suspects are locals. “We have formed three teams and are conducting search operations to arrest them. The suspects would be arrested soon,” he said. The Dhanauri wetlands, about 11 kilometres from the Buddh International Circuit, is one of the few wetlands supporting a fairly large sarus crane population. However, birders say there is no police check post in the neighbourhood, which makes birding unsafe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-wildlife-photographer-s-camera-snatched-at-gunpoint-in-dhanauri-wetlands/story-ZKHFxlvHdtyRH3xjI2odOL.html
23-08-2020||Gurugram||Biker dies as car driven by minor hits him in DLF Cyber City||A 49-year-old man, who worked as the chief financial officer (CFO) of an electrical manufacturing company, was killed on Sunday morning when the Harley Davidson motorcycle he was riding collided with a Ford Figo car in DLF Cyber City. The police said the car was driven being by a minor boy, who is yet to be apprehended. He was accompanied by his friend in the same car.The accident took place near DLF Rapid Metro station in Phase 2 (see map), around 6.10 am,said the police.The minor seems to have lost control of his car and collided with the motorbike after his vehicle hit a divider and jumped to the other side of the road.The deceased, Alok Gupta, lived in BPTP Park Life in Sector 57. The police said Gupta was riding his black Harley Davidson motorcycle and was accompanied by a friend on another bike. The two were on their way to Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh.Rajesh Khangwal, a government contractor who was on his way from Sector 27 to Karnal on Sunday morning, said that a biker crossed his CRV. But just 50 metres ahead, he saw a speeding car hitting a divider and then colliding with the biker. “I saw the car in the air. It fell on the ground and hit the motorcyclist, before turning turtle thrice. The car was being driven at least 120 km/hour. The driver lost control while racing with two other cars and hit the median of the DLF Cyber City Road. It broke the iron fencing, jumped and landed on the other side, and rammed into the biker,” he said.Gupta was travelling from Golf Course Road to Greater Noida, while the car driven by the minor was travelling on the other side of the road. Khangwal said Gupta was thrown off into the air because of the strong impact of the hit. “I got down from my vehicle. I called the police control room and a private hospital for ambulance. Meanwhile the victim’s friend who was riding behind him reached the spot. There were two minor boys in the car who were also injured,” he said.The airbags of Ford car opened due to the impact. However, both sustained injuries.Rahul Malik, the friend of deceased who is complainant in the case, said in the police statement, that two boys were also taken to the hospital in the same ambulance. The doctors declared Gupta dead after a few minutes.Gupta was wearing protective gears, including helmet, said the police.Adil Nargolwala, a runner, who had crossed the stretch a few minutes before the accident said that the design of the road needs to be looked as the lack of speed breakers has led to accidents in the past. “The quality and design of crash barriers are so poor that cars often flip over to the other side of the road after hitting the barrier. Major changes are required on the stretch for the safety of commuters,” he said.Nargolwala said even the police need to monitor the stretch as people take advantage of vacant roads and drive at high speeds.One of the residents of the nearby Belvedere Towers took to Twitter to write about the incident. “Woke up due to the loud sound. Many people in and around came to help but I don’t think anyone survived. I’m not sure if the people in the car did too. I can’t comment on them being minors as that was not visible.(sic).”The police have registered a case under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at DLF Phase 2 police station.The body of the victim was handed over to the family members after the post-mortem examination and cremated on Sunday evening.Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, Civil Hospital, Gurugram who conducted the autopsy said he died due to multiple fractures and excessive bleeding. His ribs were severely ruptured and he had internal injuries, which led to bleeding. He died within a few minutes of the accident.The police said that the two boys, who were taken out of the car with great difficulty, are residents of Rail Vihar in Sector 57 and South Close Nirvana Country in Sector 50. They are undergoing treatment at the hospital, said the police. KK Rao, commissioner of police said that they have registered the case and are investigating. “We are also checking the CCTV footage from the cameras installed to check the reason behind the accident. DLF Phase-2 station house officer has recorded statements of the eye witnesses which will help build the case stronger and we have deployed two more PCR vans on the stretch which will take rounds of the road and will keep a check on over-speeding,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/biker-dies-as-car-driven-by-minor-hits-him-in-dlf-cyber-city/story-W4ngKN1zkKDJEIcAgnTmXK.html
23-08-2020||Bangalore||Entire Congress Party in Karnataka stands by Gandhi family: state leaders||Amid talks of having a “full time” leadership in Congress that is active in the field and “visible”, leaders of the party’s Karnataka unit on Sunday threw their weight behind the Gandhi family.Ahead of the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, state leaders also pitched for Rahul Gandhi to take over the mantle of the party if its current chief Sonia Gandhi wants to step down.The Party’s state unit Chief D K Shivakumar said the entire Congress party in Karnataka stands by the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and the Gandhi family.“Mrs. Gandhi has led the Congress during times of crisis and saved our party.Anything that has to be discussed must be done so in the party forum and not in the media,” he tweeted.Leader of the Opposition in the assembly and Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah termed the development as “unfortunate”.“It is unfortunate that the leadership of Gandhi family is being questioned by a few. In these difficult times of undeclared emergency & attack on democracy by @BJP4India, we should collectively strive to strengthen @INCIndia & not weaken it,” the former Chief Minister tweeted. The tweets by Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar came amid reports that 23 Congress leaders have written to party chief Sonia Gandhi on the leadership issue. Having a “full time” leadership that is active in the field and “visible” in party offices, dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution are some of the far-reaching suggestions made by 23 senior Congress leaders in a letter to Sonia Gandhi to revive the organisation, sources said on Sunday. They were also critical of the way the Congress Working Committee, the party’s apex decision-making body, was being constituted and was functioning.Shivakumar has also written to Sonia Gandhi, requesting her not get perturbed by any developments in the party and continue to lead it, or persuade Rahul Gandhi to take up the leadership.“We all stand by you and we go by your decisions and directions.If you feel that it is time to pass on the mantle of leadership, you may do so by kindly persuading Shri Rahul Ji to take up the leadership.We, as loyal and committed Congress workers,will continue to be loyal to you and will wait to be led by you,” he said.Siddaramaiah too later in a series of tweets said Rahul Gandhi should take charge as AICC President “in the interest of our country.” “His leadership will rejuvenate Congress, energise party workers and reassure the people of our country,” he said.“I am confident that Shri.@RahulGandhi, under the guidance of Smt.Sonia Gandhi & other senior leaders, will successfully lead Indian National Congress party.Even our party workers feel the same,” Siddaramaiah said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/entire-congress-party-in-karnataka-stands-by-gandhi-family-state-leaders/story-Kq15YQB0ccw7QdlLpmYFFJ.html
23-08-2020||Gurugram||NHAI to test concrete used in Sohna elevated stretch||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will test the concrete used to construct the elevated section of Sohna Road, a portion of which collapsed on Thursday night. The agency may also review its design, as suggested by experts who inspected the site.Three girders of the 5-km project fell on Thursday at around 9.50pm near Vipul Greens condominium injuring two labourers. Light traffic and the weekend restrictions in place to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease helped keep casualties down.Senior NHAI officials and consultants to the projected had visited the site on Thursday night along with technical experts. The damaged 40-metre section, NHAI officials said, will be removed within 15 days and fresh girders will be installed.“A team of experts has inspected the site and it will look into the issues which led to crashing of the span. All steps would be taken to ensure such incidents don’t happen,” said RK Pandey, member, NHAI, (Project), who along with a large team inspected the site.The NHAI also directed the contractor to barricade the accident area effectively to ensure no further threat to motorists and workers, and to ensure any further failings of the structure do not result in loss of life. “It has also been decided to increase the frequency of quality control tests, especially after concreting, and test the quality of segments and wings,” said a senior NHAI official who spoke on condition anonymity.Manoj Kumar, member, project, NHAI, who also inspected the site said that all aspects of the collapse would be investigated but it would be difficult to ascribe any reason for the incident without testing. As per the details shared by an official of the contractor, the collapse of the span happened on pier 10 but another end of span was still hanging. The launching and gluing of this segment happened on August 5 and stressing work was completed on August 7. The launcher, which is used to place these spans was shifted from pier 11 to 12 on August 22 evening, the day the span collapsed.“This is a rare incident as we follow all norms and quality control measures. We will probe the incident and take corrective measures,” said JP Gupta, senior official of Oriental Engineering, the contractor.Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI, meanwhile, said that the incident happened within the barricaded area of the site and no work was going on under or above the collapsed span. “The affected areas has been barricaded and more measures are being taken to ensure safety and security of commuters and workers. A private laboratory in Delhi will test the materials,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nhai-to-test-concrete-used-in-sohna-elevated-stretch/story-ZMeqwcOorGguacqIbsJUmO.html
23-08-2020||Gurugram||Sohna Road residents fear for safety after flyover collapse||The collapse of a section of the elevated Sohna Road on late Saturday night has left the residents of the neighbouring Sispal Vihar and Vipul Greens, residential societies located opposite the site of the mishap, shaken.Sohna Road divides both these residential societies that are located opposite each other.Few residents of Sispal Vihar in Sector 49 say that they will avoid travelling via Sohna Road for the time being and instead take a slightly longer route via Bakhtawar Chowk. They said that the incident has brought in question the structural stability of the elevated road, with many fearing that it might collapse again.“Even though I realise that this may be a one-off incident, there is still a sense of paranoia in me. I fear the flyover may collapse again. As such, for the time being, I am opting to not drive via Sohna Road and use the arterial routes via Bakhtawar Chowk. It will take me a couple of weeks to travel via Sohna Road again,” said Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Sispal Vihar.Residents said that they are reminded of similar incidents that have taken place in other parts of India in recent times. For instance, in Kolkata in March 2016, an under-construction flyover had come crashing down, causing more than 50 fatalities. Similarly, an under-construction Delhi Metro bridge near East of Kailash collapsed in July 2009, claiming the lives of five people. Hariharan Seetharaman, a resident of Vipul Greens in Sector 48, said that when the flyover collapsed last night, he felt like his building had been hit by a concrete boulder. “The jolt was worse than any earthquakes I have ever experienced. The entire neighbourhood had come out onto the main road. It immediately reminded me of the incident that took place 11 years ago in East of Kailash and the one which occurred in Kolkata a few years back. We live less than 100 metres away from where the incident occurred. We could have easily met with a similar fate,” he said.Seetharaman said that when he saw over 50-60 government officials standing below one of the slabs of the under-construction flyover on Sunday. It left him worried.“I wanted to go out there and tell them to stand elsewhere as there is no certainty that the slab above may not come crashing down. The whole time they were there, I felt uneasy and uncomfortable,” said Seethraman.Monika Sachdev, a resident of Sispal Vihar, said that the incident reminded her similar mishaps that have occurred in the National Capital Region (NCR) in the past.“I am just grateful that this happened during this period when there were fewer people were out on the roads because of the weekend curfew. Sohna Road is a popular stretch that tends to see a lot of pedestrian activity and traffic movement. Had things been normal, the damage could have been far worse,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sohna-road-residents-fear-for-safety-after-flyover-collapse/story-T5KeHHstvKW9p6y7v4TCOP.html
23-08-2020||Gurugram||Two held for shooting at former ward councillor in Sohna over money dispute||A fortnight after unidentified suspects had fired at a former ward councillor in Sohna, the police on Sunday arrested two men in the case. The police said prima facie, a dispute over money was the reason for the shooting. The police have also recovered two cars and a rifle, which were allegedly used during the crime, from the possession of the arrested men. The two suspects, identified as Krishan from Rohtak and Sachin, a resident of Basai village in Sector 9, were arrested from Sohna. According to the police, on August 10, victim Harish Nanda, former councillor from ward 16 in Sohna, was at his office when at least seven people, including the arrested men, had barged into his office. The police said the main suspect, Sachin, had loaned ‘several lakhs of rupees’ to Nanda’s brother Hemant. Sachin had been demanding his money back for one year. On the day of the incident, Sachin and his several aides went to Nanda’s office to discuss the matter, the police said. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “When Nanda told him that he had nothing to do with the dispute involving his brother, one of the suspects pulled out a gun and fired at him. The bullet missed him and hit a wall in his office. The suspects then escaped in two cars.” The police said the suspects had threatened to kill him and his brother if the money was not paid soon. An FIR was registered against the suspects under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act at City Sohna police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-for-shooting-at-former-ward-councillor-in-sohna-over-money-dispute/story-VWOb0f8oUXJ7n5a5vCA77L.html
23-08-2020||Gurugram||MCG starts renovation work on Gurugram’s only public swimming pool||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Sunday started renovating city’s only public swimming pool at Kamala Nehru Park, more than 45 years after its construction. As per MCG officials the “state-of-the-art” and the “world-class” swimming pool will be renovated at a cost of ₹3.5 crore. It will be a six-lane swimming pool, equipped with changing rooms, toilets, hot and cold water facilities, and will have a seating capacity of over 50 people.In addition, medical personnel, coaches and lifeguards will also be present at the facility, said the civic body officials, while adding that yoga, gym, cafeteria and restaurants will also be developed near the pool.“We are aiming to build the facility as per world-class standards. Our target is to not only provide residents with a swimming pool for recreational purposes but also a platform for young swimmers to hone their skills and subsequently take part in national and international competitions and make the city proud,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.To mark the commencement, a foundation stone was laid by Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla for the project.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, anti-skid and water-resistant flooring and tiles made out of ceramic, mosaic, polycrete, along with other similar material, will be laid all around the facility. Further, float glass sheet panels will be installed to give viewers a clear view of the pool while also ensuring that water from the pool does not splash on them.Constructed in 1975, the 25-metre long and 12-metre-wide pool has largely been unused since 2016. Over the years, lack of maintenance has left the pool in a decrepit condition. The floor of the pool is often filled with leaves and dirt. Facilities such as benches and toilets are broken, water taps and showerheads missing. Paint on the walls is coming off. Since 2015, various proposals for renovating or demolishing the swimming pool and making way for a new one was floated by various public bodies. However, due to its location near the heavily-congested Sadar Bazaar, lack of available space and land acquisition issues, such plans never came to fruition.In its 2019-2020 fiscal budget, the MCG had reserved ₹70 crore funds for sports and health facilities, of which some money was also set aside for the renovation of the swimming pool.In January, this year, tenders were floated for this project, and a concessionaire was finalised in March. However, due to the imposition of national lockdown in March this year, renovation work had to be pushed back for a few months, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-starts-renovation-work-on-gurugram-s-only-public-swimming-pool/story-F2smHzoZ0HTOLJoFQqRLVK.html
23-08-2020||Gurugram||Two criminals, who escaped Maharashtra Police custody, arrested||Two suspected criminals, who had escaped from the custody of Maharashtra Police last week in Delhi, were arrested by the Faridabad police late Friday night. The two suspects were wanted in over two dozen robberies and ATM loot cases in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Maharashtra, said the police.The two suspects, Nisar, and Irfan, (both identified by single names in police records) were arrested by the Faridabad police on July 22 and were taken into a 10-day production remand (when suspects already in the custody of one state police are taken into custody by police from another state) by the Maharashtra police from Neemka jail in Faridabad.Faridabad police commissioner OP Singh said the suspects, who are in their early thirties, were being brought back to the Neemka prison by the Maharashtra police on the intervening night of August 18 and 19 when they managed to escape. “The police teams had stopped at a hotel in Badarpur for dinner and the two suspects took advantage of the dark and fled from custody misleading the police personnel,” he said.A case under sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant), 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) and 120b (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against suspects at the Badarpur police station on the night on August 19. The two suspects are brothers and are from Palwal district.Delhi police, Maharashtra police, and Faridabad police were conducting raids to arrest the duo and were tracking movements of their family members to get information about their whereabouts, police officers said.Dharna Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, Faridabad, said a crime team from Sector 56 had received a tip on Friday that both the suspects had taken shelter in Sector 58’s industrial area where they were hiding from the police’s radar. “A raid was conducted and they were arrested from the spot. They possessed a countrymade pistol and two live cartridges,” she said. The police said they were sent to judicial custody on Saturday.Commissioner Singh said both the brothers were taken on production remand by Maharashtra police on August 7 from Neemka jail where the latter were lodged. “ On July 22, we had arrested three criminals—Nisar, Irfan, and their close aide Mukesh Kumar—for their involvement in ATM loots using gas cutters. After a two-day police remand, the three were sent to judicial custody,” he said. The three had looted cash on various occasions early this year after cutting ATM s in areas in Ballabhgarh and Bhupani, and were arrested after an investigation into the cases was launched, said the police. The police then found out about their alleged involvement in various cases of loot and robbery in different states.ACP Yadav said the police had recovered ₹ 3.3 lakh , two cars, two gas cylinders, cutters, and an iron rod from their possession when the arrests were made in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-criminals-who-escaped-maharashtra-police-custody-arrested/story-zZ4n4m4LWcEiuBKJaFrfcI.html
23-08-2020||City||New rights regulator should eliminate unfair consumer contracts||Now that the government has set up the consumer rights regulator — the Central Consumer Protection Authority — one of its first tasks should be to redraw the terms and conditions governing consumer purchases in the country, thereby eliminating all unfair terms in consumer contracts.Take for example, absolutely unjust terms such as “No guarantee for quality of goods sold”, “No refunds, no exchange”, “No guarantee for colour fastness”, “Goods once sold will not be taken back or exchanged” on cash receipts. Retailers have used these unilateral terms for decades to treat consumers shabbily and deny them their rights In fact complaints brought before consumer courts bear testimony to the problems consumers face as a result of such terms and conditions.. In one particular case, where the consumer got caught in the rain and found that the colour of her expensive silk saree was not stable, the retailer blamed her for getting caught in the rain while wearing the saree and said he gave no guarantee for colour. First and foremost, most shopkeepers do not entertain a complaint at any time of the day, particularly if you happen to be the first customer. Some even force you to buy something before they even listen to your complaint. Many receipts specify the days and the time at which any complaint would be entertained- never mind whether that is convenient to the consumer.When confronted with a defective product, I would expect the retailer to apologize and offer a refund , along with compensation for the inconvenience caused. After all, the consumer has to spend the time and money to go back to the dealer with the defective product!But forget compensation, even getting a refund is impossible. If you point to the defect in the product and ask for a refund, you are shown the condition on the cash receipt that says “No refund”. So your only option is to accept a replacement and if you do not want that, take a credit slip from the shop for a future buy. .One can in fact see such highly exploitative contractual terms on many receipts- of drycleaners, couriers, parking contractors, coaching classes, amusement parks, gymnasiums, travel agents, goods carriers, builders, well the list is long. Some of them are couched in such complicated legalese, that even if consumers read them, they may not understand that they are taking away their right to a fair deal and redress. Courier companies, for example, restrict their liability to a miniscule amount for loss or destruction of goods entrusted to their care for delivery , through such terms and conditions printed on the receipt. Amusement parks and even gymnasiums say they will not take responsibility for any injury or death caused on their premises , even if it happened on account of their negligence. Parking contractors, who are supposed to take care of your vehicle, say that they are not liable for damage or loss caused to your car or two wheeler left in their care! Receipts of travel agencies tell you that you will lose the entire amount paid if you cancel the trip. Given the fact that these are standard contracts that are drafted clearly to favour the stronger party-the business- to the detriment of the other, weaker party -the consumer, there is need for legislation to create fairness in all consumer contracts. In fact in recognition of this, many countries have specific regulations that strike down such unfair terms. The consumer protection regulator has to now take the initiative and bring about a comprehensive regulation prohibiting unfair terms and conditions in all consumer contracts, particularly those that are not regulated by sector regulators. After all, the Central consumer Protection Authority’s mandate is to protect, promote and enforce the rights of consumers and the Consumer Protection Act of 2019 gives the consumer the right to be protected from unfair contracts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-rights-regulator-should-eliminate-unfair-consumer-contracts/story-daKPL9Ukbym0qadZuh1MOI.html
23-08-2020||Gurugram||Active cases, positivity rate trending upward again in Gurugram||The number of daily active cases in Gurugram has been going up over the past week breaking the trend seen in late July and early August. The number of patients requiring hospitalisation too showed an increase.Along with it, last week also saw the district testing only 12,162 new samples -- the lowest seven-day aggregate in six weeks.The total positivity rate (TPR, which is the number of tests turning positive per 100 tests) at 5.4%, while within expectations, grew from 3.7%, bucking another trend.Health department officials said the trend may indicate that the virus transmission may have gained pace after decelerating through July and August. Last week, the Haryana government had imposed a weekend restriction in the state pointing that the people had been lax in following social distancing norms.The health department clarified that it is in a better position to deal with a surge in infections, which is expected over the next two weeks, given improvements in testing capabilities and treatment protocols for patients.“To maintain the desired positivity rate of under five percent, we should have tested about 14,000 samples over the past week, which is well within our capacity. The shortfall will be made up. We are still tracing and testing the right people and that has kept deaths low,” said Dr. Jai Prakash Sharma, the integrated disease surveillance programme’s (IDSP’s) district surveillance officer, pointing out that there have been six new deaths in three weeks.“Seeing as the end goal is to prevent deaths, our response remains robust. Treatment protocols have helped us keep the number of critical patients low too. While there has indeed been a surge in new positives and active patients, there are no red flags to worry about,” said Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, referring to instances of sudden deaths, bed shortages in hospitals, and a lack of testing equipment that plagued the district earlier.“The number of critical patients is also still low,” Yadav added, clarifying that it is still too early to tell whether Gurugram is headed toward a second epidemiological peak.As per health department data, there are presently only two patients in intensive care, one requiring oxygen and one on ventilator support. “If people observe social distancing a little more stringently, it would slow down the spread even further,” Yadav said.As per an analysis of health department data, the average daily growth rate of positive cases in the first week of August was 0.58%, which increased to 0.98% in the second week, before jumping the fence to 1.1% in the third week of this month. Rajesh Kumar, an epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine who has been tracking the trajectory of Covid-19 in Haryana, said, “With public movement opening up, naturally cases will also rise. The outcome of another surge will depend on whether the administration is prepared enough, and whether it can apply lessons from the first peak in an efficient manner. This means fine-tuning its test, trace and isolate method, ensuring anyone who needs a ventilator can access one, making sure home isolation rules are being adhered to, encouraging tests from private labs by capping prices and so on. A lot of things will determine the way forward.”BOX:Total tests // Weekly increase in tests // Weekly percentage increase in tests // Weekly new cases // Weekly test positivity ratesAugust 16 - August 22: 145041 (+12162 // 9%) | New cases: 648 | TPR = 5.4% August 9 - August 15: 132879 (+14699 // 12.5%) | New cases: 551 | TPR = 3.7%August 2 - August 8: 118180 (+14362 // 11%) | New cases: 468 | TPR = 3.2%July 26 - August 1: 103818 (+13833 // 16%) | New cases: 675 | TPR = 4.8%July 19 - July 25: 89985 (+15265 // 20%) | New cases: 897| TPR = 6%July 12 - July 18: 74720 (+16,411 // 28%) | New cases: 846 | TPR = 5%July 5 - July 11: 58309 (+19,488 // 50%) | New cases: 919 | TPR = 5%June 27 - July 4: 38821 (+10,974 // 39%) | New cases: 759 | TPR = 7%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/active-cases-positivity-rate-trending-upward-again-in-gurugram/story-B2LtlwSrdogvTC9RfdvvoN.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Study abroad: Signs of revival, but students wary of online teaching, say Chandigarh immigration consultants||With many countries allowing students to enrol for online courses and resumption of visa processing, immigration consultancies are witnessing signs of revival after months of inactivity amid the Covid pandemic. However, the number of applications being received from students wanting to study abroad is much lower than that in the previous years. There are over 200 immigration consultancies in Chandigarh. Navneet Singh, an immigration consultant and a representative of Association of Overseas Education Consultants, Chandigarh, said that they have received only around 200 applications since last month. “Countries have started providing every indicator except travel clearance. Visa processing has also started. But we have witnessed a dip of around 50% in the applications from the students.”According to immigration experts, over 90% colleges and universities in Canada will start online teaching in September. “I think students will be able to travel to the UK for September intake and they have also put proper travel protocol in place but for Canada students will be able to go for January 2021,” said Singh.Immigration experts say over one-lakh students from Punjab and Chandigarh go to foreign countries, including Australia, Canada and UK, to pursue higher education every year. At this time of the year, the applications are received in high numbers for the September intake in many foreign countries. However, this year the numbers are low.“Most students are preferring January 2021 intake as compared to September. Most do not want to study online and only those who were stuck due to lockdown are applying for September intake. Since last month, we have received around 35 applications for Canada and 15 to 20 each for Australia and the UK,” said Rakehshwar Walia, from an immigration and education consultancy based in Khanna. “As Canada has started a new visa processing programme, we have also started processing applications from students. The Canadian government in the initial approval allows students to enrol for online classes. In the second stage, they will be given a visa for travelling, once the situation is under control. We have also started processing applications for Australia as well but the number of students is less this time. We hope things will be back on track in future,” said Jatin Wadhwa, director of a Chandigarh-based international education consultancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/study-abroad-signs-of-revival-but-students-wary-of-online-teaching-say-chandigarh-immigration-consultants/story-1yiyU5Z34Wj8gl1zK9tLNK.html
23-08-2020||City||148 more Delhi govt Sarvodaya schools to have nursery classes soon||New Delhi: The Delhi government is planning to introduce nursery classes in around 148 more Sarvodaya Vidyalayas from the next academic session, with an aim to increasing learning opportunities for children below 6 years in the national capital.A document enlisting the Directorate of Education’s (DoE) “Vision 2030” plans stated, “Discussion was held on enacting legislation making it the right of every child below 6 years to get good quality early childhood care and education enabling them to grow healthy, cognitively and emotionally developed. It’s decided that in remaining schools (Sarvodaya) nursery classes will be introduced from the next academic year.”Of the 1,030 government-run schools in Delhi, 449 Sarvodaya Vidyalayas have primary sections up to class 5. Of these, 301 have nursery classes. Besides, around 1,700 schools run by the three municipal corporations in Delhi offer primary education from nursery to class 5.HT had on Friday reported that the directorate had told different departments it had approved their projects for the implementation of Vision 2030 after consulting stakeholders and had set tentative timelines. Among the other projects approved by the DoE were the creation of at least one school of excellence (SoE) in each district, teaching foreign language in government schools, connected classrooms and exchange programmes for students. For the establishment of nursery classes in the remaining sarvodaya schools, the DoE asked its school branch to come up with a plan by October. A senior official in Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia’s office said, “Keeping in mind the high demand and low availability of nursery classes in government schools in Delhi, it’s been decided to introduce nursery in the remaining sarvodaya schools. So, we are exploring where we have enough space to construct more classrooms.”Experts working in the field of education said more children from marginalised families will get opportunities to get an early education. Ekramul Haque of Mission Taleem, an organisation working for children from economically weaker section (EWS) households in Delhi, said, “ An increase in the number of nursery seats in Delhi government schools will also help families who struggle to enrol their children in private schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/148-more-delhi-govt-sarvodaya-schools-to-have-nursery-classes-soon/story-vPyycjd3oYRJJPiSu7pEnK.html
23-08-2020||City||Sikh clergy meets today,missing saroops on agenda||Amritsar The Sikh clergy is meeting on Monday, where a decision will be taken on the inquiry report launched into 267 saroops of the Guru Granth Sahib that went missing over the past few years from the publishing house of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had received the inquiry report from Ishar Singh, a lawyer at the Telangana high court. The five Sikh clergymen comprising the Akal Takht jathedar, jathedars of other Sikh temporal seats and Sikh high priests will discuss the report. Sources said the Akal Takht might direct the SGPC to implement the inquiry report. Another much-awaited report of a panel tasked to go through the content of controversial religious discourses of Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale has also been submitted to the Takht. This is also on the agenda of the clergy.The Akal Takht is likely to declare Damdami Taksal media advisor Sarchand Singh and some others as ‘tankhaya’ (guilty of religious misconduct) in the case of pardoning excommunicated former Akali minister Sucha Singh Langah, in violation of its edict. It is also likely to award ‘tankhah’ (religious punishment) to a SGPC member and hold the husband of another member as ‘tankhaya’ (guilty of religious misconduct).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikh-clergy-meets-today-missing-saroops-on-agenda/story-APGVDi0w0uvWHOLF1ltC2O.html
23-08-2020||City||Residents of housing society in Mohali complain of contaminated water supply||Supply of contaminated water for the past few days has left residents of Emaar, Sector 108, infuriated. They alleged that despite their informing the concerned authorities, no action had been taken yet.Vishal Vir Singh, a resident of Emaar, said that the authorities were supplying bore well water to its residents in Sector 108 and there was no treatment plant for treating it. “Not even a basic/ rudimentary filtration system, for supplying clean/ potable water, has been installed so far,” he said.Another resident Dhruv Sharma, in his complaint, stated that water being supplied is not clean as it is full of sediments and is often quite muddy. Often worms are seen floating in the water, he stated.The residents said that though borewell water is first stored in two big tanks before supply, the water is not chlorinated.When contacted, Manjit Singh, maintenance in-charge of Emaar, Mohali said, “There was some problem but we are in the process of cleaning the water pipes and the same will be done in a day or two.” On being questioned about the absence of a water treatment plant in the society, he said, “Earlier the population was less but now that we have more people in the society, therefore, we have proposed to install a water treatment plant,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-of-housing-society-in-mohali-complain-of-contaminated-water-supply/story-GMXDDRroXagr0D28w6g5iM.html
23-08-2020||City||GMADA starts process to build 6 km link from Airport road to Kharar||Four years after it proposed building a six km , 200-feet wide link between Airport road to Kharar –Landran road, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has begun the process of acquisition of land. The road will improve connectivity from Kharar to Airport road and also some major townships including TDI, Ansal and Gateway city. Originating from Sector 74-A (Airport road), this road will divide sectors 116-92 and sectors 117-74-A, to pass through the villages of Chapar Chri Khurd, Chapar Chiri Kalan, Chajju Majra, Balaili and Ballomajra before connecting to Kharar- Landran road near Swaraj factory. The road is part of the Mohali master plan.On starting the acquisition process, Davinder Singh, GMADA chief engineer, said: “We have written to the authorities concerned for approvals to issue notice under Section 11 of the Land Acquisition Act soon. We will be acquiring around 75 acres of land from five villages and are hopeful of completing the acquisition process by the end of this year.” Sanyam Dudeja, director, Jubilee Real Estate Group, Mohali, said, people in colonies close to the road had faced a number of problems in the absence of a link road and the risk of accidents was high too.Kamal Tiwana, a Kharar resident, said the existing National Highway 21 remained clogged due to construction of the Kharar flyover. This 200-feet-wide link road was, therefore, expected to be a better alternative to people travelling between Chandigarh and Kharar. Blaming GMADA for poor planning, he said it approved construction of apartments and bungalows in remote areas but did not provide basic amenities like connecting roads and parks.WORK BEGINS ON KEY ROADOne of the key road projects to connect Kharar with New Chandigarh has also kicked off after a delay of over three months owing to the Covid-19 lockdown. GMADA, which had earlier missed a deadline of April 15 to begin work, has now started it on the 8km stretch that will improve connectivity between Mullanpur and Sunny Enclave, helping commuters bypass Chandigarh or Kurali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-starts-process-to-build-6-km-link-from-airport-road-to-kharar/story-9AtFeUGBJuSXFYaEdtzlTP.html
23-08-2020||City||Order girdawari in Abohar: Sukhbir to Capt||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to order a ‘girdawari’ (special revenue assessment) of damage caused to kharif crops in around a dozen villages in Abohar. Sukhbir also called for hiking the crop compensation rates in Punjab by raising the state quotient in the amount, as was done by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government. The former deputy CM added that water had also entered several colonies in the city leading to damage to houses and household goods. He said farmers had sat on a dharna on the Abohar-Seetogunno-Dabwali road on Saturday to draw attention to the problem of overflowing from the Abulkhurana drain.He sought compensation for all these damages and also claimed that reports suggested damage to the cotton crop as well, which also needed to be covered under the girdawari. ‘SET UP MEDICAL COLLEGE AND HOSPITAL IN FAZILKA’Sukhbir has also written to 15th Finance Commission to allocate Rs 100 crore for the establishment of a Medical College and Hospital in Fazilka. In a letter to the commission chairman NK Singh, the SAD president said the hospital proposed by him could serve as a focal point for not only the Malwa region, but also for neighbouring districts of Haryana and Rajasthan. He added that the district had only 0.7 to 0.9 bed per thousand population and 1 doctor for over 6,183 persons. He told the commission chairman that Fazilka also accounted for the highest prevalence of cancer in the country. “We have a district hospital which is deficient as far as infrastructure is concerned. People travelled overnight to get medical services which was a burden on them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/order-girdawari-in-abohar-sukhbir-to-capt/story-4drDdX7BioApIwIE4XffmI.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Eight succumb to Covid-19 in Chandigarh tricity area, 323 test positive||As many as eight Covid-19 fatalities were confirmed in the tricity on Sunday.These include four deaths in Chandigarh and an equal number in Mohali. So far, 52 patients have died in Mohali and 37 in Chandigarh. The Chandigarh fatalities include a 70-year-old woman from Sector 40. She was suffering from hypothyroidism, Type-2 diabetes mellitus and interstitial lung disease. She was tested positive on August 21 and died at GMCH, Sector 32, on August 22.The second death is of a 64-year-old woman from Manimajra. She had hypertension and Type 2 diabetes mellitus. She died at GMCH on August 22.The third patient, who also died at GMCH on August 22, is a 68-year-old man from Sector 23. He had hypertension, Type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease. A baby girl, aged 21 months, is the fourth fatality. Resident of Sector 25, she was suffering from severe malnutrition, severe anaemia, infantile tremor syndrome and acute kidney injury. She was diagnosed as Covid positive on August 21 and died at PGIMER on August 22.The four Mohali patients who died were also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. These include a 63-year-old Dera Bassi woman, who died at Indus Hospital, Dera Bassi, while a 60-year-old man from Kailon village died at Ivy Hospital in Mohali.The other two patients – a 67-year-old woman from Sunny Enclave, Kharar, and a 50-year-old man from Sector 105 – died at Government Medical College and Hospital in Patiala. UT INCHES TOWARDS 3,000 CASES, MOHALI CROSSES 2,700 MARKChandigarh confirmed 142 new Covid-19 cases from various sectors and villages, taking the tally to 2,918. The city has 1,387 active cases, with 1,492 patients having recovered so far.Mohali recorded 141 fresh infections, crossing the 2,700 mark. Of the 2,702 cases, 1,409 patients have recovered, leaving 1,241 active cases.40 TEST POSITIVE IN PANCHKULAWith 40 new cases, Panchkula’s Covid tally rose to 1,576. Till date, 1,000 patients have been discharged and 10 have died. The district now has 545 active cases.UT FINANCE SECRETARY FOUND INFECTEDChandigarh UT’s finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha has tested positive for Covid-19. “Sinha had met a senior IAS officer of Punjab on Wednesday. After the officer tested positive, he also got tested and was confirmed positive on Sunday. He has no symptoms and has been home quarantined,” a senior UT official said, adding that other senior UT officials will also undergo tests.Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VPS Badnore and UT Adviser Manoj Parida were previously also tested and found negative for Covid-19. After Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore’s principal secretary JM Balamurugan tested positive on August 9, a two-day exercise of rapid antigen testing was carried out at Raj Bhawan and several senior UT officials were among the 336 staffers tested. Sinha had tested negative then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-succumb-to-covid-19-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-323-test-positive/story-KkW78GlimgllERMdDdZpGM.html
23-08-2020||City||Ludhiana police mark shops with numbers ahead of odd-even rule implementation||The police, with the help of the market associations, have marked shops with numbers a day before the implementation of the odd-even system for markets. To contain the spread of Covid-19, only 50% shops will be allowed to open on weekdays on an odd-even basis. The odd and even numbered shops will open alternatively from Monday. WEEKEND CURFEW IMPLEMENTED EFFECTIVELYThe police implemented the lockdown effectively on Sunday. The city markets wore a deserted look as most of the shops remained closed. The city witnessed fewer violations on the second day of the weekend curfew. As most of the markets were closed, no vehicular traffic was witnessed. For effective vigilance, the police installed 125 checkpoints across the city and deployed over 900 personnel on these checkpoints. Patrolling teams were ensuring that locals were not going out of their houses unnecessarily. Chauara Bazar, one of the busiest markets of the city, was completely locked down. All shops, except grocery shops, remained closed. Even though overall the incidents of violations have come down, people could still be seen commuting without wearing face masks. At some eateries and grocery shops, people were seen violating social distancing norms. ‘EVEN AND ODD NUMBERED SHOPS ARE TO OPEN ON CORRESPONDING DATES’ Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said that only 50% of non-essential shops will be allowed to open in any particular area. “Even and odd numbered shops are to open on corresponding dates. The places where shops do not have numbers, they can paint temporary numbers with the help of market associations,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-mark-shops-with-numbers-ahead-of-odd-even-rule-implementation-in-ludhiana/story-m4J95mP596SCbuVLogEw4O.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi Metro will resume as soon as Centre gives nod, says DMRC||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC’s) Executive Director Anuj Dayal on Sunday said that Delhi Metro will resume its operations whenever directed by the Centre. All necessary guidelines to combat the spread of Covid-19 will be implemented and efforts will be made to ensure safe travel for commuters, Dayal added. His statements come after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that metro services in the national capital should resume on a trial basis as the overall Covid-19 situation was improving and hoped that the Centre would take a decision soon. Also read: Cabinet nod for Metro connectivity between HUDA City Centre- Old GurugramDelhi has so far logged 1,61,466 Covid-19 cases which includes 11,778 active cases, nearly 1,46,000 recoveries and 4,300 deaths. The state health department on Sunday said that more than 14 lakh tests have been conducted till now. Also read: Delhi Metro announces 50% cut in perks, allowances of its staff“I have requested the Centre that Delhi should be treated differently. Corona situation is improving in Delhi. If they do not want to run Metro trains in other cities, let it be so. But, in Delhi Metro train services should be started in a phased manner on a trial basis. We have raised this issue before the Centre many times, I hope the Centre will soon take a decision in this regard,” Kejriwal said.Metro services in Delhi have been suspended since March 22 due to the coronavirus outbreak. Earlier, the DMRC in an order said that perks and allowances of Delhi Metro employees would be slashed by 50% from the month of August as the corporation had incurred a financial loss of Rs 1,500 crore after operations were shut.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-metro-will-resume-as-soon-as-centre-gives-nod-says-dmrc/story-QXUW0mTnisldkfYpAEOwzK.html
23-08-2020||City||Covid-19 scare: Ludhiana parents get wards enrolled in local colleges||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise, parents are preferring to get their children enrolled in local colleges instead of sending them away for higher education. Till last year, students preferred to get themselves enrolled in colleges of Delhi and Chandigarh. They used to stay in paying guest accommodations in other cities to pursue their higher education but this year due to the Covid-19 outspread, parents are worried and are not allowing their children to travel outside the city. Amanpreet Singh, a commerce student who scored 96% in Class 12 board exams, had decided to take admission in a Chandigarh-based college, but due to the Covid-19 outspread, her parents asked her to take admission in a city-based college instead. Sukhwinder Kaur, her mother, said, “For the last four years, Amanpreet has been working hard to attain a good score in Class 12 and finally scored well in exams. But the lockdown has spoiled her plan and now she has now taken admission in one of the local colleges.” Harpreet Singh, principal, Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology, Ghumar Mandi, said, “This year, due to the pandemic, many parents have decided to get their wards enrolled in nearby colleges. Over 15-20 students who were earlier interested in taking admission in Delhi and Chandigarh colleges have now turned to our college for admission.” NO HOSTEL FACILITY OFFERED IN COLLEGES SCD Government College offers hostel facilities for both boys and girls and more than 250 students can be accommodated in the rooms. But this year due to the pandemic the classes are being conducted online and the authorities are not offering hostel facilities to students. Every year students from other districts apply for admission to the college but this time many of them have got themselves enrolled in colleges in their respective districts. Parminder Singh, a student from Moga, said, “I was excited to take admission in SCD Government College after Class 12 exams. But due to the rise in Covid cases, my parents asked me to stay here so I got myself enrolled in a private PU-affiliated college here.” Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of SCD Government College, said, “In such difficult times, as per instructions from Panjab University(PU), professors are conducting the classes online. It is not feasible to offer hostel facilities right now and whenever we receive directions from higher authorities to re-open colleges, we will provide these facilities. Students from other districts have applied but we have informed them that hostel facilities are not available currently.” The situation is no different in other colleges. Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women has two hostels comprising approximately 45 rooms. College principal Maninder Kaur said, “Teachers are conducting classes online and keeping in mind the Covid situation, we are not offering hostel facilities.” Gursimar Kaur, a resident of Model Town, said, “My daughter wanted to pursue a bachelor of commerce from Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi, but with the Covid- 19 cases going up, she finally took admission here in a PU-affiliated college. This has upset her, but at this point, we cannot risk her life and send her to Delhi. She scored 98% marks in Class 12 board exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-scare-ludhiana-parents-get-wards-enrolled-in-local-colleges/story-kDnNnMMCl42lCHl8rsaZGL.html
23-08-2020||Patna||Designed by IITians, JD(U)’s digital campaigning platform is ‘first’ of its kind||JD(U) is set to launch an exclusive digital platform, JDUlive.com, for canvassing ahead of October-November Bihar assembly elections keeping in mind the limited scope for campaigning on the ground in the view of the coronavirus pandemic outbreak and the detailed guidelines issued by the election commission mindful of the changed circumstances.The digital platform, which the party insiders claim to be one of its kind for any political outfit in the state and also the country, will be launched with chief minister Nitish Kumar’s virtual meet, expected next month. Kumar is also JD(U) national president.“We planned this with the help of a group of IITians from Bihar to utilise the lockdown period, as there was a clear indication that campaigning this time won’t be the same as before due to the pandemic. JDUlive.com will redefine the mode of communication with the masses in the digital era,” said a senior party leader, pleading anonymity.“The platform’s current integral on-boarding capacity is one lakh live viewers for a digital /virtual public rally. This can be expanded up to 10 lakh (one million) participants for any given live interaction in the future,” said the leader, adding the global lockdown necessitated out-of-the-box solutions for public campaigning.The platform can easily evolve as a dedicated communication channel to engage not just with party cadres but also the general public. In this context, a Live.tv menu on the portal is to enable any person to share any positive video or news item which, upon approval by the portal’s administrator, can get posted online. This will provide a single point source of positive news to the media, too.“Platforms like Zoom, Google meet, etc, have gained huge popularity as the preferred modes for organising public meets, but being third party service providers, there are obvious limitations on using them,” said party leaders.It is Janata Dal United’s own video conferencing platform which supports both way video communication. “Developed entirely by local talents, it qualifies both as a true Make in India and a Make in Bihar product; and a platform with no dependence on any foreign or public platforms like Zoom, Google, etc.,” said a senior party leader.Besides hosting live public rallies and /or private conferences, this party portal can be used as an interface with the public and for holding regular meetings with party cadres.Also Read: BJP’s plan for Bihar assembly polls involves careful study of the voters list“On the JDULive.com website, both party functionaries and people can put their views, such as through the ‘Virtual Survekshan’ (survey) menu designed for Digital Survey,” said those handling the digital set up.Also Read: ‘NDA to fight Bihar polls under Nitish Kumar’s leadership’: NaddaData on the portal is being updated so it serves as a database of party functionaries down to the booth levels. “It will be a storehouse of information, including development works in various spheres, speeches of the national president, yatras of Nitish Kumar, etc,” they said.The right to the platform will only be given to authorised party functionaries from the state and district levels for uploading and managing data and information relating to their respective jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/designed-by-iitians-jdu-s-digital-campaigning-platform-is-first-of-its-kind/story-LnTmPtPTreojYU4ULcDu3O.html
23-08-2020||City||Mild tremors recorded in Dahanu||Mild tremors were recorded in Aaina village in Dahanu, Palghar district on Sunday. No casualty or damage to property was reported. “At 11.39am tremor measuring 2.8 magnitude on Richter Scale was reported in Dahanu. Other tremors of 3.1, 3.0 and 2.7 magnitude were reported later in the day,” said Vivekanand Kadam, chief of disaster management cell, Palghar. Since November 2018, villages around Dhundalwadi and other areas of Dahanu have been experiencing mild tremors at regular intervals.On July 29, two mild tremors were felt in Dahanu. No injuries or property damages were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mild-tremors-recorded-in-dahanu/story-V4HrCpFVS1nit9SuuvX0eJ.html
23-08-2020||City||Fire breaks out at chemical unit in Dombivli, no one injured||A fire broke out in a chemical unit in Dombivli Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) on Sunday afternoon. The incident took place around 12.30am at Dreamland dyeing located in phase 2 of Dombivli MIDC. No injuries were reported in the incident. As per the fire officials, few workers who were at the location at the time of the incident managed to escape. Primarily, the cause for the fire is considered as short circuit, a fire fighting officer said. As soon as the fire broke out around five fire tenders rushed to the spot and initiated the fire fighting operations. “The fire was bought into control in two hours by our team. Primarily the cause for the fire is considered as a short circuit. There has been property loss to the company. The entire area was covered with smoke,” said a fire officer from Dombivli, who did not wish to be named. As per the fire officials, few workers who were at the location at the time of the incident managed to escape. Earlier on August 3, a blast occurred in a chemical unit in Dombivli MIDC phase 2. The chemical unit Ambar chemicals suffered property loss however there was no injury or casualty reported in the incident. As per the fire department, the company was shut on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-unit-in-dombivli-no-one-injured/story-3RzXwKkqSVpEQboDtI1YsO.html
23-08-2020||City||Ludhiana man dies in road mishap||A 35-year-old man died in a road mishap after an over-speeding truck crushed him to death near Ghoda Factory Road on Saturday. The victim, identified as Bahadur Singh of Cheema Chowk, was returning home after work when the incident took place. Manga Singh of Mushtaq Ganj, victim’s cousin, filed a complaint with the police. He stated that Bahadur Singh was returning home from the factory when a truck crushed him to death near the Ghoda Factory Road. After the onlookers gathered at the spot, the truck driver managed to flee leaving his vehicle behind. ASI Anil Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that the police have seized the truck and lodged an FIR under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 338(causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427(Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unidentified driver. A hunt is on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-dies-in-road-mishap/story-2cnpNDP9hMHJpNEYb4u5ON.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||IAS officer’s house facelift: Facing flak, Chandigarh admn halves spending to ₹12L||After facing flak for its plan to spend ₹26 lakh on the renovation of a government house in Sector 16, the UT administration has revised the planned expenditure to ₹12 lakh.Hindustan Times on August 10 reported that the UT engineering department floated a tender of ₹26 lakh for repair and renovations o a house recently allocated to a senior Punjab-cadre Indian Administrative Officer (IAS) officer of the principal secretary rank. An IAS officer from Haryana cadre was living in the house since 2012 and vacated it upon retirement.While around ₹12 lakh were allocated for repairs, ₹14 lakh were to be spend on new additions.“Now, the administration has decided that keeping in view of austerity measures, the plan for additional constructions should be scrapped. The department will now undertake only repair works,” said an official of the engineering department, requesting anonymity.The administration to compensate its revenue loss in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic had announced a slew of austerity measures for all of its departments. Now, projects can only be taken up if approved by the administration as priority. Two months of the lockdown cost the administration ₹342 crore in forgone tax collections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ias-officer-s-house-facelift-facing-flak-chandigarh-admn-halves-spending-to-12l/story-QPK3YVWWvDnrR5f1OrV1RM.html
23-08-2020||City||13-year-old Ludhiana boy hangs himself after losing mobile phone||Afraid of being scolded for losing his mobile phone, a 13-year-old boy hanged himself from the ceiling fan at his house in Partap Nagar near Dholewal. Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO, Division Number 6 police station, said the boy was an only child.“His father, a labourer, had bought him a mobile phone to attend online classes. On Saturday evening, he went out to play with his friends with the phone in his pocket, and later realised he had lost it. He shared with a friend that he was scared of being scolded by his parents,” Brar added.In the evening, when his parents returned home, they were shocked to find the boy hanging from the ceiling. They rushed him to a local hospital, where doctors declared him dead.The body was handed over to the family after autopsy at the Ludhiana civil hospital. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-year-old-ludhiana-boy-hangs-himself-after-losing-mobile-phone/story-b7bZqgOse8E8TkUZc2FUeL.html
23-08-2020||City||Now, Covid patients out of ICU at DMCH, CMCH can shift to Ludhiana civil hospital||Covid-19 patients, who have been shifted out of the ICU at two private hospitals in Ludhiana, can opt for further treatment at the local civil hospital. Punjab health and family welfare director Dr Avneet Kaur has issued a communiqué to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) to transfer the patients that were referred by the government for level-3 (ICU) treatment and were recuperating at level-2 facilities after improvement in condition. Level-3 is critical care for Covid patients, who need ventilator support in ICU. Level-2 caters to patients with mild symptoms and Level- 1 is for patients with very mild symptoms. The hospitals will certify that the patients are fit to be shifted and consent of patient/relatives will be taken before referring them back to the government run level-2 isolation facility. The SMO and isolation facility in-charge will coordinate with the respective hospitals.“The decision has been taken to ease the patient load at these hospitals. Besides, it gives an option to patients for availing free treatment being provided at government hospitals,” said Dr Rajesh Bagga, Ludhiana civil surgeon.Sources in the health department there were several complaints from relatives of patients about inflated medical bills at private hospitals by prolonging the treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-covid-patients-out-of-icu-at-dmch-cmch-can-shift-to-ludhiana-civil-hospital/story-3DW8gM33GZr2COJF9cimLJ.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at chemical company in Thane’s Dombivli||A fire broke out at a chemical factory in an industrial area of Dombivli in Maharashtra’s Thane, a fire official said on Sunday. The incident took place around 12.30 pm on Sunday when a motor at the crusher in the company’s polymer department caught fire due to overheating.The was no report of any casualty, PTI cited the fire official as saying.There were at least four employees inside the chemical company when the fire spread to other departments. As the workers noticed the fire engulfing from the area, they rushed to safety as the blaze spread through units located at the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) in Thane district’s Dombivli. After two hours and four fire engines, the fire fighters were able to bring the blaze under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-company-in-thane-s-dombivli/story-83hW0ZolbcLJRGznKcZRqO.html
23-08-2020||City||Covid positive murder accused escapes from Ambala hospital||A murder accused, who had tested positive for Covid-19, fled from a hospital in Ambala on Sunday morning.“Lucky Kumar of Rohtak was arrested for a murder in Panchkula. He was under police remand when he tested positive on August 8. Later, he was sent to judicial custody to Ambala Central Jail on August 11. As the jail authorities refused to accept him due to his infection, he was admitted at Mission Philadelphia Hospital near Arya Chowk the same day,” said Sunil Kumar, in-charge, Baldev Nagar police station.Complainant Ram Kumar, who along with another cop was guarding the room where Lucky was admitted, told the police that they had been keeping a watch on Lucky and another positive suspect admitted in the same room since August 14.“The hospital gates usually close by 9.30pm. Both were in bed at 11.30pm on Saturday. But the next morning around 5.30am, Rakesh was missing and the grille of a window was broken. We immediately informed the local police,” said Ram Kumar, who is posted in Panchkula.On his complaint, a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act was registered in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-murder-accused-escapes-from-ambala-hospital/story-LPPO1xkZIMfyRwlFEjP9AP.html
23-08-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka phone tapping row: Cong MP vows to escalate fight to Centre, seeks probe||Two days after Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar accused the BS Yediyurappa led state government of tapping his phones, his brother and Congress MP from Bengaluru Rural, D K Suresh, on Sunday said that he would approach the Centre for an investigation into the matter if Karnataka government didn’t take the complaint seriously.On Friday, KPCC President D K Shivakumar had written to Bengaluru city police commissioner Kamal Pant alleging two of his phone numbers were being tapped by the state government.“What Shivakumar has said is not an allegation but the truth. In case the state government doesn’t investigate, will write a letter to the Centre in this regard,” Suresh added.Alleging that BJP was an expert in phone tapping, Suresh said this was an obstruction of individual freedom. “President of the party has made a serious allegation and the government should investigate the same,” he said.On Friday, both home minister Basvaraj Bommai and revenue minister R Ashoka denied tapping phones of opposition leaders. Bommai said that as a “responsible” government, it would not do such things. The BJP had previously claimed that the earlier Congress-JDS coalition government had tapped the phone of its party leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-phone-tapping-row-congress-mp-vows-to-escalate-fight-to-centre-seeks-probe/story-4fgvQ2qE3neDe6DjUGtcwL.html
23-08-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh witnesses reduction in rainfall activity||After receiving heavy rainfall over the past couple of days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Madhya Pradesh saw a reduction in rainfall activity on Sunday as the low pressure area moved towards Rajasthan. A meteorologist with the IMD’s Bhopal office told news agency PTI that there was a let-up in the rainfall activity in the state on Sunday. He added that the highest rainfall was of 26mm which was recorded in Ratlam district from 8.30am to 5.30pm and there was no rainfall during the day in the capital city of Bhopal.Also read: Heavy rain likely in several South Bengal districts from MondayBhopal along with Indore and Sehore had been receiving incessant rainfall since Friday. Bhopal on Friday recorded 210 mm of rainfall and incidents of waterlogging were reported from several areas. Roads in some areas got submerged following the downpour. Officials said that due to the present decrease in rainfall, water level of rivers and nullahs started falling and road connectivity between some districts, which got affected in the last two days, was re-established. The weather department did not issue any rainfall alert, but its update showed that heavy rains are likely to take place in 14 districts, including Shahdol and Balaghat, till Monday morning.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-witnesses-reduction-in-rainfall-activity/story-6W39MWQPW6MbkPK4gbwQRJ.html
23-08-2020||City||8 in 10 Covid fatalities in Ludhiana from urban areas, finds health dept report||As many as 88% of the total Covid-19 fatalities in Ludhiana district are from urban areas, states a report by the district health department to analyse the novel coronavirus fatalities.The report is based on 288 fatalities as of August 21, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. In all, the district has confirmed 312 Covid deaths till August 23.“83% of the dead belong to Ludhiana city, 5% to other urban areas, including Khanna and Jagraon, whereas 12% fatalities were reported from rural areas,” he added. Among the 288 patients, who died, 68% were male and 32% female. As many as 84.3% were suffering from other ailments and 63% had multiple comorbidities.The age group worst affected (82%) was those aged above 60. “Closed environments in cities facilitate transmission of coronavirus, whereas in village, people mostly socialise in open settings. The relatively more active lifestyle of rural population also puts them at lower risk of deaths as compared to urban areas,” observes Dr Bagga. “Socialising has turned out to be a major cause of spreading of virus and subsequent fatalities among the urban population. The youth catch the virus, which spreads among their contacts, including those vulnerable, such as the elderly and those suffering from comorbidities,” he added.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state Covid-19 nodal officer, said during the lockdown period, rural areas had more Covid cases as compared to urban areas. “There were multiple reasons for it, such as returning of pilgrims from Nanded Sahib and NRIs flying back to India. But, once the unlock phase began, the infection rate picked up in urban areas,” said Dr Bhasker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-in-10-covid-fatalities-in-ludhiana-from-urban-areas-finds-health-dept-report/story-nNpD3bHDEsLAwOiBeis1NI.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||Drunk man assaults constable at Borivli, arrested||Borivli police on Sunday arrested a 23-year-old man for allegedly assaulting an on-duty police constable. The accused Suni Sanjay Gaikwad, a resident of Durgadham Chawl, Shivajinagar, Borivli attacked the victim constable Prakash Shankar Mhatre, 40.An officer from Borivli police station said that the incident occurred on Saturday at around 7pm. Mhatre was on patrolling duty at Ram Mandir Road, Borivli (West) when he saw Gaikwad consuming liquor in a public place, which is a violation of the law.When Mhatre asked the accused to get up and leave the place immediately, an inebriated Gaikwad got angry and hurled a beer bottle at Mhatre. In his statement, Mhatre said, “I dodged the bottle which fell and broke near me. This infuriated Gaikwad further and he caught me by my collar and started abusing me. He broke my nameplate and a button on my shirt. I overpowered him and took him to the police station for legal action.”Following Mhatre’s complaint, an offence under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) 427 (mischief causing damage), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the National Disaster Act were registered against Gaikwad, and he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drunk-man-assaults-constable-at-borivli-arrested/story-zDNZFSxJ44RQTlmPY1Nd0H.html
23-08-2020||Ranchi||Month-old beats Covid-19 in Jharkhand city but a day-old tests positive in story of conflicting fortunes||A one-month-old baby in Jharkhand’s Jamshedupur defeated the deadly Covid-19 disease along with his 31-year-old mother on Friday while a one-day-old baby and six other minors were tested Corona positive hours later in a story of conflicting fortunes.“My grandson’s age is just one month and 15 days and we all are thankful that he has been cured and released from the hospital on Friday along with his mother. They had tested Corona positive on July 23 and were undergoing treatment since then,” the grandfather of the baby said on Sunday. They were among the 180 Covid-19 patients cured and discharged from Jamshedpur hospitals on Friday. 216 more patients were discharged on Saturday. This apart, at least eight doctors, infected previously, were also cured and discharged on Friday.A day later on Saturday, a total of seven minors tested Corona positive, including the one-day-old baby, among the 266 new Covid-19 patients detected in Jamshedpur. However, one of the doctors cured from the disease said there’s no need to fear the infection. “Covid-19 is just a disease, there’s no need to fear it. There are many terminal diseases which never cure but Covid-19 patients are getting cured. While patients with comorbidities are considered most vulnerable if infected with Coronavirus, many of them have been cured. The need of the hour is to consult the doctors and start the treatment immediately after seeing any symptom,” said Dr Harprit Singh, who claims to be the first doctor in the city to have been infected by the Coronavirus.Also Read: Jharkhand reports 872 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deathsDr Singh said people displaying symptoms should stay in self-isolation till they receive the result of their coronavirus test and strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols issued by the government after getting the test report.“80% of the Covid-19 patients have little or no symptom, while 15% have breathing problems and only 5% require immediate treatment in the ICU. Get yourself tested even after catching mild fever, practice yoga for breathing and wear a mask,” prescribed Dr Singh.Also Read: Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh tests Covid-19 positiveMeanwhile, 266 new Covid-19 patients have taken the total number of Corona positive patients in Jamshedpur to 5,163, of which, 2,801 have been cured, leaving 2,362 active patients. Jamshedpur has reported 5,000 Covid-19 patients in 103 days while the first 50 days since May 12 had seen only 497 Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/month-old-beats-covid-19-in-jharkhand-city-but-a-day-old-tests-positive-in-story-of-conflicting-fortunes/story-cb3eNhlu1liaTXi1X3HlHK.html
23-08-2020||Jaipur||Congress in Rajasthan betrayed people, says BJP chief JP Nadda||BJP national president J P Nadda on Sunday accused the Congress government in Rajasthan of inaction, betraying people and failing to provide relief to them during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Addressing the party’s Rajasthan unit leader and workers through a video conference, he said the rising crime graph was a symbol of crumbling administration. “The Ashok Gehlot government has proved inactive during the lockdown. Instead of providing relief, the government has betrayed people,” Nadda said. He also said, “Rising crime graph in the state is a symbol that the administration is crumbling and the government did nothing except nepotism.” The BJP chief claimed that there has been an increase in the crime rate in the state as atrocities against women have increased by 122 per cent compared to last year and crimes against dalits and tribals grew by 92 per cent and 101 per cent respectively. “I am putting these figures in front of you because this is a reflection of the inhumanity of the Gehlot government, the nepotism, the collapse of the government structure,” he alleged. In an apparent reference to the recent political crisis in the state in which Congress MLAs were holed up in hotels, Nadda said while the people of the state were struggling with coronavirus, Congress leaders were watching movies in hotel rooms and making Italian dishes. “The chief minister and his deputy did not meet for the last 18 months. Now, there has been an agreement (between Gehlot and Sachin Pilot)... don’t know on what grounds it has been done and how long it will last. Gehlot tried levelling allegations on the BJP. They failed to manage their house and were fighting among themselves, but blamed the BJP,” he added. He asked the state unit of the BJP to apprise the public about the work done by the Centre. “The state unit should be concerned with motivating workers. The commitment level should be high and this will happen only when we give them political content,” he said. He asked the state BJP chief to form WhatsApp groups of party representatives at all 52,000 electoral booths. In these WhatsApp groups, schemes launched by the central government and local issues should be discussed, he said. BJP state president Satish Poonia claimed that farmer organisations’ are agitated as the Rs 833 subsidy, which was given to them during the tenure of the previous government, has been stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/congress-in-rajasthan-betrayed-people-says-bjp-chief-jp-nadda/story-sPRyuxzi1Sb4BOlcJw9NSO.html
23-08-2020||City||Kamal Nath hijacked Congress in Madhya Pradesh: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday insinuated that his predecessor Kamal Nath has hijacked the Congress party in Madhya Pradesh by holding on to all the key posts.“In BJP, the party president changes every three years. But if one looks at Congress then first Jawaharlal Nehru was the president of the party followed by Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” Chouhan said.“In Madhya Pradesh, the state chief is Kamal Nath, Chief Minister was Kamal Nath, Leader of Opposition Kamal Nath, youth leader Nakul Nath and the rest of Congress is ‘Anath’ (destitute),” he added.He further said: “Thousands of Congress workers are leaving the party in solidarity with Jyotiraditya Scindia. The pride of the Chambal region will be restored which was hit by the Congress leadership.”Chouhan had said on Saturday that under Jyotriatiya Scindia’s leadership “many new friends” are taking membership of the BJP and the party’s strength is increasing.“Under the leadership of Jyotiraditya Scindia, many new friends are taking the membership of the BJP. With this, the family of BJP is increasing so is our strength and we welcome all of them,” Chouhan told ANI at the ‘BJP Sadasyta Grahan Samahroh’ in Gwalior.Scindia had quit the Congress this year in March and later joined the BJP along with his supporters.Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that Congress workers taking membership of the BJP in ‘Gwalior Chambal Samvad’ is reflective of the fact that the party’s strength is increasing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kamal-nath-hijacked-congress-in-madhya-pradesh-cm-chouhan/story-aqlTIkDeDZnXirViiEFiiJ.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt’s welfare fund for construction workers: All you need to know||Delhi’s labour minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said the government will set up camps for construction workers who wish to register for Aam Aadmi Party’s state-run welfare fund. These camps will be set up from August 24 to September 11 across 70 assembly constituencies and workers can get their registrations verified there also. Here is all you need to know about the scheme:• AAP has set up a state state-run welfare fund for the construction workers of the national capital. Over 70,000 workers have registered for the funds. • During Covid-19, the government had initiated the process of online registration of construction workers for this scheme. Verification of these forms is underway. • To expedite the process, the government is going to organise a Nirmaan Mazdoor Registration campaign from August 24 to September 11.• Camps will be set up in 70 government schools across 70 assembly constituencies of Delhi. Verification of forms will also be done on the same day. If a worker has registered online, he can visit these camps to get his forms verified.• Construction workers, including plumbers and electricians employed in the construction sector, painters, tile workers and security guards at sites are eligible for this scheme.• Only workers between the age group of 18 and 60 are eligible for this scheme.• A certificate saying the applicant has worked for 90 or days or more out of 12 months, a photograph, photo identity card, Aadhaar card, and a bank account number are eligible for this scheme.• All registered workers got Rs 5,000 credited to their accounts for two months during Covid-19 lockdown. • Registered workers also get financial help to assist with their old age or their children’s wedding and education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-s-welfare-fund-for-construction-workers-all-you-need-to-know/story-kBafnumwubonST0vZEnZXI.html
23-08-2020||City||106 fresh virus infections in Himachal, tally rises to 5,001||The Covid-19 infections in Himachal Pradesh mounted to 5,001 as 106 more people tested positive for the virus on Sunday, officials said. Of the new cases, 34 were reported in Sirmaur district, 27 from Solan, seventeen in Kangra, twelve in Una, seven in Chamba, four in Hamirpur, two each in Shimla and Mandi and one in Kullu. Active cases in the state stand at 1,464. Also, 120 more people have been cured, taking the total recoveries to 3,461. Himachal has recorded 27 deaths in last four days. Forty-seven patients have migrated out of the state. Among the 34 cases in Sirmaur, 14 were from Nahan town, deputy commissioner RK Pruthi said. Maximum patients are industrial workers. Seven cases have been reported in Kacha Tank locality alone. Two patients are Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) employees posted at Nahan depot. Most cases in Solan are from Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt. In Mandi district, two Indian Army soldiers were found infected. Mandi chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Devender Sharma said an army jawan who was hurt in road accident at Urla in Padhar sub-division has tested positive for the disease. Three jawans were injured when an army truck skidded off the road and plunged into a 200-feet gorge on Saturday. The infected jawan was treated at Padhar hospital and two doctors and other staff, who came in his contact, have been quarantined. A man from Peepli village having travel history to Arunachal Pradesh is also among new cases. Among the 17 patients in Kangra, a mother-son duo, aged 57 and 32 tested positive in Kangra district. They are primary contacts of Covid patient. Among other patients too most are primary contacts or have no travel history. Solan is the worst-hit district with 1,257 infections followed by Kangra at 686 and Sirmaur at 619. Hamirpur has 465 cases, Mandi (386), Una (370),Chamba (353), Shimla (268), Bilaspur (263) Kullu (254), Kinnaur (73) and Lahaul-Spiti (6).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/41-fresh-virus-infections-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-4-936/story-pc4FMms9nBbeIgY9tYAidP.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||20-year-old arrested for raping minor||Deonar police on Thursday arrested a 20-year-old for allegedly raping a 13-year-old under pretext of marrying her. A case was registered on August 20 after the survivor’s mother filed a complaint against the accused.The incident came in light after the survivor complained of stomach ache. The Rajawadi Hospital doctor later confirmed that she was pregnant. The survivor’s mother in her statement, told the police that her daughter was seven months pregnant and since December 2019 to till August, the accused sexually assaulted her on the false promise of marry her.Following the complaint, police registered a case under sections 376, 376 (2) (H) (commits rape on a woman knowing her to be pregnant), 376 (2) (N) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman), 376 (2) (i) (commits rape, on a woman incapable of giving consent) and 376 (3) (rape on a woman under sixteen years of age) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 8 (punishment for sexual assault), 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-year-old-arrested-for-raping-minor/story-XVPEeQsCex877t93mvKWOI.html
23-08-2020||Pune||Man jumps to death from second floor to evade arrest during raid||A man at a gambling den fell to his death while trying to evade the Pune police team that raided the second-floor space in Warje area on Friday evening.Five people have been arrested in the case of gambling, according to the police. The deceased man was among people gambling there, when the raid was carried out. The man has been identified as Zakir Pathan (48), according to the police. Pathan jumped out of the window when the police raided the place on Friday evening, according to the police. The police took him to a nearby hospital for treatment. However, he succumbed to his injuries caused by the fall.An accidental death report was registered in the matter. His body was sent for post-mortem before handing over to his family.“A case has been registered. The ones booked are now witnesses in the case,” said Machindra Chavan, assistant commissioner of police, Kothrud divisionThe person who owns the gambling den has been identified as Ajay Pol. The police are on the lookout for Pol.The five arrested have been identified as Deepak Bhalerao, Pundalik Valhekar, Atul Korde, Anil Patil, and Raju Patil.“Some of them have jobs while some are vegetable vendors. Since it is a bailable offence, they were released,” said senior police inspector Machindra Pandit, Warje Malwadi police station.A case under Section 12(a) of Bombay Prevention of Gambling Act was registered at Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-jumps-to-death-from-second-floor-to-evade-arrest-during-raid/story-k9wVE22ZnMgvOwJUHzfDYL.html
23-08-2020||Pune||Police hunt for four who allegedly beat a 23-year-old to death||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police are on the lookout for four persons who allegedly thrashed a man to death with blunt as well as sharp weapons in Chinchwad in the early hours of Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Shankar Govind Sutar (23), a resident of Vidyanagar, Chinchwad. Sutar was found with injuries on his head, both legs and left hand caused by sharp blades as well as blunt stone objects, according to the police.A complaint has been lodged by Neela Govind Sutar (45) mother of the deceased. She gave the four names to the police as suspects over old fights, according to the police.“He was lying there until the police reached. The police took him to the hospital. His mother then submitted the names of the suspects. They seem to be habitual users of alcohol and drugs,” said senior police inspector Milind Waghmare of Pimpri police station.Police sub-inspector Amol Kamthe of Pimpri police station is investigating the case.Initially, a case under Sections 307 (attempted murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Pimpri police station. Later on, Section 302 (murder) of the IPC was added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-hunt-for-four-who-allegedly-beat-a-23-year-old-to-death/story-i4u7zKGpR29cWehLztZ9DP.html
23-08-2020||Pune||Murder accused found living inside a cave at Visapur||The Pune police have claimed that a man accused in a murder case was found in a cave in Visapur, on Saturday. The arrested man has been identified as Onkar Sanjay Jori (23) a resident of the area near Ayappa temple, old Dugad chawl, Katraj. While the deceased has been identified as Kiran Shivaji Dole (30) also a resident of Old Dugad Chawl. Dole’s body was found buried in the ground near Jori’s house on Friday afternoon. The man was reported missing by his younger brother Pravin Dole (24) on August 16.The murder took place between 8:30 pm and 9pm on the night of August 16, according to the police. Jori was found in a cave in the forest area near Visapur fort near Lonavla, according to the police. The deceased man, who often got into fights with the accused, was allegedly hurting a dog in the care of the arrested man, according to official sources. “The two always got into fights,” said police sub-inspector Bhushan Kote, Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.“It was in the compound of Jori’s house that Dole was found buried, according to the police. Besides Jori, there are three other suspects in the case. One of the three others has been identified as Gajanan Pasalkar while one among the remaining two is the brother of Jori, according to an official.“There is a unit on the lookout for Pasalkar and the crime branch is also involved. He will be found soon. Jori will be produced in court on Tuesday,” said police inspector (crime) Vishnu Tamhane, Bharati Vidyapeeth police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201, and 34 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/murder-accused-found-living-inside-a-cave-at-visapur/story-6WBQ9zguLpojh58gAtpdPL.html
23-08-2020||Pune||69-year-old loses Rs 1.5 lakh in online KYC fraud||A 69-year-old man from the city has been duped of Rs1.5 lakh after he shared details related to his e-wallet account with an unknown caller, according to police.A resident of Sangam Press area of Kothrud, the man had received a call from the accused on February 7. The 69-year-old man has submitted in his complaint that the caller told him that the KYC of his account on the well-known e-wallet application had expired. The caller asked the complainant to share details related to his e-wallet account during the call. After the call, transactions worth Rs 1,49,952 were made from the credit card connected to his e-wallet.Senior police inspector Kalpana Jadhav of Alankar police station is investigating the case. The reason behind the late registration of the case is not yet known.A case under Sections 419 (impersonation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Alankar police station against the unidentified caller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/69-year-old-loses-rs-1-5-lakh-in-online-kyc-fraud/story-g1PAxWIyWjMY7OcBfWEzdL.html
23-08-2020||City||Monsoon caused 127 deaths, damages worth ₹282 crores in Himachal, reveals data||As many as 127 people lost their lives in Himachal Pradesh during the monsoon season between June 15 and August 22 and the state suffered a total loss of ₹282 crores due to excessive rains, flash floods and cloud bursts.As per the data revealed by the state government, HP public works department (PWD) has suffered a loss of ₹84.42 crores, irrigation and public health department incurred a loss of ₹18.92 crores, horticulture department of ₹1.2 crores while HP electricity board suffered a loss of ₹6.7 crores.A spokesperson of the state government said that losses occurred due to excessive rains, flash floods and cloud burst incidents. Apart from this, two houses and 63 makeshift houses were completely destroyed while 37 houses and 265 makeshift houses were partially damaged.The highest number of deaths, 27, was reported in Mandi district. Apart from this, 23 persons have died in Shimla district, 15 in Chamba, 12 in Solan, 11 each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur, nine each in Una and Hamirpur, eight each in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti five in Kullu and four in Kangra.Bilaspur district has suffered a loss of ₹1.9 crores which is the highest in the state followed by Mandi which has suffered a loss of ₹1.69 crores.Kangra has suffered a loss of ₹90.46 lakhs, Shimla has suffered a loss of ₹81 lakh due to heavy rainfall, Hamirpur of ₹61.46 lakh, Chamba of ₹50.64 lakhs, Kinnaur ₹48.54 lakhs, Una ₹28.68 lakhs, Solan ₹25.08 lakhs, Kullu ₹6.3 lakhs and Lahaul-Spiti ₹2.4 lakhs.HP to receive heavy rainfall for the next four days Heavy rainfall is very likely to lash Himachal Pradesh for the next four days as State’s Meteorological Department has issued yellow warnings for the middle and lower hills of the state for August 24, 25, 26 and 27.Director, State Meteorological Department Manmohan Singh said that rainfall is very likely to continue throughout the state till August 29. Monsoon was weak throughout the state on Sunday as light rain was witnessed in isolated parts of the state.Minimum temperatures increased by one to two degrees while maximum temperatures increased by five to six degrees during the last 24 hours, he added.The maximum temperature in the state’s capital Shimla was 23°C while in Kufri it was 18.6°C. Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 25.4°C, 27.8°C. and 20.2°C respectively.The maximum temperature in Solan was 30°C, 29°C in Bilaspur, 28.7°C in Hamirpur, 28.8°C in Nahan, district Sirmaur and 25.7°C in Kalpa, district Kinnaur.Una was the hottest place in the state as it recorded 36.4°C maximum temperature while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest in the state as it recorded 10.4°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-caused-127-deaths-damages-worth-282-crores-in-himachal-reveals-data/story-hmVe9VrPcFM2OggJHnhaKO.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Voice samples of former director match with audio clip linked to HP health dept scam||Trouble is brewing for former director (health) Dr Ajay Gupta as his voice samples have matched with an audio recording being investigated by the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau for links to a medical equipment scam.Reports of the sample were released by the forensic lab in Shimla on Saturday evening.The 43-second audio clip that went viral in May this year during the lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak has been the focus of investigation in the scam.In the audio clip, a voice alleged to be Dr Gupta’s is heard demanding a bribe of ₹5 lakh for supply of medical equipment. The voice of a pharma company agent, Prithvi Singh, can also be heard discussing the amount to be paid. Dr Gupta, who has been booked under sections 7 and 8 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, was arrested on May 20. A local court granted him bail on May 30. According to vigilance sources Dr Gupta and Prithvi Singh did not agree with the amount to be paid as bribe as the latter was allegedly willing to accept ₹3 lakh whereas Dr Gupta demanded ₹5lakh.Three more similar audio recordings surfaced during the forensic examination of over half a dozen mobile phones seized by the vigilance bureau in connection with the case.POLITICAL AFTERMATH The corruption case in which employees of a Punjab-based firm were found to collude with Gupta to secure orders for supplying personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for corona warriors had left the ruling BJP red-faced.It had political repercussions as the then state president of BJP Rajeev Bindal, appointed just a few months ago to the post, resigned on May 27 after his name was dragged into the scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/voice-samples-of-former-director-match-with-audio-clip-linked-to-hp-health-dept-scam/story-QfQszr5bqrw0Uynbauq6hI.html
23-08-2020||City||Govt ensuring benefit of welfare schemes reach target population: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh government is ensuring that the benefits of welfare schemes, policies and programmes reach the target population and help in socio-economic upliftment of poor and downtrodden, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday.He was addressing a virtual rally of beneficiaries of various state-run and centre sponsored schemes of Kangra parliamentary constituency from Shimla. The CM said virtual rallies have helped the government in directly interacting with the beneficiaries and also get feedback on implementation of these programmes. He said at times it has been felt that people could not derive benefit of welfare schemes due to lack of information and awareness. “Such interactions also go a long way in spreading awareness about welfare schemes,” he said.The CM said he understands the difficulty which common people face in getting various issues resolved and works done since he is also from a rural area. He said to address this issue, the state government launched grievances redressal programme Jan Manch. “Till date about 190 Jan Manch have been held and more than 90% of the total complaints have been resolved,” he added.He said the ‘Mukhyamantri Sewa Sankalp Helpline 1100’ has also helped in redressal of public grievances. In order to cover population left out from Ayushman Bharat Scheme, the state had launched HimCare Yojna on similar lines and more than 90,000 people have been treated under this scheme by spending ₹ 90 crore, he said.The CM said Sahara Yojna has also being implemented in the state to provide financial assistance to people suffering from chronic diseases. “Under this scheme, ₹ 3,000 per month are being provided to patients. Till date, 7,000 people have been benefited through this scheme,” he said.Thakur said the state government for the first time has set a target to build 10,000 houses for homeless under various housing schemes. He said under Mukhyamantri Swavalamban Yojna, loans worth ₹ 13 crore were provided to the youth to start their own self employment ventures.He said about ₹ 180 crore was transferred into the accounts of over 8.75 lakh farmers under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna during the pandemic. “The state government has provided an additional incentive of ₹1,000 per month to every ASHA worker for March to June.The incentive has been doubled for the month of July and August,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-ensuring-benefit-of-welfare-schemes-reach-target-population-jai-ram/story-DNwgUSHDSOilIyjbrxa8bJ.html
23-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal governor urges CM to ‘unshackle political caging of state admin, police’||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said that he has urged Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to “unshackle political caging/chaining” of police and administration.“Urge Chief Minister to unshackle political caging/chaining of POLICE and ADMINISTRATION. Law and order alarming-with reports of the free run to illegal ‘bomb making’. UNFORTUNATE- Police and administration ever at door of ruling party-in readiness to knock the door of opposition,” Dhanakar tweeted.He further said that public servants are not political workers, and if they behave like one, then it is against the democratic value of the Indian constitution.“This is a staggering blow to ‘rule of law’ and democracy. This menacing stance of police and administration would generate consequences. Politically committed police and administration-death knell of democracy. Public servants are not political workers,” Dhankhar said.The governor added that in West Bengal the unlawful conduct of bureaucracy is an open secret, and the essence of democracy is being shredded in the state.”Never thought IAS /IPS could so capitulate and be in ‘crawl’ unlawful mode-blatantly unmindful of conduct rules. Their actions are OPEN SECRET. Democratic essence shredded. Why be a party to this and crucify democratic values!”Earlier on August 22, Dhankar raised questions on the team that was investigating the pandemic purchase scam and accused them of covering up the “massive irregularities” in the matter.He said, “PANDEMIC PURCHASE SCAM COVER-UP- GETTING MURKIER What kind of probe it is! Post facto ratification of massive irregularities by subordinates would be SHAM. IRONICAL-Those who need to b investigated are probing to report to those who need to be accountable!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-governor-urges-cm-to-unshackle-political-caging-of-state-admin-police/story-uSYv718XsqvLKkaWATpJBO.html
23-08-2020||Pune||Online darshans to smaller idols make fest unique in Pune||The annual Ganpati festival is here with the entire state geared up to celebrate it. However, for the first time, the century-old festival starting Saturday till September 1, will be celebrated differently in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Here are various ways the festival is different this year: No processions: The public processions organised on the first and last day of the 10-day festival will be missed on the streets in cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and other parts in Maharashtra. The police have prohibited any processions, which is one of highlights of the festival. No dhol tasha performances: The processions are accompanies by dhol-tasha troupes which have been an integral part of the celebrations. The harmonised sound of hundreds of humungous dhols mark the beginning and end of festivities in Maharashtra. However, this year, the music is missing. “Every year, my family and I come to witness grand celebrations through processions by various mandals. We are missing it this year,” said Sai Ambekar, a banker. Idols smaller in height: After government capped the Ganpati idol height at 4-feet, most mandals in Mumbai and Pune have decided to install smaller idols. In Mumbai, tall idols have been a major attraction of the festival. Online darshan: To catch a glimpse of the well-known Ganpati idols like Lalbaugcha Raja, Dagdusheth Ganpati and other, the devotees will have to log in online instead of in-person darshan. Families and friends throng the mandaps of various Ganpati installations in various parts of Maharashtra to witness skits, social activities, games, innovative installations and decorations. Home delivery: The idols for home installation were home delivered by the sellers to avoid crowding at stalls. The goods required for puja were also delivered directly to residents’ doorsteps. The priests, who perform aartis and pujas during these installations, have also chosen the online way of reaching out to their customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/online-darshans-to-smaller-idols-make-fest-unique-in-pune/story-kBY21nm0IpMaaX4g4JWHeN.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder opposes challenge to Gandhi family leadership||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday opposed the bid by some Congress leaders to challenge the Gandhi family leadership of the party. In a statement here, Amarinder said this was not the time to raise such an issue, given the need for a strong opposition against the BJP-led NDA that was out to destroy the country’s Constitutional ethos and democratic principles. “The NDA’s success was attributable to the absence of a strong and united Opposition, and the move by these Congress leaders to demand an overhaul of the party at this critical juncture will be detrimental to its interests, and the interests of the nation. India is currently facing not just external dangers from across the border but also internal threats to its federal structure,” he said, adding that a unified Congress alone could protect the country and its people. Terming the demand for leadership change as untenable, Amarinder noted the immense contribution of the Gandhi family to the country’s progress since it achieved freedom from the British rule. What Congress needs is a leadership that is acceptable not just to a few but to the entire party, through its rank and file, and the nation at large, he said. “The Gandhis are the right fit for this role. Sonia Gandhi should continue to helm the Congress as long as she wanted,” he said, adding, “Rahul should thereafter take over as he is fully competent to lead the party”. The chief minister said there was not a single village in India which did not have a Congress member to carry forward its ideology of upholding the Constitutional principles, rights and freedoms. At a time when the very bedrock of India’s Constitutional strength was under threat, it was important for every Congress man and woman to stand firmly and unitedly behind the Gandhis, who had held the party together all these decades and could continue to do so, said Captain Amarinder Singh. He said there was currently no leader in the Congress who could give the party that kind of strong leadership, he said, urging one and all to put the interests of the party and the nation above their own. Electoral defeats could not be the yardstick for leadership change, said the chief minister, adding that just because the Congress was down at the moment did not mean the Gandhis’ contribution to its growth could or should be undermined. He said the BJP rose from two parliamentary seats to lead the country, and added that the Congress will rise again, and that too under the leadership of a Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amarinder-opposes-challenge-to-gandhi-family-leadership/story-qmxQARiw6OWWnt3rpkAnTM.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi to set up camps, help construction workers register for welfare funds||Delhi’s labour minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said that the government would set up camps in all 70 assembly segments in the national capital to help construction workers get registered for a state-run welfare fund. The facility would be available for 20 days, starting on Monday, he said. “The process of registration was initiated at a time, when the lockdown restrictions were in place. So far, around 70,000 construction workers have registered. Most of them have taken help from employers or internet café owners. We have decided to intervene in the process and help them (the workers) out. Between August 24 and September 12, the government will set up camps to help the registration of workers from the realty sector,” announced Rai at a press conference on Sunday. “At least one camp will be set up in each of the 70 assembly constituencies in Delhi. They will operate from government schools. Their lists have been sent to the MLAs (members of the Delhi legislative assembly) concerned and the offices of the municipal corporations. The camps will function five days a week – from Monday to Friday,” he added, The documents of workers, who approach such camps for registration, would be verified immediately, said Rai. Also read: BSF to undergo tech upgradation, to get 436 drones and new anti-drone systemsConstruction workers, including plumbers and electricians employed in the construction sector, painters, tile workers, security guards at sites, who are aged between 18 and 60, are eligible for registration under the scheme. They must possess a photo identity card, a bank account number, a residential proof for Delhi and other documents that would prove that they have worked in the construction sector for at least 90 days in the past 12 months prior to the registration, said an official, who is in charge of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government’s initiative. On May 21, the Delhi high court (HC) had directed the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, which comes under the labour department of the Delhi government, to take steps to renew the membership of all the workers, in a bid to cushion lockdown-induced loss of earnings. The court had observed that over 500,000 construction workers in Delhi, who fell off the safety net under the watch of the city’s welfare board, cannot be deprived of benefits just because they were unable to renew their annual registration. Every state has a welfare board, which runs an array of beneficial schemes, funded by the cess collected from projects under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1996. In Delhi, the board started disbursing Rs 5,000 a month during the lockdown, which was imposed since end-March in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and triggered a mass job loss in the realty sector, to the bank accounts of the enrolled workers. Rajesh Kumar, secretary, Indian Federation of Trade Union’s Delhi chapter, said that the move would bring relief to tens of thousands of workers engaged in the construction sector, who were taking help from internet cafes that were charging between Rs 300 and Rs 500 for each registration. “The process involves filling up a 12-page form. It is a huge challenge for most workers who lack adequate education and knowledge about computers and the internet. All labour department offices in the city have help desks but they have not been very cooperative so far. The government should also work towards improving their attitude and work ethics,” said Kumar. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-set-up-camps-help-construction-workers-register-for-welfare-funds/story-zbBr6Hi1E3ySLPqbeNNRxI.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Uttarakhand can have mohalla clinics too: Kejriwal on video of soldiers carrying woman to hospital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal retweeted news agency ANI’s video of ITBP soldiers carrying an injured woman from a remote village to Munsyari in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh on a stretcher and said if the state had mohalla clinics like Delhi, people would get medical assistance in their own villages.New agency ANI had tweeted a video of ITBP jawans who travelled for 40km on foot to take an injured woman to a hospital. They had to cross flooded streams and landslide-prone areas, the force said. दिल्ली के हर मोहल्ले में मोहल्ला क्लिनिक बने।उत्तराखंड के हर गाँव में भी क्लिनिक बन सकते हैं।तब लोगों को अपने गाँव में ही स्वास्थ सेवाएँ मिलने लगेंगीहमने दिल्ली में कहा था कि हर मोहल्ले में क्लिनिक बनाएँगे,लोगों ने विश्वास नहीं किया।उत्तराखंड के हर गाँव में भी ये हो सकता है https://t.co/yHSQq76bhd“In every neighborhood of Delhi there is a mohalla clinic. These can be built in each village of Uttarakhand too. Then people won’t have to travel to other villages to get health facilities. Nobody trusted us when we said we’d have a clinic in each locality of Delhi. This can be achieved in Uttarakhand’s villages too,” CM Kejriwal’s tweet read.CM Kejriwal’s government in Delhi launched Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics across the capital in 2015 to cater to people’s primary health services. Basic package of essential health services are available at these clinics, including medicines, diagnostics and consultation free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/uttarakhand-can-have-mohalla-clinics-like-delhi-kejriwal-on-video-of-soldiers-carrying-woman-to-hospital/story-qGluuPd1goW6KWtCUDyzKJ.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Former HP BJP chief Satpal Satti is state finance commission chairman||The Himachal Pradesh government has appointed former state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Satpal Singh Satti as chairman of the sixth finance commission, stated a notification released late on Saturday.Satti will enjoy the status of cabinet minister, it read.The commission will review the financial position of the panchayats and municipalities and devolution of resources to them. Its ex-officio members will include additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries of rural development and panchayati raj and urban development departments. The advisor planning will function as ex-officio member secretary.The commission will make recommendations to the state government for streamlining the work of these departments.The tenure of the commission is fixed from the date of issuance of the notification and it will make its report available by December 31, 2021, covering a period of five years from April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2027.Satti, a three-term legislator from Una assembly segment, was the state BJP chief from 2012 to 2020.He was first elected from the Una assembly segment in 2003 and re-elected in 2007 and 2012. He also served as chief parliamentary secretary in the BJP government from 2007-12 and lost the 2017 assembly election to Satpal Raizada of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-hp-bjp-chief-satpal-satti-is-state-finance-commission-chairman/story-6uBU2TfjS7vkAmmTWdMerM.html
23-08-2020||Kolkata||Heavy rain likely in several South Bengal districts from Monday||Heavy to very heavy rain is likely to occur in South Bengal from Monday owing to the possible formation of a low pressure area in north Bay of Bengal, the Met Department said on Sunday.The weatherman said an active monsoon in Gangetic West Bengal, coupled with the low pressure is likely to cause widespread rain in the region.The southern districts of the state have been experiencing moderate to heavy rainfall over the past week due to an earlier low pressure area in northwest Bay of Bengal, which has now moved away, providing momentary respite from the continuous downpour.The Met office, in its forecast, said the districts of South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura are likely to receive heavy rainfall, the intensity of which will increase from Tuesday.One or two places in Kolkata, along with neighbouring Howrah and Hooghly districts are also expected to experience heavy rain on Tuesday, causing waterlogging and traffic snarls, it said.Embankments of some rivers in coastal areas of South 24 Parganas district have been damaged by heavy rainfall and high tidal waves, leading to inundation of agricultural fields, sources said.Farmers are fearing major losses in yields as the saline water in the fields could destroy crops, including paddy, vegetables and also sweet water fish, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/heavy-rain-likely-in-several-south-bengal-districts-from-monday/story-IDSDNI3lawX8tgzY4IPxTP.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai breaches 1,000 mm rainfall mark in August||Mumbai has received over 1,000 mm rainfall during August with more than a week to go till the end of the month. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, has recorded 1020.1 mm rain between August 1 and 23, and is just 16.4 mm short of breaking the monthly highest rain record for the decade (1036.5 in August 2010). Despite the orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for Saturday and yellow alert (heavy rain in isolated areas) for Sunday, Mumbai received only sporadic light showers so far over the weekend. Between 8.30 am Saturday and 8.30 am Sunday, 14.2 mm rain was recorded in the suburbs while 3 mm rain was recorded in south Mumbai. IMD has downgraded all weather warnings for the coming week with the possibility of light to moderate rain till the end of the month. “The impact of the low pressure weather system over central India was more towards the interior Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh region, the coastal areas, especially north Konkan including Mumbai saw only passing showers. However, more rain was recorded over parts of south Konkan and central Maharashtra districts,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Also read: Thunderstorm, moderate rain in Rajasthan, Gujarat to receive heavy rainfall - IMDHosalikar added that some areas towards the northwestern suburbs of Mumbai received moderate showers ranging between 40-70 mm. “Satellite images are now showing dense cloud cover over the Gujarat region, which may lead to extremely heavy showers but only a few passing showers are expected for Mumbai and surrounding areas,” he said. Meanwhile, the city is also just 79 mm short of surpassing the 3,000 mm mark for the season. Between June 1 and August 21, the suburbs and south Mumbai have recorded 66% and 67% excess rain than the normal for this period. Maharashtra overall has recorded 19% excess rain for the season so far. Lakes supplying drinking water to Mumbai stand at 92.3%. Across the state, maximum rain over the past 24 hours was recorded at Mahabaleshwar at 48 mm followed by Dahanu 28 mm, Ratnagiri 22 mm, Thane 20 mm, and Akola 20 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-breaches-1-000-mm-rainfall-mark-in-august/story-5yV4wqwD4ZZh6IkeQT1NlK.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Man killed partner because she didn’t share phone password: Cops||A 35-year-old woman security guard was hammered to death allegedly by her live-in partner in East Delhi’s Vinod Nagar on Tuesday because he found her speaking to someone on phone but she refused to share her phone’s password with him, the Delhi Police said after arresting the suspect on Saturday. The woman, Mamta Sharma, was found dead with her head smashed after her 17-year-old son returned home on Tuesday evening. A hammer lying near the body was believed to be the murder weapon and her 39-year-old live-in partner, Brahmpal Singh, was the prime suspect as he was allegedly absconding.On Saturday, the police’s crime branch arrested Singh after receiving a tip-off that he was loitering near Aksharadham Mandir in East Delhi. Also read: Centre raises concerns over slow pace of housing scheme for poorSharma was a private security guard who had separated from her husband three years ago. “The couple’s divorce was yet to be finalised,” said Rakesh Paweriya, deputy commissioner of police (crime branch). “About two years ago, she met Singh who is a married man with three children. He has worked odd jobs, but primarily earned his living by renting out his building in East Delhi’s Khichripur,” said the DCP. “They entered in a relationship soon after they met, and two months ago, they began living together in a two-bedroom rented flat in West Vinod Nagar,” said the officer. Sharma’s older son stayed with them while her younger, 14-year-old son, lived with a relative.“Of late, Sharma wanted to end their relationship due to the constant bickering by Singh’s wife and his family,” the officer said.While Singh wanted to continue living with Sharma, he suspected her of talking to someone else, the officer said, quoting the arrested man. “She would refuse to share her mobile phone’s password, which made him further suspicious of her,” said DCP Paweriya. On Tuesday evening, Sharma’s son was out to bring dinner from a restaurant when Singh allegedly found her speaking over the phone, said the DCP. When she refused to answer him and then refused to share her phone’s password yet again, he allegedly picked up a hammer and bludgeoned her to death before fleeing the crime spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nan-killed-partner-because-she-didn-t-share-phone-password-cops/story-v9lyXMluxjBr9mGfniGn0I.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panic at 3 am as floodwaters enter homes in Chandigarh’s Khuda Lahora, Mohali areas hit||There was panic at 3 am on Sunday as water released from check dams after heavy rainfall in the area flooded the Patiala Ki Rao seasonal rivulet or choe, inundating a 100 houses because of clogged drains in Chandigarh’s Khuda Lahora Colony near the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, reports say.Opening up of the Sukhna Lake floodgates to drain out the water too led to flooding of other areas in Mohali’s Baltana. The worst affected areas in Baltana were the police station, cremation ground and two marriage palaces. Senior officials of administration, including the sub divisional magistrate (SDM), have reached the spot. Khuda Lahora residents alleged no warning had been issued by the administration about water being released from the check dams.Rohit Thakur, a local resident, said, “Water entered the houses at around 3 am when we were sleeping. Of the 450 houses here, around a 100 were under three feet of water. There was panic. We didn’t know that the water had been intentionally discharged by the government.There was no alert from the UT administration.”MC officials visited the area more than an hour after the flooding and started working on the cleaning up the storm drains in the choe, and by 6 am water levels had started to recede, Thakur added.“Sewage was mixed with the water overflowing from the choe and flooded the houses and street. The main sewage pipe and storm water drainage of the colony opens up in the choe, the level of which at some places is elevated because of heavy siltation,” said PC Rana, a local whose home was inundated.While the sewage lines are maintained by the MC, the UT engineering department handles the desiltation work. “We have been requesting to both for the last 10 years to clean up the area but no action has been taken,” Rana added. When contacted Raj Bala Malik, Chandigarh mayor and also councillor of the ward, said, “When the flooding reports came from Khuda Lahora Colony, immediately MC teams were sent. All the 22 drainage pipes were clogged with sand and other floodwater debris. We have now cleaned up three of these, and work on cleaning up the rest of the pipes is going on.” Malik said the villagers or MC had not received any warning that water would be released upstream for the rivulet, adding that the civic body had been regularly requesting the administration to clear up the stream, but “this problem persists.” Till the filing of the report, water had receded from houses, but the streets remained waterlogged. Engineers of the UT administration also had to open the floodgates of the Sukhna Lake early on Sunday after water levels touched the danger mark of 1,163 feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panic-at-3-am-as-floodwaters-enter-homes-in-chandigarh-s-khuda-lahora-mohali-areas-hit/story-NOIpu63vl6yv7SUPQ4Gp4O.html
23-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s plasma donation centres help many fight Covid-19, but face low donor turnout||“I had tested positive for Covid-19 in June. Recently, when I was contacted to donate plasma, I decided to go and do the needful because I got recovered by the grace of God but there are many others who need to be saved,” says Dilip Kumar, a wood turner, who resides in Begampur Khatola village of Gurugram. It was in July-end that Gurugrammers got their first plasma bank in sector-10. Here, on the very first day, five people who had recovered from Covid-19 donated plasma. A few donors have also visited a private hospital for plasma donation, to help the residents of millennium city fight coronavirus. Many residents say that in absence of these centres, it was quite a task to get in touch with the plasma donors. A Gurugrammer, on condition of anonymity, shares how social media had earlier been the one medium for many to find a plasma donor, and says, “I just finished my 14-day period between recovery and plasma donation. And I’m already in touch with someone on social media, who has approached me saying he might need plasma for one of his family members. But, now I prefer donating at the plasma bank, since I can be sure then that what I donated has been provided it someone who genuinely needed it!” The taboos prevalent around Covid-19 have compelled many to stay anonymous while sharing how difficult it was for them to find a donor, and how they themselves don’t feel confident about donating plasma. “There are several misconceptions regarding plasma donations, which is why the number of plasma donors in the city remains low,” says Dr Vikas Deswal, who works in the infectious disease department at a private hospital in Gurugram, which is allowed to conduct plasma therapy. He adds that the doctors have been educating denizens about the need and significance of plasma donation during these times. “There is a cap of ₹8,500 on one unit of plasma, and at the plasma bank this is provided free to pregnant women and those who have BPL (ration) cards. So I have been asking my patients to arrange for plasma from the bank, and additionally we even try to convince them to donate once they have recovered,” adds Dr Deswal. Those managing the gloomy turnout of donors at the bank say that “maintaining a database” of donors has helped especially in emergency situations. Stating the reasons why donors usually avoid a trip to the plasma bank, Shubhi Kesarwani, who volunteers with an organisation that is contacting patients for plasma donation, says, “We are following up with patients who have recovered, and convince them to donate plasma, for plasma therapy of other Covid-19 patients. Most people are scared of going back to the hospital for plasma donation, after they have recovered. They have a fear of contracting infections, and the absence of any monetary compensation or incentive in return of donation is making them stay away. We set-up the bank to destigmatise the process while ensuring the safety of donors, who are chosen after checking their health history and lifestyle habits. As a measure to encourage donors to come to the bank, we have recently started a pick up and drop facility, to and from the plasma bank. This is working, but we need much more to ensure a steady flow of donors.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-plasma-donation-centres-help-many-fight-covid-19-but-face-low-donor-turnout/story-UN20TNKCQVtJlyI1gPUjxH.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Registration camps for construction workers to be set up from Aug 24 to Sept 11: Gopal Rai||Delhi’s Labour & Employment Minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said that the government had received over 70,000 applications under the initiative for online registration of construction workers in the capital. From August 24 to September 11, the government will organise a Nirmaan Mazdoor Registration campaign to fasten the process of analysing the applications, he added. पूरे देश के छात्रों की मांग है कि कोरोना को देखते हुए परीक्षा को टाल देना चाहिए।केंद्र सरकार को इस पर विचार करना चाहिए और छात्रों से बात करनी चाहिए।- माननीय श्रम मंत्री @AapKaGopalRai #SATYAGRAH_AgainstExamsInCovid pic.twitter.com/9h7VeILcnxAs part of this campaign, the government is going to set up camps in 70 schools across 70 assembly constituencies of Delhi to assist workers in filling up registration forms. Verification will also be done on the same day, the minister said. If a worker wishes to fill up the online registration form, he can do so, and get it verified at one of these camps.During Covid-19 crisis, all registered workers were given Rs 5,000 each for two months, Gopal Rai said. Registered workers also get financial help to assist with their old age or their children’s wedding and education, he added.Every worker registering under this campaign should be between the age of 18 and 60, and should have a certificate saying he has worked for 90 days or more out of 12 months, a photograph, a local ID proof, Aadhaar card, and a bank account number, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nirmaan-mazdoor-registration-abhiyaan-delhi-govt/story-SSzfA4pwiQlVlkD9soBWIO.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||Ganeshotsav: Mumbai civic body advises immersion at home; no procession allowed||As Mumbai braces for the first day of immersion during the Ganeshotsav on Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has advised people performing the pooja at home to carry out immersion in a bucket or a drum.BMC has also banned any type of procession for immersion, and also given options to conduct immersion at 70 natural and 170 artificial spots in the city in adherence to social distancing and hygiene norms. Every year on the first day, over 35,000 idol immersion is conducted in the city. In 2019, over 46,000 idols were immersed on the first day.The BMC has uploaded list of natural and artificial ponds on its website (http://stopcoronavirus.mcgm.gov.in/ganesh-visarjan-locations)In case of 70 natural immersion spots that also includes the sea, citizens residing within a 2km radius are allowed to immerse their idols there by handing over the idols to BMC. The citizens shall not be allowed to enter the sea water or water of natural spots to immerse the idols themselves under any circumstances.Also read: Four densely populated pockets in Dharavi continue on BMC’s Covid-19 watchlist”Devotees who are celebrating Ganesh Festival in their homes are advised to carry out idol immersion of the Ganesh idols at their homes in a bucket or a drum as their first preference,” the advisory said.BMC has also asked mandals and those residing in containment zones or sealed buildings to either defer immersion till next year or to make arrangements on their own using buckets or drums.The advisory issued by BMC in this context reads, “The Ganeshotsav Mandals as well as citizens situated in Containment Zones shall immerse their Ganesh idols by creating necessary arrangement in the mandap / pandol and their homes itself . Alternatively they can defer the immersion of the idols to the next year. Devotees who are staying in Sealed Buildings shall mandatorily immerse their Ganesh idols in their homes itself (in bucket/ small drums) or postpone the immersion to the next year.”Further, BMC said that devotees shall perform “Pooja” & “Aarti” in their homes itself and then hand over the idols to the civic body. No one will be allowed to do pooja or aarti at immersion spots. Those taking part in immersion have wears masks, use sanitizers and follow necessary social distancing.Meanwhile, as a special arrangement, BMC this year created the “Mobile Immersion Spots on Wheels” bu using water tanks in trucks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ganeshotsav-mumbai-civic-body-advises-immersion-at-home-no-procession-allowed/story-Byx1ZrtnhVe070XY5J3WcI.html
23-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 697 new Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Rajasthan on Sunday reported 697 new Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths, taking the state’s count of coronavirus cases to 69,961.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Rajasthan reports 697 new Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths today, taking the total cases to 69,961 including 950 deaths, 54,252 recoveries and 14,759 active cases,” said the State Health Department.Out of the total cases, there are 14,759 active coronavirus cases in the state.Meanwhile, India’s tally of Covid-19 cases on Sunday crossed 30-lakh mark with a single-day spike of 69,239 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-697-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths/story-Yd9wVXeQK3q1v1czuqvLIO.html
23-08-2020||Lucknow||Chetan Chauhan died due to poor treatment at Lucknow hospital, not because of Covid-19: SP leader||A Samajwadi Party (SP) leader has alleged that Uttar Pradesh minister Chetan Chauhan, who succumbed to Covid-19 in a Gurugram hospital, died not because of the disease, but due to carelessness in his treatment at the state-run SGPGI here.Chauhan (73), who was admitted to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) after he tested positive for Covid-19, was shifted to the Medanta hospital in Haryana’s Gurugram when his condition deteriorated. The cricketer-turned-politician died last week due to Covid-related complications, after being put on life support for nearly 36 hours.Raising the issue in the Upper House of the Uttar Pradesh Legislature, SP MLC Sunil Singh Sajan alleged on Friday that Chauhan received poor treatment at the SGPGI.The SP leader also claimed that Chauhan and he were admitted to the same ward of the hospital.“Once during a round, a doctor and a nurse asked who is Chetan, to which the minister raised his hand since he was a simple person. He was asked as to when he got infected with the virus, to which he explained the entire matter to the hospital staff. At that time, another personnel asked Chauhan what do you do, to which he said he is a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government,” Sajan said.He added that he was angered by the behaviour of the hospital staff with Chauhan.“When I could not control my anger, I told the doctor that Chauhan had played cricket for India, to which the doctor said ‘oh, he is that Chetan’. After this, the doctor and the other staff left,” the SP leader said.The footage of Sajan’s speech in the Legislative Council went viral on social media platforms on Saturday.In a tweet in Hindi, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said, “While comparing the so-called better preparations for Covid-19 to that of the USA, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister had forgotten the kind of behaviour his cabinet colleague Chetan Chauhan experienced at a government hospital.” When contacted, SGPGI director Dr RK Dhiman expressed surprise at Sajan’s statement.“During treatment, I had spoken to Chauhan a number of times, but he never brought up the incident. And he went to the Medanta hospital in Gurugram citing family reasons. If there were any complaints, it should have been conveyed. The incident will be probed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/chetan-chauhan-died-due-to-poor-treatment-at-lucknow-hospital-not-because-of-covid-19-sp-leader/story-ENArfqkwpD1QSpRnfh9AvK.html
23-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai rains: IMD issues green alert for city||The Indian Meteorological department has issued a green alert for Mumbai on Sunday forecasting light rainfall and generally cloudy skies. IMD in its press release said that the southwesterly monsoon flow has strengthened over the Arabian sea and could result in increase in rainfall over the next week. Fishermen across northern and southern Maharashtra have been asked not to venture into high seas. Mumbai received more than 1,000 mm of rainfall during August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-imd-predicts-heavy-showers-across-isolated-places/story-kt8tzWm7thNog01MJ1IsJL.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Cong opposes South Delhi civic body’s tax move||The Delhi unit of the Congress has moved a private members’ proposal that has opposed the introduction of professional tax and an 1% increase in the transfer of property tax by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) authorities ahead of the civic body’s meeting slated for August 28.Abhishek Dutt, Delhi Congress vice-president and leader of the party in SDMC, has written to the civic body’s mayor Anamika Mithilesh and the commissioner to roll back these “anti-people” decisions. He has also written to the councillors of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to support the cause and roll back the tax hike in a bid to ensure that the public “do not have to pay extra” amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.On July 27, SDMC had introduced the professional tax, which is also applicable to those who are self-employed, and had also increased the duty on transfer of properties by 1%.Also read: ‘Change in leadership, complete rehaul’: Top Cong leaders write to SoniaDutt pointed out to the SDMC secretary that imposing another tax would cause financial difficulty for the residents of Delhi at a time the country is fighting the pandemic.“Parents are not being able to pay school fees of their children. People cannot pay rent and meet other monthly expenses because of the pandemic. It is not an opportune moment to either introduce or hike taxes. The corporation should bring a proposal in its next sitting on August 28 to roll back professional tax, hike in transfer duty tax and other taxes in public interest,” said Dutt, who is a Congress councillor from Andrews Ganj.The SDMC professional tax is exempted for those, whose monthly income is Rs 50,000, or Rs 6 lakh per annum.However, the civic authorities have levied a monthly professional tax of Rs 100 for those, whose earnings are between Rs 50,000 and Rs 75,000 a month.Similarly, the monthly tax will be Rs 100 and Rs 200 for those whose earnings are between Rs 75,000 and Rs 1 lakh and above Rs 1 lakh, respectively.The civic body had also moved a proposal to hike tax on the transfer of immovable properties by 1% on properties, whose valuation is more than Rs 25 lakh as per the circle rate.Earlier, the transfer duty was 3% and 2% for male and female buyers, respectively.The civic body had also approved the recommendations of its municipal valuation committee-3 (MVC-3) to double the tax on rented commercial properties.However, SDMC had deferred the proposal to increase electricity tax from 5% on the bill amount to 6%. The electricity tax is added in the power bill and collected by discoms on behalf of the corporation.Mithilesh said that such “harsh” steps were taken to improve the civic body’s financial situation.“We have refrained from imposing any tax in the past few years. But this time the situation is different. Our financial condition has worsened because of the pandemic. We had no option but to levy professional tax and also hike tax rates in certain other categories,” she said.She, however, refused to commit if these proposals would be rolled back in the next sitting of the House.The ruling AAP had also opposed the move and had staged a protest in July. They had also staged a protest last Thursday, when the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) authorities had brought similar proposals such as imposition of professional tax and increase rates of electricity tax and transfer duty. The north corporation had to postpone the proposals due to widespread opposition from the AAP..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cong-opposes-south-delhi-civic-body-s-tax-move/story-DDVVIoLn3AhUf7Ney6tTtN.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhna floodgates opened after heavy rain in Chandigarh||Floodgates of the Sukhna Lake were opened at 3 am on Sunday morning after water levels touched the danger mark of 1,163 feet following heavy rain of around 80.1 mm from late Saturday night, officials of the engineering wing of the UT administration confirmed.Showers are also expected on Sunday the weather department has said.Water overflowed on the bridge on Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, because of which traffic had to be stopped, reports said.Waterlogging was also reported on the bridge on Sukhna Choe, said Sanjeev Shukla, the general secretary of the Sector 26-E Resident Welfare Association (RWA). Shailender Singh, chief engineer of the Chandigarh municipal corporation, confirmed that there was no waterlogging in other areas in the city and MC had received no complaints. Two of the lake’s three floodgates were opened with no confirmation on when these would be closed. “The floodgates are still open and we don’t have a particular target but we will bring down water levels from 1,163 feet,” an engineering official said. Water levels had touched 1,161.7 feet two days ago on August 21 and crossed 1,160 feet on August 13.In what is usually a rare occurrence, the floodgates were last opened in September 2018 and before that in 2008. The lake remained close on Sunday due to restrictions imposed on movement of people following increasing Covid-19 infections. Police officials said they had barricaded the road in front of the lake and were turning away people.Meanwhile, Surender Paul, director, meteorological department, Chandigarh, said there was likelihood of light to moderate rains of up to 50 mm in the city through Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhna-floodgates-opened-after-heavy-rain-in-chandigarh/story-lUnIlGrrLiFrYRCvzdOZjK.html
23-08-2020||Lucknow||70 deaths, 5,375 fresh Covid-19 cases in UP; infection tally now 1,82,456||Seventy more people died from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday as the state reported its highest daily count of 5,375 cases, pushing the number of infections to 1,82,456, according to a Health Department bulletin. So far, the infection has claimed 2,867 lives in the state, it said.Among the fatalities in the past 24 hours, 15 were reported from Lucknow; six each from Allahabad and Bareilly; four each from Gorakhpur, Varanasi and Pilibhit; three each from Kanpur Nagar, Moradabad, Kushinagar, the bulletin said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The maximum cases were reported from Lucknow (769), followed by Gorakhpur (363) and Allahabad (300), the bulletin said, adding that the state recorded 5,375 infections on Saturday. The number of active cases is now 48,294 while 1,31,295 people have recovered from the disease, it said. On Friday, 1,24,274 samples were tested, taking the total number of Covid-19 tests done in the state to over 44 lakhs. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with officials, directing them to have a special focus on Lucknow and Kanpur. He said the two districts should be developed as role models for the control and treatment of Covid-19. All district magistrates and chief medical officers were asked to review the functioning of the command and control centres on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/70-deaths-5-375-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-up-infection-tally-now-1-82-456/story-Y1rthwTpPYtVtNI5ZuxcjK.html
23-08-2020||Lucknow||UP assembly passed amendment bills without discussion, say Congress and BSP||The Congress and the BSP hit out at the BJP government in the state saying that several amendment bills were passed in the legislative assembly without discussion.Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said, “UP government today unconstitutionally and undemocratically took back 60 bills in the state assembly and passed 17 amendment bills in the assembly. It is a black day for the Uttar Pradesh Legislative assembly.”“They did not discuss with the opposition or speak to the MLAs. In one day, to bring 17 amendments and to pass them without any discussion is against the Constitution. What else is it?” he asked.“There was no discussion on the issue of floods and law and order. No discussion on coronavirus and the problem of failing economy,” he added.Reacting to the same, BSP leader Lalji Verma said, “It is an undemocratic step of the government and we condemn it.”“There are four to five major problems in the state like the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. Second is the lack of Urea fertiliser for farmers. Then there is the oppression of Dalits and crimes against women. The state government has failed on these fronts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-assembly-passed-amendment-bills-sans-discussion-say-congress-and-bsp/story-w1Xih3sc8OWHhkDLKO93aN.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Selection of Haryana physical training instructors: Probes, controversies and politics||Over 9,200 candidates on Sunday will get a fresh chance to be employed as physical training instructors (PTIs) in Haryana, thanks to a Supreme Court ruling. The controversial selections of 1,983 PTIs by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) in 2010 during the Congress rule were set aside by the apex court on April 8, paving the way for a fresh recruitment process. The first step is the written exam on Sunday. According to the apex court, selections will now be made from among the candidates applying for posts of PTI in 2006, including those who were hired. Stringent measures are in place for conduct of exams with chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora recently speaking to the deputy commissioners and superintendents of police of Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Kaithal and Hisar to ensure everything goes smoothly. Playing politics The 2010 selections, the process for which began in 2006, remained embroiled in protracted litigation for a decade. Politics came into play once the apex court upheld the decision of the Punjab and Haryana high court to set aside the selections of 1,983 PTIs because of discrepancies in the hiring process. Politicians of various hues came out in support of the ousted PTIs, holding khap panchayat meetings flouting social distancing norms and demanding enactment of a law to protect their jobs. Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda recently said that the Congress legislature party will bring a private member’s bill during the coming assembly session to facilitate the reinstatement of PTIs. Hooda said courts had set aside the selections only on technical grounds. Independent MLAs like Balraj Kundu and Sombir Sangwan, both from the BJP stable, too have espoused the cause of the dismissed instructors. The apex court had quoted a ruling of a Constitution bench to answer the plea that it is not equitable to throw out the PTIs after they had been employed for over nine years. “It is very unfortunate that these persons should be uprooted after they had been appointed, but if equality and equal protection before the law have any meaning and if our public institutions are to inspire that confidence which is expected of them, we would be failing in our duty if we did not, even at the cost of considerable inconvenience to government and the selected candidates, do the right thing,’’ the SC said. Criminal case against former HSSC members The state government on the other hand has got a criminal case registered against former HSSC chairperson and members by the vigilance bureau in July for allegedly misusing their positions and tinkering with the selection criteria to help certain candidates get selected as PTIs. The sections invoked in the FIR pertained to punishment for false evidence in a judicial proceeding, public servant disobeying law, forgery of court record or public register, forgery for the purpose of cheating and criminal misconduct by a public servant. “The power to devise mode of selection and fix the criteria for selection was entrusted on the Commission to further the object of selection on merit to fill up posts in consonance with Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. When the alteration of criteria has been made, which has obviously affected the merit selection as we have found above, the allegations which have been made in the writ petition against the Commission in conducting the selection are allegations of malice-in-law and not malice-in-fact,’’ the apex court said. Directives of the courts A single bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court had on September 11, 2012 set aside the 2010 selections on account of changes made in the selection process. An HC division bench had upheld the decision of the single bench. The Supreme Court on April 8 upheld the HC decision. It termed as “arbitrary” the Commission’s decision of June 30, 2008, to cancel the written examination, the July 11, 2008 decision to call candidates eight times the number of vacancies on minimum percentage of marks for interviews and the decision of July 31, 2008 to call all the eligible candidates for interviews. These decisions were taken without any reason to change the selection criterion published in 2006, which “downgraded” the merit in the selection. The SC also said that since the Commission was a multi-member body, all decisions pertaining to mode of selection and criteria were to be taken by the Commission itself, there being no rules or resolution delegating the said power to Chairman or any other member. “ The decision of not holding written examination, to screen on the basis of eight times of vacancies and percentage of marks and to call all eligible candidates, were taken by the Chairman himself, and cannot be said to be decisions of the Commission,’’ the SC said. Quoting the HC findings on pattern of marks allocated to some selected and non-selected candidates, the apex court said the HC had observed that it cannot be a mere co-incidence that 90% of the meritorious candidates in academics performed so poorly in viva-voce that they could not secure even 10 marks out 30 or that the brilliance got configurated only in the average candidates possessing bare eligibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/selection-of-haryana-physical-training-instructors-probes-controversies-and-politics/story-PxroD5Xmoav6lY6MMtmN1I.html
23-08-2020||Kolkata||BSF seizes 600 kg Hilsa along Indo-Bangla border in West Bengal||BSF personnel seized 600 kg of Hilsa fish during river patrolling at Fazipada in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district along the India-Bangladesh border on Saturday.The silver-hued fish migrate to the upstream and rivers from the sea during the spawning season for the water having less salinity and are caught. The fish, especially those caught in the Padma river in Bangladesh, has a high demand in West Bengal and elsewhere. A Border Security Force (BSF) statement said the border guards on a speed boat found the Hilsa hidden in plastic bags tied with bundles of jute bales floating in water.The catch has an estimated worth of Rs 9.6 lakh in the Indian market.Four-five persons, who were seen pulling the jute bundles dipped in water from the Bangladesh side, managed to escape, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bsf-seizes-600-kg-hilsa-along-indo-bangla-border-in-west-bengal/story-sdOZsziX2nG7kFHY2y3VVI.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||9 killed in 3 Sonepat road mishaps in 24 hours||Nine persons were killed in three separate mishaps in Sonepat in the last 24 hours.On Friday night, a couple and their two sons were killed when their car skidded off the road and fell into a canal near Halalpur village in Sonepat district on Friday night. The deceased were identified as Sadhu Ram, 56, his wife, Seema Devi, 46, and their sons, Monti, 17, and Dhruv, 15. They were residents of Bindroli village. Sadhu Ram’s nephew Sumit, who was also travelling with the family, sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. Barota police check post in-charge Sandeep Kumar said the accident took place when the transporter, Sadhu Ram, was driving the car while returning from Delhi along with his family. “They were near the canal when Sadhu Ram tried to avoid hitting a truck and lost control of the car that skidded and fell into the car. Four occupants of the car died on the spot, while one was injured. The victims’ bodies were fished out with the help of a crane,” he said. A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.WOMAN, 2 DAUGHTERS HIT BY TRUCK, DIEIn another incident on Saturday evening, a woman and her two daughters died after they were hit by a truck near CRPF camp at Sonepat’s Khewra village. The deceased have been identified as Poonam, 30, and her two daughters aged 4 and 5. Her eight-year-old daughter, who is critically injured, is undergoing treatment at PGIMS, Rohtak. The family hails from Uttar Pradesh and stays in Delhi.Rai SHO Vivek Malik said a speeding truck coming from Uttar Pradesh side hit Poonam and her three children, who were standing on the roadside, waiting for a vehicle to travel to Delhi.“The woman’s two daughters succumbed to their injuries on the spot while she died on the way to the hospital,” he added. A case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered.SPEEDING TRUCK RAMS IN BIKE, KILLS 2Two persons were killed after a speeding truck rammed into their bike on the GT road in Sonepat’s Rai on Saturday night. The deceased man was identified as Vinod of Panipat while the woman riding pillion is yet to be identified. Police said the incident took place when the duo were about to climb on the western periphery and the truck, coming from Delhi side, rammed into their bike. Case registered against truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-of-family-killed-as-car-skids-falls-into-canal-in-haryana-s-sonepat/story-SyTFTwCRiDsXY2B9cOlmmM.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Vigilance to wait for HP govt’s nod to probe minister’s land deals, oppn mounts pressure||The state anti-corruption and vigilance bureau ( SACVB) has sought permission from the Himachal government to investigate land deals pertaining to minister for social justice and empowerment Sarveen Chaudhary and her relatives . The controversy deepened after former tourism minister and senior Congress leader Vijay Singh Mankotia accused Chaudhary of striking dubious deals during her tenure as urban development minister. The vigilance bureau has reportedly sought permission to initiate preliminary enquiry. In case permission is granted, a case will be registered against the social justice minister. Mankoltia had alleged that the family and relatives of a minister had bought 1,100-kanal land in Mohal Patti, Fatehpur tehsil, Kangra, which was part of the 4,000 kanals sold in the area. He alleged that land had been bought in bulk to make money. Refusing to name the minister in question, Mankotia had asked CM Jai Ram Thakur whether he knew of his minister’s involvement. Mankotia said that it appeared that a land mafia, allegedly linked to a cabinet minister, was operating in the region.He had asked the BJP’s vanguard, including national president Jagat Parkash Nadda, former chief minister Shanta Kumar and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, to come clear on the deals otherwise it would give an impression that the minister was being shielded by the government .Sarveen Chaudhary has repeatedly defended the deals, saying there was nothing wrong in them. She said the land was purchased by her family in accordance with norms and the holding limit set by the government.Communist Party of India (Marxist) too has sought Chaudhary’s resignation. CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said there are many such cases where influential people with political reach have been accused of violating the laws to purchase land. Meanwhile, urban development minister Sarveen Chaudhary is in New Delhi to explain herself to the Central leaders.Mahender Singh Thakur, who also holds the revenue portfolio, also left for Delhi. The CM on Friday had called on governor Bandaru Dattatreya and reportedly hinted that a minister accused of striking dubious land deals may be dropped from the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vigilance-to-wait-for-hp-govt-s-nod-to-probe-minister-s-land-deals-oppn-mounts-pressure/story-IbmHjdQeaUMq5inWE2VmHN.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||22 IPS officers shifted in Himachal||In a major reshuffle in the police department, the Himachal Pradesh Government transferred twenty-two Indian Police Service (IPS) officers.Additional director general of police (ADGP), CID, Ashok Tiwari has been transferred as ADGP, law and order and with additional charge of ADGP armed police and training.He will replace N Venugopal, who will be the ADGP, CID. Dinesh Kumar Yadav, who returned from study leave, has been posted as inspector general of police (IGP), law and order, Shimla while Sumedha Dwevedi, has been made deputy inspector general (DIG), northern range, Dharamshala, after she returned from leave.DIG, northern range, Santosh Patial has been transferred as DIG, cyber crime with additional charge of DIG, economic offences.Superintendent of police (SP) state vigilance and anti-corruption Bureau (SVACB), Dharamshala, has been shifted as SP Chamba replacing Monika Bhutungru who will be now be AIG, police headquarters (PHQ), Shimla. Rahul Nath, AIG (PHQ) has been transferred as SP (SVACB), Central Range Mandi.Aide-de-camp (ADC) to the governor Mohit Chawla has been posted as SP Shimla replacing Omapati Jamwal, who will now be SP (SVACB special investigation unit), Shimla.SP, SVACB, SIU, Shalini Agnihotri will be the SP Mandi. She replaces Gurdev Sharma who has been shifted as SP, Crime, Shimla.Raman Kumar, SP (crime), Shimla will be the ADC to governor. Hamirpur SP Arjit Sen Thakur goes as SP Una replacing Karthikeyan Gokulchandran who comes at his place.Commandant first Indian Reserve Battalion (IRBN), Bangarh, Una Sakshi Verma has been transferred as Commandant 4th IRBN, Jungleberi, Hamirpur. Akrti, ASP Kangra, will be commandant of 1st IRBN.Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO), Nalagarh, Manav Verma will be new SP of Lahaul-Spiti. He replaces Rajesh Kumar Dharmani who goes as SP (SVACB), Dharamshala.Ashok Rattan, who has completed his training, has been posted as SDPO, Nurpur. Shristi Pandey has been posted as SDPO, Amb in Una district; and Vivek as SDPO, Nalagarh.Apart from this, Himachal Pradesh Police Services (HPPS) officer and commandant 4th IRBn, Jungleberi, Virender Thakur has been moved as commandant, Home Guard, Kullu, with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-ips-officers-shifted-in-himachal/story-wB7P6Mu6wILhI0R8aHOQAK.html
23-08-2020||City||Monsoon in Ludhiana: With a week left, August still 32% deficient||While July recorded 7% surplus rain, with eight days left, August is still 32% deficient.Against the 232.8mm rainfall considered normal for July, the month saw 217mm showers. However, against a normal of 190mm, the city has recorded just 130mm rain in August so far. Last year, Ludhiana received 331.4mm rain in the month.During this year’s monsoon season, which began on June 1 and will continue till September 30, the city has recovered 372.4mm rainfall in all. With five weeks still left, the weather department is expecting a surplus monsoon this year. According to Prabhjyot Kaur, head of department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, PAU, besides ground water recharge, the surplus rain was ideal for maize and paddy crops. However, she cautioned the farmers to drain out excess water from the fields. SHOWERS LOWER MERCURYMeanwhile, the frequent rain spells coupled with cloud cover has added a nip in the air, providing much-needed respite from the searing heat. “Normally, the day temperature hovers around 35 degrees Celsius during August, but the current spell of monsoon rain has brought down the mercury,” said Kaur.On Saturday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 33.5 degrees Celsius and the minimum at 25.1 degrees Celsius. According to the weather department, Sunday will remain cloudy with chances of rain and thunder showers at isolated places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-in-ludhiana-with-a-week-left-august-still-32-deficient/story-JUySZWrnBwA4OekjRQzc5M.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Kangra Cong leaders bury the hatchet; draw up plan to corner govt||Burying the hatchet, senior Congress leaders in Kangra on Friday resolved to fight against the ‘discrimination being meted out to Kangra district under the BJP regime’. Prominent attendees were former minister GS Bali and his bête noir Sudhir Sharma. It is for the first time in three years that the two leaders, who mostly crossed swords in the battle to dominate Kangra, came together. Last time, they were seen before the 2017 assembly elections. Other leaders who attended the meeting included former Rajya Sabha Member Viplove Thakur, ex-MP Chander Kumar, Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan, MLAs Pawan Kajal and Ashish Butail. Former MLAs Jagjeevan Pal, Sanjay Rattan, Kishori Lal, and Himachal Pradesh Congress general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania were also present. Meanwhile, former minister Sudhir Sharma said that the major agenda of the meeting was bias against Kangra district in the current BJP regime. “The current BJP regime has meted out discrimination to Kangra whether it is on development front or granting second capital status to Dharamshala town,” said Sharma. “The road to Shimla goes through Kangra. It is this district that decides which party will form the government. However, the BJP government has ignored the district,” he added. The former minister and AICC secretary said that all the development projects had come to a standstill in Kangra. Dharamshala was granted second capital second capital status by previous Congress government and that issued to has been put on backburner. “We gave the government three years time but things don’t seem to getting back on track. Now there is no option but a stir,” said Sharma. Another senior leader GS Bali said the road projects announced by the Union Surface Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari have yet not taken off. “The Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) still awaits allotment of land for permanent campus and other projects too face a similar fate,” he said. Bali said that the many corruption cases involving BJP leaders that have come to fore but the government was trying to hush up the things. He said that the Congress will launch an agitation against this discrimination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kangra-cong-leaders-bury-the-hatchet-draw-up-plan-to-corner-govt/story-IjWBjAAD5YgAm4vQcMyVJN.html
23-08-2020||City||Security guard held for bank robbery in Mohali||The security guard of an Axis Bank branch in Parch village of Mullanpur, Mohali, was arrested within 24 hours of him looting ₹10.44 lakh from the same bank at gunpoint.Accused Baljit Singh will be produced in the court on Sunday. The whole loot along with the weapon were recovered, police said.“The accused committed the robbery for easy money. On his disclosure, the money and the .315 bore country-made pistol and four live cartridges were recovered from a hotel room near Sarangpur village in Chandigarh,” said superintendent of police (SP, rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal.“He had checked into a hotel room where he had planned to stay for a couple of days after committing the crime,” she added. The robbery was committed at 11:30am on Friday when the bank manager Aman Gagneja was alone at the bank, while the other staff including deputy manager Amanpreet Singh, cashier Priyanka Sharma, and assistant manager Manpreet Singh were out.The security guard at around 11:20am asked the bank manager for a short leave on the pretext of taking his son to buy medicine. Ten minutes later, a man with his face covered and wearing a white kurta pajama entered the branch. He locked Gagnega and a peon in a room and walked out with ₹10,44,400 from the cash chest. He even lowered the shutter while leaving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guard-held-for-bank-robbery-in-mohali/story-MRiQ9QAzv9QapxxQpezYwL.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chaos reigns on Day 1 of weekend lockdown in Chandigarh||Even after UT adviser Manoj Parida took to Twitter on Saturday morning to clarify that restaurants and shops providing essential services will remain open on Day 1 of weekend lockdown, police largely remained unaware and eateries and grocery shops were asked to shut down at several places.Some eating joints in Sector 9 were allegedly closed down by the police. Rahul Tyagi, proprietor of Dumpling Hood, said, “We opened at 12 noon, the same time as Softy Corner and La Pinoz. But some UT officials asked us to shut down. Till 1:30pm, the shops remained shut. Then police officials from the beat box called us and said we could open the shop.” La Pinoz remained shut even in the evening and the owner remained unavailable for comment.There were incidents of police getting into spats with some shopkeepers in Sector 8, but the situation didn’t escalate. Local area councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said, “After I received complaints from shopkeepers in sectors 8 and 9, I asked the cops to allow eateries to open. Confusion was largely because this wasn’t clearly written in the orders.”COPS, TRADERS GET INTO SPATSIn Sector 32, too, the situation was the same. The owner of a kiryana store here, on the condition of anonymity, said a team of cops had come to his shop and asked him to close down despite his shop coming under essential services.President of the Sector-32 market welfare association Rajinder Mehendiratta said that all disputes between cops and eatery owners and shopkeepers were swiftly resolved, and shops were allowed to remain open.Residents, however, alleged that there were no police checking the markets of city villages. Kusum Ghai, a social activist of Burail, Sector 45, said a sabzi mandi was organised here on Saturday and 60-70 vendors were present without any regard for social distancing or mask-wearing.To pacify the situation, Parida also tweeted how they had no other option but to impose weekend restrictions. “Chandigarh had to close shops on weekends to prevent shopper rush. We have no plans to disrupt normal functioning of private offices, industries, hotels and banks, where social distancing can be assured,” he said.BEOPAR MANDAL PROTESTS WITH FRUITS, VEGETABLESThe Chandigarh Beopar Mandal organised a protest in Sector-23 market regarding the administration’s last minute decision to impose a weekend lockdown in the city. Mandal president Anil Vohra said, “The administration has adopted a pick-and-choose policy for shutting down shops which is unfair. Are shopkeepers working in essential services, restaurants or industry workers immune from the virus?”While protesting, the Mandal members held fruits and vegetables, saying they’ll be forced to sell these to survive in the current economic climate.ELANTE MALL PARTLY OPENWhile there was confusion regarding opening of malls, Elante Mall officials confirmed that restaurants in the courtyard of the mall had permission to remain open. “Eateries inside the mall were open for takeaway and home delivery through apps. Apollo pharmacy and Big Bazaar in the mall will also remain open even during the weekend,” officials said.SECTOR 17 DESERTED OVER WEEKENDSector 17 also bore a deserted look on Saturday with most shops falling under the non-essential category. President of Business Promotion Council, Sector 17, Neeraj Bajaj wrote to the UT adviser and said, “The weekend lockdown has proved to be a jolt for the business community. Two-day lockdown in a week means at least 40% loss.” He added that shopkeepers have to pay rent, bills and salaries of their employees and have asked the adviser to reconsider his decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chaos-reigns-on-day-1-of-weekend-lockdown-in-chandigarh/story-g5vDPONdJZNi9YVIZsTXiK.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims four lives in Himachal; infection tally rises to 4,895||As many as 167 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the number of infections in the state to 4,895. Fifty-three cases were reported in Solan, 43 in Bilaspur, 26 in Hamirpur, 17 in Kangra, eight in Kullu, six in Shimla, five in Mandi, four Kinnaur, two in Chamba and one each in Lahaul-Spiti, Una and Sirmaur. There are 1,478 active cases in the state while 3,341 people have recovered. Among the 39 cases reported in Bilaspur district 37 are the migrant labourers engaged in construction work at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Kothipura. Two patients are local residents. In Kullu, two army personnel are among the three infected. Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma said the army personnel, hailing from Nirmand area, have a travel history to Maharashtra and were in quarantine. Third patient is a 32-year-old man from Jaon village of Nirmand. He returned from Baddi on August 15. Most cases in the Solan have been reported from the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt. In terms of cases, Solan is the worst-hit district with 1,230 infections followed by Kangra (669), Sirmaur (585), Hamirpur (461), Mandi (384), Una (358), Chamba (346), Shimla (266), Bilaspur (263) Kullu (253), Kinnaur (73) and Lahaul-Spiti (6). FOUR FATALITIES TAKE DEATH TOLL TO 27 Himachal Pradesh recorded 4 fatalities due to Covid-19 on Saturday taking the death toll to 27. The virus has claimed 10 lives in four days. A 75-year-old resident of Baddi died at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla. She was admitted to the ESIC Hospital, Baddi on August 20 after testing positive. The patient was diabetic and was referred to IGMC as she was in acute respiratory distress. Two patients died in Nalagarh. The patient was taken to a private hospital after he complained of chest pain. He was referred to the Community Health Centre, Nalagarh, where his condition deteriorated. His Covid-19 report came out to be positive after his death. The fourth patient, an 80-year-old man, died at Lal Bahadur Shashtri Government Medical College (LBSGMC), Nerchowk. The victim, who hails from Balh area of Mandi, was admitted to the Zonal Hospital in Mandi after testing positive and was referred to LBSGMC on Friday. So far, Mandi has recorded seven deaths, five people each have sucumbed in Kangra and Solan districts, four in Hamirpur, three in Chamba, two in Shimla and one in Sirmaur. HOME ISOLATION FOR ASYMPTOMATIC PATIENTS Himachal Pradesh health authorities have now decided to put asymptomatic people in home isolation instead of admitting them to Covid-care centres or hospitals. The asymptomatic patients will be treated at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-four-lives-in-himachal-infection-tally-rises-to-4-895/story-cDLODOAR0Lh0YTuvyiHX3I.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Covid toll rises to 303 with 15 fatalities; tally reached 8,508||A day after witnessing the steepest single-day hike of 462 Covid-19 cases, Ludhiana recorded 15 fatalities due to the deadly virus on Saturday. As many as 360 people were also tested positive, taking the district tally to 8,508.The virus has claimed 303 lives in Ludhiana so far. Among these 215 (70.9%) deaths occurred in mere 22 days of August. Of the total 8,508 cases, 2,258 remain active with 5,947 patients recovering. Saturday’s fatalities include 12 males and three females.The male patients are two men aged 75, from Ranjit Avenue, Bulara village, and Muradpura, a 73-year-old from Jamalpur, 70-year-old from Upkar Nagar, three 69-year-olds from Udham Singh Nagar, Old City area and Urban Estate, Dugri; a 65-year-old from New Kundanpuri, two men aged 60, from Lalhari Road, Khanna, and BRS Nagar, a 45-year-old from Payal and a 31-year-old from Singla Enclave, Dehlon Lalan.The female patients are a 58-year-old from Bhamaddi village in Khanna, a 52-year-old from Amloh Road, Khanna; and a 51-year-old from New Shivaji Nagar.Among those tested positive on Saturday, 95 patients have influenza-like illness (ILI), 111 are contacts of already positive patients and 44 were referred from OPDs. These include 18 healthcare workers, seven undertrials, three police personnel, two pregnant women and a government employee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-covid-toll-rises-to-303-with-15-fatalities-tally-reached-8-508/story-PXAFvqy1iltUgfjEAoeLkO.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Enrolment for Covid vaccine trials at Chandigarh’s PGIMER to begin soon||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is expected to roll out the advertisement for enrolment of healthy individuals for Covid-19 vaccine trials in the next two weeks.The decks will be cleared once the agreement between PGIMER and the sponsor agencies will be signed and a virtual site inspection will take place.Principal investigator of the project, professor Madhu Gupta, said, “The advertisement will be out in the next two weeks for the recruitment of volunteers through the official PGIMER website.”The eligibility criteria is that candidates must be above 18 years of age and should not have contracted the coronavirus disease. The PGIMER is planning to enrol volunteers from Chandigarh itself so they can be called easily whenever the institute requires them for follow up.Those who are not eligible include people with acute illnesses with or without fever at the time of study; a history of laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 disease in household contacts or close workplace contacts; seropositivity (antibodies) to Sars-Cov-2; history of or currently positive for Sars-Cov-2 confirmed by real-time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR) test; history of severe allergic reactions after previous vaccinations or hypersensitivity to any component of study vaccines; any confirmed or suspected condition with impaired/altered function of immune system; and pregnant women.Professor Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said the protocol had been cleared by the institute’s ethics committee and there will be a participation of around 250 individuals.The institute will assess immunogenicity along with the safety of the vaccine.The Serum Institute of India is conducting the Phase 3 clinical trials for the adenovirus-based Covid-19 vaccine developed jointly by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford. PGIMER is among the 17 sites across the country to participate in the second and third phases of human clinical trials of Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/enrolment-for-covid-vaccine-trials-at-chandigarh-s-pgimer-to-begin-soon/story-ABl0l4ipqSBCwDlDDBrhqN.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||In Covid distress calls to police, a shift from panic to awareness||An HT analysis of distress calls data received at the Delhi Police control room since March, when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, shows how the response of residents to the disease has gone from shock and panic to that of awareness and learning to live with it while observing social distancing, hand hygiene and using face masks, said senior officers of the police control room(PCR) that keeps an eye on all calls received at 112. According to PCR (police control room) data accessed by Hindustan Times, coronavirus disease-related calls have gone from 3,062 every week in March and April to 45 between August 5 and 11.Initially, majority of Covid-related calls were from people who said they had symptoms and didn’t know what to do about it. Junior personnel who attended the calls said “it felt like working in a hospital”. Also read | Aarogya Setu’s new feature to help businesses function during Covid-19 pandemic: GovtIn the first week of the lockdown (March 22-March 31), the control room received only 44 calls from such persons. This increased to 223 in the first week of April. Such calls continued increasing until June 15 -- it had touched a high of 1,368 -- after which the numbers decreased, shows PCR data.In the third week of August, only 116 persons called the control room, claiming to have symptoms of the disease, data shows.During the initial weeks, several incidents of quarrel and fights between people on issues related to the diseases were also reported. Majority of such calls were from people who suspected their neighbours of carrying the virus. On April 8, two women doctors working at a hospital were assaulted by their neighbour, who suspected them of being infected. On May 14, in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj, a woman was locked inside her house by neighbours who said she was carrying the virus.Following many such cases, police had issued a warning against any attack on the front line medical workers.Records show that to date, medical personnel made 144 distress calls. Most calls were received at the control room April and May. Between April 16 and 30, police received 42 such calls, followed by 21 in the first fortnight of May. These calls have decreased. The control room received only 10 such calls between July 16 and August 11.An officer at the police control room, “Fewer crimes were being reported in the early days of the lockdown. We knew that one of every 10 calls we received would be related to the disease. Initially, we knew little about the disease. We did not know that many people with mild symptoms recover if they isolate themselves at home. In the early weeks, if anyone called us claiming to have information about a Covid-19 patient, we would inform the local police, who called up the district magistrate’s office. It was crazy.”Also read | 29% of Delhi has antibodies for Covid-19: Second sero-surveyA second officer, who also works with the PCR unit, said during the initial weeks, they felt like working in a hospital. “People panicked on noticing symptoms in neighbours and called us. It is better now. We even counsel some callers these days and explain how people like us who have to step out and deal with the citizens have learnt to live with the disease. All that one must do is to follow the health’s ministry’s guidelines.”People also called up the police, seeking food and provisions. In the first 10 days of the lockdown, police received 5,349 calls, which decreased to 4,722 between April 1 and April 15. Such calls have almost stopped now. Between July 16 and August 16, police received only three such calls.A Delhi police spokesperson attributed the decrease in such calls to its food distribution drive. Delhi Police distributed over five million food packets to the urban poor and homeless. They distributed 145 tonnes of dry ration. Their efforts earned the appreciation by home minister Amit Shah. He had tweeted, “ Delhi Police, an organization that lives up to its Motto- Shanti Sewa Nyaya. Very proud of @DelhiPolice. Together we will win this battle.”Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine, AIIMS, said during the initial days, the word coronavirus was like a ‘death warrant’.“ People thought they would die if they catch the virus. Now, people have learnt to live with the virus. There are many reasons for this. Earlier, people had little or no information about the disease. People did not know who to approach for help. There was lockdown and cases were rising. People had never been in such a situation. Now, people know where to go, who to approach. There is an abundance of testing centres. It wasn’t so then. Even as there are more cases now, panic is less and hence fewer distress calls. People are out on the roads and in the market places wearing masks. They know that they can even recover by taking medicines and staying home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-covid-calls-to-police-a-shift-from-panic-to-awareness/story-FNr1EBojeBYxnwZ1InvgiO.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Suspected IS operative had planned ‘lone wolf’ terror strike in a high footfall area: Police||The Delhi Police on Saturday said they have arrested a 36-year-old suspected operative of the Islamic State. Police said the man had planned a “lone wolf” terror strike in a high footfall area in the city “using a high-intensity pressure cooker-based improvised explosive device (IED)”. Police did not specify the “high-footfall area” that the man was to target, but said he hailed from a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur, and was set to carry out the IED blasts. Police said they received information that the alleged operative, Mohammed Mushtaqeem Khan, would pass by Dhaula Kuan area on Friday. Officers of the special cell said around 11pm, the man was intercepted and caught after a shoot-out in the Ridge area between Dhaula Kuan and Karol Bagh. Police said they recovered two pressure cooker IEDs weighing around 15kg, a.30 bore pistol and four cartridges that Khan was carrying in a bag. Khan was on a white TVS Apache motorcycle at the time of his arrest. Also read| Delhi: Suspected ISIS operative arrested with IEDs after encounter“Five shots were exchanged, including three fired on the raiding party by Khan. Nobody was injured,” deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Kushwah said. On Saturday morning, around a dozen National Security Guard (NSG) officers, including those from its bomb disposal squad, carried out a “controlled blast” to dispose of the IEDs, for which they created a pit inside the Buddha Jayanti Park and cordoned off the entire area as a safety and precautionary measure. The team used a remote-controlled vehicle to lift and contain the IEDs. The operation last nearly three hours. The IEDs were ready for use and only installation of timers were needed for carrying out explosions, Kushwah said. In a press statement, police said Khan’s interrogation has revealed that his original plan was to carry out the IED blasts during the Independence Day celebrations on August 15. “However, because of the heavy security arrangements, Khan could not enter the city and had to drop the terror strike plan, Kushwah said. During a press briefing, the DCP said Khan had planned the blasts on the directions of his handler, a commander of the ISKP (Islamic State of Khorasan Province) in Afghanistan, which is a banned terrorist organisation and is a part of IS. The officer did not disclose the handler’s name, saying it would hamper their probe. Khan was in touch with the commander through social media, they said. “Khan told us that he was more inclined to “fidayeen (suicide) attack”. But his handler had told him that after successfully executing the IEDs blasts, he would be getting fresh instructions to carry out a fidayeen attack. He claims that he has already prepared “an explosive belt” for the fidayeen attack. We are verifying his claims and trying to recover it,” Kushwah said, adding that the ownership of the motorcycle with UP registration that Khan was riding is being verified Khan has told the police that he learnt to make “IEDs and suicide belt” through videos on social media. “He has told us that he carried out a successful dry run of a small IED blast at a burial ground in his village. Also, he prepared the two pressure cooker IEDs himself. We are verifying his claims,” the DCP said. On Saturday, Khan was sent to eight-day police custody by a Delhi court. A Class 9 drop-out, Khan runs a cosmetic shop at his village in Balrampur, where his wife and four children also live. Uttar Pradesh police has sounded a statewide alert on Saturday after Khan’s arrest , Prashant Kumar, additional director general (ADG) of police (law and order), said. Kumar said all district police chiefs have been asked to intensify vigil and carry out extensive drives to check the movement of suspicious people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/suspected-is-operative-had-planned-a-lone-wolf-terror-strike-in-a-high-footfall-area-police/story-opXWmfHQcA1LbQr0l0oE3O.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||On Day 1 of 7pm curfew in Ludhiana, police toil to keep shops closed, residents indoors||Day 1 of the night curfew starting at 7pm on Friday saw the police on their toes to get businesses closed and keep commuters off the roads.With the curfew earlier starting at 9pm, in several areas shopkeepers kept their shutters open till then, inviting FIRs and challans for violating the 7pm curfew order issued by the state government.To spread awareness and check violations, police installed check points at various points in the city.Through patrolling, they made shopkeepers close down the shops at Rajpura Road, Model Town, Sarabha Nagar, Chaura Bazaar, Jamalpur and Jawahar Nagar Camp. However, shops remained open till 8.30pm at Kakowal Road and Rahon Road till police reached there and had them closed.The owner of Dabbu Chicken in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and his employee were booked for keeping the store open after 7pm and supplying eatables to customers. A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against them.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh said residents were allowed to venture out post 7pm only in case of emergency. “Police checkpoints are installed at all major points of the city to restrict movement,” he added, while appealing to residents to stay indoors to break the chain of infection.He said they received several complaints from various parts of the city about people standing in small groups on inside roads after 7pm. The PCR motorcycle squad had them return to their houses.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division Number 8 police station, said he held a meeting with the market associations and shopkeepers, and informed them about the night curfew. “Most shopkeepers closed their shops themselves before 7pm. Others were issued warnings and challans. Repetition of the violation will lead to an FIR,” he added.Meanwhile, residents hailed the government’s decision to start the curfew earlier. “Government should impose a complete lockdown for 15 days to control the spread of Covid-19. The decision to increase the night curfew hours was also much required to control the situation,” said Satnam Singh, 67, resident of Sham Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/on-day-1-of-7pm-curfew-in-ludhiana-police-toil-to-keep-shops-closed-residents-indoors/story-FcFxRcBKoWgGRboUtCkvCK.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC dismisses bail plea of youth accused of raping minor in Chandigarh’s Sector 22||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the bail plea of a youth accused of raping a minor, whom he had met through a social networking site.The high court bench of justice Suvir Sehgal observed that considering the gravity of the offence and the fact that the victim was younger than 16, the court was of the view that the concession of regular bail could not be extended to the accused.The accused, Mohit, had approached the high court after his bail plea was dismissed by a Chandigarh trial court in June. The incident had taken place in November 2019. The challan, too, was submitted by the police against him, a reason cited by him to secure bail.The victim, a student at a local school, had met Mohit through Snapchat. On the fateful day, he had called her to Sector-22 and raped her at a secluded place. He was arrested the same day. In the court, he had an alleged being framed. However, the court took note of the submission that the forensic examination of the evidence confirmed that it was him who committed the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-youth-accused-of-raping-minor-in-chandigarh-s-sector-22/story-isoNQImscFSYU9yXVW6SMM.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Publisher withdraws book on Delhi riots, author goes ahead with virtual launch||The publishers of a book on communal riots in north-east Delhi announced the withdrawal of the publication on Saturday, a day after an event proclaiming its virtual launch kicked up a controversy. In a statement, publishers Bloomsbury India said: “Bloomsbury India had planned to release Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story in September, a book purportedly giving a factual report on the riots in Delhi in February 2020, based on investigations and interviews conducted by the authors. However, in view of very recent events including a virtual pre-publication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book. Bloomsbury India strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society.” The announcement came even as the authors held the virtual book launch event with BJP leader Kapil Mishra – the guest of honour – saying that the “book is public now” on Twitter. Apart from Mishra, filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri and OpIndia editor Nupur Sharma were also invited as guests of honour. BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav launched the book.“Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story tells us the liberals are not fighting for right to freedom of expression but the freedom to speak anything they want even that which harms the country. The Delhi riots were an attempt to wage jihad against the Indian state,” Yadav wrote on Twitter. The clashes between Hindus and Muslims in different parts of north-east Delhi left at least 53 dead and around 400 injured. While Mishra has not been charged by the police, he delivered a speech ahead of the riots -- between pro- and anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters that snowballed into a Hindu-Muslim communal riot -- that people would take matters into their own hands if the police did not remove anti-CAA demonstrators from near the Jafrabad Metro station. In response to the publishing house withdrawing the publication of the book, Mishra said, “I would like to congratulate the authors of this book because they have managed to bring out such an authentic account that the custodians of freedom of speech, who even considered demeaning our motherland and our gods and goddesses as freedom of speech got scared of this book and started leading a smear campaign against it. Even before reading the book this lobby was afraid.”Monica Arora, who has co-authored the book with Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra, said they had been in touch with Bloomsbury for the past three months. “The contract with the publishers was signed after we sent them the manuscript two months ago based on our ground report. After exchange of several emails on regular basis recommending edits, over one month ago the final draft was approved. They published 100 books and gave it to us. We informed them of the launch, the guests, and the posters of the event was put in the public domain. There was no problem before Friday when leftist-fascists scuttled my freedom of speech,” she said, adding that the authors have not received any formal e-mail on withdrawal of the contract.“Bloomsbury India had no problems with the book. But after people started tagging Bloomsbury UK, they pressurized Bloomsbury India and we were told that they might be withdrawing from publication due to international pressure. This is breach of trust and contract. Is it ethical to crumble under social media pressure?” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/publisher-withdraws-book-on-delhi-riots-author-goes-ahead-with-virtual-launch/story-qCDQtQoIVexVgn2VTsi9eP.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court tells police to probe allegations against lawyer||A court on Saturday directed the Delhi police’s special cell or unit branch to probe allegations against a city advocate who allegedly “tutored victims to give false statement” in the north-east Delhi riots cases. The court passed the order after police submitted a report, citing a riot victim’s statement, in which he claimed he was asked to depose falsely by advocate Mahmood Pracha. Pracha who denied the allegations and accused police of framing him is also representing many other accused persons in the cases of the Delhi riots. The riot victim also told police that he had falsely named three persons --- Navneet, Deepak and Mintu -- on Pracha’s instruction. According to police report, Ali told police that he was contacted by Pracha to identify an eyewitness named Sharif who was a witness in another case. Ali alleged that Pracha told him Sharif’s statement in his case would make his case stronger for which he would have to depose that Sharif had seen his shop burning. But Ali said that he did not know Sharif or had seen Sharif ever so there was no question of claiming that he had seen Sharif while rioters were burning his shop on February 24. The police report also mentioned that Ali’s affidavit was signed by an advocate who supposedly died in 2017. On Saturday, additional sessions judge, Vinod Yadav ordered police commissioner to issue directions to special cell or crime branch to probe the allegations against Pracha. Pracha denied all the allegations. “Since I am representing many complainants and accused persons in the Delhi riots cases, where police inaction and participation has been alleged by my clients so police are implicating me. Any investigation done by the DCP of the North East who was seen with a controversial BJP leader has to be taken with a pinch of salt. They did not take action against the BJP leader but are trying to implicate me in such false cases. First police attacked journalists and now they are attacking lawyers for speaking the truth.” At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured in the Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-court-tells-police-to-probe-allegations-against-lawyer/story-y4QeXCVBA2goFzCAptqkNI.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Former employee held for robbery at rehab centre in Ludhiana||A former employee masterminded the robbery at the de-addiction centre on Samrala-Machhiwara road on Thursday night, the police said on Saturday.“The accused, Jagdeep Singh of Jaipura Village, has been arrested. He was sacked from Navkiran Drug De-addiction Centre a few months ago,” said inspector Rao Varinder Singh, SHO at the Machhiwara police station.Medicines worth Rs 6 lakh stolen from the centre have been recovered from Jagdeep’s possession.The SHO said the accused was arrested following a tip-off on Saturday. However, his accomplices are at large. Efforts are on to nab them.Police said on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, Jagdeep and his aides barged into the centre around 2am and overpowered the caretaker. After restraining him, they stole 19,000 tablets worth Rs 6 lakh and Rs 2 lakh in cash.A case of robbery was registered at the Machhiwara police station against unidentified accused following the complaint of Dr Rajesh Kapoor, owner of the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-employee-held-for-robbery-at-rehab-centre-in-ludhiana/story-hcatMk0iliH1oIHRy3TFHP.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Robbers take away trader’s SUV at gunpoint in Ludhiana||A Ferozepur-based trader lost his SUV to gun-wielding robbers, hours after it was purchased in Mullanpur Dakha on Friday.Kala Ram, 58, of Guru Har Sahai, told the police that his employer, Naresh Sikri, bought a used Mahindra Scorpio from Manimajra, Chandigarh, on Friday, and asked him to drive the vehicle to Guru Har Sahai.Kala Ram said he and his friend, Sukhdyal Singh, took off for the destination in the SUV. When they reached the flyover near Mandi Mullanpur, a Maruti Suzuki Alto intercepted them. Three men got off from the vehicle and flashed a gun at them.They threatened them out of the SUV at gunpoint and sped away in it. After the robbers left, he immediately sounded the police.Inspector Prem Singh, SHO at Mullanpur Dakha police station, said an FIR was registered under Sections 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of the theft) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/robbers-take-away-freshly-bought-suv-at-gunpoint-in-ludhiana/story-V8ZZL2gqtz1nlusp4O1PFO.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||2,000 electric buses in Delhi by end-2021: Govt||If all goes as planned, Delhi will have as many as 2,000 electric public transport buses by the end of 2021 and owners of electric two-wheelers and four-wheelers will be able to charge their vehicles at the existing fuel stations, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Saturday. The development comes after RK Singh, Union minister of state (independent charge) for power and non-renewable energy, held a meeting with minister Gahlot and senior officials from the Centre and state power and transport departments on Thursday (August 20). Singh’s office did not respond to calls and messages seeking his comment on the issue. But Gahlot said, “ We had a very fruitful discussion with the Union minister. He (Singh) has assured to get us subsidies from the Central government’s FAME II scheme for 700 more electric buses which will take Delhi’s total count of proposed e-buses to 2,000. The Centre’s support will act as a huge catalyst to the policy, and motivate more people and organisations to switch to EVs.” The Central government’s second phase of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME) scheme provides cash incentives for the purchase of EVs, and was intended to push the two-wheeler market, apart from heavy passenger and goods transport vehicles, with an approved budget of ₹10,000 crore. He said the Delhi EV policy, notified on August 8 by the Aam Aadmi Party-ruled Delhi government, was also extensively discussed with the Union minister. “The first leg of the policy targets installation of 200 charging stations within the city in the next year, such that there is a charging station every 3km. Upon hearing this, the Union minister said the power ministry will explore the possibility of setting up EV charging points at all existing fuel stations in the national capital. If that happens, then there is no stopping Delhi from becoming the EV capital of India,” the transport minister said. The Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy aims at having 5 lakh (25% of all new vehicle registrations) electric vehicles in Delhi by 2024. Along with providing category based incentives, it also aims to develop an effective network of charging stations and infrastructure throughout the city. The policy also has provisions to encourage more private players to venture into being partners in the initiative by setting up private charging stations or battery charging points. As per government records, 1,000 electric buses for public transport, which were first committed by the Delhi government over two years ago, are at different phases of delivery. Apart from these, the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) is going to procure 300 e-buses after it managed to get an approval for subsidies under the Centre’s FAME II scheme. Senior government officials said owing to the pandemic and the lockdown, the procurement process of these buses got delayed and the delivery of all 1,000 buses is likely to be completed by March next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-000-electric-buses-in-delhi-by-end-2021-govt/story-UNUbjbowri3qPJJQbEI6JJ.html
23-08-2020||Delhi||IMD forecasts heavy rain in Delhi from Tuesday evening||Delhi is likely to get another spell of moderate to heavy rainfall from August 25 evening, scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, adding that light drizzle will continue in many parts of the city. The heavy rain spell may continue till August 27, the scientists said.IMD’s data between June 1 and August 22 shows that Delhi received a cumulative rainfall of 414.2mm. In August, Delhi received 217.5mm rainfall, which was a surplus of 32%. This month, north Delhi received 271.1mm (a surplus of 52%), northwest Delhi received 179.6mm rain (surplus of 47%), west Delhi got 246.8mm rain (surplus of 38%), southwest Delhi received 217.4mm rainfall (34% surplus) and south Delhi recorded 265.3mm rainfall (surplus of 25%). Scientists said with another week of rain forecast in Delhi, this August is likely to be the wettest compared to at least the last five years. At present, the record for the highest rainfall recorded in the month of August was in 2010, when 455.1mm rain was recorded. Last year, in the month of August, Delhi received 119.6mm rainfall and 206.5mm in 2018. Rainfall received in the month of August was also fairly low between 2014 and 2017, when it was between 135mm and 153mm. Delhi starts recording monsoon rain from June 1 and September 30 is considered the monsoon retreating date. Officially, monsoon’s arrival in Delhi was declared on July 24. “Generally in Delhi, the peak rainfall activity is recorded between July 15 and August first week. After this, rainfall continues but is not very heavy. This time, however, we received peak rainfall in August, especially over the last one week. Overall, this monsoon is expected to be good with normal to surplus rainfall,” an IMD scientist said. Kuldeep Srivastava , head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said there is a forecast of a heavy spell of rain in areas around south Rajasthan from Saturday till Monday. “Around Tuesday we will witness a shift in the monsoon trough, which will bring rainfall to the national capital,” he said. “Light rain will continue in many parts, but a proper spell will hit Delhi from August 25 evening, and it will continue through August 26 and 27,” Srivastava said. IMD data also shows that till July 16, Delhi had a rainfall deficit of 46%, but by July end it was reduced to 29%. Till August 22, the cumulative rainfall deficit in the city stood at 2%. In 2019, the monsoon retreated in Delhi on October 10, with a rainfall deficit of nearly 38%. The city, however, witnessed surplus rainfall in 2018 and 2017, with 770.6mm and 672.3mm rain respectively. The IMD had recorded 524.1mm rainfall in 2016 as against the city’s average of 648.9mm and 515.3mm in 2015. The city had gauged 370.8 mm rainfall in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/imd-forecasts-heavy-rain-in-delhi-from-tuesday-evening/story-4Pw59p8tcOcigrAhiTtdzJ.html
23-08-2020||Gurugram||Part of under construction flyover at Gurugram’s Sohna road collapses, two injured||A section of the under-construction flyover in Gurugram’s Sohna Road collapsed on Saturday night. The incident occurred at 9.47 pm when three girders installed recently between two pillars came crashing down in front of Vipul Greens condominium. At least two people have been injured in the incident. The police confirmed that two labourers were injured but a serious accident was averted as it was night time and traffic volume was low since markets and offices were closed on Saturday as part of the weekend restrictions enforced by the state government to curb the spread of Covid-19. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said they received information within few minutes of the collapse and a patrolling car and along with riders reached the spot in five minutes. No casualty was reported. “Two labourers at the site have suffered minor injuries,” he said.The 21.66 km-long Sohna road project is being constructed in two packages. The first part comprises an underpass and an elevated road from Subash Chowk towards Badshahpur covering 6 km. The section that collapsed was a part of the first package.The second part comprises the expansion of 12.72-km road from Badshahpur to Sohna and involves construction of flyovers and underpasses at major crossings to ensure smooth movement of vehicles on the entire stretch. The deadline for both these projects is July, 2021. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials confirmed the collapse and said that a team reached the spot to assess the situation. The area has been sealed off. Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI said, “We sent a team of officials immediately to.the spot after the incident. No work was going on today and the area was secure and barricaded. Normally such incidents don’t happen and there must be a technical reason which caused this. The technical.team will probe it. ”A senior official from Oriental Engineering, the contractor on condition of anonymity said it primarily appears that stressing wire which bears the load of the girders had some problem. “The real reason for this collapse will need a structural probe,” he added. Locals said they heard a loud bang at around 9.50 pm and rushed outside. Sarika Jindal, who lives in Tower 7 of Vipul Greens, which is adjacent to Sohna Road said she heard a loud noise and felt it was a major earthquake. Her family came down and saw that the elevated road had collapsed. “My children got so scared and asked us to vacate the building and go down. It was scary,” she said.Puneet Ambwani, another resident of Vipul Greens, said it was around 9.47 pm when he thought it was an earthquake. “Our furniture literally shook for a few seconds,” he mentioned. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala tweeted that the injured have been admitted and are undergoing treatment. NHAI team, SDM, and civil defense team are at site, he added. Slab of elevated corridor Sohna Road Gurugram collapsed. There have been 2 injuries and both have been admitted and under treatment. NHAI team, SDM and civil defence team are at site. pic.twitter.com/9JTCMaaoEA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-section-of-under-construction-flyover-collapses-at-sohna-road/story-8F0cu6gnMDmOlx717PIlPM.html
23-08-2020||Pune||Pune city reports 1,581 fresh Covid-19 cases, 40 deaths||The state health department reported 1,581 fresh Covid-19 positives within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits on Saturday, taking the progressive positive count to 87,862 and 40 new deaths took the death toll to 2,289.While PMC reported 1,577 new cases in the city taking the progressive positive count 82,170 cases and 33 deaths took the final death toll to 1,950. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageCurrently, there are 14,874 active cases in the city of which 804 are in critical condition, with 488 on ventilators and 316 without ventilators. Also, there are 2,608 patients undergoing oxygen treatment. The civic body carried out 6,891 tests on Saturday which took the cumulative test numbers to 3.97 lakh. While 1,427 people were discharged after being declared as cured which the final count to 65,346.Details of the deaths reported include 11 from Sassoon General Hospital, five each from Sahyadri hospital and Yash hospital, two each from Naidu hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and Bharati hospital, one each from Universal hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani hospital, Global hospital, Morya hospital, Poona hospital and Parmar hospital.Thirteen deaths of those from out of the district were reported from city hospitals which includes five from Sassoon General Hospital, two from Kashibai Navale hospital, one each from Columbia hospital, Vishwaraj hospital, Sana hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani hospital, Universal hospital and Poona hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-reports-1-581-fresh-covid-19-cases-40-deaths-on-saturday/story-CUGa4HnWQLVYEkXfDbQJcP.html
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: It’s time for tricity to clean up its act||There was good and bad news this week as Chandigarh improved its ranking in this year’s Swachh Survekshan (cleanliness survey) to 16 from 20 last year. However, the city could not make it to the top 10 cleanest cities in the country for the second year in a row. Chandigarh last made it to the top slots in 2018 when it was adjudged the third cleanest. Among the UT’s sister cities, Panchkula too improved its rank to 56, but was nowhere near the top, climbing 15 spots from last year’s rank of 71. Mohali’s performance left a lot to be desired for as it slipped to rank 157 this year after being slotted at 153 in 2019. Its best has been rank 109 in 2018.The reason for tricity’s poor show is largely due to its waste management strategies, which are yet not up to scratch despite years of planning. Chandigarh’s experiment with the waste segregation plant at Dadumajra has so far been a fiasco, with the municipal corporation this year taking over from Jaypee. Panchkula, too, though streamlining its door-to-door waste collection and imposing penalty for non segregation of waste, has not been able to clean up the garbage dump across the Ghaggar river or clear up the nullah through various sectors of the city. As far as Mohali is concerned, the municipal corporation’s ambitious solid-waste management project at Samgoli village has remained a non-starter. The city also failed to ensure an open-defecation free status by constructing adequate mobile and public toilets – crucial for attaining smart city status. MC’s plans to spend Rs 97.76 lakh on construction of public toilets in eight markets, too, have not come to fruition.The blame for not developing clean and green cities rests squarely on the administrative failure and lack of accountability. All that the powers that be seem to be doing currently is passing the buck instead of coming out with a coherent time-bound strategy to improve things. A turnaround is required now, and the only way in which it can be done is by holding officials accountable for the state of a city or town. The time has passed for blaming everything on a funds crunch and sitting around waiting for another year to pass before the next round of rankings is announced. The public should settle for nothing less. QUESTIONSwachh SurvekshanIs fixing accountability key to improving rankings? Fixing accountability is the only way to get cities to perform better in Swachh Survekshan. Do you agree? Send your responses to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-it-s-time-for-tricity-to-clean-up-its-act/story-RECNqlU9iEMNeY5HUaHjdI.html
23-08-2020||Pune||Pune reports highest single-day Covid19 deaths in a day||Pune is now a Covid-19 hotspot not just in the state, but also in the country. In addition to most active cases in the country and maximum progressive positives, the city is now reported the highest single-day Covid-19 deaths across the nation on Thursday. On August 20, Pune district reported 95 deaths in a day of the 981 deaths reported across the country which was the highest for any city or district, while Mumbai which was on the second position reported 46 deaths, which was less than half of what Pune had reported. Pune city is among the topmost cities with maximum Covid-19 cases in the country, however, the administration is of the view that the city is now riding the peak and so, the number of cases would decline over the next four-six weeks.Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner said, “It is true that there is a high prevalence in the district, but thankfully our recovery rate is also high. Since August we have added about 10% of the active cases as over 90% of the total positives were discharged after they successfully recovered.”“To reduce the case fatality rate (CFR) we are now aggressively testing senior citizens too and with new jumbo facilities, no one will have to wait for ventilators or ICUs. Also, with the help of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), we are working on regulation of the essential drugs to ensure that there is no shortage,” he said.”We appeal to those who have recovered to come forward and donate blood for plasma which has proven to be a promising treatment,” he said.In addition to Pune, six more cities from Maharashtra were among the top ten cities or districts which reported the highest single-day deaths on August 20. These include Mumbai which reported 46 deaths; Thane 25 deaths; Kolhapur 22 deaths; Nagpur 21; Jalgaon 20 deaths and Ahmednagar 17. However, the city’s case fatality rate is far less than Mumbai which has a case fatality rate of about 5.5% while Pune district is 2.4% and within the city, Pune rural is now the new eyesore for the administration with the highest case fatality rate at 3.2%. Dr Sanjay Dabhade, health activist from Jan Aarogya Manch, said, “Prevalence rate is definitely high in Pune. The main concern was that the administration and at the individual level, the people of Pune were lacking in prevention measures. Due to economic compulsion, the unlock process is underway. Also, due to the demographics of the city, where about 40 per cent of the population lives in slums, the rise in cases was expected.”“We are following the curve of the virus which was seen in Delhi or Mumbai, and soon we will also see declining of the peak too. We are witnessing that there is no proper nursing care for patients and also this condition is highlighting the loophole in the health infrastructure,” he said. The district administration is now ramping up its critical care facilities. Currently, there are about 710 intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators and 827 ICU beds without ventilators. By next week with the inauguration of two jumbo facilities at College of Engineering, Pune and Annasaheb Magar stadium, Pune will also see 400 more ICU beds being added which will take the total count to above 1,000 ICU beds in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-highest-single-day-covid19-deaths-in-a-day/story-y2B5aJsjYQRn8kvQkmWqaO.html
23-08-2020||Pune||Ganeshotsav begins sans procession, dhol-tashas in Pune||Amid chants of Ganpati bappa moraya, thousands of devotees brought Ganesh idols home as the 10-day festival began on Saturday. While the enthusiasm was intact, what was missing this year was social celebrations as Ganesh mandals decided not to take out processions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. For over a century, the Ganpati festival has been celebrated in Pune and other parts of Maharashtra through large-scale celebrations and big processions of which the major attraction is the dhol-tasha (drums and cymbals). This year, these dhol-tasha pathaks (troupes) were missing ahead of the festival, which has entered into its 128th year since Lokmanya Tilak made the festival public in order to fight the British in the pre-Independence era. To avoid the crowding, many citizens got Ganesh idols home on Friday with the ceremonial installation of the idols carried out before 11:30am, known to be an auspicious time. “This year we decided to avoid any decoration at home and also ordered an idol and puja material online in view of the spread of virus,” said Mangesh Andhare, a resident Navi peth. In Pune, most big mandals have decided to go online to ensure that devotees are not devoid of a glimpse of the lord in view of Covid pandemic. Dagdusheth Halwai temple, Bhau Rangari mandal have offered online darshan to devotees. The five ‘manache ganpati’ (most revered Ganeshas) in Pune are also celebrating the festival in a simple manner without setting up separate big mandaps and are avoiding any decoration to prevent crowding. These five ganpati mandals, including Kasba peth, Guruji Talim, Tambdi Jogeshwari, Tulshibaug and Kesari wada attract large crowds every year as devotees from across Maharashtra come for their darshan. To avoid any VIP movement, these manache Ganpati mandals installed their idols by trustees of each other. To check the spread of coronavirus, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has also appealed to people to celebrate the Ganpati festival in a simple manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ganeshotsav-begins-sans-procession-dhol-tashas-in-pune/story-Gq6pzGZNwCiiKpNlZSsvFL.html
