24-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram civic bodies to ramp up measures to prevent waterlogging; traffic management plan on the cards||In a meeting held among the officials of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), the district administration, and the traffic police on Monday several important decisions pertaining to the monsoon preparedness of the city were taken.Officials who took part in the meeting via video conference decided that waterlogging prevention measures would be taken in at least 19 spots across the city, including 11 new spots. Further, a traffic management plan for the monsoon and a long-term drainage regulatory plan will also be prepared, said officials, who took part in the meeting.The meeting comes in the wake of waterlogging the city witnessed after heavy showers on August 19 and 20. Last Friday, a flood control committee was formed comprising officials of GMDA, MCG, private developer DLF, and Haryana Shahri Vikas Prahikaran (HSVP) to ascertain the reasons that led to the waterlogging and submit both short-term and long-term solutions for the same.As per VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA, during a review of last week’s rains, which left seven underpasses and most parts of the city inundated, it was found that eight out of the 35 vulnerable spots, which are prone to waterlogging, had a heavy accumulation of water. Eleven new spots, which were not designated by the civic authorities as being vulnerable to flooding, also had a heavy accumulation of water.“An in-depth review was undertaken regarding last week’s waterlogging. However, the review was done only at an administrative level. For an examination of the technical aspects, we have already formed a flood control committee, comprising various engineers, who are looking into the matter. Prior to the monsoon, 35 critical waterlogging spots were identified, out of which we were able to prevent waterlogging in 27 spots. At eight spots, rainwater accumulated for more than three hours — the maximum amount of time we set for clearing water from a particular stretch,” said Kundu.Kundu said that at the eight points that witnessed intense flooding — places such as IFFCO Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch — dewatering and pumping measures were found to be insufficient.“ Upon further review, we found that there were 11 new spots across the city that had no prior history of waterlogging. Nonetheless, these spots were found to be heavily inundated last week. As such, we have directed all organisations concerned to strengthen the counter-waterlogging measures as one more month of monsoon is still left. We are anticipating one or two more intense spells of rains in the coming month,” he said.As per officials privy to the matter, the 11 new points include residential areas like sectors 39, 28, 15 Part-2, 31, 10A, Sushant Lok-1, and South City-1.Kundu said that flaws in terms of implementation of counter-waterlogging measures at all these 19 points have been identified while concerned officers have been directed to rectify them.As per MCG officials who attended the meeting, both MCG and GMDA have been directed to clear and desilt the drains at all these 19 points and place motor pumps to divert rainwater to the nearest outlet if no proper drainage system is found at a particular place.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said pumps with higher capacity have been arranged on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway near Narsinghpur which will allow “rainwater to be drained in a less amount of time.” Singh further suggested that officials can be deployed across various underpasses in the city to ensure that minimal rainwater is accumulated in such structures.Another major decision taken during the meeting was to prepare a traffic management plan for the monsoon season in order to regulate the traffic movement more efficiently.“We will be coming out with a traffic management plan soon. We are aware of the stretches which tend to get congested during heavy rains and the plan will address the best possible solutions to ensure that traffic can be easily managed. Both the GMDA and traffic police will be jointly developing this,” said Kundu.During the meeting, traffic police officials also said that they will be asking RWAs to keep all their society, condominium, township gates open during heavy rains so that traffic can be diverted through these routes.“During the heavy showers last week, we requested the RWAs to open their gates so that traffic can be diverted. We shall follow this practice in the future as well. As part of the traffic management plan, we will be mapping the gates of all residential areas across the city so that we have a database ready for diverting traffic from main roads if there is severe waterlogging. We will have a draft ready within 10 days and will share it with the concerned public bodies for their perusal,” said Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.Mohan added that during the meeting a suggestion for providing additional cranes to the traffic police was also discussed.Kundu further said a decision was taken to form a long-term regulatory plan for the city which will mark out points where “development should not obstruct the natural passageway of the drainage” in any way.“We had earlier prepared a comprehensive drainage plan from the point of view of flood prevention but we realised that is this alone will be not sufficient for long-term solutions. There are a lot of undeveloped areas in the city that will be developed in the future. The surface run-off will increase from there and this will lead to more problems. Therefore, we have decided to go for a long-term drainage plan which will also provide a regulatory framework for the development of the area,” said Kundu.Kundu said the issue needs approval from both the GMDA and the state government as well since it will have “regulatory connotations for development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-civic-bodies-to-ramp-up-measures-to-prevent-waterlogging-traffic-management-plan-on-the-cards/story-LNIBQEOwRWWFpsh64wPRNK.html
24-08-2020||City||Man stabbed to death in Jhajjar||A man was stabbed to death allegedly by a group of five on Jhajjar-Rewari road near Dadanpur village, police said on Monday.The victim was identified as Ashok Kumar of Surheti village in Jhajjar.In his complaint to the police, victim’s brother Rajesh Kumar said Ashok was stabbed to death by a group of five men outside a dhaba near Dadanpur junction.“I rushed to the spot after some locals informed me about the incident. The group of accused was led by Mohit of Dadanpur village, his cousin Ravi and three others, who attacked my brother with sharp-edged weapons. After seeing me, they fled the spot,” he added.After committing the crime, the accused even snatched a car from three Delhi residents at knife point and left one of them injured. Jhajjar Sadar’s sub-inspector Rajesh Kumar said a group of five criminals first killed a man with sharp-edged weapons and later, they snatched a car from three Delhi residents by injuring one of them.“We have registered a case against them under sections 302 (murder), 148, and 149 of the IPC for killing the man. In the second FIR, we have booked them under sections 148, 149, 307, 323, 324, 341 and 379-B. We have started investigations in both the cases and formed teams to nab the criminals,” he added.Rohtak police arrest man in murder case Rohtak police have arrested a criminal, Sandeep Kumar of Chamaria village, from Bahadurgarh on Sunday in connection with the killing of one Bhup Singh of his village two months ago.Rohtak superintendent of police Rahul Sharma said that the accused was the mastermind behind Bhup Singh’s murder. Three of his aides were arrested earlier, he added. “The accused has been booked in nearly 10 cases of murder, attempt to murder, dacoity and other offences,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-stabbed-to-death-in-jhajjar/story-KnrG0h0B226nW5GpjfiU4J.html
24-08-2020||City||Two truckers booked for violating NGT norms in Yamunanagar||Almost eight months after two trucks were impounded for illegal mining and breaking the norms laid by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), their drivers/owners were booked in Yamunanagar on Monday.The complainant, Om Dutt Sharma of Yamunanagar mining department, told the police that since then, no one has contacted the department about the vehicles and soon, the trucks will be auctioned.“Two trucks (HR58B-9416 and HR58B-7994) were impounded in December and January for transporting minerals (core sand) without bills. The truckers had also broken the rules of NGT. As per the NGT order, the process of auctioning of the vehicles is also being implemented for environmental damage compensation,” Sharma told the police.Two separate FIRs were registered in this regard at Buria police station under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC and Section 21(4) (A) of the Mines and Minerals Act.Three departments get notices by pollution boardThe Haryana Pollution Control Board has issued notices to three government departments of Yamunanagar for discharging untreated water into the western Yamuna canal. Yamunanagar municipal corporation, public health department and district development and panchayat office have got the notices, regional officer Nirmal Kashyap said.“We took the samples of the water in July and after receiving their reports, these departments were served notices last week. They have been asked to give their reply in 15 days on how they will stop the discharge,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-truckers-booked-for-violating-ngt-norms-in-yamunanagar/story-MIZLTdqNZpJHsBjDKt4n7M.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Virus shifting path towards northern Haryana||Gradually changing paths, the coronavirus seems to be shifting its spread from the national capital region (NCR) abutting New Delhi to the northern districts of Haryana. Data for the last week showed that the number of new infections reported from districts bordering the national capital seems to be stabilising, but the virus is spreading fast in the northern districts. On August 23, five northern districts had reported 36% of the new cases as compared to 31% from the five NCR districts. Similarly on August 24, 34% new infections were reported from five northern districts as against 31% from five NCR districts. Seven northern districts had contributed 51% of the new infections reported on August 22 while four NCR districts threw up 24% fresh cases. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora, said the NCR districts have stabilised now and are reporting much lesser number of cases (about 20-30%). “The spurt in northern districts is understandable keeping in view the free movement of men and material. However, our assessment is that this spike trend will also stabilise in about two weeks,” he added. As per the health department statistics, 7,233 new infections were reported last week (August 17-23) as compared to 5,518 cases logged between August 10 and August 16. Number of critical value districts on a riseWith the virus moving northward, the number of districts attaining critical values as per the Union health ministry parameters have started increasing. Eighteen districts, most of which are from northern part of the state, have now more than 15 active cases per lakh population, a critical value. These are Ambala, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Fatehabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh, Panchkula, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa, Sonepat and Yamunanagar. Similarly, 15 districts, mostly from north, now have more than 200 active cases, another critical value parameter. These are Ambala, Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh, Panchkula, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa, Sonepat and Yamunanagar. Ambala, Faridabad, Gurugram, Mahendergarh, Panipat and Rewari have a sample positivity rate (confirmation rate) of above 6%, a critical value. Only Jind has a sample positivity rate of less than 2%, a desirable value. The state, however, seems to be doing well on the case fatality rate parameters with 10 districts — Ambala, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Hisar, Kaithal, Mahendergarh, Palwal, Panchkula and Rewari — having less than 1% fatality rate, a desirable value. The doubling rate calculated over a seven-day period is more than 28 days in 12 districts, a desirable value as per the health ministry. Only Yamunanagar district with a doubling rate of less than 14 days has got tagged with the critical value.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-shifting-path-towards-northern-haryana/story-2Tmg7gsTxngyIRu61bW7TI.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||4 men open fire in Ludhiana eatery, one hurt||Four men accused of attempting to murder national level basketball player Sartaj Singh in February this year opened fire and injured one person at a restaurant on Sunday after they started a brawl and were asked to leave.Davinder Singh of Samrala, a contractor at the bar in the eatery, was admitted to hospital with a bullet injury.The Dehlon police lodged an FIR against Abhijit Singh Mand of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar; Jagat Singh of Dugri Phase 2, Kashish Bhinder, Kuntal Sachdeva, Germanjit Singh and Mudit Sood after Sandeep Singh, a receptionist at the restaurant in Pohir village, filed a complaint.Sandeep Singh said the men started a brawl after gathering at the restaurant to celebrate Mand’s birthday and opened fire when he asked them to leave.The bullet, however, missed him and hit Davinder Singh on his shoulder. Some of the men then allegedly hit Sandeep Singh on the head with a sanitiser stand and fled, following which the latter alerted the police.The FIR has been lodged under sections 307, 427, 148, 149, 188 of the Indian Penal Code; sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act; section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act against the accused. Mand, Jagat Singh, Kashish Bhinder and Kuntal Sachdeva have earlier been accused of assaulting Sartaj Singh in February this year, in which only two others, Ajay and Garry Bhardwaj, have been arrested.Commenting on the matter, Sartaj Singh’s father Paramvir Singh said his son was still undergoing treatment. If the accused had been arrested then, Monday’s incident would not have happened, he added.ASI Bheesham Dev, who is investigating the case, said a hunt is on for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-men-accused-of-murder-bid-on-basketball-player-open-fire-in-eatery-one-hurt/story-PNdcy1EGhnPDxvZSNMBkSN.html
24-08-2020||City||Vision 2030: Skill development activities after school hours in Delhi schools||New Delhi: The Delhi government plans to introduce skill development activities for its students after school hours as a part of its effort to improve vocational studies and increase enrolment in higher education. The project is a part of the directorate of education’s “Vision 2030” plan, which aims to achieve multiple targets such as creating more schools of excellence, teaching foreign languages, and having connected classrooms in government schools before 2030.“After school hours, there should be a provision of vocational and skill development activities. Students to be given a choice of participation in the activities as per their interest. Activities pertaining to art/craft, library, and vocational skills to be provided in such time slot,” read a document, providing details on the project.“In each cluster, one school to be designated for afternoon activities for skill development of students so as to facilitate the students in getting admission/enrolment in higher education,” the order said.Signed by the deputy director of education (administration), Ramchandra Shingare, the order said the project is tentatively slated to begin by December 1. The department’s vocational branch has been told to decide on the scheme by the end of this month. Separate provisions will be made in the budget for the payment of honorarium to staff and teachers allotted for this purpose. Heads of schools have been asked to finalise estimates and do the procurement by November 15.Schools have also been asked to form clubs for different activities. “Introduction of sports, visual and performing arts, tuition classes for preparation of competitive exams during after school hours can be done. There can be various clubs for sports, music, and computer learning, etc., on the line of eco-clubs existing in the schools,” the order stated. Heads of schools have been told to decide on the clubs by September 30.Deputy director of education (vocational) Pramod Katiyar has been appointed as the nodal officer for the project. “We already have eco-clubs in our schools. Similar clubs will be formed for students based upon their interests. The vocational subjects in the scheme will be decided on the basis of subjects already available in the school or based on the requirement of local communities,” he said.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, head of school at Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector-8, said the scheme will help students build opportunities for themselves. “In my school, we wanted to encourage traditional skills in food from other states and set up stalls in the locality. This might encourage them to think bigger. It is something we had been trying in the school before the pandemic struck. Getting children from marginalised backgrounds access to music or sports skills will help them find more opportunities. However, finding teachers or experts during the Covid-19 pandemic might prove to be a little difficult.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vision-2030-skill-development-activities-after-school-hours-in-delhi-schools/story-5ux7YCB7p0I3bx86SddKcM.html
24-08-2020||City||Delhi Minorities Commission reconstituted||New Delhi: Former councillor from Babarpur constituency, Zakir Khan, was nominated as the new chairman of the Delhi Minorities Commission on Monday.A Delhi government notification issued by secretary-cum-divisional commissioner’s office said that besides Khan, Kawalajit Singh and Nancy Barlow were appointed as the two new members of the commission.The chairman and two members of the commission will have a three-year term as per the Delhi Minorities Commission Rules 2000.The notification said the nominations of the new chairman and members of DMC were made by the Lieutenant Governor under the Delhi Minorities Commission Act 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-minorities-commission-reconstituted/story-X5rnJdAQBxYjqg0vhlhl5O.html
24-08-2020||City||Facing shortage, Ghaziabad prepares proposal seeking manpower, equipment to deal with Covid||Facing shortage of resources, the district health department officials on Monday said that in response to the state government’s directions for appointment of specialists on contractual basis, they selected seven doctors but only three have joined so far. Officials said they have prepared a fresh proposal seeking more doctors and staff besides equipment and medicines to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic.In an earlier direction on August 13, the mission director (Uttar Pradesh) of the National Health Mission had allowed hiring of specialists by district officials on contractual basis till December 31, meant for duties in L2 and L3 category Covid hospitals. Based on this, the district health department had selected seven candidates so far for Covid-19 duties but only three joined. “The three include two ayurveda doctors on a salary of Rs 32,000 per month and one MBBS doctor who would get Rs 50,000 per month. Others have not joined so far and we are facing a shortage of resources as we have 70 doctors available against the sanctioned 88. Hiring of specialists on the other hand will continue but we need them urgently to meet the demands of the work which due to the prevailing Covid situation,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “The sanctioned strength of 88 is meant to be deployed at community health centres, primary health centres, dispensaries, district jail and police units, besides those deployed at the UP Sadan and health posts, among others,” he added.Officials said shortage of manpower was hampering the work of about 1,000 deliveries per month which are taken up at four community health centres, and also causing issues for about 2,500 patients who attend daily OPDs at community health centres (CHCs), primary health centres and dispensaries. Such centres work under the office of the CMO while the three district hospitals – MMG Hospital, Sanjay Nagar Hospital and Women’s Hospital – have their own staff and resources.Dr Gupta added that of the present strength of 70 doctors available under the supervision of the CMO, 26 are deployed for active Covid-19 duties related to surveillance, quarantine centres, Covid hospitals, control room, sampling centres and even contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. “So, we have prepared a proposal for requirement of 22 doctors, five physicians, 10 anaesthetists, six ICU technicians and 12 ICU nurses, besides 24 support staff, and another set of 50 staff which will be deployed for disinfection duties in wake of monsoon season when communicable diseases also crop up. The proposal also includes equipment such as high flow nasal cannula units (five), one unit meant for plasma therapy, 19 Bipap units along with high value medicines like Remdesivir, etc,” Dr Gupta added.The proposal will be put up before a district committee, which is headed by the district magistrate, and will comprise of five other members including the chief development officer, the CMO, district panchayati raj officer, municipal commissioner and chief treasury officer. “The proposal will be discussed in a meeting which is scheduled later this week and further decision will be taken up. It is expected that we will take a decision over the proposal within a week,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The committee was formed on directions of the state government when different districts were allowed Rs 5 crore and Rs 3 crore as per government order dated August 1. Ghaziabad falls under the category of districts having a population of more than 25 lakh, and is to get Rs 5 crore contingency funds. The order directed that the funds may be used for hiring manpower on a contractual basis and can also be used for purchase of consumables besides hiring vehicles for travel of staff for Covid duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/facing-shortage-ghaziabad-prepares-proposal-seeking-manpower-equipment-to-deal-with-covid/story-xReJtLzaIj7X1OGeGccVeM.html
24-08-2020||City||Covid-19 curve is stabilising in district, say Ghaziabad officials||Ghaziabad The Covid-19 curve in Ghaziabad is stabilizing as the district has seen no major spike in positive cases since mid-July, officials from the district administration said on Monday. “The weekly trend since mid-July is almost consistent with no major rise in the number of cases. So, it can be said as a controlled scenario of new cases coming in. This is happening with our daily testing in range of 2,500-3,000 and the deployment of optimum resources for door-to-door surveys and other activities,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “Since mid of July, we are observing that weekly cases have ranged between 500-800 as against 650-1,000 between last week of June and mid-July,” Gupta said.The officials said that they are also observing the trend in Delhi, Noida and other neighbouring districts as the movement of people to other districts also affects the number of cases. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 1,450 new cases which is the highest single-day jump in over a month. “We are keenly observing trends in Delhi as many residents go there for work. Our present strength of resources will remain deployed and more can be added in coming weeks. The district has not seen a major spike for the past one-and-a-half months. We will also be implementing the five-zone classification strategy soon to keep check on spread of infection,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Last week, the administration had formed five categories of zones across the district with different strategy assigned to each zone in order to control the spread of infection. According to official figures of the health department, the period from June 24 to August 24 has about nine weeks. During the period, maximum cases, 1,008, arrived in the week of July 8-14 and thereafter the trend of fresh cases is on decline on a weekly basis. As an exception, the week of August 12-18 had 811 cases. “The cases started to peak in June and the trend continued till mid of July. Thereafter, the weekly cases are stable till date. So, it is expected that we may see a decline soon,” the CMO said. Echoing similar views, experts said that a plateau has been reached in the district’s Covid-19 pandemic.“We have observed that there is no major spike in number of cases this month. The severity of infection is also not like in the months of June and July. The situation is in the form of plateau and it is likely that we see a declining trend in coming days,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad district till August 24 had 7,341 cases with 67 deaths. The district has 1,070 active cases, while 6,204 patients have been discharged so far.  The spread of infection has, however, remained confined to several segments in trans-Hindon and cis-Hindon areas. According to the official data of the health department from March to August 21, segments of Karhera-II (703 cases overall), Carte (545 cases) and Raj Nagar (507 cases) have turned out to be the most affected. The Karhera-II segment comprises localities like Indirapuram, Kanawani and Makanpur, while Carte segment has localities like Kavi Nagar, Avantika, Nehru Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Chiranjeev Vihar, Daulatpura, Maliwara, Mahindra Enclave, Ashok Nagar, and Nasirpur. The third most affected segment of Raj Nagar comprises localities like Raj Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, New Friends Colony, Govindpuram, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Panchsheel Primrose, Guldhar, and Bhatta Number 5. Till June, the segments of Karhera-II, Sahibabad-II and Khoda figured among the top three segments having high Covid-19 cases. In July, the Karhera-II remained on top and later was joined by Carte and Raj Nagar segments. In 21 days of August, Carte, Raj Nagar and Dasna segments remained the top three segments having the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the district. BOX: June 24 to June 30: 637 cases July 1 to July 7: 818 cases July 8 to July 14: 1008 cases July 15 to July 21: 794 cases July 22 to July 28: 641 cases July 29 to August 4: 646 cases August 5 to August 11: 695 cases August 12 to August 18: 811 cases August 19 to August 24: 559 cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-curve-is-stabilising-in-district-say-ghaziabad-officials/story-5NM2X1q39bCEO96n0UqSfO.html
24-08-2020||City||Three held for friend’s murder, two more on the run||Three men were arrested by the Beta 2 police on Monday for allegedly murdering their friend on the night of August 22. Police said two more suspects were on the run at the moment.The victim, identified as Milan Haldhar (35), was found dead on the morning of August 23 near a community centre under Beta 2 police jurisdiction. “His head had been bashed in with a brick and injuries on other parts of the body suggested that the man had been attacked with vengence, suggestinga possible personal motive behind the murder. Milan worked as a daily wage earner and is a native of Assam,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3. The arrested suspects were identified as Kishanveer, Arun and Pappu — all natives of Bulandshahr.Police officials said that the victim was apparently involved in relationship with both Kishanveer’s wife and mother-in-law and was a frequent visitor to his house.“Because of this, Kishanveer and Milan had a scuffle on August 22, which later turned to blows. With the intervention of other people, the situation was brought under control then. Later, they met for drinks at night along with four other people,” said Pandey.He said that while consuming liquor at night, the duo had another argument which later escalated, leading to Milan being attacked and assaulted repeatedly with a brick by the others. The suspects later left him to die and fled the spot.Based on the complaint of Milan’s landlord, a case was registered at the Beta 2 police station under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail. A search is on for the other two suspects who are absconding at the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-friend-s-murder-two-more-on-the-run/story-VZ5l9SZsvAqtDAou1FVKRM.html
24-08-2020||City||Two men booked for sexually assaulting teen boy at ‘gunpoint’||Two men were booked by the Dankaur police for allegedly sexually assaulting a 14-year-old boy at “gunpoint” on Saturday afternoon. A medical examination of the teenager has been conducted and reports are awaited, the police said, adding that the suspects are at large after the incident.According to police officials, the incident came to fore Sunday evening. The police said the family was initially hesitant to lodge a complaint. However, after intervention of the police who got to know about the incident through locals of the area, the boy’s father filed a complaint with the Dankaur police station. “The two suspects are in their early twenties. They live in the same village next to the boy’s family and were known to him. It seems that they persuaded the boy to go along with them to nearby woods on their motorcycle,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3.He said the boy was allegedly sodomised and threatened with dire consequences by the suspects if he tells anyone. The boy later informed his family, the police said. “In the official complaint filed by the father, he has alleged that the boy was under duress at gunpoint during the whole incident while the suspects took turns molesting him,” said Pandey. The police, however, said that they are yet to verify whether the incident took place at gunpoint or not.A case was registered under Section 377 (unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code against the two youths as well as relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. “The boy was sent for the medical examination on Sunday and we are awaiting the findings. Meanwhile, a search is on for the two suspects who are at large,” said the additional DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-teen-boy-at-gunpoint/story-dTaaMFlsRotbjLXRZkLBjP.html
24-08-2020||City||Security guard’s body found in ditch, cops rule out foul play||The body of a 37-year-old security guard was found in a ditch in Greater Noida West on Monday morning. The police suspect it to be a case of an accident.The victim was identified as Rajesh Trivedi, a native of Sitapur who was living in the Bisrakh area. According to police officials, he worked as a security guard at an under construction site near a residential society in Greater Noida West.“He had gone missing on August 22. He lived at the site itself. Prima facie it seems that he accidentally fell into the ditch which was nearly 30 feet deep. It is supposed to be a basement,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station.The victim’s family had filed a missing person’s complaint on Sunday, the police said. The police officials said that the victim’s cot was situated right at the edge. “A generator set was also there till a few days ago. Later we found out that the genset had fallen in the ditch itself. It seems that the victim must have fallen into it. His slippers were found near the cot. Due to the rains, the ditch is full of water and his body had floated up when it was spotted today morning,” said Chauhan.The body was retrieved and sent for an autopsy after which it will be handed over to the family. No complaint has been filed in the case yet, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guard-s-body-found-in-ditch-cops-rule-out-foul-play/story-FqysRvyA4AIOd9VfT0u0UO.html
24-08-2020||City||Opposition misleading farmers: Haryana agri minister on ordinances||Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal on Monday slammed the opposition, accusing it of misleading farmers over three ordinances related to the farm sector.Interacting with mediapersons in Rohtak on the sidelines of a programme, Dalal said these ordinances will help in increasing the farmers’ income.“The opposition is misleading the farmers that the minimum support price (MSP) will not be given after the implementation of these ordinances. I want to make it clear that the MSP system will continue to stay. Now, the farmers could sell their produce from any place and at any corner of the country. The state mandis and state laws will stay intact,” he added.BJP confident of winning Baroda bypollDalal, who is also the BJP’s election in-charge for the Baroda byelection, said his party was confident of winning this seat.“The opposition is making false claims that the BJP-JJP government will fall after the bypoll. We have the support of 55 legislators and the byelection’s result will not affect anything. The people of Baroda want to go ahead with the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar,” he said, while addressing a gathering in Baroda’s Kathura village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/opposition-misleading-farmers-haryana-agri-minister-on-ordinances/story-IyDttYcKqOj7bdccRefi9N.html
24-08-2020||City||Man, friend held for attempting to kill murder convict who killed his uncle 27 years ago||New Delhi: A 19-year-old man has been arrested with his associate for allegedly attempting to kill a 50-year-old man, who had “brutally killed” his uncle in the presence of police and public in north Delhi 27 years ago, police said on Monday. The man, identified as Kunal Soni, is a professional wrestler and had participated in a few junior wrestling championships, the police said.Soni was born nearly eight years after his uncle’s murder. The accused, Pawan (single name), was caught from the crime scene and convicted for life by a Delhi court in 1998. He had come out of jail on parole in March this year. Soni and his associate Naveen alias Aniket, 22, allegedly fired at Pawan to take revenge for his uncle’s murder and for the “constant bullying” he and his family members had been facing from him ever since he was released on parole, deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said. On Sunday, DCP Bhardwaj said Pawan was along with his friends – Sompal and Laxman – was at Gali Church Wali in Sadar Bazar. Around 5.30 pm, two bike-borne men arrived and fired at Pawan. The bullet grazed his neck and hit Laxman in his abdomen. The attackers fled the crime scene, leaving behind the two injured men, who were admitted to a nearby hospital. The two got medical attention and their condition is out of danger, the police said.“We registered a case of attempt to murder and common intention on Pawan’s complaint and teams were formed to identify and nab the attackers. Since Pawan had been an accused in three murder cases, one attempt to murder and many other bodily offences, it was difficult to ascertain which rival was involved in the attack,” said Bhardwaj.During the probe, the investigating teams activated their human intelligence network and it helped them zero in on Kunal Soni, whose uncle was murdered by Pawan in 1993. Soni was missing from his home. However, his hideouts were raided and he was caught on Monday along with a countrymade pistol from north Delhi. His interrogation led to the arrest of his associate, Naveen, said a police officer, associated with the case. “Soni told us Pawan had been bullying him and his family members since he came out on parole. He had heard about his uncle’s murder by Pawan over a rivalry. Soni’s uncle had assaulted Pawan in 1990. Pawan took revenge three years later by killing him in front of some policemen, who had to shoot him to disarm him,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-friend-held-for-attempting-to-kill-murder-convict-who-killed-his-uncle-27-years-ago/story-zDroVVzhxPe2BfMWtz1aUN.html
24-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Cyber police station reports its first three Covid-19 cases||The Noida cyber thana (cyber police station), located in Sector 36, reported its first instances of coronavirus (Covid-19) on Sunday and Monday with three out of the 25 constables deployed at the thana testing positive, even as reports of more are awaited.“They showed mild symptoms such as fever, slight cough, etc. Two of them were diagnosed positive on Sunday and another on Monday. They were initially recommended home quarantine but have now been admitted to the Covid-19 care centre in Sector 39. We haven’t had any case before this,” said Rita Yadav, station house officer, cyber thana.She said that personnel who came in contact with the three have also been tested and their reports are awaited. “They are all residents of Noida. Rest of us will also get tested tomorrow (Tuesday). We are looking at the others and their family members through contact tracing for signs of exposure. All necessary precautions are being taken to contain the situation,” said the SHO. The cyber thana falls under the jurisdiction of the state police department and not under the purview of the Noida police commissionerate. There are two inspectors, five sub-inspectors and 25 constables at the thana, along with the SHO.Meanwhile, 97 personnel of the Noida police have tested positive for coronavirus so far, including a deputy commissioner and some SHOs. Of these, 90 have already recovered. A 57-year-old diabetic constable, however, who was deployed at the Surajpur district court, has been the department’s only Covid casualty. He passed away on June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-cyber-police-station-reports-its-first-three-covid-19-cases/story-5USaiJTQ10M4pZ1rDsfLRJ.html
24-08-2020||Noida||Pollution control board collects sewer samples from 21 high-rises in Noida to check for effluents||The Uttar Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has collected samples of sewage generated from at least 21 residential societies in the city to check whether they were treating effluents as per norms or not.According to the UPPCB officials, samples from high-rises in sectors 74,75,76,77 and 137 were collected till Monday. UPPCB’s initiative comes in wake of the inspection conducted by Noida authority earlier this month which found that at least 27 high-rises in the city did not have sewage treatment plants (STPs), as mandated, and were discharging effluents directly into drains. In the first week of August, the Noida authority had inspected 33 high-rises of which only six were found having fully-functional STPs.“When we were collecting the samples, we found that some high-rises which did not have an STP at all and were releasing wastewater into the drains. Once the reports are out, we will confirm from the Noida authority if such high-rises have been permitted to operate without an STP under any special provisions and if the authority is treating the wastewater of such high-rises at their terminal,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida. The pollution control board expects the results to be out by Saturday or early next week.“As per the standards set to ensure that the wastewater is not contaminated, the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) should not be more than 30mg/l and oil and grease need to be minimal among other parameters,” Kumar saidKumar added that if the wastewater released from the high-rises into the drains, treated and untreated, do not meet the standards set by the Central Pollution Control Board, then the concerned high-rises will be sent a notice and will be penalised accordingly.According to the rules laid down by the Noida authority, all high-rises in the city must treat the sewage generated within their premises through STPs. The treated water should be used for horticulture and washing purposes within the residential societies, and only leftover treated wastewater should be released into the drains.UPPCB officials said since a few high-rises surveyed by their teams are now being managed by state-owned NBCC Ltd, they will seek a clarification from Noida authority about who to send the notices if the effluents from such high-rises fail to meet the minimum standards. The pollution board pointed out that one such high-rise, currently being managed by NBCC did not had an STP at all. “We will approach the Noida authority about such cases as we don’t know if we should impose a penalty on NBCC or the builders,” Kumar said.“We will conduct more surprise inspections soon as many high-rises were found not following the norms in the last check. This leads to water pollution as the discharged effluents make their way to rivers. Through its six STPs. the Noida authority treats wastewater discharged by individual households only. It’s because the drains are designed in such a way that they can only cater to small households and not the high-rises with four or five thousand families,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty (OSD), health, Noida authority.The estimated sewage generation in Noida is around 210 million litres a day (MLD). According to officials, the city has the capacity to treat 230 MLD of the sewage through its six STPs. However, the untreated sewer from high-rises often reaches up to Yamuna and Hindon rivers through flood drains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pollution-control-board-collects-sewer-samples-from-21-high-rises-in-noida-to-check-for-effluents/story-JKliXzdgOQ8NDd4AkzBaON.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Baltana floods caught local authorities by surprise, Chandigarh admn blamed for ‘lapse’||Mohali: Zirakpur municipal council (MC) authorities were caught completely by surprise as flash floods hit Baltana on Sunday when floodgates of the Sukhna Lake were opened after its water levels breached the danger mark; even as an unidentified body of a man in his thirties was found in Sukhna choe (rivulet) in the area. They said floodwaters had entered many areas in the town by the time they got to know about it. Not being told about the release of the water from Sukhna was a “serious lapse on the part of the Chandigarh administration,” they added.Even as cats and dog carcasses surfaced in the flood waters, police were informed about an unclothed body of a man spotted in the choe near the police post. After people living nearby failed to identify the body, it was kept at the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital. Other police stations have been informed, said Kulwant Singh, in-charge, Baltana police post.‘First experience of flood-like situation’“We had no idea that the UT administration would release the water and came to know about it only when the entire area was flooded.We have experienced a flood-like situation for the first time,” said Sandeep Tewari, the MC’s executive officer.“It is a serious lapse on the part of the Chandigarh administration, which released the water without any intimation. Neither the deputy commissioner of Mohali nor Patiala were aware of it. The water has receded now, but they might release it again,” said Raman Bains, executive officer of the Irrigation department. Chandigarh chief engineer Mukesh Anand had stated on Sunday that before opening the floodgates around 3am, “we had alerted the district administrations in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula”. Sukhna breached the danger mark after check dams released water higher up in the Shivalik hills following heavy rain early on Sunday, following which most rivulets, also known as choes, in the area, were flooded.The worst affected areas were located around Sukhna choe, including the Baltana police post, marriage palaces, Municipal Park, milk dairies and the cremation ground. Police personnel also had to demolish part of a wall for the floodwaters to flow out into an adjacent rivulet. Many slum dwellers hit by the floods have moved their belongings to safer places.“We were born and brought up here, but we have experience such flooding for the first time,” said Balwant Singh, a local resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/baltana-floods-caught-local-authorities-by-surprise-chandigarh-admn-blamed-for-lapse/story-hgARtvu5fjvykGISxUJjIJ.html
24-08-2020||City||Rohtak woman held for planning her abduction, lover at large||Just two hours after marriage, a newlywed woman travelling with her husband was kidnapped at gun-point by a group of car-borne miscreants in Kalanaur here on Monday.However, Rohtak police spokesperson Sunny Lora said the woman had concocted her own abduction with the help of her lover and his friends.“We have arrested the bride, but her kidnappers are at large. During questioning, the woman said she planned her own kidnapping as she was married off against her wishes,” he added.Sombir Singh of Bhiwani’s Dang Kalan village said he got married with Mamta of Rohtak’s Mokhra village on Monday.“The incident took place when I along with Mamta, her brother and five others were returning to my home from her native village. A young man signalled us to stop near Kalanaur in Rohtak. When we stopped the car, suddenly five to six men arrived there, snatched our car at gunpoint and fled with my wife. She was kidnapped by Sahil Kumar and Mohit of her village along with their friends,” Sombir added.A senior cop pleading anonymity said the newlywed visited her aunt’s house in a Sonepat village along with her abductors. “When her aunt scolded her for staging the kidnapping, she and her abductors fled from there too. The accused then dropped her near Mohana police station in Sonepat, where she narrated the incident to cops,” the officer added.Kalanaur SHO Sohan Lal said they have registered a case of kidnapping against the accused and started investigation.This is the second such case where a woman planned her own kidnapping with the help of her lover. In June, an 18-year-old girl was taken away by a group of men. Among the abductors was her lover, whom she married later in the same day in Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-woman-held-for-planning-her-abduction-lover-at-large/story-OLQiZbqeLdh8PK9esLRPTN.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||School students collect gadgets to help rural girls study online||In a heartwarming gesture five city students from classes 11 and 12 in a private school have started a project, Prernaforyouand.us, to collect and donate mobile phones, tablets and laptops to facilitate online learning in the times of Covid-19 to girls in rural areas.Saachi Ahuja, Ustatt Anand, Samridhi Verma, Tara Khanna and Divjot Kaur were motivated to start the project by Karnail Kaur, a former teacher of Carmel Convent and now principal of Green Field Public School in Nadiali, a village located on the outskirts of Chandigarh. The grim reality, shares Kaur, is that there are countless students who are unable to access online classes as they don’t have smartphones or laptops as their families are unable to afford them. Significantly, there are gender based inequalities when it comes to girls having access to electronic gadgets. So far, Prernaforyouand.us have collected and handed over 12 different gadgets to Kaur, which are now being sent to the first few girls studying in classes 5 to 10 who are very excited about using their own laptops. Three girls from one family without even a smartphone now have a branded laptop. They are very eager to join online classes.After the pandemic, Prernaforyouand.us hope to focus on women and personal hygiene, importance of sanitary napkins, their distribution and hygienic disposal . The group is planning to approach panchayats of various villages to encourage them to educate girls and also reach out to as many girls as possible and work in areas related to their academics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-students-collect-gadgets-to-help-rural-girls-study-online/story-1qO8pIm1AiTSmHZvpbY30N.html
24-08-2020||City||3 years to Dera mayhem: Nobody did it; 33 acquitted, none guilty||Panchkula On this day (August 25) three years ago in 2017, Panchkula burnt. The biggest riots of the state left 36 dead and 423 injured, as mobs of followers of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim went on a rampage after a CBI special court found him guilty of raping two women disciples. Police record shows that 29 buildings, government and private, were damaged. The dera followers burnt 74 vehicles including two fire brigades, three Outstation Broadcasting (OB) vans of news channels, one school bus and damaged 57 vehicles, including one ambulance. Panchkula Police also seized five pistols/revolvers, four rifles, including an AK 47, two guns, one Mauser and 58 vehicles. Yet for all this mayhem and destruction, no one has been convicted. Aditya Insaan, a former spokesperson of the dera, fled the spot just before mob turned violent. He continues to carry a police reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head and was declared a Proclaimed Offender (PO) on May 21 this year. 177 FIRs LODGEDPanchkula Police registered 177 FIRs against 2,318 accused; of this, 20 FIRs were clubbed on court direction. “There are 2,318 accused, with some common in many cases. In total, 1,145 persons have been arrested and are facing trial,” said a police official. The police could not trace five cases, and the remaining 152 cases were in district court, Panchkula. “To date, none has been convicted,” according to police data. At least 33 accused in eight cases have been acquitted.EIGHT CASES HAVE FALLEN FLATNine Special Investigation Teams (SITs) were formed to investigate violence cases, yet cases are falling flat in court. The first case fell flat in the court on April 30, 2018, was related to FIR 415 of 2017, registered in Sector 5. Six persons, accused of rioting and snatching at Hafed Chowk, were acquitted. They had been arrested on the complaint of a Mohali-based photo journalist, whose video camera and tripod was snatched. The court acquitted them as the ‘prosecution lacked evidence’.This year, the 8th dera violence case (FIR 363) fell flat as an additional district and sessions judge acquitted 10 dera followers, accused of attempt to murder, riot and damaging public property. The three eyewitness that the prosecution presented failed to identify the accused, and said that a mob set the fire tender ablaze. Here, a fireman was injured after dera followers attacked the fire tender. In a 19-page judgment, the judge held that the prosecution was not able to establish its case beyond reasonable doubt. The order read that the identity of the accused persons was not established in the present case.A person was acquitted of criminal intimidation on June 4, 2018. Six were acquitted in FIR 362 of 2017 on July 30, 2018. Five were acquitted on November 15, 2018, of snatching. On May 9, 2019, five persons were acquitted. The most important is FIR number 345 of 2017, registered in Sector 5. It names 40 accused, including Insaan, whose role is considered crucial in planning and execution of riots, and three other accused. When questioned on the lack of conviction and the falling flat of eight cases, Panchkula police commissioner Saurabh Singh said, “Many main cases are pending in court and are under trial. In many cases of violence, there is no specific evidence collected from the spot. We are studying why cases are ending up in acquittal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-years-to-dera-mayhem-nobody-did-it-33-acquitted-none-guilty/story-jtGLaHtPzvh8CUE00ByF8M.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Dirt everywhere, inedible food: Patients complain about Covid care centre in Chandigarh||Patients are complaining about “dirty toilets, unpalatable food and no regular health checkups,” at the Covid care centre at Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22, some of them even taking to Twitter to highlight their plight.Posting pictures of the washrooms, a man, whose name is being withheld, tweeted about the “pathetic condition” of the quarantine centre, asking if a corona patient could be cured in such conditions.“Me, my wife and my 6 year old daughter are feeling depressed (sic),” he said.The patient has also written an email to the UT administration and the Prime Minister’s office, but has yet to receive a reply Another man (50) from Hallomajra, quarantined at the centre for the last eight days, alleged no health worker was available. “A few patients here have cough, fever and other problems. Sometimes there is no one to help.”The food served was also inedible, complained a Sector 47-A resident, adding, “no one is taking us seriously.”A private firm employee (25) admitted here for the last two days has so far refused to eat the food. “I feel if I eat this food it will worsen my condition. It’s unclean and cold.” Admitting there was “a little problem due to the limited number of toilets” and the increasing number of patients, Dr BS Chavan, principal of the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, which oversees the running of the centre, said “our workers are managing the situation.”He, however, added that the food was of “standard quality,” and that the patients there “did not require any aggressive treatments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dirt-everywhere-inedible-food-patients-complain-about-covid-care-centre-in-chandigarh/story-Xh9WVDg0B1SoM7mskBYjNI.html
24-08-2020||City||Fire breaks out at Ludhiana hosiery unit, no casualty reported||A major fire broke out at a multi-storey hosiery unit in Mahavir Jain Colony of Sundar Nagar area on Monday evening. No casualty was reported and the firefighters were still dousing the flames at the time of filing this report.A short circuit is said to be the reason behind the fire that broke out in Vallabh Hosiery at around 6:30pm when the owner was shutting down.Residents of the area accused that there was a delay of half an hour in the fire brigade reaching the spot. The fire officials, however, said that the tenders were rushed to the spot soon after information was received and that firefighting was hard as the factory was located in a narrow street.Sub-fire officer Atish Rai said, “We received an alert at 6:40pm and a fire tender from the nearest Sundar Nagar fire station was rushed to the spot. Three more tenders from other stations were rushed to the spot as well. A short circuit is said to be the reason behind the fire. The owner did not have any fire safety arrangements in the factory. The firefighters are still dousing the flames.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-ludhiana-hosiery-unit-no-casualty-reported/story-T7xDmdWynNfuVFkBKG1fqI.html
24-08-2020||City||SUV runs over woman in Ludhiana: One man held, family seeks murder case||A day after a 45-year-old woman was crushed to death by an SUV in Guru Nanak Pura, Bhamian, the police on Monday arrested one of the occupants of the Mahindra Bolero vehicle.On the other hand, the kin of the victim, who met the police on Monday, are still demanding that a murder case be added too the FIR.Inspector Satbir Singh said the police had arrested one of the accused, Gurdeep Singh, while his accomplices were still on the run. The police also seized the vehicle.Nisha Shekhawat, who lived with her husband and two children on the first floor of a rented accommodation, was killed when a group of youngsters on Saturday night ran her over with their Mahindra Bolero SUV. The accused had come to their house to thrash the landlord’s son, who lives on the ground floor.The police identified the three accused as Johny, Sunny, Gurdeep Singh, Bheta and their seven accomplices who are yet to be identified. A case under sections 307, 304, 323, 324, 341, 279, 506, 427, 148 and 149 of IPC has been lodged against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suv-runs-over-woman-in-ludhiana-one-man-held-family-seeks-murder-case/story-30yRu8f1UXWZUSKIVaCiHP.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Letter not dissent, but good suggestions given in Cong’s interests: Ex-Punjab CM Bhattal||Former Punjab Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, whose name figured in the list of 23 leaders, who demanded an “active, full-time and visible” party president, said on Monday that their communication should not be seen as dissent, but good suggestions were given in party’s interest.Another signatory to the letter, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, however, declined to comment on the party’s “internal matters”.Bhattal said that Sonia Gandhi had been made interim president of the Congress last year.That was less than two years after she voluntarily relinquished the top post in favour of her son Rahul Gandhi who refused to continue as Congress chief (after the 2019 general election defeat), the former Haryana CM said.After her tenure (as interim chief) came to an end on August 10, Congress had said that Sonia Gandhi will continue in the post till such time a “proper procedure” is implemented in the “not too distant future” to elect a party chief.“She (Sonia Gandhi) had said that she will continue for one year and her tenure was to come to an end on August 10. Rahul ji had earlier said that he does not want to continue as party chief.“In light of these things, we had given our suggestions (in the letter). Those who have read the full contents of the letter know that we have praised Sonia Gandhi and her leadership,” Bhattal told PTI.She said that despite the tragedies Sonia Gandhi faced on the personal front -- losing her mother-in-law Indira Gandhi and husband Rajiv Gandhi -- “she moved on and effectively guided the Congress and formed government at the Centre twice”.“Soniaji’s leadership is acceptable to all, but we had said that a working group be formed under her which will be directly answerable to her. This was our demand, there is nothing wrong, it was not dissent, it was a suggestion letter, we gave good points to make the party strong,” said the senior Congress leader.On the other hand, when asked about the letter during an informal chat, Hooda replied, “I won’t make any comment on the party’s internal matters.” He, however, said the Congress needs to be strengthened.The Congress Working Committee on Monday urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session can be convened and authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party.At an over seven-hour long meeting, which took place in the backdrop of more than 20 party leaders seeking an immediate organisational overhaul and a collective leadership, Gandhi is said to have offered to quit but was requested by the party’s top decision-making panel with over 50 members to stay on.Bhattal said, “We had suggested that a working group should be formed under her and an AICC session should be summoned. We always accepted Sonia ji’s leadership and never were any question marks raised. We have been well-wishers of the Nehru-Gandhi family, which made sacrifices for the nation’s sake.” She said that Sonia Gandhi ran things quite smoothly being at the helm.“But she had herself said last year that she will be there for one year. It is good that she will continue now,” Bhattal said.Bhattal said assembly elections are due in Punjab in over a year, polls in other states are going to take place in coming months and the suggestions they gave was to strength party for the elections also.Asked why then there has been criticism to their letter, Bhattal replied: “Sometimes, things get misinterpreted in the media. We all want that Congress should be further strengthened. It is a grand old party which first fought for the country’s freedom and then ran the country for all these years. To speak for strengthening the party, I think there is nothing wrong in that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/letter-not-dissent-but-good-suggestions-given-in-cong-s-interests-ex-punjab-cm-bhattal/story-nhP19awoMUXAOe44Ngdj1N.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Admn gears up for sero-survey in Chandigarh||The UT administration is gearing up for conducting a serological survey in the city.A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals to be used in monitoring the trends in prevalence of the novel coronavirus in the city.The matter was discussed at the war room meeting held under Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday.A senior UT official said that Badnore has asked the director health services to keep the mobile teams ready, which can be utilised for the serological survey as and when a final decision is taken in consultation with the Union health ministry.The Haryana government is already conducting a statewide sero-survey while the neighboring state of Punjab had recently released findings of its first survey carried out in five containment zones. The Delhi government had also released its second sero-survey findings, which showed nearly 29% seroprevalence in the Capital.In the sero-survey, blood samples are randomly collected from various high-risk population groups—based on the categories identified by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), to look for antibodies for Covid-19.The antibodies are generated in the body as an immune response to fight against the infection.“The PGIMER will work out the logistics for the survey. PGIMER is already helping the Haryana government conduct a similar survey,” the UT official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admn-gears-up-for-sero-survey-in-chandigarh/story-fQC34H1ZwajMLMRq2RJtKN.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking to rent 40 commercial spaces at ISBT-43, ISBT-17||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will be allotting 40 shops and premises including a food court on rent at ISBT, Sector 43, and ISBT, Sector 17. The monthly rental ranges from ₹8,000 to ₹4.5 lakh depending on the size of the property.The commercial space on offer is for a general store, a food court, an educational institute, an office purpose, exhibition rooms, cabins, stores and a guest house.At ISBT-43, ten commercial spaces are being offered. The reserved price per month here varies from ₹30,000 to ₹4.15 lakh.CTU has floated e-tenders for allotment on a monthly rental basis for a period of 6 years with an annual increase of 5% of the immediately preceding monthly rent. However, the premises will be allotted immediately on finalisation of the tender.Due to the pandemic, however, the rent of the allotted shop will be charged from the actual date of resumption of interstate operation of buses at the ISBTs.In Sector 17, 25 commercial spaces have also been offered on a monthly rent basis. The rent ranges between ₹7,000 and ₹2.14 lakh which will be allotted for three years.In addition to the ISBTs, there are four commercial sites in the Punjab Civil Secretariat that the CTU is offering at monthly rent ranging from ₹8,000 to ₹13,000.At ISBT-17, the sites will be allotted with effect from December 1, 2020. Currently, the vegetable and fruit market from Sector 26 is being organised here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-transport-undertaking-to-rent-40-commercial-spaces-at-isbt-43-isbt-17/story-XQusWsUljzgZQceWvcbWmJ.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab governor goes into self-isolation||A day after Chandigarh finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha tested positive for Covid-19, Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore on Monday went into self-quarantine and will be tested for coronavirus.Sinha had on Friday attended the war room review meeting chaired by Badnore. UT adviser Manoj Parida and director general of police Sanjay Beniwal were also present in the meeting at Punjab Raj Bhawan.Badnore chaired the Monday meeting through video conference, while other officials took part in it along with Parida from the UT secretariat. Beniwal, who tested negative on Monday, also attended the meeting through video conference. Meanwhile, Parida also got tested on Monday and is awaiting the report.According to guidelines, for high risk contact, 14-day quarantine from the date of last exposure is important. Even low-risk contacts are advised to self-monitor for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-governor-goes-into-self-isolation/story-3FNFnfJaQ2A0P1cS8P9BPP.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two men held for stabbing 19-year-old to death in Chandigarh colony||Two brothers were held for stabbing a 19-year-old to death on Sunday night in Colony Number 4 here, the police said.Police said that Akash, 21, and Vikash, 19, of Colony No 4 stabbed Sandeep, alias Patisha, of Maloya, repeatedly owing to old rivalry. Two of their accomplices are yet to be arrested.In his statement, the victim’s father Jugnu, 45, said that he worked as a welder and has three sons Rinku, Deepak and Sandeep alias Patisha. The deceased Sandeep is his youngest son who drove an e-rickshaw.Jugnu said that on April 17, Varinder was injured in a quarrel and Sandeep was named as one of the accused in the case. He said on Sunday night, his son’s friend came and informed him that some people were beating Sandeep up.When he reached near Rajesh Karyana Store in Colony No 4, he saw his son lying on the ground and Akash was stabbing him in the stomach. Aman, alias Muthethi, and Vikash, Akash’s brother, were raining kicks and blows on him.Sandeep was rushed to the hospital and during treatment was declared dead. A case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Akash, Vikash, Aman and Varinder. The two others are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-men-held-for-stabbing-19-year-old-to-death-in-chandigarh-colony/story-DqsgvdQ90ppTM85NCDXd3N.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Despite trader protests, odd-even rule extended in 12 city markets till September 3||Seeing no let-up in Covid-19 cases, the UT administration on Monday extended the odd-even rule in 12 congested markets of the city up to September 3.This, when traders have been protesting the restrictions, including the weekend lockdown that was imposed on August 22.It was on August 8 that the odd-even system for opening shops was reintroduced in 10 congested markets, besides the internal market of Sector 8 that houses various eateries. Later, the order was extended to the electronics market of Sector 18, too.The other 10 markets are Patel Market in Sector 15, Palika Bazaar and Sadar Market in Sector 19, Azad Market and Palace Market in Sector 20, Booth Market in Sector 21, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Janta Market in Sector 27, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and the market area near the PNB Bank/Bihari Garment, Burail Chowk. Meanwhile, the basements of seven shops in the Sector-22 mobile market will also continue to remain closed while the scooter market of Sector 43 will not open on Sundays.SEC-8 EATERIES WRITE TO ADVISERThe eateries of Sector 8 have written to UT adviser Manoj Parida asking that the odd-even rule be discontinued so that staying open for only 2-3 days a week did not cause a severe loss of business for them. Tarandeep Singh, proprietor of Burgrill, said, “How will we pay rent if we can only open two days a week? The administration has singled out the eateries of Sector 8 while they’re open in other sectors.”Local area councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said, “The Sector 8 market is a popular stop on the ‘gedi route’, but if the shops aren’t allowed to open, people won’t come, or if they do, will crowd at the shops that are open.”MOBILE MARKET TRADERS WANT OPEN SHOPSTraders in the mobile market of Sector 22B said that even during the pandemic, the administrative policies were hurting them. Sumit Kumar who runs one of the shops here said, “The policies have cost me over ₹1 lakh rupees already and I still need to pay all my bills and rent. The sabzi mandi is organised right opposite our market and we can see the vendors there with their masks pulled down flouting social distancing norms. Why should we be singled out?”Chandigarh Beopar Mandal that had organised a protest on Saturday against the weekend restrictions had announced they will approach the UT administration to repeal the decision. “It is unfeasible for markets to open for just two to three times a week, and non-essential businesses will die. We will ask UT officials to reconsider their decision,” said CBM chairman Charanjiv Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-trader-protests-odd-even-rule-extended-in-12-city-markets-till-september-3/story-tDyAEequ3tYHFhRWefggEK.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana chief minister tests positive for Covid-19||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, less than two days before the beginning of assembly’s monsoon session on August 26 at 2pm. Two BJP legislators were also among those found infected on Monday. Reports of both Khattar and Gupta came out positive within a span of about seven hours. The CM announced his Covid-positive status on his Twitter handle in the evening, while the assembly speaker test report was made public earlier in the day. Until Monday evening, the health status of at least three BJP MLAs, excluding CM and speaker, was Covid-19 positive. Ratia MLA Lakshman Napa and Ram Kumar Kashyap (Indri) tested positive on Monday, while BJP’s Ambala City legislator Aseem Goel was found infected on August 21. Goel is in home quarantine. Informing about his Covid-19 positive status, Khattar wrote on his Twitter handle: “I was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive. I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine.” Last Thursday, Khattar had gone into home isolation after Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and certain officials posted at the CM’s residence in Chandigarh tested positive. Khattar had met Shekhawat in Delhi to hammer out a solution to resolve the SYL canal logjam. The Vidhan Sabha premises will be out of bounds to all, including the lawmakers until they have a Covid-19 negative report that is not older than three days. On Monday, three employees — sweeper, cook and a room attendant — posted at Haryana MLAs’ hostel in Chandigarh were also found Covid-19 positive. Six Vidhan Sabha employees, including speaker Gupta’s political aide, had on Sunday were found infected. BJP MLA Mahipal Dhanda (Panipat Rural), who had tested positive earlier this month, recovered last week, while Subhash Sudha (Thanesar MLA) had contracted the infection a month back and recovered. More than 350 employees of the Vidhan Sabha were tested for the infection on August 22 in view of the monsoon session of the assembly. DEPUTY SPEAKER TO PRESIDE OVER SESSION Deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa will preside over the assembly proceedings in Gupta’s absence. According to Vidhan Sabha secretary RK Nandal, Gupta informed him on telephone on Monday that he had been declared Covid-19 positive. “Therefore, under Article 180 (2) of the Constitution of India, in the absence of speaker of the assembly, deputy speaker of the assembly shall act as speaker,” Nandal said in an order. The communication says in the present situation, all files/works pertaining to ensuing session from August 26 onwards will be put up for approval of the deputy speaker. The session’s duration is likely to be curtailed in view the CM and speaker testing positive. 10 more deaths take Haryana toll to 613Covid-19 claimed 10 more lives in Haryana on Monday, while 1,074 fresh cases of the infection were recorded in the state in the past 24 hours. According to the state health bulletin, in Faridabad, Panchkula and Kurukshetra districts, two patients each succumbed to the infection, while one person each lost the battle with Covid-19 in Ambala, Rohtak, Panipat and Fatehabad districts. With 10 more fatalities, the state’s death toll mounted to 613 and the cumulative number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 55,460. The active cases also rose to 9,442 even as the total number of patients who have recovered from the disease so far stood at 45,405. The doubling rate was 32 days on Monday and the recovery rate slipped to 81.87%. Faridabad yet again recorded the highest 125 cases, followed by Panipat which logged 118 new cases. Gurugram saw 77 cases, Sonepat 46, Rewari 87, Ambala 80, Rohtak 72, Karnal 69, Panchkula and Hisar 61 each, Palwal 17, Mahendergarh 47, Jhajjar 19, Bhiwani 26, Kurukshetra 45, Nuh 7, Sirsa 36, Yamunanagar 18, Fatehabad 34, Kaithal 21, and Jind 8. On Monday, there were 221 critically ill patients undergoing treatment across different hospitals of the state. Kurukshetra Covid victims had comorbiditiesThe two persons, who succumbed to the infection in Kurukshetra on Monday, included a 38-year-old woman from Murtazapur village, who was also suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure and a 56-year-old woman from Ismailabad town, who also had diabetes and high blood pressure. Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sukhbir Singh said the number of infected persons has reached 1,338 in the district. He said there are 513 active cases currently while 799 patients have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-chief-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-sqMSS4uCs35WPZ6eAkn63I.html
24-08-2020||City||Himachal high court allows private schools to charge tuition fee||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Monday allowed private schools in the state to charge monthly tuition fees and authorised them to enforce collection of the same.The HC also permitted the private schools to realise the pending fee without charging any fine or late fees after giving two months notice.A division bench comprising justices Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition by Independent Schools Association, a body of private schools.The court also directed the state government to revisit the notification and re-examine all the conditions imposed by it upon private schools by way of a notification issued on June 27 in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown.The bench said a fresh decision in accordance with the law and subject to directions issued by the court be taken within four weeks.The HC, however, said a genuine representation of a parent regarding his/her inability to pay the tuition fee due to financial issues shall be examined by the school within one week of its submission.The next hearing has been listed for October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-high-court-allows-private-schools-to-charge-tuition-fee/story-lzAq0AbVUO15aDIGX6qZoK.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||87 suicides so far, Chandigarh goes past last year’s toll||Eighty-seven people took their lives in Chandigarh this year, with 64 suicides reported since March 22, when restrictions were imposed for the first time in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.At 17, the highest number of suicides were recorded in June, even as the Centre had started easing curbs that month.A total of 63 persons had ended their lives in the corresponding period (January 1 to August 24) last year, when the total toll had gone up to 86.A senior police official who wished to remain anonymous, said, investigations pointed towards stress acting as a trigger. Loss of earnings and jobs and domestic disputes during the pandemic, too, affected the victims. As no suicide notes were recovered in a large number of cases police had to depend on statements from families who attributed the reason to depression.“It is the moment when you choose death over life and if you survive you get on with life. But you need immense support from the family and positivity to start living again,” said a Hallomajra resident who attempted suicide in May this year. The 39-year-old dhaba owner from Zirakpur was left penniless after business folded up during the lockdown. An alert neighbour saved his life.Look out for symptoms, reach out “Feelings of hopelessness or persistent sadness or death wishes are also symptoms for which we need to visit a doctor. Offer support, say you are there for the person, families need to be with such a person for 24 hours,” said Dr Bhupinderjit (Simmi) Waraich, a mental health and behavioural sciences consultant. Dr Roshan Lal, professor, department of psychology, Panjab University, said, “empathy” for a suicidal person from family and friends was required. Loneliness, uncertainty, loss of financial security, business losses were key triggers this year, so helplines had to be popularised, said Dr Manoj K Bajaj, honorary general secretary, Indian Association of Clinical Psychologists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/87-suicides-so-far-chandigarh-goes-past-last-year-s-toll/story-JWf07R8By8UdxM7bjUtnyO.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Union education minister reviews activities of National Institute of Open Schooling||Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal reviewed various activities of National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) here on Monday and stressed on the transparent working of the Institution so that it may produce better results.The meeting was attended by Secretary, School Education and Literacy, Anita Karwal, Joint Secretary, School Education, Sweety Changsan and senior officials of NIOS.According to a press statement, “During the meeting, Pokhriyal stressed on the transparent working of the Institution so that it may produce better results. The minister also discussed on strengthening the examination mechanism.”He said that if irregularities were found within the institution then tough actions will be taken against the culprit. He directed NIOS officials to resolve any complaints received against NIOS examination centres as soon as possible.He also directed NIOS officials to reform in examination process so that no one can question on the integrity of the prestigious institution. The Union minister suggested creating a dashboard containing detailed information and contacts of all centres across the country. It will have all the information and suggestions from stakeholders so that transparency will be increased in the system.The education minister said that NIOS is the world’s biggest open schooling system and should be used more effectively to provide education to the grass-root level. He said that we should also use its network to provide literacy to illiterate people of our country. He directed officials to form a team to review the possibility on this matter.According to the press statement, Pokhriyal also reviewed the courses offered by NIOS for their students. He was briefed that NIOS is offering multiple subjects for their students. The minister suggested that we should make NIOS syllabus on the line of NCERT so that students can get better understanding of the subject.The education minister directed NIOS to review the courses which are offered by NIOS so that some new courses may be added as per the need of the students.The minister asked NIOS not to use the recycled paper for publication of their books because it is not good for the health of the students. He asked NIOS to use only fresh paper for their book publication.The minister also reviewed the work of NIOS during Covid-19 crisis. NIOS briefed him that they are running four channels for their students out of which two are dedicated for secondary and higher secondary level NIOS officials informed that they are now providing six hours fresh content daily to their students including weekends which were only for two hours before the Covid-19 crisis.They informed that under PM E-Vidya programme they are providing videos of these classes on Diksha platforms as well. NIOS officials also told that they are planning to add 6 new courses at secondary and higher secondary level in near future.NIOS officials said that National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) has entered into an MoU with Army Educational Corps (AEC) on 14th June 2016, for a Joint Project known as NIOS Education Project for Indian Army (NEPIA) to upgrade the educational qualifications and Human Resource Quotient of Indian Army troops. They are now working on Hindi translation for NEPIA courses so that it may reach to more students.The education minister also reviewed the vacancy position in NIOS and directed them to fill all the vacancies as soon as possible, the press statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/union-education-minister-reviews-activities-of-national-institute-of-open-schooling/story-DwXsx0CUEHbZnGh6IcfvhM.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||MC panel approves multi-level parking in Manimajra||Decks have been cleared for the construction of a multi-level parking near Rana Ki Haveli in Manimajra with the municipal corporation finance and contract committee (F&CC) calling of expression of interest for the project.The committee members asked officers concerned to explore the possibility of levying entry tax on private water tankers entering the UT.The committee decided to increase the monthly rent of sheds situated in the Sector-23 rehri market. The rent has been fixed at ₹17,000 with 18% GST and annual increase of license fee from ₹100 to ₹500 and increase in late fee from ₹50 to ₹100 per day.The third floor of its office space on the over bridge in Sector 17 will be rented, decided the committee. A few months ago, the civic body had invited expression of interest for these office spaces. The spaces were being offered for five years on a monthly licence fee. But, received poor response .Concerned over floods in Khuda Lahora on Sunday, the members directed the MC engineering department to coordinate with the UT administration to ensure cleaning of Patiala Ki Rao. The members also asked for joint inspection with engineers of the administration to avoid water accumulation in Khuda Lahora Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-panel-approves-multi-level-parking-in-manimajra/story-sUxQj7iKSbYrRsGbHRhAmO.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for attempting to murder PCR cops in Ludhiana||Police arrested two men for attempting to murder two police control room (PCR) officers and trying to snatch their weapon in Basant Nagar on Sunday night. Two of their accomplices managed to escape the spot.The accused have been identified as Inderpal Singh alias Tinde of Lohara and Gurwinder Singh, both 23-years-old. Their accomplices, Satnam Singh alias Santa of Ishar Nagar and Hinda of Dhillon Nagar are yet to be arrested.Assistant sub-inspector Rajinder Pal Singh, who is deputed at PCR motorcycle number 31 in Daba area, said he and head constable Jagdeep Singh received an alert that some miscreants are pelting stones at house of a woman in Basant Nagar and hurling abuses.He added that as they reached at the spot, the accused tried to escape but Inderpal and Gurwinder slipped on the road. When the cops tried to nab them, they attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. The accused also tried to snatch their carbine, tore head constable Jagdeep Singh’s uniform and fled leaving their motorcycle on the road.The ASI added that he immediately sounded Daba police station. A case has been registered against the accused at Daba police station. A hunt is on for the arrest of the other accused and police are investigating to know their past criminal record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-for-attempting-to-murder-pcr-cops-in-ludhiana/story-B1mIa7XDz0QfnDPMJj22gJ.html
24-08-2020||City||Cabinet decisions: Norms eased for travellers, tourists coming to Himachal||Easing a few travel and stay restrictions, the Himachal government on Monday increased the validity of Covid-negative report of outsiders entering the state up to 96 hours, besides allowing tourists a two-night stay here.Earlier, any person with a Covid-negative report not more than 72 hours old could visit the state without quarantine, while a five-night stay was mandatory for tourists with the requisite documents.This has come after the Centre relaxed the norms for the inter-state travel of people across the country.Though children up to 10 years old are exempted from such restrictions, it is mandatory for adults to bring a Covid-negative report while entering Himachal.NEW EDUCATION POLICY OKAYEDThe decision was announced during a meeting of the cabinet ministers, who also gave approval to implement the National Education Policy-2020.Presiding over the meeting, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed gratitude towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing an education policy that envisions job creation.The cabinet gave nod to do away with plan and non-plan classification of the state budget from the financial year 2021-22. It will now be classified into capital and revenue expenditure only. The Scheduled Castes Sub Plan (SCSP), Tribal Area Sub Plan (TASP), Backward Area Sub Plan (BASP) and Regional and Decentralized Planning Programmes will be renamed as Scheduled Caste Development Programme (SCDP), Tribal Area Development Programme (TADP), Aspirational Blocks Development Programme (ABDP) and regional and decentralised development programmes respectively.BUDGET ALLOCATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENTBudget allocations under TADP, SCDP and ABDP will be made in demand numbers 31, 32 and 15 respectively. The allocation for the next financial year will be in the proportion of 9% (TADP) and 25.19% (SCDP) of the sum total of the budget under all those heads of development which are currently the part of annual plan.It gave its nod to provide one-time relaxation in the guidelines under National Food Security Act- 2013 for the identification of beneficiaries under BPL, priority households by authorising village panchayats to select additional BPL/priority houses without holding gram sabhas and reducing the period of filing appeal to 7 days instead of 15 days and also completion of the selection process by village panchayats and urban local bodies be reduced to 15 days from one month.SKILL TRAINING FOR RURAL YOUTHTo develop and upgrade skills for rural entrepreneurs belonging to general, Scheduled Tribe and OBC categories in rural engineering/economy-based industries so that they may engage themselves in gainful employment ventures after getting training in local occupations, the cabinet gave its approval for state rural engineering-based training programme in the state.REFORMS TO PUSH SELF-EMPLOYMENTAmendments in Mukhyamantri Swavalamban Yojna 2019 were also approved to make it more attractive and lucrative to promote self-employment opportunities in the state and provide livelihood to the youth by encouraging local entrepreneurship. This would benefit lakhs of Himachal youths in the age group of 18 to 45 years.The cabinet also decided to insert sunset clause under Section 15 (concessional rate of electricity duty) and Section 16 (concessional rate of electricity charges) in the state’s ‘Industrial Investment Policy-2019’. The aim is to facilitate new and existing enterprises undergoing substantial expansion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cabinet-decisions-norms-eased-for-travellers-tourists-coming-to-himachal/story-ncqhExSLSd68tYKqiSFZTO.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Teachers of 20 Ludhiana schools to be acknowledged for helping students clear NMMS scholarship exam||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has decided to give letters of appreciation to teachers from schools where three or more students have cleared the National Means and Merit Scholarship (NMMS) exams, results for which were declared on May 26. From Ludhiana, 229 students cleared the scholarship exam this year. To honour the teachers, the council has directed district education officers (secondary) and school principals to send names of the teachers who guided the students in the exam preparation. As many as 196 government schools in Punjab have more than three students who have been able to clear the scholarship test, of which 20 are in Ludhiana. This is the first time teachers who helped students prepare for the scholarship exam will be recognised. According to the list, 11 students from government senior secondary school, Basti Jodhewal, 10 from government senior secondary school girls, Sahnewal, nine from government model senior secondary smart school, Punjab Agricultural University, eight from government senior secondary school, girls, Gill road, seven from government high school, Koohli Khurd, six from GHS Jawadi, five from GHS Bhundri, four each from GHS Ramgarh, GMS Bhaini Rora, GMS Goh, GMS Giaspura and GMSSS Miller Ganj and 3 each from GHS Cheema, GMS Rajgarh, GMS Rahimabad Khurd, GSSS Alamgir, GSS for Girls Jagraon, GSSS Kalisian, GSSS Kotala and GSSS Manewal ranked in the exam.NMMS is a centrally-sponsored scheme for Class 8 students. Students who clear the exam are eligible for Rs 12,000 per annum (Rs 1,000 per month) scholarship for four years from Class 9 to 12. As per council instructions, the school heads will send the names of teachers on nmmspunjab@gmail.com before August 31.Sanjeev Thapar, principal of government model senior secondary smart school, said, “We have teachers of different subjects who have helped the Class 8 students prepare for the exam. We will send the names to the council tomorrow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nmms-scholarship-exam-teachers-of-20-ludhiana-schools-to-be-acknowledged-for-helping-students-clear-test/story-Duqs29wTKwrsJHeCvZh89H.html
24-08-2020||Jaipur||Uproar in Rajasthan Assembly, Deputy Leader of Opposition asked to leave House||Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore was on Monday briefly barred from taking part in the proceedings of the Rajasthan Assembly after he got into a heated argument with Speaker C P Joshi. At the Speaker’s request, the House approved by voice vote a proposal for Rathore’s removal for the remainder of the session. However, the House withdrew the motion later in the day after the BJP legislator expressed regret over his behaviour. The House was adjourned sine die in the evening after passing 13 Bills. Rathore had argued with the Speaker complaining that Opposition members were not allowed enough time to speak on the Bills. BJP members had also trooped into the Well of the House, shouting slogans. Amid the din, the House was briefly adjourned four times. During the discussion on the Rajasthan Rehabilitation of Beggars or Indigents (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Speaker asked BJP MLA Madan Dilawar to confine himself to the Bill, saying it was not a general debate. When BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari was also asked to stick to the Bill, Rathore intervened, asking the Speaker to let the members speak. The Speaker then asked Opposition members to return to their seats. When Rathore challenged the Chair, the Speaker asked Parliamentary Affair Minister Shanti Dhariwal to move a proposal for his removal from the House. Opposition members continued their protest and squatted in the Well of the House even after the Congress-dominated House passed the motion. The Speaker then suggested that Rathore should leave the House for two minutes and he will ask the ruling party to move another proposal to bring him back. But the BJP MLAs continued with the protest. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the MLAs had no intention of violating the Speaker’s ruling, but they had not been given any time to examine the five Bills introduced by the government on Monday. “No member has studied them, how can they be discussed?” he said. The Opposition then staged a walk out. While the opposition members were not present in the House, Speaker C P Joshi said the Question Hour had to be cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. He said other state assemblies too had followed the same practice during the pandemic. Joshi said another session can be called when the situation improves. He added it was distressing that the Opposition did not take part in the discussions. On the Speaker’s directions, the parliamentary affairs minister moved another proposal withdrawing the earlier resolution against Rathore. This too was passed by voice vote. Earlier, the opposition boycotted the Business Advisory Committee meeting over the government decision to bring new Bills. The government had introduced eight Bills on Friday and added five more on Monday. All were passed on Monday. After passing the Bills, the House was adjourned sine die. The House had three sittings during the brief session. Its main agenda was the confidence vote brought by the Ashok Gehlot government after the patch-up with Congress dissidents led by Sachin Pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/uproar-in-rajasthan-assembly-deputy-leader-of-opposition-asked-to-leave-house/story-XOF8CbD3aoTB5GNY3IvOBM.html
24-08-2020||City||Akal Takht rejects Langah’s fresh clemency appeal||Amritsar Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday rejected a clemency appeal of excommunicated Sucha Singh Langah, a former Akali minister, saying the Sikh community would continue to socially boycott him.The decision came after Langah’s son submitted a fresh clemency appeal to the secretariat of the Akal Takht, the top temporal seat of Sikhs.Rejecting the appeal during a meeting of five Sikh head priests, Singh said, “There is no clemency for Sucha Singh Langah and people of Sikh community would continue social boycott with him.” The Akal Takht has excommunicated Langah from the Sikh community in October 2017 after he was booked in a rape case from which he was later acquitted.Earlier this month, Langah was pardoned by the ‘’panj pyaras’’ (five beloved ones of the Guru) at the historical Gurdwara Baba Banda Singh Bahadur in Gurdaspur. However, the ex-communication verdict against Langah by the Akal Takht remained intact.Thereafter, the Akal Takht had declared two persons, including a Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee member, ‘’tankhaiya’’ (guilty of religious misconduct) for having “association” with Langah.Langah had pleaded for clemency in March also.He was booked by Punjab police in 2017 under IPC sections, including 376 (rape), 384 (extortion) and 420 (cheating). However, later the complainant claimed in the court that she complained under pressure, leading to Langah’s acquittal in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akal-takht-rejects-langah-s-fresh-clemency-appeal/story-fjEsalE6xfYUxkxIuOGCCJ.html
24-08-2020||City||36 positive cases force PMC to seal Kasba Ganpati mandal area||Pune: With Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department reporting 36 Covid-19 positive cases in Kasba peth area since the Ganeshotsav began on August 22, the administration and police have sealed the Kasba Ganpati mandal mandap area on Monday. The officials said that the peth area houses Kasba Ganpati, the first Manacha (most revered) Ganpati and one of the city’s prominent Ganpati mandals, and many residents thronged the area during the Ganesh festival that began on Saturday. The Kasba Ganpati mandal president and volunteers have appealed to devotees to opt for online darshan this year. Shrikant Shete, president, Kasba Ganpati mandal said, “Before the beginning of the 10-day festival, we have been telling residents that there will be no aartis, felicitations and other religious ceremonies at the mandap. Only daily puja of Ganpati will be done by our guruji and volunteers have been appointed for darshan. We are following the rules and regulations given by PMC and police department as public safety is top priority.”“We all need to take safety precautions, maintain social distancing and avoid spread of the virus. Hence, as per the instructions from the police department, the area around Kasba Ganpati temple and its mandal has been closed down during the Ganpati festival after positive cases were reported in the past two days,” said Avinash Sakpal, PMC deputy commissioner (zone 5) under whose jurisdiction the area falls. The administration has stopped the sale of non-essentials in the area and only allowed pedestrian movement. A temporary police post has been set up in front of the Kasba Ganpati temple to allow residents to have a brief darshan of the deity and leave the place and avoid crowd. Jagannath Kalaskar, senior inspector at Faraskhana police station said, “Safety of public is important and so the area surrounding the Kasba Ganpati mandal has been sealed. The area will also remain closed for vehicular movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/36-positive-cases-force-pmc-to-seal-kasba-ganpati-mandal-area/story-OjqBp58gINl4gAjmSC6u4J.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Confusion prevails as shops in Ludhiana open using odd-even formula||Confusion prevailed in Ludhiana markets on Monday on the first day shops opened using odd-even criteria . Even-numbered shops opened in Chaura Bazar, Shahpur road and adjoining area, while odd number shops opened in Model Town, Pink Plaza market and Field ganj among others.The shopkeepers rued losses due to low footfall in the markets as fear has gripped the residents amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city. President of Model Town market association, Amarjit Singh, said, “The new directions issued by the state government and administration are taking a toll on businesses at large. It has created confusion among shopkeepers and public. Footfall has also decreased in the market as fear has gripped the residents. We had opened odd-number shops on Monday after discussing it with the station house officer of Model Town, but few other markets opened even number shops. Also, shops that open on Tuesday and Thursday will have only two working days in a week and the others would have three as markets remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays. This will make it very difficult for businesses to survive.” Harkesh Mittal, president of Ludhiana Consumer Product Distributors Association, said, “To end the confusion, there should be one system for the entire city. Some markets are opting for left-hand side and right-hand side criteria to open shops, which will confuse the public and result in harassment for both public and the shopkeepers. The police on Monday also made few essential shops owners in Tibba road shut down their establishments, despite them being allowed to remain open for the entire week.” The market associations at Ghumar Mandi and Mall road adopted left and right hand side criteria rather than choosing the odd-even method being opted by majority markets of the city. President of Ghumar mandi market association, Pawan Batra, said, “We have decided to open one side of the market on one day. This will create less confusion among residents and shopkeepers. If we face any problems, changes will be made in the coming days.” General secretary of the Punjab Cloth Merchants’ Association, Sonu Nilibar, said they have also decided to open shops on Mall road on left and right hand side basis. Mixed response from residents The residents gave mixed responses to the odd-even formula introduced by the administration. While few residents said this will reduce rush in the markets, the others said that it will create confusion and result in harassment. A resident of Model Town area, Karandeep Singh, said, “Rather than introducing odd-even formula, the administration should fix particular days for opening specific shops.”Sarafa Bazar shopkeepers protest against restrictionsRaising hue and cry over the odd-even criteria to open the shops, the members of Swarnkar Sangh in Sarafa Bazar submitted a memorandum with the deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma’s office on Monday. President of the Sangh, Gopal Bhandari, said, “We have demanded that odd-even criteria should be abolished and every shop should be allowed to open on a particular day. If required, the government can reduce the working days to three in every week, but no shop should be stopped from opening on those particular days.” All shops open near Mata Rani chowkWhile shops were opened with odd-even criteria in other parts of the city, all the shops remained open on the road starting from Mata Rani chowk to municipal corporation’s Zone A office. Shopkeepers in Pink plaza market also alleged that Akalgarh market association had flouted the norms and all the shops were open on Monday. Following the complaint, police had visited the market.Despite repeated attempts, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/confusion-prevails-as-shops-in-ludhiana-open-using-odd-even-formula/story-jAj0CahZAUbk9gffFlEnHM.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Solid waste management in Ludhiana: NGT directs PPCB to impose bank guarantees on MC||With the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) failing to implement proper solid waste management measures in the city, the monitoring committee of National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to impose bank guarantees on the civic body. The guarantees will be encashed if the MC fails to complete the solid waste management projects within the set deadline.The decision was taken during the review meeting conducted by the monitoring committee of NGT on Monday through video conferencing and further deadlines have been set for completing activities including source segregation of waste and treatment of legacy waste. As per sources, bank guarantee of ₹5 lakh has been imposed for failure to complete door-to-door collection of waste/garbage, ₹5 lakh for failure to construct boundary wall and establish green belt around Tajpur road main dump site and ₹5 lakh for failing to start treatment of over 20-lakh tone legacy waste at the main dump site.Also, a bank guarantee of ₹7 lakh has been imposed for failure to upgrade sewer treatment plants required to deal with the Buddha Nullah pollution. PPCB superintending engineer Sandep Bahl said, “Apart from bank guarantees imposed on the MC, the monitoring committee has also directed PPCB to act against the A2Z company which has failed to dispose off/treat waste generated in the city. An environmental compensation will also be imposed on the company. A bank guarantee of ₹1 lakh has also been imposed on Khanna municipal committee for failure to deal with solid waste properly.”Member of monitoring committee and environmentalist, Balbir Singh Seechewal, said, “The bank guarantees have been imposed as the MC has failed to complete solid waste management projects. MC officials claim that the projects have been delayed to the pandemic. A report regarding the present status will be submitted with the NGT by the monitoring committee.” Earlier, the NGT had ordered that a penalty of ₹10 lakh per month to be imposed on the MC if it fails to implement solid waste management by March 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/solid-waste-management-in-ludhiana-ngt-directs-ppcb-to-impose-bank-guarantees-on-mc/story-x3lpiojiBi2aGiajoPVrFO.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid count climbs to 3,000 in Chandigarh||With 114 people testing positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, Chandigarh’s tally on Monday crossed the 3,000 mark. It has taken the Union Territory 159 days to reach this grim milestone, after the first case surfaced on March 18.The number of confirmed cases has climbed to 3,035, of which 1,350 remain active. The day also witnessed record recoveries as 154 patients were discharged from various health facilities. The total number of cured patients has reached 1,646, while 37 have succumbed so far.Chandigarh has witnessed the steepest spike in the month of August with over 2,000 cases reported so far. The number stood at 1,015 at the turn of the month. It has taken just eight days to add the latest 1,000 cases.Among the active cases, while 800 people are in home isolation, other are either hospitalised or in quarantine facilities.Odd-even rule extended in congested marketsSeeing no let-up, the UT administration on Monday extended the odd-even rule in 12 congested markets of the city up to September 3.The move comes even as traders have been protesting the restrictions, including the weekend lockdown that was imposed on August 22.It was on August 8 that the odd-even system for opening shops was reintroduced in 10 congested markets, besides the internal market of Sector 8 that houses various eateries. Later, the order was extended to the electronics market of Sector 18.The other 10 markets are Patel Market in Sector 15, Palika Bazaar and Sadar Market in Sector 19, Azad Market and Palace Market in Sector 20, Booth Market in Sector 21, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Janta Market in Sector 27, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and the market area near the PNB Bank/Bihari Garment, Burail Chowk. Meanwhile, the basements of seven shops in the Sector-22 mobile market will also continue to remain closed while the scooter market of Sector 43 will not open on Sundays.Chandigarh Beopar Mandal chairman Charanjiv Singh said: “It is unfeasible for markets to open for just two to three times a week. Non-essential businesses will die like this. We urge the administration to reconsider the decision.” Two die in P’kula; ACP, SDM among 61 infectedTwo people died while 61 tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Monday.Assistant commissioner of police Noopur Bishnoi and subdivisional magistrate Richa Rathi are among those found infected.A 47-year-old woman from Kalka, who was a diabetes patient, in among who died. The other is a 72-year-old man from Amravati Enclave.While the toll has risen to 12, the number of confirmed cases stand at 1,637, of which 18 are yet to be traced.With 1,037 people discharged so far, the number of active cases stands at 588. Reports of 320 suspected cases are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-count-climbs-to-3-000-in-chandigarh/story-pabHa23ou2MyGugsAP4gEI.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man who sent hoax threat letter to Ambala airbase held||Two days after the Indian Air Force (IAF) airbase in Ambala received a letter warning of multiple blasts across the country, police arrested its sender on Monday. Police officials said one Vishal, 25, of Bara village had confessed to the crime.He was arrested from Vijay Ratan Chowk in the Sadar Bazar area of the cantonment.In the letter, it was alleged a few people had been given funds to blow prominent places in various cities, including Ambala, Delhi, Ayodhya on specified dates, police said. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ram Kumar said, “Vishal said he wrote the letter to incriminate some people who had allegedly cheated him of ₹3,200 on an online market platform besides two women from Yamunanagar and Jalandhar with whom his relations had soured. He mentioned their names in the letter as the senders.” As of now, no terrorist involvement is suspected, said the DSP, adding that investigation is underway. Vishal, who was remanded to one-day police custody, said, “I do not know what came upon me while I was doing this (writing the letter). But later I realised I had made a serious mistake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-who-sent-hoax-threat-letter-to-ambala-airbase-held/story-0AHRzB3Q4vmNBKne5xdAnJ.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||173 fresh Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths reported from Ludhiana||Ludhiana on Monday reported 173 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the district’s tally to 8,831. As many as 12 people succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 323. Of this, 152 positive cases and 11 deceased belong to Ludhiana district, while the rest are from other districts/states. The deceased include a 9-year-old boy who was a tuberculosis (TB) patient and a 22-year-old male undertrial in Ludhiana central Jail. The fresh cases also include three police personnel, nine health care workers and a pregnant woman. The 11 Ludhiana residents who succumbed to the disease on Monday include the nine-years-old boy, a 40-year-old man, 42-year -old woman from Focal Point area, 58-year-old man from South city area, 76-year-old man from Green park, 22-year-old undertrial in central jail, 43-year-old man from New Janta Nagar, 64-year-old man from Shastri Nagar, 72-year-old mam from Dehlon, 70-year- old man from Bhagwali gali and 74-year-old man from Madhopuri. Apart from this, a resident of Kapurthala also succumbed to the disease.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said, “Out of the 8,831 positive cases, 6,451 patients (73.09%) have been cured till date and regular efforts are being put to control the spread of the disease.” Further, he appealed to the residents to get their tests done as soon as they develop any symptoms. By not getting the test done in time, residents will be putting their lives and the lives of their loved ones in danger, he added.Two employees test positive, PAU’s basic sciences college closed till August 28Two employees of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) including head of microbiology department, HS Kochar and his wife Dr DD Kochar, deputed in department of zoology, tested positive on Monday.Following this, the university authorities have decided to close departments housed in the building of the college of basic sciences and humanities till August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/173-fresh-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-reported-from-ludhiana/story-HudiSmBX6xQ56KcJecCqVP.html
24-08-2020||Pune||Ganesh mandals look at ways to bring festivities home for Punekars||Ganeshotsav is different this year, not only because of the restrictions in place to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, but also in the way people are celebrating the festival. Ganesh mandals are taking new steps to bring the festival and the traditions directly to the citizen’s homes. Some mandals in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad have started streaming cultural performances live to avoid crowding of devotees at the temples. Another mandal in the peth areas has made arrangements for priest to stay indoors to avoid public contact and many others are involved in social work. Shrimant Bhausaheb Rangari Mandal, one of the oldest mandals in Pune, is conducting an online cultural programme on its official website. Sanjeev Javale, president of Shrimant Bhausaheb Rangari Mandal, Pune, said, “In the online programme we interview various eminent celebrities and public figures including, actors like Pravin Tarde; mayor of Pune Murlidhar Mohol and even the additional commissioner of Pune police. Moreover, we streamed performances of tabla and flute artists, Pandit Vijay Ghate and Hariprasad Chaurasia and also singer Rahul Deshpande. After the evening rituals and the aarti, we stream the cultural program on our website.”The Babu Genu Mandal, among the most popular and loved Ganesh mandals in the city, has provided accommodation to the priests at the temple premises itself. Nilap Marne, secretary of Babu Genu Mandal stated, “This year, we have provided accommodation to the priests of the temple along with food as well as basic facilities. The purpose of this initiative is to ensure 100% safety of the priests as well as the staff working for the Ganesh mandal.”The Shinde Aali Mandal organised a blood donation camp during the pandemic and is also distributing food to the needy. Rohit Mohol, president of the Shinde Aali Mandal, said, “We understand there is a huge requirement for blood in the hospitals of Pune and hence, we organised a blood donation camp and collected 72 bottles of blood. We are even distributing food keeping in mind the social distancing norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ganesh-mandals-look-at-ways-to-bring-festivities-home-for-punekars/story-X7iCrIDKxhmuqOCjos20pO.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Drug-free campus:Sri Sri Ravi Shankar launches national campaign at Chandigarh University||Spiritual leader and founder of the Art of Living Foundation Sri Sri Ravi Shankar launched the ‘drug-free campus’ national campaign at Chandigarh University on Monday. The campaign is the second edition of the ‘drug-free India’ campaign, which was launched at the university in 2019. During a live interaction with students during a virtual session on ‘staying positive during a crisis’ , the spiritual leader said, “Our Prime Minister’s call for a self-reliant India is a visionary thought. The youth should turn this dream into a reality by turning this crisis into an opportunity through innovation. They should undertake research and bring out ideas that can shape the world and make India the powerhouse for development.” Around 45,000 students and faculty from all over India participated in the session, which was jointy convened by the Art of Living Foundation and the university. Sri Sri Ravi Shankar encouraged the youth to stay positive during the current crisis by practising meditation. He said, “On one hand, the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev are relevant as they teach humanity to foster a self-centric approach and serve humanity, while on the other hand the 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh teaches us to leave distress behind and become a fighter and protector. This is essential for everyone during the pandemic”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drug-free-campus-sri-sri-ravi-shankar-launches-national-campaign-at-chandigarh-university/story-Uolskp4v9xynb7ImnmHadJ.html
24-08-2020||City||Takht calls for social boycott of preacher Dhadrianwale||MRITSAR The Akal Takht on Monday directed the Sikh community to boycott noted Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale unless he seeks clemency for his ‘objectionable’ remarks. After a meeting of Sikh clergymen, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said, “As per the report submitted by the sub-committee constituted to probe the statements made by Bhai Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale, he has made unfair statements on the Sikh principles and did not turn up for clarification. As per the decision taken by Panj Singh Sahiban, Sikh sangat across the world is directed to not attend his congregation, listen him or share his videos on social media until he apologises for his remarks.” “If anyone organises his congregation and any untoward incident happens there, he will be responsible for it. If Dhadrianwale does not stop making the objectionable remarks, stringent action will be taken against him,” he said. Same verdict was pronounced for Dhadrianwale’s aide and UK-based Sikh preacher Harinder Singh, head of Nirvair Khalsa Jatha. Harinder Singh had made objectionable remarks on Guru Nanak and was banned in the gurdwaras across the UK. On the unauthorised printing of Guru Granth Sahib’s saroop in Canada, the Sikh clergy directed Ripudaman Singh Malik and his aide Balwant Singh Pandher who had printed the saroops to send their clarification in a month. Also, both have been asked to hand over the saroops they have printed to Gurdwara Guru Nanak, where they will be checked for errors or alterations. ‘Arrests for ardas not fair’ On the arrest of youths for performing ardas of Khalistan at Takht Damdama Sahib and Akal Takht on the call of a US-based secessionist group Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), the Sikh clergy said, “Arresting Sikh youths for performing ardas in gurdwaras is not fair.” “Performing ardas is the religious duty of every Sikh. A Sikh always vows to the concept of Raj Karega Khalsa (Khalsa will rule) through ardas. However, performing it or getting it performed for money is not Sikhism. The Sikh youths should be conscious of the provocative statements,” said Giani Harpreet Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/takht-calls-for-social-boycott-of-preacher-dhadrianwale/story-1y8hX57IFvT9rLdlXgPWyH.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amid rising Covid cases, Ludhiana MC restarts sanitisation drives||In view of the increasing Covid-19 cases, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) restarted sanitisation drives in the city on Monday. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal flagged off 18 jetting machines from the circuit house on Monday. Four machines were deputed to Zone A, five to Zone B, four to Zone C and five to Zone D.The mayor said, “This is the fifth time that sanitisation drives have commenced in the city. The whole city, including markets and main roads, will be covered under the drive. The MC will be using around 80,000 litres of sodium hypochlorite. For disinfecting internal areas, handy backpack machines are being provided to councillors.”Sabharwal said,”Joint commissioner Swati Tiwana has been deputed as the nodal officer for the project and I will also be inspect the work on a regular basis.” The MC had earlier initiated sanitisation drives in March but the drives were stopped in mid-May. Residentshad slammed the MC for halting the drives. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-rising-covid-cases-ludhiana-mc-restarts-sanitisation-drives/story-Ue08F00LvOs9trpxmASAFM.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||National Education Policy: School principals, teachers to send suggestions by August 31||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Punjab education department has asked principals and school teachers to send their views, suggestions and comments on each theme of the National Education Policy pertaining to school education to the department of school education and literacy by August 31.Principals, head teachers and teachers have been asked to register themselves at https://innovateindia.mygov.in/nep2020/ for the same. The board has requested school heads to ensure maximum participation of teachers.All suggestions will be examined by a team of experts from National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). If required, principals, head teachers and teachers whose suggestions have been found useful will be individually contacted.Nankana Sahib Public School principal Harmeet Kaur Waraich said, “I will send my suggestions on two themes - evaluation system on two levels in all subjects and flexibility to choose subjects across streams. I will also ask teachers to share their view on the policy.”Government Senior Secondary School principal Varinder Pathak said, “I have read all themes in detail. The policy focuses on privatisation of the education system. This will make education more expensive. I will suggest authorities to take steps through which education can be made accessible to everyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/national-education-policy-school-principals-teachers-to-send-suggestions-by-august-31/story-Sf54QP7sfBZOyYqBxis7EK.html
24-08-2020||City||Three members of ‘Gulel Gang’ arrested in Ludhiana||Three members of the infamous ‘Gulel Gang’, whose modus operandi involves breaking windows of parked vehicles using slingshots and making away with valuables, were arrested near the Sarabha Nagar main market here on Monday. The accused have been identified as Gagandeep Singh, Amarinder Singh and Dharminder Singh of Shimlapuri. Five laptops, a scooter and the slingshots used to execute the crimes have been recovered from the trios’ possession.Joint commissioner of police (City) Bhagirath Singh Meena said with the arrest of the accused, the cops had solved five cases lodged between July and August.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP- City 3) Sameer Verma said on August 20 the accused had stolen a laptop, two hard disks and ₹32,000 cash from a car parked near a bank on Pakhowal Road. The accused were captured on CCTV and arrested during a special checking. The accused have confessed to stealing a laptop from a car parked on The Mall Road on August 17, one laptop from Ghumar Mandi on August 14, a purse with ₹6,000 cash from a car parked outside Government College for Women on July 22 and a laptop from a vehicle parked near Millar Gunj on July 21.Gagandeep is already facing trial in three cases of theft and snatching, while a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) has been registered against Dharminder. Both of them were out on bail. The accused are addicted to drugs and started executing the crimes to fund their habit, said the ADCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-members-of-gulel-gang-arrested-in-ludhiana/story-gMqX8hsinyDctTwqiukSfK.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Galwan face-off: Veterans’ body demands release of benefits to kin of soldiers from Punjab||The All India Defence Brotherhood Association (Retired) has pressed the Punjab government to expedite the process to release benefits to the next of kin of soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley face-off with Chinese troops in June this year. “Non-receipt of battle casualty certificate hampers the disbursement of ex gratia grant and declared benefits to the next of kin of Galwan martyrs from Punjab, thereby causing anxiety and resentment among family members of the bravados who made the supreme sacrifice while fighting on our side of the Line of Actual Control,” the statement of the association’s Punjab chapter stated. Its president, Brig Kuldip Singh Kahlon (retd), said the state government has enhanced the ex gratia and the budget has also been released, but the battle casualty certificate is awaited for disbursement. “We urge the Punjab chief minister to have a video meeting with the defence minister to resolve the issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/galwan-face-off-veterans-body-demands-release-of-benefits-to-kin-of-soldiers-from-punjab/story-l0B7EVjEomOhR7OU29YPNM.html
24-08-2020||Lucknow||Rajnath Singh reviews progress of defence corridor in UP, asks to complete work in time||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh Monday reviewed the progress of Uttar Pradesh Defence Corridor and directed completion of all works within the stipulated time, a statement issued here said. The Defence Minister told the video conference review meeting that a cabinet note on a new policy for the defence production is ready and will be released in September.Reviewing the progress of implementation of the MoUs signed for the Defence Corridor, he asked the state government to remain in continued contact with investors and take prompt action on their suggestions and resolving their problems, if any.The defence minister also asked for speeding up the work on land acquisition in Lucknow and Agra.Apprising about the progress of the Defence Industrial Corridor, state’s Chief Secretary R K Tiwari said that six nodes have been developed in Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow. Tiwari said the state government has assigned 1,461 hectare land for the purpose, of which 1,310 hectare has been acquired, which is over 90 per cent of the assigned land, according to the release. Investments of Rs 3,732 crore have been announced till now and works started on some of them which will be further speeded up, he said. He also said that under the Aligarh node, the entire planning of Detailed Project Report, town planning and power station has been completed.Additional chief secretary, UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority Avanish Awasthi informed that work has been started ever since the announcement the Defence Industrial Corridor in February 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rajnath-singh-reviews-progress-of-defence-corridor-in-up-asks-to-complete-work-in-time/story-3gcTqioh82GaPGtKhLkYVL.html
24-08-2020||City||Mohali’s Covid toll climbs to 57 as five more succumb; 37 deaths in 15 days||With five more people succumbing to Covid-19, the toll in Mohali district rose to 57 on Monday.As many as 37 people have died due to the virus in the past 15 days.Meanwhile, with 117 people testing positive in the past 24 hours, the number of confirmed cases went up to 2,919, of which 1,247 are active.Those who died were suffering from diabetes and hypertension, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. They include four men — 65-year-old from Baltana, 56-year-old from Dera Bassi, 34-year-old from Sector 68 and 30-year-old from Mataur — besides a Mauli Baidwan woman, aged 70. Also, with 106 patients being discharged on Monday, the number of those cured reached 1,515.No elective surgeries in L3 hospitalsDeputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Monday ordered that no elective surgeries, such as joint replacements, cataract extractions and ligament repairs, are to be undertaken in Level 3 hospitals (that provide tertiary healthcare services by advanced specialists) in the next fortnight. “Rapid surge in Covid-19 cases mandates escalating bed strength in tertiary care hospitals, so it has been decided that surgeries that don’t require an immediate medical procedure can be scheduled to be performed later,” he said. The administration has also added 200 beds at the Covid Care Centre in Gian Sagar Hospital and is setting up two more testing centres at Nayagaon and Sohana in order to ease the pressure on the civil hospital.Pvt hospitals to provide home careAlso, private hospitals in the district would extend medical care to Covid-19 patients in home isolation, said Dayalan. A large number of patients have mild or no symptoms, and do not require hospitalisation, said the DC, adding that “rolling out home care packages will help reduce avoidable overcrowding at hospitals”.While Fortis and Max Healthcare have offered to extend home care packages to patients with mild symptoms, other hospitals are also exploring the possibility, he said. Patients will get to talk to the doctors on video chat, and nurses and paramedics would also be available for video consultation to ensure constant monitoring. The patients will also be provided with medicine and medical care kits that will help to detect if their condition deteriorates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-s-covid-toll-climbs-to-57-as-five-more-succumb-37-deaths-in-15-days/story-bvvE7CthUSe4940UsgPACO.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||‘What Delhi did yesterday, US does today’: Kejriwal on Trump’s plasma therapy announcement||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal used the announcement by US President Donald Trump of using the plasma therapy against Covid-19, saying what Delhi did yesterday, America does today.“They used to say, back in the day - what America does today, India would do tomorrow. Delhi has changed it. Now - what Delhi did yesterday, America does today. Congratulations Delhiites for achieving this for our country,” Kejriwal tweeted. They used to say, back in the day - what America does today, India would do tomorrow. Delhi has changed it. Now - what Delhi did yesterday, America does today. Congratulations Delhiites for achieving this for our country. https://t.co/ub18gZm7kPHe also attached an update from news agency ANI about Trump making the announcement to use plasma therapy.Trump had on Sunday hailed FDA authorisation of a coronavirus treatment that uses blood plasma from recovered patients, a day after accusing the agency of impeding the rollout of vaccines and therapeutics for political reasons.“This is what I’ve been looking to do for a long time,” Trump said at a White House news conference. “Today I’m pleased to make a truly historic announcement in our battle against the China virus that will save countless lives.”The FDA, explaining its decision, cited early evidence suggesting blood plasma can decrease mortality and improve the health of patients when administered in the first three days of their hospitalization.The agency also said it determined this was a safe approach in an analysis of 20,000 patients who received the treatment. So far, 70,000 patients have been treated using blood plasma, the FDA said.Kejriwal had launched Delhi’s first plasma bank last month at state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) for treatment of Covid-19 patients.Under plasma therapy, antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 are taken and transfused into a coronavirus infected patient to boost the immune system to fight the infection.More than 700 Covid-19 patients in the national capital have been administered convalescent plasma therapy till now. The youngest to have received plasma from the government bank was 18-years-old and the oldest was 94-years-old. The gender-wise breakup of the data shows that among the recipients 522 were males and 188 females.The total number of coronavirus positive cases stand at 1,61,466 in the national capital. As many as 1,450 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths were reported in Delhi on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/what-delhi-did-yesterday-us-does-today-kejriwal-on-trump-s-plasma-therapy-announcement/story-xX7Ea04aXPyPsXSNNhqSQL.html
24-08-2020||City||Himachal police detain two over ‘Chinese spy’ link||Police have detained two persons, including a Chinese woman and a Tibetan man, for their alleged connection with Charlie Peng, a Chinese national who was involved in a ₹1,000-crore hawala racket and had snooped on the Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama.“State police and investigating agencies have also established the money transactions between the two and Charlie Peng through a company named SK Traders,” chief minister Jai Ram Thakur told reporters after the state cabinet meeting.“They were being paid to track and report the movement of the Dalai Lama,” said the CM adding that the state government has beefed up the security of the 85-year-old Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.Thakur said the state police and Intelligence Bureau (IB) were carrying out a joint investigation into the matter.The Chinese woman has been identified as Lanhu alias Leena, who was living in Bir village of Kangra district for quite long with her two daughters. She was detained near Dharamshala. The other person is Sonam Wangchuk, who reportedly works at a Tibetan school in Chauntra town of Mandi district.The CM said he has spoken to the director general of police and further details were awaited.Meanwhile, sources revealed that the security agencies were also questioning two more people closely associated with Wangchuk, who allegedly distributed the hawala money to get information on Dalai Lama’s movement. The transactions into his account were done through nationalised banks.When contacted, Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan refused to comment stating he was not probing the matter.The income tax department had recently arrested Charlie Peng who is accused of allegedly running a hawala racket. Peng was allegedly holding a fake Indian passport. He is accused of creating a web of sham companies which he used to launder hawala funds to and from China. He had also bribed monks in the Majnu-Ka-Tila settlement in Delhi to snoop on the Dalai Lama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-police-detain-two-over-chinese-spy-link/story-daI4MGs9augFDu4XuTdM9N.html
24-08-2020||City||Dombivli building collapse: No one injured||Two-storeyed building, Saraswat Niwas in Dombivli’s Tilaknagar collapsed on Monday. As per the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), no one was injured in the incident as the building was vacant at the time of the collapse. The building collapsed on two wheelers parked nearby which led to its damage. The collapse led to a loud noise in the premises which caused panic among the local residents. As soon as the incident took place the fire department of KDMC and Tilak nagar police team reached the spot. The fire men removed the two wheelers from under the debris. “The incident took place around 2.30pm. The building was declared dangerous and it was vacant. It did not lead to any injury of casualty,” said a KDMC official, who did not wish to be named. The civic body had declared this building in dangerous category 20 years back. It was built in 1956. As per a survey conducted by the KDMC this year, there are 284 buildings categorised as dangerous and 187 in extremely dangerous building category. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dombivli-building-collapse-no-one-injured/story-fpBv5t3QbGDcTAJwb1scdL.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||6 cases of chain snatching reported in two days; cops to intensify patrolling||Mumbai police, between Saturday and Sunday, reported over six cases of chain snatching from Oshiwara, Borivli, Vikhroli, Parel, Mulund and Tilak Nagar. According to police data, over 70 cases of chain snatching have been reported across the city, till August, this year. Despite lockdown being imposed in the months of April, May and June, the city has witnessed a rise in street crimes. Vinoy Kumar Choubey, the joint commissioner of police, law and order, said, “We have asked senior police inspectors of all police stations to identify vulnerable spots where such offences are on rise and to increase patrolling in those areas. We have also asked them to start Nakabandi’s in sensitive areas.” In the six instances, victims collectively lost gold ornaments worth ₹3.72 lakh. Detection teams of six police stations are looking out for the accused. The first instance of chain snatching was reported at Oshiwara police station where two unknown persons snatched the chain worth ₹65,500 of a 61-year-old woman identified as Jayshree Jain. The incident took place at around 5pm when she went to buy vegetables near Maheshwari Bhavan at Lokhandwala in Andheri (West). A man snatched her gold chain and then fled in an autorickshaw, said Oshiwara police officer who registered an FIR in the case. In the second case, two motorcycle born men targeted 64-year-old Surekha Mehta while she was heading to Sion from Thane in a taxi at around 6pm. Mehta in her complaint said that she was sitting in the backseat and had reached near Godrej gate when two men came close to her cab and snatched her gold chain worth ₹85,000. An FIR has been registered at Vikhroli police station. The third case was registered at Borivali. A gold chain of 28-year-old Vasundhara Gandhile was snatched by two motorcycle-borne men while she was walking near Jogger’s park at Chikuwadi in Borivali at around 8.30 pm on Saturday. The fourth case was registered at NM Joshi Marg by 28-year-old Darshan Kokle. Kokle in his complaint said that he was on a bike with his brother at Senapati Bapat Marg in Lower Parel when two bike-borne men snatched his gold chain worth ₹39,000. Sunday morning saw robbers strike in Mulund (East) when 24-year-old Akshad Rahate had gone to the first market at 7 am. Rahate in his complaint at Mulund police station said that he was standing near Fish World Shop on Jata Shankar Road when two men on a motorcycle snatched his chain worth ₹80,000. Later in the day at 11 am, two robbers on a bike snatched the gold chain of 65-year-old Subbammal Arumugam worth ₹67,500 while she was walking with her husband near Tilak Nagar in Chembur. An FIR has been registered at Tilak Nagar police station. According to the police all the incident cases were registered under sections 392 (Punishment for robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and a police team is been looking for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-cases-of-chain-snatching-reported-in-two-days-cops-to-intensify-patrolling/story-dsfpFGNnOIZh19vczMTVZI.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Explain how LoC is issued without criminal proceedings: HC||The Bombay high court on Monday questioned the Bank of Baroda (BoB) and the Bureau of Immigration (BI) to explain on what grounds they could restrain a woman from travelling to the USA after it was informed that the woman was stopped from flying at CSIA on the basis of a lookout circular (LOC) issued against her. When the court sought to know about the criminal case against the woman, the BI submitted that they had issued the LoC based on information by BoB that the woman was a defaulter, however, there was no complaint registered against her. The court sought to know whether anyone could be restrained from travelling abroad without any criminal case and directed both the BI and BoB to file their reply justifying their action. A division bench of justice S J Kathawalla and justice Madhav Jamdar while hearing the petition of a woman of Indian origin who took up US citizenship in 2017 along with her family was informed by advocate Ashok Kumar Singh that the woman had been travelling to India regularly after shifting to the US to meet her aged mother. Earlier in 2020 when she was boarding a flight to the US, she was stopped by the BI officials and informed that there was an LoC against her name and hence she could not board the flight. Singh submitted that his client’s husband and father-in-law had taken a loan from BoB in 2012 for their factory in Gujarat. However as the business had run into losses they completed the securitization process with the bank by handing over the plant, machinery and plot of land before shifting to the US. He added that however there was some pending claim of the bank which was being heard by the Debt Recovery Tribunal at Ahmedabad. Singh added that his client was only the guarantor of the loan and hence the action of restraining her from travelling in the absence of any criminal proceedings against her was not valid. The counsel for the BI submitted that as BoB had informed them that the woman was a defaulter and should not be allowed to leave the country hence they had issued an LoC and restrained her from flying. After hearing the submissions the court wanted to know on what grounds the BI or the BoB restrain the woman from leaving the country without any criminal proceedings being initiated against her. As none appeared for BoB, the court directed it to explain the same and also directed BI to inform it of the procedure for issuing LoC and posted the matter for hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/explain-how-loc-is-issued-without-criminal-proceedings-hc/story-ZqjlMLBE8iSC0yV5f0pi6M.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana gurdwara panel chief quits as parallel jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib||The newly elected president of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc), or HSGMC, Baljit Singh Daduwal said on Monday that he was quitting as the ‘parallel’ jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib.The radical Sikh preacher made the announcement after paying obeisance at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda.Daduwal informed Hindustan Times over the phone that the HSGMC would seek help from the Centre and the governments of Haryana and Punjab to fight the case in Supreme Court on taking over management of about 55 historic gurdwaras in Haryana. A delegation will soon meet union home minister Amit Shah and the Haryana and Punjab chief ministers, he said. “I have decided to focus on... socio-religious affairs while heading the HSGMC. Now it is up to the Sarbat Khalsa (congregation) to hand over the service of the Takht Damdama Sahib to another individual accepted by the panthic bodies,” Daduwal added.“Our activities will not be limited to propagate Sikhism, but the Haryana panel will work against drugs and to provide education and training at institutes for competitive examinations. Activities of HSGMC will be extended beyond Haryana,” he said.The 45-year-old Sikh from the Damdami Taksal seminary, once headed by Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, was among people appointed as ‘parallel’ jathedars by the Sarbat Khalsa held by Sikh radicals in Amritsar in November 2015, where the “removal” of those appointed by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) was also announced.A vocal opponent of Akali patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, Daduwal was one of the first campaigners to protest against the incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and firing on Sikh protesters in Faridkot district in 2015. “No panthic organisation or individual asked me to step down as jathedar but it is my personal decision. After being elected as the first president of HSGMC on August 13, I had made my mind to work for the independent Sikh Haryana gurdwara panel that was formed after a long struggle,” he added.HSGMC has control over five historic shrines in Haryana.About 55 other prominent shrines in Haryana are still being managed by the SGPC though a petition had been filed in the apex court against the decision of the former Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government for formation of an independent panel to manage Sikh shrines.As of now there’s status quo on the management of Haryana gurdwaras.“Sikhs of Haryana fought a religious battle against the SGPC that was under the control of Parkash Singh Badal and his family. We are now an elected body representing panth and will pursue the legal battle for independence of shrines,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-gurdwara-panel-chief-quits-as-parallel-jathedar-of-takht-damdama-sahib/story-lGQM9YyDqeE9Sl2TVNigfO.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Now 11 security men with Senior Badal test positive for Covid-19, village a macro containment zone||Badal village in Muktsar district was declared a ‘macro containment zone’ after 11 of Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal’s security men tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.Strict restrictions will be in place for 10 days following the development.Six others, including Punjab police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel tested positive on Saturday, following which the Badal’s residence in the village was declared a micro containment zone. Two other cases, a cook and a telephone operator, were recorded previously.Restrictions in the village kicked in after Monday’s cases took the count to more than 15.District Covid management officer Dr PS Sandhu said ten personnel who tested positive on Monday were from the CISF.Sandhu said no one from the Badal family, including Badal, his son and SAD president, Sukhbir Singh Badal, and daughter-in-law, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, had been tested for Covid yet by the district health department.“As per Covid protocol, contacts of the infected persons are traced before conducting a test on others. Also, the individuals are expected to inform the health department if they had come in close contact with Covid patients,” said Sandhu.As the number of cases has risen above 15, the entire village has been declared a macro containment zone under strict restriction for 10 days, Sandhu added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-11-security-men-with-senior-badal-test-positive-for-covid-19-village-a-macro-containment-zone/story-VOytlNZX4GZix05a7MS6iJ.html
24-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal Assembly session to be held in September with Covid-19 norms in place||Amid the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak , a session of the West Bengal Assembly will be held in September with all safety protocols in place, officials and sources from the assembly told news agency PTI.A senior government official said that Bengal government has sent a proposal for resuming the assembly session from first or second week of September and added that all precautionary measures will be taken during the conduct of the session in view of the Covid-19 situation in the state.According to the state health department’s bulletin, West Bengal has so far registered over 1,38,000 Covid-19 cases and nearly 2,800 deaths. More than 15 lakh samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state till now.Also read| ‘Will put students’ lives at risk’: Mamata Banerjee urges Centre to postpone JEE, NEETThe chamber of the house of the legislative building measures 4,300 sq ft. It is round shaped and has a capacity to accommodate 300 members.One of the sources in the assembly told PTI that organising the session outdoors rather than inside the legislative building was also under considerationHe added that all necessary precautions will be taken as they were aware about the Covid-19 crisis and media’s presence during the session will be regulated too. Also read: In poll-bound Bengal, TMC gears up to reach out to women votersThis session of the Bengal assembly is crucial as the state is scheduled to go to elections in 2021. While chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) enjoys an over-thumping majority in the house, the BJP, due to its far better performance than parties such as the CPM and Congress during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, has emerged as the main opposition in West Bengal.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-assembly-session-to-be-held-in-september-with-covid-19-norms-in-place/story-YQqF2AplOw03hEUvxJPx1O.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Asian palm civet trapped inside Mulund home, rescued||A male Asian palm civet was found trapped inside a residential house in Mulund in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The civet was found taking shelter inside an empty house in Panchsheel Nagar, Mulund amid heavy showers.Asian palm civet (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus) is a small viverrid (small to medium sized mammals) native to South and Southeast Asia and is protected under Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 in India. They are fast-paced animals, extremely shy and wary of humans and other animals.Animal rescue group Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW) was informed about the civet’s presence by locals. “Since the house was empty as the family was away, a neighbour spotted the civet making an attempt to find its way out of the house when it stopped raining. However, he noticed that the civet was unable to help itself out of the house and reported it to us on the helpline,” said Pawan Sharma, president, RAWW.A five-member rescue team, led by Joaquim Naik, and members of the state forest department reached the spot and found the civet hiding in a small empty water tub at one corner of the house. “It was safely rescued by our team in coordination with the forest department by early morning on Monday,” said Sharma. He added that the civet was medically examined by veterinarian Dr Rina Dev and would be kept under observation until released back into the wild, once the forest department declares it fit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/asian-palm-civet-trapped-inside-mulund-home-rescued/story-NWAJzsqEZgmkfxE2vbPL2H.html
24-08-2020||City||Uttarakhand BJP re-inducts MLA who was expelled after gun-toting dance video||A year after the BJP expelled Pranav Singh ‘Champion’ , its MLA form Khanpur in Uttarakhand from the party’s primary membership following a viral video of the lawmaker dancing with guns, he was taken back into the fold on Monday.The re-induction took place at a function at state BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat’s residence here.Champion was re-inducted into the party after Bhagat had summoned him and three other BJP MLAs mired in controversy, to present their side before the party leadership. The other three MLAs include Dwarahat MLA Mahesh Negi, who was recently accused of rape by a woman, Jhabreda MLA Deshraj Karnwal and Lohaghat MLA Pooran Singh Fartyal, who were both served show cause notices for indiscipline earlier. Champion, who had come to attend the function with his wife and other family members, was welcomed back into the party by Bhagat. In July last year, he was expelled from the party’s primary membership for six years after a video featuring him dancing with guns and alcohol in an indecent manner surfaced. He was also heard using abusive words for Uttarakhand state and its residents in the video. Welcoming him back into the party, Bhagat said, “There were talks in the party since last one year to take him back. On that line, we spoke to him during the party’s core committee meeting on Sunday and told him that he would be taken back if he promises to work as per the party constitution and not indulge in any controversy. He agreed to both and apologised.” “We then decided to revoke his suspension and take him back. It was our duty to make him realise his mistake which he did. Also, it was taken into consideration that in the last one year during his suspension, he remained in discipline without any controversy,” said Bhagat. Expressing his gratitude to Bhagat and the party leadership for taking him back, Champion said, “I have apologised wholeheartedly to the party president. I have realised my mistake and promised that I will always abide by the party constitution and remain in discipline away from any controversy.” “The party is like my mother and I will always be ready to serve it.” At Monday’s meeting, Bhagat also spoke about ‘forgiving’ MLA Deshraj Karnwal for his indiscipline. Karnwal was served a show-cause notice for misbehaving with party workers in his constituency. An audio clip had gone viral in which he was purportedly heard using inappropriate words against a party worker while speaking to him. “We have also spoken to Karnwal on the incident to which he too apologised and assured that such an incident will never be repeated. The leadership then decided to forgive him,” said Bhagat with Karnwal standing alongside him during the function. Karnwal who claimed that the audio clip circulated was doctored, said, “I have always worked for the development of the party and will continue to do so. I have apologised to the party leadership and will always be disciplined.” Lawmakers Negi and Fartyal did not show up for the meeting.“Negi said that he didn’t get any information about the summon from the party but got to know only through newspaper reports on Sunday. Hence, he couldn’t reach on time. He will reach here by the evening,” Bhagat said.On the rape allegations against him, Bhagat said, “The allegations are serious as they have pointed towards his character. However, police are probing the whole matter including his wife’s complaint against the woman for trying to blackmail and extort Rs 5 crore from him.” “If after the investigation, Negi is found guilty, the party will take strict action against him as discipline is everything in our organisation,” said Bhagat. On Fartyal he said, he couldn’t be contacted as his phone was switched off. “If he doesn’t reach today, then he will be asked to come some other day.” Fartyal was also served show cause notice after he protested against the government’s move of awarding the contract of Tanakpur-Jauljibi road construction in his constituency to a contractor who was earlier blacklisted. The Uttarakhand unit of the Congress termed the development as the end of ‘ethical values in BJP.’ Pritam Singh, party state president said, “BJP says that Champion has apologised and hence he has been taken back. We want to know, what new qualities has he acquired that he has been taken back after one year of his expulsion?” “He had abused the state and its people in the video which all watched. If despite that, he has been taken back, then we think ethical values have lost place in BJP,” he said. Singh also attacked the BJP for not taking any action against Negi so far. “The allegations against him are serious. The woman has been demanding a DNA test to prove her claims but no action has been taken by the government so far. The CM said that Negi is ready for it but it will be as per law. I want to ask, CM is also the home minister, then what is stopping him from directing a DNA test for him?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttarakhand-bjp-re-inducts-mla-who-was-expelled-after-gun-toting-dance-video/story-vL8oaNfMhzkCAqBpMAIsGL.html
24-08-2020||Pune||Current claims over Covishield false: SII||The current claims over the Coronavirus vaccine, Covishield, are completely false and it will be commercialised when trials prove successful and regulatory approvals are in place, said Serum Institute of India (SII) on Sunday.SII issued this clarification after reports in the media began appearing which claimed that Covishield- Oxford University’s vaccine candidate, will be commercialised in a little over two months.The phase three trials for the Oxford vaccine candidate are being conducted by SII in India.“Serum Institute of India clarifies that the current claims over Covishield’s availability, in the media are completely false and conjectural. Presently, the government has granted us permission to only manufacture the vaccine and stockpile it for future use,” SII said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/current-claims-over-covishield-false-sii/story-8bBdYX0Tn4y5XQGv5Iem0I.html
24-08-2020||Pune||Thieves steal jewellery, cash, car worth Rs 4,15,000 from house in Ambegaon Budrukh, Pune||Jewellery, cash and a car, all belonging to residents of a house that was broken into between 8pm on Thursday and 6am on Friday, have been reported as stolen. The second-floor house that was burgled is located in Ambegaon Budrukh, Pune. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Satish Kamalekar (45), who lives in the apartment. According to the complaint, the house was locked shut and the lock on the main door was broken open. The car keys were left on the TV showcase in the living room and the car was then stolen from the parking in front of the house. “The automatic key was used to find the corresponding car in the parking,” said police sub-inspector Bhushan Kote of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, who is investigating the case. The car, a white WagonR, is registered in the name of the complainant in Pune. Gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 3,15,000 from the bedroom of the house were also stolen. Police estimate the total worth of stolen goods to be Rs 4,15,000. A case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-break-in by night in order to commit an offence punishable with imprisonment); 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc.); and 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/thieves-steal-jewellery-cash-car-worth-rs-4-15-000-from-house-in-ambegaon-budrukh-pune/story-q0sYZCcNvVyuS1OTjvwjFJ.html
24-08-2020||City||J&K reports decline in hospitalisation, experts say complacency may cause surge in Covid-19 cases||Restrictions have finally been lifted from Kashmir valley and the number of Covid-related hospitalisations have come down. However, with residents disregarding standard operating procedures (SoPs) such as wearing masks and observing social distancing, experts say their complacency may lead to a surge in cases in the near future. Doctors say there has been a decline in the number of Covid-19 patients being hospitalised in the region over the last 10 days. Primarily, because most patients with mild symptoms are undergoing treatment at home. Only those in a critical condition are being hospitalised, which has reduced the demand for oxygen cylinders. Only a fortnight ago, there was rampant chaos in health institutions with no beds available. “Up until a fortnight, I would examine around 15 to 20 patients with bilateral pneumonia. However, now I see five to six patients a day, which is a good sign,” said a senior consultant at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar. Government Medical College and Hospital, Baramulla, medical superintendent Dr Masood said, “The situation has stabilised. People are no longer panicking and patients are getting adequate attention. “Though fatalities are also taking place. It is true that fewer people are being hospitalised. The government’s decision of allowing Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms to recuperate at home has also reduced the burden on hospitals. “At present, there are 50 beds available for Covid-19 patients.” ‘DO NOT TAKE VIRUS LIGHTLY’GMC, Srinagar, social preventive medicine head Dr Salim Khan said only patients with moderate to severe symptoms are being admitted to hospitals. He said the number of cases being reported had come down after the lockdown. “People must follow SoP’s, which is integral to bring down Covid-19 cases. We should not take this disease lightly and must follow protocols.”At Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), one of the leading hospitals in Kashmir, the patient influx has come down. “There are fewer Covid-19 patients at the hospital. Earlier, we had 276 patients, now only 140 patients remain,” says medical superintendent, SKIMS, Dr Farooq Jan said. He, however, said the reason why fewer people were reporting to the hospital must be studied. “Getting less patients is a good sign, but we must not lower our guard,” he cautioned. Doctors have warned that people should not be complacent until a vaccine comes up. “Many people are not wearing masks and following social distancing. Some people are arranging marriage ceremonies and family functions, which could prove detrimental in the coming days,” said Dr Amjid of GMC, Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reports-decline-in-hospitalisation-experts-say-complacency-may-cause-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-8umocDYPC0eeMCUtAXK1DM.html
24-08-2020||City||Himachal: CPI (M) to hold state-wide protests against govt tomorrow||Communist Party of India (Marxist) will be staging various protests at state, block and tehsil levels against the “anti-people” policies of the central and state governments.Through these protests, CPI (M) will demand the government to provide ₹7,500 per month to families who do not come under the purview of income tax, give 10kg ration each to such persons till the next six months, increase the scope of rural employment with 200 work days and hike in daily wages.It will also seek new rules for urban unemployment, increase of public health expenditure up to 3% of the GDP, removal of Essential Commodities Act, abolition of labour law amendments, stopping privatisation of government companies and industries, and financial assistance from National Disaster Relief Fund to those who lost their lives during the coronavirus pandemic, among others.Apart from this, CPI has also demanded the state government to roll back the hiked bus fare, electricity charges, water charges and other taxes immediately.CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said unemployment and agricultural crisis in the country has increased ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government assumed power as it has been implementing neoliberal policies. Instead of providing relief to the people during the pandemic, central and state governments are busy in spreading communalism and providing benefits to big corporate houses by selling banks, airports, railways and government-owned companies, he alleged.CPI (M) has also urged the people of the state to participate in these protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cpi-m-to-hold-state-wide-protests-against-govt-tomorrow/story-pbtJfXEDvpo5hoRLbUBa1J.html
24-08-2020||Pune||Four additional judges appointed at Shivajinagar district court to reduce pendency in cases||Four senior judges have been appointed at the district court, Shivajinagar to expedite the hearings and reduce pendency in cases.Pune District Bar Association had petitioned before the Bombay High Court seeking appointment of additional judges to cater to an increasing number of cases pending before the court. Notification to the effect was issued by district judge Neeraj Dhote.Currently, all types of courts are operational in the city. However, only ten per cent of work is going in the sessions court due to the restrictions amid the Covid-19 pandemic, bar association stated.“We wanted the courts to function regularly and had petitioned before the Bombay High Court seeking appointment of more judges to reduce pendency of cases,” he said.“The hearings will begin from Monday. Hearings, arguments and final orders are pending before the sessions court. The appointment of four more judges will lead to a quicker reduction of the pendency and streamlines the work process towards achieving regularity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-additional-judges-appointed-at-shivajinagar-district-court-to-reduce-pendency-in-cases/story-8DpFLhkJ1HxxryTDRrirjJ.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi to have an integrated hospital management system in a year: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that all hospitals, polyclinics and mohalla clinics of the state government will be integrated onto a common online system, possibly a mobile phone application, within a year.Kejriwal made the announcement after virtually launching a mobile app and an online outpatient department (OPD) appointment system for Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya on Monday. The chief minister also said the bed capacity of the hospital will be increased from 106 beds to 281 beds. “The Delhi government is bringing together all hospitals in Delhi through a ‘hospital management information system’ (HMIS), including mohalla clinics, polyclinics, multi-speciality and super-speciality hospitals. This is a very ambitious project and will be completed within one year. I have shown the app to many people and the app has various features. We will integrate all those features with our HMIS to improve the system’s efficiency,” Kejriwal said.Talking about the mobile app and online OPD services launched at the Dada Dev Hospital, Kejriwal said the facility conducts around 10,000 deliveries annually, making it an important facility. “If two-three women are being treated on a single bed, this is not right, especially in Delhi, which is the national capital. This issue will be solved with the expansion of the hospital,” he said. Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya is a 106-bedded hospital located in south-west Delhi’s Dabri to provide mother and child healthcare services. The hospital has a campus of 10,470 square metres, including hostel and staff accommodation facilities, according to the Delhi government’s website.This is the first hospital established by the Delhi government to provide mother and child healthcare services in an ‘integrated way’, the government said. The app launched on Monday is aimed at benefitting pregnant women, who can book their appointments from the comfort of their homes. They will have to reach the doctors’ rooms just half an hour before their appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-have-an-integrated-hospital-management-system-in-a-year-kejriwal/story-NSmjEVZJrTcaLKeJaQu49L.html
24-08-2020||City||Vaishno Devi yatra: Covid-19 negative report not older than 48 hrs mandatory for pilgrims||Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board on Monday said pilgrims coming from outside Jammu and Kashmir are required to bring ‘valid Covid-19 negative test report’ not older than 48 hours on their arrival at Katra or else they will not be allowed to undertake the pilgrimage. The pilgrimage to Mata Vaishno Devi Temple resumed on August 16, nearly five months after it was suspended due to the pandemic on March 18.The shrine board is abiding with all central health norms to contain the spread of virus. Only 2,000 people are allowed to visit the shrine per day. Shrine board CEO Ramesh Kumar said, “It was already decided that pilgrims from outside J&K will not be allowed without a valid Covid-19 negative report but we noticed that few yatris were not following the guidelines. Therefore, they were not allowed to undertake the pilgrimage.” “We have reiterated our guidelines again for the wider dissemination of people living outside the UT. We would like to inform them again that pilgrims from outside J&K must come with valid Covid-19 negative report not older than 48 hours when they reach Katra so as to avoid any hardships. Those without it shall not be allowed under any circumstances.” For local pilgrims, rapid antigen tests are being conducted at the Katra base camp before allowing them to undertake the yatra. On August 21, two pilgrims from Bihar had tested positive at Katra. Kumar said, “They had not entered the track and were not in Ban Ganga. They were in a colony,” he added. Last week, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, who is also the chairman of the shrine board, had paid obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum and prayed for peace, progress and prosperity in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vaishno-devi-yatra-covid-19-negative-report-not-older-than-48-hrs-mandatory-for-pilgrims/story-pe9r4qe3CwCBQVHlQstH1J.html
24-08-2020||City||Himachal Pradesh University to conduct postgraduate exams from September 15 onwards||The Himachal Pradesh University will be conducting regular and re-appear postgraduate (PG) examinations for various courses from September 15 onwards, officials said. The examinations were scheduled to take place earlier this year but were postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic.Controller of examination JS Negi said the examinations will be conducted as per University Grants Commission guidelines and state government orders. A notification for the schedule of these examinations will be released soon, he added.As many as 60,000 students throughout the state are expected to appear in these examinations and around 43 centres will be established in the state.Meanwhile Students Federation of India (SFI) has demanded the university authorities to sanitise university hostels and immediately open them for students during these exams. The SFI has also submitted their demand letter to chief warden of the university regarding it.The SFI claimed that if hostels will not be opened then students from outside Shimla might face accommodation issues which will also increase financial burden on them. Opening hostels will be a huge relief to students especially students from Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and remote areas of the state, the student party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-university-to-conduct-postgraduate-exams-from-september-15-onwards/story-NmuIpcUTjzFhbV7mADTg4N.html
24-08-2020||City||HP govt signs ₹110 crore MoU for setting up electronics manufacturing unit in Baddi||The Himachal Pradesh government on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) worth ₹110 crore in the presence of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur with Micro Tek New Technologies Private Ltd for setting up a manufacturing unit of thermometers, online/offline UPS, high capacity invertors, oxymeters and other electrical products in Solan district’s Baddi area.Director, industries, Hansraj Sharma signed the MoU on behalf of the state government and chairman MicroTek New Technologies Private Ltd Subodh Gupta on behalf of the company.The unit will be completed by March, 2021 to provide direct employment to about 450 people.Gupta also presented 1,000 thermal thermometers to the CM on behalf of the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-signs-110-crore-mou-for-setting-up-electronics-manufacturing-unit-in-baddi/story-pt4u194vG4roLH8C6Sg7AP.html
24-08-2020||City||Patients take part in drawing contest at Covid hospital||Away from their loved ones, 81 Covid-19 patients at the Covid hospital in Ambernath’s Dental College marked Ganesh Chaturthi by trying their hand at drawing. Dheeraj Chavan, additional chief officer of the Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC), floated the idea to organise a drawing competition.The patients, who are battling Covid-19 infection, were provided with paper, pencil and colours. The event saw enthusiastic response from the patients with a 70-year-old woman also taking part. Some drew flowers or Ganpati to mark the occasion, while others focused on the theme of Covid-19.“Since it is a festive season, many patients at the centre might be missing their families. To keep them engaged and give them positive vibes, we decided to hold a drawing competition for the patients. Most of them participated and showcased their talent,” said Chavan. He added, “We did not inform them about the competition beforehand and kept it as a surprise to make them feel good. We chose eight winners who were delighted.”The winners were rewarded with prizes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patients-take-part-in-drawing-contest-at-covid-hospital/story-B0yhVhBnkgYBBXyCBmQhEJ.html
24-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand BJP accuses state govt of giving special treatment to Lalu Prasad Yadav||With the date for Bihar Assembly polls nearing, politics in Jharkhand over former Chief Minister of Bihar Lalu Prasad Yadav has heated up with Jharkhand BJP accusing the state government of giving special treatment to Lalu Yadav who is convicted in fodder scam case. Lalu was recently shifted to RIMS director’s bungalow from a paying ward to avoid Covid-19 infection. The paying ward has been converted as designated Covid-19 centre at RIMS.“RJD has supported Hemant Soren government, and hence Soren Government is giving him a red carpet treatment as a return gift violating all rules and jail manuals. This is not right,” said Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shah Deo.“We doubt that the bungalow is gradually becoming the election office of RJD. Lalu Yadav has been convicted by the court, but Hemant Soren government is making a mockery out of this. This should stop immediately. Furthermore, we demand district administration and jail IG all that entry and exit point should be brought under CCTV surveillance to keep off the people who are meeting with Lalu Prasad Yadav,” he added.However, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) termed BJP allegations baseless and misleading. JMM General Secretary Vinod Pandey said, “BJP’s main motive is to defame the government in any manners. This is why BJP takes every issue in that direction. They forget their responsibility towards the people of Jharkhand. Everyone knows under what circumstances Lalu Yadav was shifted to the bungalow. He was a prisoner then and even now.”In Bihar Assembly election JMM will contest in alliance with RJD and Congress. Seat sharing is yet to be decided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-bjp-accuses-state-govt-of-giving-special-treatment-to-lalu-prasad-yadav/story-xY2uqC4jHi1D6pGOkbNxVJ.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal launches online OPD appointment system for child and mother healthcare hospital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal virtually launched a mobile app and online Outpatient Department (OPD) appointment system of Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya on Monday.“Around 10,000 deliveries happen at this hospital in a year. Its capacity will be increased from 106 beds to 281 beds,” said CM Kejriwal during the launch.Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya is a 106-bedded hospital located in south west Delhi’s Dabri to provide mother and child healthcare services. The hospital has a campus of 10,470 square meter with hostel and staff accommodation facilities, says Delhi government’s website.This is the first hospital established by the Delhi government to provide mother and child healthcare services in an ‘integrated way’, according to the website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-launches-online-opd-appointment-system-for-child-and-mother-healthcare-hospital/story-PbQOo1iTGngvP4yXcF9LUJ.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bodies of Sonepat couple who ran away from home recovered from canal in Haryana’s Jhajjar||Rohtak: The bodies of a young couple who ran away from a village in Sonepat district two weeks ago was recovered from a canal in Jhajjar district, police said on Monday. Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa said that the bodies of the couple, who belonged to the same village in the district, were found in a canal in Jhajjar on Sunday. “The bodies were handed over to their families and were cremated on Sunday evening. The man’s parents have accused the woman’s family of killing them and throwing the bodies in the canal,” the SP said. The man’s mother told the police on Saturday that her son had eloped with an 18-year-old woman of the village on August 10. She said that the woman’s parents caught them from Jind’s Safidon a week ago and killed them. The couple fled their homes on August 10 as their parents were opposed to the match. They got married at a temple in Rohtak and left for Jind. A case of murder was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bodies-of-sonepat-couple-who-ran-away-from-home-recovered-from-canal-in-haryana-s-jhajjar/story-GhrJNPnJ8rfHjmxLSUV8qI.html
24-08-2020||Lucknow||Mayawati slams UP govt over law and order situation in state||BSP president Mayawati on Monday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the law and order situation in the state and asked if this was ‘Ram Rajya’ . Citing recent cases of crime in some parts of the state, Mayawati demanded strict action against those involved in them “There is a spurt of crime in the state like rape of a Dalit minor in Sitapur, murder of a young man and breaking his son’s hand for refusing to do bonded labour in Chitrakoot, and double murder in Gorakhpur. Is this the Ram rajya of the government? Strict action should be taken against culprits, this is the demand of BSP,” she said in the tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mayawati-slams-up-govt-over-law-and-order-situation/story-BISoVEIlQccZTbCwcQp0jI.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||McLeodganj’s iconic Nowrojee General Store to shut shop after 160 years||Dharamshala: Located in the heart of McLeodganj town and barely a kilometre from Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama’s abode, the iconic Nowrojee & Sons General Merchants will shut shop next month after a 160-year run. The Parsi family that owns one of the oldest shops in Himachal Pradesh from the British era has sold the property and is in the process of winding up the business. Though the store-cum-residence has seen six generations of the Nowrojee family at the helm, Nauzer Nowrojee was the most popular and was a friend of the Dalai Lama, for more than 60 years before his death in 2002. “It’s been a tough decision but sometimes you have to let go of things,” says Nauzer’s younger son and Delhi-based owner Parvez Nowrojee, who is retired from a private company and was running the shop with the help of caretaker since 2010. Nauzer’s elder son Kurush Nowrojee owns a tea business in West Bengal. At present, Parvez and Kurush are in McLeodganj to collect their belongings and wrap up business. DOWN MEMORY LANE Nowrojees manufactured aerated drinks and mineral water and sold wine, grocery brands, bakery products, tobacco, toiletries, and even arms and ammunition. Its closure is a heartbreaking moment for local residents. “This store is witness to many a historic event and how the towns of Dharamshala and McLeodganj evolved,” says Prem Sagar, 58, who runs a book shop and tour and travel business opposite the store. “It’s is sad moment for people like me who were emotionally attached to the store. But change is the law of nature and this is how history is created,” he said. Another resident Kul Prakash Sharma, 50, said: “We will miss this store that is synonymous with McLeodganj. I have a collection of labels and stickers from this shop. They will now become souvenirs. I’ve heard the wooden structure will be gone soon.” OLD WORLD CHARM INTACT Nowadays, the shop sells newspapers, magazines and confectionary besides exhibiting relics from a bygone era. Housed in the wooden structure are antiques, including a Petromax 835 Special, which is a Germany-made hanging wick lamp. There are cases of imported cigarette brands such as Passing Show, Craven A, and Number Ten Virginia. Advertising posters from the British era, Blue Bird toffees and old wine and beer bottles are also available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcleodganj-s-iconic-nowrojee-general-store-to-shut-shop-after-160-years/story-SDT8WUWQ0plLiC8Sv0pbmM.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt’s camps for registration of construction workers off to a slow start||The Delhi government’s special camps to help construction workers register for a state-run welfare fund kicked off to a slow start on Monday even as several assembly constituencies were yet to start the drive. The camps that began from 10am on Monday will continue till September 12. Day one saw a lot of family members turn up at the centres on behalf of the construction workers. The office of labour minister Gopal Rai told HT that the government will focus on areas such as Burari, Karawal Nagar, Badarpur, Najafgarh, Matiala, Babarpur and so on as most construction workers stay there. The special drive comes after the Delhi High Court (HC) on May 2 directed the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, which is under the aegis of the labour department of the Delhi government, to take steps to renew the membership of all the workers, in a bid to cushion their lockdown-induced loss of earnings. The court had observed that over 500,000 construction workers in Delhi, who fell off the safety net under the watch of the city’s welfare board, cannot be deprived of benefits just because they were unable to renew their annual registration.Also Read: Delhi govt’s welfare fund for construction workers: All you need to knowAt 12pm in Matiala’s Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya (SKV), a dozen people gathered around the counter. After an hour, only three of the 12 were found eligible. “There was one paan seller, others were mostly street vendors and hawkers. We explained to them that this drive is only for construction workers and to be eligible one would need a certificate from the construction company or builder where the person is employed,” said Gulab Singh, the MLA from Matiala constituency. Sudesh Rai, a worker who was registered at the Matiala camp, said he works in a housing project of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA). “Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers brought here me. Now I am told I can avail of nearly 18 different assistance schemes including Rs 51,000 for the wedding of my daughter and Rs 2 lakh to my family if I die on duty,” he said. Construction workers, including plumbers and electricians employed in the construction sector, painters, tile workers and security guards aged between 18 and 60, are eligible for registration under the scheme. They must possess a photo identity card, a bank account number, a residential proof for Delhi and other documents to prove that they have worked in the construction sector for at least 90 days in the 12 months prior to the registration, said an official in charge of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government’s initiative.In Najafgarh, a camp in another Delhi government school saw several women stand in line, most of whom were related to the concerned applicant. The camps will function five days a week—from Monday to Friday between 10 am and 4 pm. “A tent has been set up for people to sit comfortably and wait for their turn, keeping in mind social distancing norms. A facility for drinking water has also been made available at the centre. Due to Covid-19, a lot of workers are yet to return from their home states, because of which the numbers continue to be low. Such camps will have to be set up at regular intervals to help  more construction workers register,” said Kailash Gahlot, the state transport minister and MLA from Najafgarh. When asked about the number of people who have been registered so far, the labour minister’s office said, “It has just been over three hours since these camps opened. We have not yet compiled the number of people who have turned up across the 70 assembly constituencies. But the aim is to spread the word to as many people as possible so that in the next few days, the number of applicants increases. The main role in this is that of the MLAs.”But the story was very different in the constituencies with legislators from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Karawal Nagar MLA and senior BJP leader Mohan Singh Bisht said no such camp was set up in his constituency as on Monday. “I have not been informed about this drive by the Delhi government. There has been absolutely no communication. We shall continue doing whatever is possible at our own level,” he said. In Badarpur, another area with a large number of construction workers, the scenario seemed bleak. Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, the area MLA and leader of opposition in the Delhi assembly, said he got to know about the government’s initiative through the full-page newspaper advertisements on Monday. “The advertisement mentions most of the schools through acronyms only. How will a humble worker understand the location of the camp? In Karawal Nagar, the camp’s location has been given as GGSSx-1. There are 18 schools in my constituencies and so I sent my workers to each school in order to find out where the camp has been set up. But we could not find any till now,” Bidhuri said. He suggested that the government send an official communication to him as the leader of opposition so that all the BJP MLAs are informed about the drive and necessary steps are taken.Every state has a welfare board which runs an array of beneficial schemes, funded by the cess collected from projects under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1996.In Delhi, the board started disbursing Rs 5,000 a month during the nationwide lockdown—which has been imposed since the end of March in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and triggered a mass job loss in the realty sector—to the bank accounts of the enrolled workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/camps-for-construction-workers-open-in-delhi/story-l6QjPYMcEdjRDwz2VTGDdP.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to set up mental health units in childcare centres||The Delhi government will set up mental health units at its childcare institutions in an aim to provide mental health services for children. The Women and Child Development department issued a notice last week inviting ‘‘Expression of Interest’‘ from interested agencies to set up such centres. The deadline for submission of Expression of Interest offer is September 10 while a pre-bid meeting will be held on August 28. The mental health units will be set up at different institutional complexes in Delhi and categorised into three clusters, the notice further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-set-up-mental-health-units-in-childcare-centres/story-IsOWewmoDi1BY413WR0EpN.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta tests positive for Covid-19 two days before assembly session begins||Chandigarh: Haryana assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Monday tested positive for Covid-19. The assembly session starts on August 26 afternoon. Deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwar will preside over the assembly proceedings in Gupta’s absence. The speaker was indisposed since Friday but was tested on Sunday for the virus. His close aide and nephew was among six assembly staffers who had tested positive on Sunday when 1,096 fresh cases were recorded across the state. It is learnt that more than 300 employees of the Vidhan Sabha were tested for the infection on August 22 in view of the monsoon session of the assembly. The Vidhan Sabha premises will be out of bounds to all, including the lawmakers until they have a Covid-19 negative report that is not older than three days. The six Vidhan Sabha employees who tested positive are two clerks, a peon, a chowkidar, a canteen worker besides the political secretary of the Speaker. Already eight employees posted at the residence of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar too have tested positive, while the CM himself is in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-tests-positive-for-covid-19-two-days-before-assembly-session-begins/story-MgFBkWNgQXWge3f57Gqx5L.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Yamuna water rises close to warning level||The water level of the river Yamuna rose close to the warning level on Monday morning. The water level recorded at Delhi’s Old Yamuna Bridge was 204.38 metres, close to the warning level of 204.50 metres. This was after 5,883 cusecs water was released from the Hathni Kund Barrage in the Yamuna at 8 am, said officials of the Delhi government’s Irrigation and Flood Control (I&FC) department. According to officials, more water is released from the Hathni Kund Barrage during the monsoon, when there is heavy rainfall in the hilly regions and the capacity of the dam is reached. The first danger mark is when the water level rises to 205.33 metres. “There is light rainfall in Delhi as well. So far, we don’t expect the water level to rise further today,” said Sanjeev Kumar, SDM (Preet Vihar) and officer-in-charge, Flood Control. He added that preparations are already underway in case people living around the Yamuna need to be evacuated. “We have already identified locations for pitching tents. Also, since social distancing is the norm during the Covid-19 pandemic, we have also identified some schools where people can be moved in with enough space to maintain physical distancing,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-yamuna-water-level-close-to-warning-level/story-TNM0ImDqohmY8zIxI3ME6O.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC extends all interim orders till October 31||The Delhi High Court on Monday extended all interim orders till October 31 in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, while observing that it would slowly start physical hearings with everyone’s consent. An HC bench comprising Chief Justice DN Patel and justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh extended all orders further till October 31. Earlier they had been extended till August 31.The court, however, said, “Needless to clarify that in case the extension of interim order causes any hardship of an extreme nature to a party to such proceeding, they would be at liberty to seek appropriate relief, as may be advised.” The court also said that 2,900 prisoners have so far been released on interim bail and the idea is to ensure that the released prisoners do not return. “The idea is to ensure that the released prisoners do not return to prison as asymptomatic patients of Covid-19, especially when the prisons are overcrowded,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-extends-all-interim-orders-till-october-31/story-LZgMn5VtnkqnKSg5VmHKsM.html
24-08-2020||Patna||Stage set for 6 new VCs, 8 P-VCs before Bihar poll notification||The Raj Bhavan is now racing against time to appoint vice-chancellors (VC) and pro vice-chancellors in Bihar’s state universities. Several of the present VCs and Pro VCs have been holding additional charges for the past few months.In Bihar, of the 12 state universities, the post of VC is vacant in six and that of pro-VC in eight. According to sources, the process of filling up these posts is in the advanced stages and could be notified by the end of the month, following mandatory consultation—there has to be a meaningful consultation between the governor and the chief minister, as per the direction of the Supreme Court—on the panel of names submitted by the search committee for each university.The apex court had, in an unprecedented move in 2013, quashed the appointment of all the VCs and P-VCs appointed during the tenure of former Bihar governor Devanand Konwar and called for a transparent mechanism involving “meaningful and effective” consultation between the Chancellor and the state government.“The Chief Minister may be invited to Raj Bhavan next week. Due to elections, the government may also like to have its social combination right, as at present there is only one VC from Bihar in state varsities, while the rest are from neighbouring UP,” said an official.In some state universities, confidential reports about some candidates in the panel have also been sought by the Raj Bhavan, raising hopes for aspirants from Bihar.The notification for the posts of VC and pro-VC was issued in March itself, and after that the last date for submitting applications online was extended twice up to May 15 due to the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the last few weeks, the process gathered momentum and the search committees screened candidates online. According to sources in the Raj Bhavan, the interaction of prospective candidates with the search committee is complete for most of the universities.The universities where the post of VC is vacant are Patna University, BN Mandal University (Madhepura), KSD Sanskrit University, Lalit Narayan Mithila University (both Darbhanga), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University and JP University (Chapra).On May 8, Raj Bhavan had directed all the acting VCs not to take any policy decisions, viz. matters related to appointment and promotion, conversing senate, syndicate or academic council meetings and decisions with financial implications without prior approval of the Chancellor. They were asked to carry out only day-to-day routine work.In BN Mandal University (Madhepura), dean, faculty of humanities, and head, department of philosophy, Gyanranjan Dwivedi, has been performing the duties of the VC by the order of Raj Bhavan since May 26 after the term of AK Roy as VC ended.BRABU VC Prof Hanuman Prasad Pandey holds the additional charge of Jai Prakash University (Chapra) since March 20. Before him, Magadh University VC professor Rajendra Prasad held the additional charge of JPU VC from January 24 to March 20. Purnea University VC Rajesh Singh has been holding the additional charge of Lalit Narayan Mithila University since March 20. In addition, he also holds the charge of KSDSU.Nalanda Open University VC HN Prasad holds the additional charge for Patna University, while Bihar Agriculture University VC Ajoy Kumar Singh holds the additional charge of TMBU.In 2017 also, when the appointment process was delayed, the chancellor had to make ad hoc arrangement in eight universities by giving charge to the senior-most professors when the terms of the respective VCs ended.“Due to the delayed start of the process for the appointment of VCs, the appointment of VCs and P-VCs invariably gets delayed. This time, the lockdown has also contributed to this. Ideally, the process should start 3-4 months before the date os vacancy arises,” said DM Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/stage-set-for-6-new-vcs-8-p-vcs-before-bihar-poll-notification/story-Xt3yAkyGPbgr7IGaIBh8jJ.html
24-08-2020||Lifestyle||Finally, you can check-in to a hotel in Delhi||After months of being shut, hotels in the Capital are all set to welcome guests with safety protocols in place. The move comes after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) gave a go-ahead to the hotel industry to restart operations. Hotels have been advised to undertake precautionary measures such as social distancing at buffet, disposable menus, payments via e-wallets, thorough sanitisation and cleaning of washrooms, crowd management, etc. The DDMA order states, “Hotels will be permitted to operate throughout the National Capital Territory of Delhi in all areas, except the containment zones, subject to strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on June 4, 2020, and other instructions and guidelines of Government of India and Government of NCT of Delhi from time to time.” Hoteliers and staff management hail the move and state that this will bring a shift towards better digital facilities and features, lend a hand to support the livelihood of workforce disturbed due to the pandemic, and will additionally brace up the hospitality sector.Read: Delhi hotels asked to anti-Covid-19 measures like e-wallets, disposable menusWelcoming the move of the government for reopening of hotels in Delhi, Jyotsna Suri, chairperson and managing director, The LaliT Suri Hospitality Group believes that the decision will enable the revival of the industry and help sustain the livelihood of many employees affected by the lockdown. She says, “We look forward to resuming operations as per new norms and with strict hygiene and sanitisation protocols.”“We are excited to welcome back our guests with reopening of our rooms, restaurants and salon as per government norms. The most important element of welcoming back guests is doing it safely, and we are going beyond cleaning to advance care across our entire hotel for our guests. Our measures are not limited to just cleanliness, social distancing, temperature checks, PPE for colleagues but also less contact, more care with enhanced digital amenities and features along with exceptional food and beverage experiences that are a crucial part of the excitement of travel,” says Julian Ayers, general manager, Hyatt Regency Delhi. Read: New safety guidelines as hotels, weekly markets set to open in DelhiWith entering the new era of operations, health and hygiene becomes the top most priority for hotels with providing the same level of comfort. “Low/no touch/ contact-light sanitised protocols converge with social and physical distancing (safe-distancing) are the new norms. However, limiting contact need not limit warmth at the core of great service lies an endearing experience. We have further strengthened our commitment to Responsible Luxury to ensure stringent levels of cleanliness, health and safety,” says Anil Chadha, COO, ITC Hotels.  Elated to receive the recent government instruction on reopening of hotel and restaurants, Sujith Herbert, general manager of Hilton Garden Inn, New Delhi/Saket says, “With this, we are all set to welcome our valued guests to the “new normal world” of elevated hospitality. We have been waiting for this instruction since long and will be happy to create a memorable yet safe experience for all our guests, with the introduction of pocket-friendly and stress-free staycation and business travel packages with flexible cancellation policy.”Read: Delhi restaurants, hotels allowed to serve liquor; bars stay closedFor hotel staff, it is a step in the right direction but there’s a long road to recovery. Prateek Verma, who works at a hotel in Delhi says, “We will be coming back to business after a long gap. The new necessary measures mean that the staff will be trained accordingly. It is a sigh of relief but there’s a long way to go!”The re-opening of hotels will also prove to be a boon for tourism sector. In an official statement, union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel, said, “Opening of the two biggest segments of the tourism industry viz hotels and restaurants in the country’s capital is positive move that will help push domestic travel and give much relief to the industry which has been reading itself with all health and safety protocols”.Denizens too rejoice as they believe one enjoy a staycation or a workation. Apeksha Talwar, a Delhi-resident and an IT consultant says, “After working continuously from home for 5 months, I can finally take a break from work, get away from home and relax . Another resident, Ankit Kumar, an advertising professional adds, “This is such a great news! Travelling seems to be a little off the charts right now and considering the workload, so it can be a good option to check-in at a hotel and have a workation.”Interact with author/ Sanchita_kalra.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/finally-you-can-check-in-to-a-hotel-in-delhi/story-k94t62BZ3cDorsTjBpKZGI.html
24-08-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh HC grants anticipatory bail to man, says if husband goes to jail, marriage will end||Madhya Pradesh high court’s principal bench at Jabalpur has granted an anticipatory bail to a man facing charges of cruelty and dowry demands by his wife, with the observation that if he goes to jail, the marriage would surely come to an end. Also read: Odisha woman strangles infant daughter, attempts suicideAs per the court’s Friday order, the man from Dindori district faces a First Information Report (FIR) lodged by his wife with Shahpura police station on June 19, 2020, under sections 294 (Obscene acts and songs), 498-A (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. In her FIR, the woman alleged that her husband abused her, demanded a gold chain of 5 tola and was asking for s plot of land, which is in the name of her father, to be transferred to him. The woman also alleged that the accused locked her in a room,refused her medical aid, harassed her for sex and also subjected her to unnatural sex. The man pleaded in the court that his wife lodged the FIR against him in retaliation to a complaint he had lodged with Karanjiya police station in the district on June 8, 2020, that his in-laws were not allowing her to return to him after taking her away. While granting an anticipatory bail to the petitioner, the court observed, “Looking at the facts and circumstances of the case, I find that the allegations are trivial and can happen in any marital home. Marriages would always experience some friction or the other. There are no signs of injuries on the body of the complainant...This court is also of the opinion that if the applicant goes to jail, the marriage would almost surely come to an end as thereafter there would be hardly any chances of compromise. However, as the allegations reveal that they are trivial in nature, a window of compromise or settlement is always kept open.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-man-says-if-husband-goes-to-jail-marriage-will-end/story-NI5hDKGktk2RbverGD8I5J.html
24-08-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Four BJP MLAs mired in controversies to meet state president today||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s four MLAs, including Dwarahat MLA Mahesh Negi who has been accused of rape and Khanpur MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh ‘Champion’ who was expelled from the party for six years for indiscipline, will be meeting state unit president Banshidhar Bhagat on Monday. The four MLAs—Champion, Negi, Jhabreda MLA Deshraj Karnwal and Lohaghat MLA Pooran Singh Fartyal—were summoned by Bhagat on Saturday to present their side of the controversies they are involved in. Among the four, Champion was expelled from the party’s primary membership last July after a video featuring him dancing with guns and liquor went viral. He was contacted by the party headquarters on Sunday and is likely to be taken back today. “I was contacted by the party leadership over the phone on Sunday and was told that the party is thinking of revoking my expulsion and taking me back. But I shouldn’t behave in an undisciplined manner and abide by the party constitution,” Champion said, adding, “I agreed to all that unequivocally.” He said, “After my expulsion, during the last year, I was not embroiled in any controversy and worked for the party like a normal worker. I will be thankful to the leadership of they take me back.” Champion also came into light for his rivalry with fellow MLA Karnwal, who has also summoned by Bhagat. A few party workers accused from his constituency accused him of misbehaviour, after which the party headquarters served him a show-cause notice months ago. “The party leadership contacted me on Sunday. I apologised and said I have always worked as per the party constitution. I also said that an audio clip in which I was purportedly heard speaking inappropriately with a worker was doctored. I have already submitted a complaint regarding that to the police,” said Karnwal. Of the remaining two MLAs, Dwarahat’s Negi was accused of raping a married woman and fathering a child a few days ago. The woman has been demanding a DNA test to prove her allegations. Though Negi has refuted the allegations, the controversy has damaged the image of the party and he has been summoned by Bhagat. Lohaghat MLA Fartyal was given a show-cause notice by the party a few months ago for indiscipline and anti-party activities after he opposed a contract given by state government to a blacklisted contractor for the construction of Tanakpur-Jauljibi road under his constituency. Both Fartyal and Negi couldn’t be contacted for comments despite several attempts. When asked about the development, Devendra Bhasin, the party’s state vice-president, said, “All the four are marred by controversy for which they were summoned. Discipline is very important in our party organisation. However, any decision will be taken by party president Bhagat only.” The Congress, meanwhile, has termed the development and possible revocation of Champion’s expulsion as a ‘degradation of ethical values’. Garima Dasauni, the Congress state spokesperson, said, “It does not surprise us that Champion could be taken back as ethical values in the state BJP are already going down. In the viral video, he was seen dancing obscenely and abusing Uttarakhand and it’s people. Despite that, if he is taken back, then there is nothing left to say.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-four-bjp-mlas-mired-in-controversies-to-meet-state-president-today/story-liq2NzyOePnw9kBSWkcfLO.html
24-08-2020||Patna||PM-initiated 500-bed Covid care hospital in Patna opens to public||The 500-bed makeshift Covid Care Hospital at Bihta in Patna, funded under the PM CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency situations), was opened to public on Monday afternoon. Union minister of state for home affairs, Nityanand Rai, inaugurated the hospital in presence of Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey. “PM-CARES Fund Trust has decided to allocate funds for fight against COVID-19 by way of establishment of 500-bed COVID-19 makeshift hospitals at Patna and Muzaffarpur, Bihar, by DRDO. This will go a long way in improving COVID care in Bihar,” PMO India tweeted. Earlier, in mid-July, a Central team had cautioned the state on hospital infrastructure and suggested setting up temporary field hospitals, taking into consideration the case growth trajectory for at least the next two months. “A similar hospital at Muzaffarpur is expected to be ready by August 30,” said Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which was entrusted with the project, has provided hospital infrastructure, which includes 125 ICU (intensive care unit) beds with ventilators, monitors; and 375 normal beds. Centralised piped oxygen supply will be available for each bed. The director-general, Armed Forces Medical Services Doctors, will provide doctors and other support staff, stated a press release issued by DRDO. It will also handle medical documentation and medico-legal issues, the communique added. “The state government has provided nurses, free uninterrupted water and power supply, air conditioners in 25 rooms with soft furnishing, security arrangements and fire tenders with crew,” said Amrit. The hospital will be equipped with CCTV surveillance system. DRDO has also made pharmacy, medical pathology laboratory, catering, laundry and ambulance services available. All services will be free, the communique said. The DRDO will also take care of the computerised hospital management system, providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and sanitiser, housekeeping services, consumable items, furniture and soft furnishing, such as bed sheets, pillows, pillow covers, blankets, towels, etc. It will also provide maintenance staff for specialised services like electrical works, air conditioning, operating diesel generator sets, etc., the communique added. The PM had directed the Ministry of Home Affairs to establish 500-bed hospitals at Patna and Muzaffarpur, considering the gravity of the Covid-19 situation in Bihar. The MHA approached the DRDO to make one each in Patna and Muzaffarpur along the same lines as the 1,000-bed Sardar Vallabhai Patel makeshift Covid hospital in Delhi. As on Monday, Bihar reported a total 1,23,383 Covid-19 cases with 627 deaths. Patna alone reported 19,112 cases and 124 deaths, the highest in Bihar. Muzaffarpur came next with 5,298 cases and 25 deaths. The Central team had also advised the state to increase the number of all health personnel on the front-lines, ensure infection prevention practices and proper roster system for patient management, besides making available sufficient logistics and a regular supply of oxygen in all Covid-19 hospitals. On July 23, Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh had said that of the 40,000 beds designated for district Covid care centres (for mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic Covid-19 patients), 20,000 beds had been readied. The department was then in the process of arranging for 4,000 additional beds in dedicated Covid health centres in districts for patients with mild-to-moderate cases, besides increasing 3,500 beds (against an existing 2,500 approx. then) for the third level at medical college hospitals, which are for severe and critical cases. The health department Monday did not share an update on the availability of beds for Covid patients and the occupancy .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/pm-initiated-500-bed-covid-care-hospital-in-patna-to-open-today/story-pEu2aoMPllsFVCZx7cHGEO.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Light rain likely in Delhi||The Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi, said there is likely to be light rain or drizzle in many areas of NCR in a few hours, including Palwal, Ballabhgarh, Farrukhnagar, Kosli and some parts of Delhi.However, heavy rain is expected only around August 26. The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is active and situated south of its normal position (from Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal). A low pressure area has formed over North Bay of Bengal on Monday. Low pressure areas are the main rain bearing system during the monsoon, which bring a lot of rain to the core monsoon region (parts of central and east India). Due to this, rainfall is likely to increase over east and central India once again.Also Read: Yamuna water rises close to warning levelHeavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Odisha from August 24 to 26, with extremely heavy rainfall in parts of the state on August 25; over Gangetic West Bengal during August 25 and 26 and Jharkhand during August 26 and 27.Due to the convergence of lower level easterlies from Bay of Bengal and south-westerlies from Arabian Sea, rainfall activity is also likely to increase over northwest India from August 25: Jammu & Kashmir, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh are likely to record heavy rain from August 25 to 28 and Uttarakhand is likely to record heavy to very heavy rain from August 25 to 28.Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are likely to record widespread and heavy rain on August 26 and 27.Overall, the monsoon rain over the country since June 1 has been 7% in excess, with 6% in excess over east and northeast India; 14% deficient over northwest India; 13% in excess over central India and 26% in excess over the south Peninsula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/light-rain-likely-in-delhi/story-50glsXzX3UmItgqk53shHO.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Pydhonie hotelier arrested for firing at labourer||A 32-year-old hotelier from Pydhonie here was arrested on Sunday for firing his airgun at a labourer and injuring him. According to Pydhonie police, the incident occurred on Thursday evening at around 10 pm when a group of labourers were sitting under the JJ Flyover near Noor Mohammadi Hotel in Pydhonie and allegedly consuming alcohol. Also read: Jammu police nab two dealers for selling PDS ration illegallyOne of the labourers, Jitendra Kumar Gurup Chand, was hit on his right leg by shrapnel and he started bleeding. Chand saw three persons standing on the second floor of the building that houses Noor Mohammadi Hotel, with one of them holding an airgun, said police. “In his statement, Chand said the man had pointed his gun at him and asked him to leave the area,” said a police officer. Chand and others then went to JJ Hospital where the shrapnel was removed from his leg. On Saturday, Chand registered a First Information Report (FIR) at the Pydhonie police station. “We conducted an inquiry and after questioning several people in the building, as per the statement given by Chand, the accused was identified and arrested under the charges of 326 (offence of voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms act,” said senior inspector Subhash Dudhgaokar of the Pydhonie police station. The accused, Mohammad Qureshi, is a hotelier and lives in Pydhonie. Initial investigations reveal that Qureshi was fed up with fights between alcoholics or drug addicts outside his house, and decided to threaten them to scare them away with his airgun, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pydhonie-hotelier-arrested-for-firing-at-labourer/story-n9xDjapTSvzhqj51QBsxMP.html
24-08-2020||India||2 dead, 1 feared trapped under boulders on Badrinath highway in Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal||Two people were killed after being hit by shooting stones on the Rishikesh-Badrinath highway in Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal district early on Monday, news agency ANI reported citing State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) officials.Another person is feared trapped under the boulders near the Kaudiyala area of the district, they said according to ANI. More details are awaited.The Badrinath highway stretch in the Chamoli district was blocked after a landslide near a camp of the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) late on Sunday, reported news agency ANI.The operations to clear the debris on the highway in the Gauchar area of the district are underway, according to ANI.In a video tweeted by the news agency, a group of people can be seen rushing away from the spot where a large amount of debris is seen falling from the adjacent cliff on the highway. There were no immediate reports of any casualties. #WATCH Uttarakhand: A landslide occurred near ITBP camp in Gauchar of Chamoli district last night, blocking Badrinath Highway. The operations to clear the highway is underway. pic.twitter.com/G1BL5cjExrOn Sunday, a landslide had occurred on the Rishikesh-Badrinath Highway (National Highway 58) near Bayasi in the hill state’s Tehri Garhwal district.The road from Dehradun to Badrinath, Kedarnath and Yamunotri are blocked at several points with rocks and boulders tumbling down the hill slope following heavy rain.The Rishikesh-Badrinath highway was blocked in Totaghati in Chamoli, the road to Kedarnath at Jaleshwar Mahadev and the one to Yamunotri at Silai bend in Uttarkashi.Officials have said more than 100 roads, including four national highways, are still blocked owing to heavy rain in several parts of the state. A stretch of the Badrinath highway has been blocked for the past 20 days, they said.Over 200 machines have been deployed by the public works department to clear the roads to facilitate smooth traffic movement, according to a report by the department.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in the state between August 25 and August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/badrinath-highway-blocked-after-landslide-in-uttarakhand-s-chamoli/story-PM8HCblMCjsHk0m7SOolUO.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to ramp up testing with more antigen tests||After exhausting over 70% of the rapid antigen kits to test for Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is now procuring 50, 000 more kits by September. This is to ramp up their testing in the city from next week. So far, the BMC has conducted over 72,000 antigen tests (of the one lakh kits procured in the first week of July).The BMC conducted these tests majorly on frontline workers, shopkeepers, vendors and high-risk contacts. Rapid antigen kits deliver test results within 15-20 minutes, but are less sensitive compared to RT-PCR tests. If a symptomatic patient tests negative through rapid antigen test, s(he) must be tested through RT-PCR.BMC has issued an expression of interest for the procurement of the next instalment of antigen kits. Suresh Kakani, the additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are conducting antigen tests at a much larger scale since the start. For now, we have issued a requirement of 50,000 kits and will procure more in the future.”As of August 22, BMC has conducted over 72,000 tests via the rapid antigen method across the city, of which nearly 4, 000 have resulted in a positive. Considering the good response, as BMC is able to detect infected patients in a shorter span, it has scaled up its testing capacity. Of the total Covid-19 tests conducted daily, more than 50% are via the rapid antigen method.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-ramp-up-testing-with-more-antigen-tests/story-THjJYS0WWn3t3LTSKKosJM.html
24-08-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s KGMU to test all its staff for Covid-19, fine protocol violators||King George’s Medical University (KGMU) authorities have decided to conduct coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test for all their staff members after vice-chancellor (V-C) Lieutenant General (retired) Bipin Puri, pro V-C Professor GP Singh and several other faculty members were found to have contracted Sars-CoV-2 that causes the disease. The medical university’s Covid-19 task force will also strictly implement the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on the campus such as imposition of fines on violators. Over 200 people from KGMU have tested Covid-19 positive to date, including resident doctors and nurses. “There are about 9,000 staff members, including contractual workforce. We will conduct Covid-19 test on all the staff. We are drawing up a list and a schedule for the exercise,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. “Fines and punitive action, as advised by the state (Uttar Pradesh) administration, will be used effectively to enforce wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing norms,” KGMU authorities said in a press note after a meeting of the task force. The V-C has directed the committee members to implement the guidelines at the earliest. Public address (PA) system will be installed at help desks to make patients and attendants aware of the viral outbreak. The task force has also decided to put up barricades at vantage points to prevent overcrowding on the campus of the medical university, use volunteers and interns to make patients and attendants aware about the pandemic, ensure 24x7 monitoring of all waiting areas and effective use of closed-circuit TVs (CCTVs) to keep a tab on the crowd. Communication with patients and attendants will also be made more effective. KGMU’s administrative staff underwent Covid-19 test on Friday after V-C Puri was found to be infected. The driver of Pro V-C Singh, who is under home isolation after he tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday, too, was found to have contracted the viral infection. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-s-kgmu-to-test-all-its-staff-for-covid-19-fine-protocol-violators/story-heTdo2Li5f9WPbzTOEW5EL.html
24-08-2020||Lucknow||Admn allows tazias at home, azadari with riders after talks with Shia cleric||The Lucknow district administration and Shia clerics have reached a consensus on letting the faithful keep tazias (a replica of the coffin of Imam Hussain carried during Muharram procession to mourn the martyrdom of the grandson of Prophet Mohammad) at home and observe azadari while distancing socially, but the issue of taking out processions remains unresolved. Azadari is the name of the practice followed during the month of Muharram (according to the Islamic calendar)—mourning the martyrdom of Imam Hussain at the Battle of Karbala about 1,340 years ago. Shia clerics have already moved court for permission to hold the Muharram processions. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said, “The administration has allowed the Shia community members to keep tazias in their homes and observe azadari during Muharram, but with certain restrictions of social distancing.” Prominent Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad had staged a dharna on Saturday evening to protest against restrictions imposed in view of the coronavirus disease pandemic. Following this, the state government directed the district administration to initiate talks with the Shia cleric. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash, along with home secretary SK Bhagat, held a dialogue with Maulana Jawad . “The government has sought a list of Shia clerics in every district, along with their phone numbers, from me. I will provide it. In every district, the Shia clerics will hold a meeting with the district’s civil and police officials in order to coordinate the Muharram activities with them. Everyone knows that tazias and azadari are an integral part of observing Muharram, and Shias cannot compromise on these rituals,” he said. “We had sought permission for majlis (sermons) in all our Imambaras with a gathering of around 1,000 people. Our Imambaras are quite big and we can follow social distancing norms there. But after high-level talks with the state government, they allowed only seven Imambaras in the state capital to hold 60 minutes of majlis with only 20 attendees. Everyone else can watch online,” the Shia cleric added. The district administration also agreed not to harass those who keep tazias at home and perform azadari, said Maulana Jawad. He said, “Lucknow has a sizable Shia population of over three lakh, which takes out a few processions during Muharram. But due to the pandemic this time, no procession has been allowed. We have gone to court over this and expect a decision in a day or two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/admn-allows-tazias-at-home-azadari-with-riders-after-talks-with-shia-cleric/story-DrptWesYboAXDtisRWaxAM.html
24-08-2020||Kolkata||Driver falls from moving bus in Kolkata, dies||A driver of a moving bus in the city died on Sunday when he fell from it after the door of his cabin accidentally flung open, a police officer said.The driver fell from the state-run bus when it was taking a left turn, he said, adding that the vehicle hit a tree before it came to a halt.The man was taken to a city hospital where he died, the Kolkata Police officer said.The bus conductor suffered injuries but his condition was stable, he said.None of 10 passengers in the bus was injured, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/driver-falls-from-moving-bus-in-kolkata-dies/story-yHTH0DnYE9wsMKjhjHeTpJ.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||1,450 fresh infections in Capital: Are cases on the up once more?||Delhi on Sunday recorded 1,450 new cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day jump in over a month, amid concerns that infections could be on the rise in the Capital, which became the first major hot spot in the country to largely control the outbreak last month.With the new-case trajectory at a month’s high, clinicians and public health experts said violations of recommended protection protocols such as social distancing and wearing masks in public places, and further relaxation of movement could be reasons behind the rise in cases.On Thursday, the results of Delhi’s second serological survey found that 29.1% of the city’s population may have developed antibodies against Covid-19. Epidemiologists say that this means over 70% of Delhi’s population remains susceptible to infections and the Capital cannot afford to lower its guard.Sunday’s new cases took the total positive cases recorded till date to 161,466. With 16 fresh deaths, the death toll climbed to 4,300. More than 145,000 people have recovered from the disease, the Delhi government said in its health bulletin.“Delhi has done quite well in terms of testing, surveillance, containment measures, contact tracing, and scaling up health infrastructure that led to the drop in overall numbers, but people’s lack of caution is preventing a further drop in cases. There’s laxity in people’s behaviour as far as adopting preventive measures is concerned, which is extremely important along with surveillance and other epidemiological measures, to bring down the rate of infection,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.In the last week, 1,269 new cases have been reported every day on an average. This is the highest this number has touched since July 22, when it was 1,333 – when cases were dropping from the peak so far (see chart).“There is still at least 1.38 crore population that’s susceptible going by Delhi’s sero survey results, and there is direct correlation between vulnerable population and rate of infection. The disease transmission is still there, so cases will not stop being reported completely. No matter how much you increase testing, it is just a supportive measures, what will work eventually is non-pharmacological measures such as physical distancing, cough etiquette, wearing mask/face covers, etc. There is a need to be careful for at least four-five months,” said Dr Sujeet K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). NCDC had supported the Delhi government in conducting the first sero-survey around late June and early July.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain told HT: “The numbers have witnessed fluctuations but it is not sufficient to conclude that there is a change in trend. As of now, the situation of Covid-19 in Delhi is under control. The number of cases recorded every day should not be seen in isolation. One should also consider the increasing recovery rate, reducing positivity rate and decreasing rate of deaths.” Testing, meanwhile, appears to have dropped from its peak levels. Delhi conducted 21,660 daily tests on average for the week ending July 10, the city’s highest recorded rate of testing till date. Since then, this number has dropped to 17,494 in the past week — down by about 15%.Experts have also raised questions about Delhi’s heavy reliance on antigen tests, which they say are not as reliable as gold-standard RT-PCR tests. Over the past month, around seven of every 10 tests conducted in Delhi have been an antigen test (on Sunday, 66% of the total tests were antigen). A high dependence on antigen tests, which throw up more false negatives, can lead to under-detection of cases and tilting crucial data metrics such as positivity rate and case distribution, experts said.With daily tests hitting a plateau, the average positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive — has started inching up as well. The number, which had dropped from a peak of 31.4% in mid-June to 5.7% at the end of July, was at 6.8% in the past week. “Unlike how it was in the beginning of the pandemic, our health care infrastructure is comfortably placed to handle the current patient load. We have enough ICU beds, and ventilators, as the number of critically ill patients is low. As I see it, the rate of rise has decreased and the recoveries have gone up,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care department, Medanta Hospital, Gurugram. Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, clinical director, Max Healthcare, said: “The numbers aren’t as bad as they were a couple of months ago. A total of about 1,000-1,200 new cases that we see these days will keep hovering around that number because the disease obviously is not going to go away overnight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/1-450-fresh-infections-in-capital-are-cases-on-the-up-once-more/story-FM34kVQnJc8Zl7Mo4U8iyK.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||PU departments asked to gear up for implementation of National Education Policy||Setting the ball rolling for the implementation of the New Education Policy 2020, Panjab University has directed its departments to prepare a roadmap.The official communication in this regard was issued by PU dean of university instructions (DUI) on August 21. The heads of the departments have been directed to formulate strategies and roadmap for the implementation of NEP.The communication states, “In view of the National Education Policy 2020 launched by the Union Government of India on July 29, you are requested to prepare the roadmap and strategies for the implementation of some of its points relevant to the concerned departments.”This comes days after vice-chancellor Raj Kumar held a meeting with department heads regarding the NEP. The communication further states that the roadmap may be formulated keeping in view the availability of resources within the department and in collaboration with allied departments.The heads have been directed to submit their replies by August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-departments-asked-to-gear-up-for-implementation-of-national-education-policy/story-KMw8VBM5WE6lwcQFQWu4rJ.html
24-08-2020||City||Mohali to get additional 20MGD water supply by February 2021||To ensure optimal utilisation of surface water and to reduce the load on underground reserves, the Punjab Housing and Urban Development Department has decided to supply additional 20 million gallons daily (MGD) water from Phases 5 and 6 of Kajauli waterworks to the residents of Mohali.An official spokesperson said that a water pipeline was being laid by Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). The work was allotted to a Baroda-based company, M/s Spunpipe & Company, at a cost of ₹60 crore in February. As per availability, the pipeline is being laid up to Sector 66 in the first phase.In the second phase, the pipeline will be extended to Aerocity and IT city. The phase-1 that began in May this year will be completed by February 2021, however, around 20% work has been completed by the firm despite Covid-19 restrictions.A 17-km pipeline will be laid in the first phase, and in the second, another 20km. At present, Mohali gets 10MGD canal water. After completion, Mohali will get additional 20MGD water to fulfill its requirements. The pipeline will begin from the Sinhpur water treatment plant, the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-to-get-additional-20mgd-water-supply-by-february-2021/story-Izg4OK9zdTSPluiwWmpFPK.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Recovered Covid-19 patients’ test results come positive for months||While over 1.09 lakh Covid-19 patients have recovered and been discharged from various city hospitals, hundreds of others require hospitalisation for one month to four months as they continue to remain positive despite recovery, said Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials.According to BMC, in many cases, patients having other health ailments have been hospitalised for over a month to four months until now. These patients are those who recover clinically but test positive despite the recovery. BMC has attributed this prolonged positivity to the viral load of infection in the body that remains despite the patient recovering clinically. Such patients are not discharged until they test negative, considering they have other health ailments, which might complicate their condition.For instance, BMC’s SevenHills Hospital in Andheri, that is a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, has handled nearly 8,000 serious and complicated cases, according to officials. Of this, nearly 15% required hospitalization for over a month.Also read: Goa designer comes up with ‘multi-mask’ for complete protection against Covid-19A discharge after 20-22 days of treatment is normal for discharging a patient from SevenHills Hospital.Dr Balkrishna Adsul, the dean of SevenHills Hospital said, “We have been treating patients, who have comorbidities like kidney ailment or any other chronic disease. Till now, we have treated over 8,000 such patients, and around 15% have required over one month of hospitalisation. These are not youngsters but those who are aged above 60 years of age. They are kept in the hospital for a long period because they tested positive despite recovering and showing no symptoms. We are not discharging such patients until they test negative.” He added that there are multiple reasons behind not discharging patients who have been cured clinically but continue to test positive.“One of the many reasons is that there are several patients who have the fear and want to stay admitted in hospital considering they are positive. Another reason is that several patients have other health issues, and their constant monitoring becomes very important due to this. We have one patient who is admitted since April considering he tests positive despite recovering. We have kept him in hospital since he requires frequent dialysis. Lastly, there is also fear or apprehension in the minds of patients and their families to not take them home when they test positive,” said Adsul.As of Sunday, 1,10,059 patients have been recovered and discharged after Covid-19 treatment in Mumbai. The city’s recovery rate is 80.7%. On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 991 fresh cases and 34 new deaths, taking the city’s case tally to 1,36,353 and toll to 7,422. There are 18,567 active cases in Mumbai having fatality rate of 5.44%. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded six new cases on Sunday, bringing the area’s case count to 2,711 of which 2,367 have been discharged.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner said, “We are asking hospitals to not discharge certain patients who have serious health issues and test positive despite recovering. We do not want a situation wherein such a patient, despite being positive, goes home after which he or she develops complications. In the past, we had such a situation reporting from a private hospital, and post this we are keeping such patients in the hospital under observation. We cannot take risks when a patient is already having other health ailments by discharging them.Meanwhile, Madhav Sathe, former professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “The reason why patients test positive in the test using the RT-PCR method despite recovering, is because this method goes into detail. The reason for testing positive for a long period is probably because of a dead virus present in the body. Such a condition is observed in patients having other health ailments considering the clearance of virus from the body of such patients takes time.”Sathe added, “At times it would be safe to discharge such patients if they have cured clinically, but again it depends from case to case. Also, now we have many vacant beds, which even helps the administration as they can give each patient more time and care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/recovered-but-covid-patients-test-results-come-positive-for-months/story-TVGjI8uJTTXG5G9Oy2oKnM.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC to start screening of suspected Covid-19 patients with voice samples, AI from Wednesday||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will start screening suspected Covid-19 patients through artificial intelligence (AI), using their voice samples from Wednesday. On the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, the civic body signed the memorandum of understanding (MOU) with an Israel-based startup company, Vocalis Health, for the first-of-its-kind initiative in Mumbai.Vocalis Health is collecting voice samples of people across the globe as an initiative to develop a diagnostic tool to identify Covid-19 infected people. Even though the concept is new, several countries like the US and Israel are using it. People can submit their voice samples for analysis on the company’s official website.From Wednesday, the pan-worldwide study will be initiated in Mumbai at the NESCO jumbo Covid centre, Goregaon. Over 2,000 individuals suspected of having Covid-19 or high-risk contacts of infected patients will be tested with their voice samples.“We signed the MOU on Saturday and the study will start from Wednesday under the supervision of Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “It will take two to three months to conclude the study,” he said.The gold standard test for diagnosis of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, is reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). But it takes over eight hours to provide the result. Though rapid antigen tests give test results within 30 minutes, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), its false negativity rate is higher. With the ongoing unlocking of the national lockdown, the civic body needs more economical alternatives to rapidly and accurately diagnose cases of Covid-19. Thus, BMC has decided to start voice analysis to detect the virus within 30 seconds.Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nair Dental Hospital and in-charge of NESCO, explained the process. When the symptoms of Covid-19 manifest, the person starts having breathing problems that affect the amount of air exhaled. Then the air interacts with inflamed muscles on its journey to production voices or speeches. These interactions impact the voice modulations — measurable qualities that form the basis of their biomarkers. Depending on its variations, an individual can be detected with Covid-19.“There is one voice application that can be installed on mobiles or smart laptops. The suspected patient will be asked to count a few numbers in front of the device like a breath-analyser. The voice samples will automatically get synced with the main server of the provider. Then, through artificial intelligence, the result will be procured within 30 seconds,” she said.The application will analyse voices of three types of people — suspected, confirmed and negative with Covid-19. Depending on their vocal biomarkers (VB), they will be diagnosed. For example, if a person’s VB is below the standard point — 0.5, he/she will be considered as negative. But if anyone records VB above it, he/she will be suspected with Covid-19 and an RT-PCR test will be conducted for confirmation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-start-screening-of-suspected-covid-19-patients-with-voice-samples-ai-from-wednesday/story-Rqp5v3ezrwBBcbstjJng7J.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government issues fresh guidelines for Covid testing||The Maharashtra government on Friday has issued fresh protocol for Covid-19 testing in the state. It has directed to conduction of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT -PCR) tests on foreign travelers arriving in the state, people having symptoms but with negative antigen test reports and high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients. It has further directed medical facilities to conduct antigen tests on patients in need of immediate treatment and TrueNAT tests for those requiring emergency operations, pregnant women and persons brought dead to hospitals.Following fresh guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and considering the rapid rise in cases, the state health department has formulated its new protocol for Covid testing.“We have determined a new algorithm for conducting Covid-19 tests and have divided people into three groups. Now, antigen tests should be conducted on patients needing emergency treatment so that it can be started within half an hour,” says the order issued by Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department on August 21.Earlier, the state had allowed facilities to conduct antigen tests on patients with severe symptoms, comorbidities and pregnant women.“RT-PCR tests should be conducted on all travellers coming from foreign countries; those having symptoms but their antigen test report is negative, and all close contacts and high-risk contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient,” the order states.It has directed local authorities not to conduct tests on people travelling to villages if they do not show Covid symptoms.The state government has further directed local authorities to conduct one test per patient, following ICMR guidelines, as it has come to light that some patients are being tested multiple times. “This not only puts strain on the existing infrastructure but also bring additional burden on the state exchequer,” the order states.“TrueNAT tests should be conducted before emergency surgeries, for pregnant women and persons brought dead to hospitals. In case TrueNAT is not available, then the antigen test can be conducted on them,” it reads.Patients admitted to mental hospitals should be quarantined for a week, following which antigen tests should be conducted. Based on the test report, the patient should be moved to an isolation ward or Covid ward. Similarly, new jail inmates should be quarantined for a week before getting tested. Based on the test report they should be moved to an isolation ward or Covid ward, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-covid-testing/story-N4VxIWWv4BRJRKTYnqhY3K.html
24-08-2020||Lucknow||Lightning kills three in Uttar Pradesh, CM announces Rs 4 lakh as relief||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia to families of those killed by lightning strikes in Salon Tehsil of Raebareli district in Uttar Pradesh.“Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed Raebareli district magistrate to provide an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakhs each to the families of three people who died in lightning strikes in Salon Tehsil of Raebareli,” Chief Minister’s Office stated.Earlier in the day, three people were killed due to lightning in the district.According to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), a total of 1,090 villages in 16 districts of the state are affected by floods and 659 villages have been Marooned. The affected districts include Ambedkar Nagar, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Bahraich, Ballia, Barabanki, Basti, Deoria, Farrukhabad, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Kushinagar, Mau, Santakbir Nagar and Sitapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lightning-kills-three-in-uttar-pradesh-cm-announces-rs-4-lakh-as-relief/story-D35KWpgobrd04k7BlQjzIL.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray asks people to be careful during festivals||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday appealed to people to remain extra careful during festivals and rains in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.He was speaking after inaugurating a Covid care centre at COEP ground here via video link.The 800-bed facility, including 200 ICU beds, was developed within 18 days, officials said.“The state government has already relaxed many lockdown restrictions. We have also developed adequate healthcare infrastructure in the state. However, we need to be more cautious to stop the spread of coronavirus during festivals and rain,” he said.Deputy Chief Minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar said jumbo Covid care facilities will come up in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad township.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-asks-people-to-be-careful-during-festivals/story-vTgePRkwgXHbrXmhWCptkM.html
24-08-2020||City||19 days on, Mohali DC office employees to resume work today||After assurances by the chief minister of Punjab, Captain Amarinder Singh, to fulfil some demands, the employees of Mohali deputy commissioner’s office will resume work on August 24.The employee strike that had begun on August 6 had caused inconvenience to people as no public work was done.More than 600 officials work at the district administrative complex in Sector 76, which houses the deputy commissioner’s office besides the offices of revenue department, transport department, food safety officer and the sewa kendra.Om Parkash, chairman of DC Office Employees’ Association, Punjab, said the CM had assured us to fulfil some of our demands and we will resume work from August 24.The employees were against the government’s decisions to reduce their mobile phone allowance and cut down the pay scale for new recruits. They were also demanding the release of pending dearness allowance, implementation of the 6th Pay Commission and restoration of the old pension scheme.The strike had upset applicants, who were unable to get work done for over the past week. More than 70 to 75 regular appointments for property registration and 20 tatkal appointments took place on the daily here.Former president, Mohali Property Consultants Association (MPCA), Shailander Anand, said, “We are already facing a major slump in the real estate sector. In the last 18 days, there have been no registration of property. Several NRIs are waiting to get their work done and we are happy that employees will resume their work on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-days-on-mohali-dc-office-employees-to-resume-work-today/story-OUFfiXvVZD9D0ucMyaEr7L.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to recruit 22 teachers in 13 departments||Panjab University has decided to recruit 22 assistant professors on a temporary basis in 13 departments of the varsity. The posts will be filled through walk-in interviews.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh confirmed the development.Four posts will be filled in the University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS) and the physics department each. Three posts will be filled in the University Institute of Applied Management and Sciences (UIAMS). In the Department of Laws, two posts will be filled. The remaining posts will be filled in nine other departments.The recruitment process comes a year after a controversy had erupted on the campus regarding advertising of 26 teachers.A PU senator said, “The university should have reassessed teaching load before advertising these positions as there is reduction in the load because of online teaching. It may put an additional financial burden on PU.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-recruit-22-teachers-in-13-departments/story-g5t0gqVRS2zd27ZvsbB6RN.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to construct multilevel parking in Manimajra||To resolve the severe issue of parking in Manimajra and for generating additional revenue, the fund-starved municipal corporation has decided to construct a multilevel parking.The parking is planned to come up on 2-acre land in Manimajra near Rana Ki Haveli. The space will be utilised for commercial parking in the day and for residents’ vehicles in the night. The project is expected to generate significant revenue for the MC.The multilevel project will be developed on a public-private partnership (PPP) model and will be allotted for a period of 15 years with a clause for increasing revenue every five years.The project plan will be considered at the meeting of Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) to be held on Monday. Earlier, the MC had constructed a multilevel parking in Sector 17, from which it failed to generate any revenue.“Two-acre land in Manimajra near Rana Ki Haveli is being used as a paid parking area. Since the zila parishad was merged with the MC on January 18, 2019, all the assets stand transferred to the MC,” said a senior MC official.REQUEST SENT TO UT URBAN PLANNING DEPTThe civic body has sent a request to the UT urban planning department to earmark the land for the multilevel parking so that a request for proposal may be prepared.A survey of the site was conducted and it has been examined by the UT chief architect, and The detailed proposal was forwarded to him along with relevant data/justification with respect to the demand of parking. “It will be required for the optimum utilisation and the proposal shall be in consonance with the overall planned development of the area,” the official added.After getting the nod from the F&CC, an expression of interest will be invited from prospective architects for making a conceptual design, preparing technical data, technical and economic viability of the project so that it can generate maximum revenue for the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-construct-multilevel-parking-in-manimajra/story-K2JK3baoVx5BuKArJKcTkI.html
24-08-2020||City||11-year-old boy drowns in Ghaggar river near Mohali village||An 11-year-old boy drowned while bathing in the Ghaggar river on Sunday afternoon. The deceased was identified as 11-year-old Happy of Bhankharpur village in Dera Bassi.The family alleged that no attempt was made to trace the child, adding that they kept waiting for authorities to send a search team, but no one turned up till evening.As per information, Happy was bathing in Ghaggar river with his two brothers and a friend when the river suddenly overflowed. Victim’s brothers and friends managed to escape, but Happy was swept away. After receiving information, the police rushed to the spot.This is the second such incident of a child drowning in the river in Dera Bassi area this season. On Saturday, a three-year-old boy had drowned while he was playing on the roof of the house in Bawa Colony, Mirpur village.Children of families living on the banks of Ghaggar regularly play in the water despite a ban on bathing or entering the river during the monsoon season. However, due to lack of supervision, such accidents happen every season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-year-old-boy-drowns-in-ghaggar-river-near-mohali-village/story-mkP3Gc3puLRnXe96I0L4YP.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid shadow: Shops selling school uniforms hit hard in Chandigarh||With uncertainty around reopening of schools that were closed in March owing to the pandemic, city stores that had already stocked up on summer uniforms have now become obsolete.Kingsway, a store that had been providing uniforms for various private schools since 1973, had to close their Sector 22 shop this month. Owner Gurdeep Singh Narula said, “We had taken the shop on rent and had to vacate it this month. The timing of the lockdown was the worst since we had already purchased summer uniforms in bulk, but were unable to sell even a single pair.”Kingsway’s Phase-7 store in Mohali is still open, however, Narula has had to tap into other markets like innerwear and casual wear. They have been able to sell patkas to go with uniforms, but the rest of the stock remains unsold.‘BANKS NOT GIVING US LOANS’Proprietor of Shiksha School Uniforms in Sector 40, Abhishek Aggarwal, said, “We aren’t able to meet even 1% of the sales that we would make otherwise. There is no point in opening the shop daily, so we only open a few days a week. We are venturing into the stationery line, but a capital investment is needed to start a new business and banks are refusing to give us loans when they find out we are in the uniform business.”“If there is some clarity on when schools will open it will help us plan better,” Aggarwal added.‘WON’T BE STOCKING WINTER UNIFORMS’Some of the smaller uniform retailers in Sadar Bazaar in Sector 19 have been the worst hit as sales here are at an all-time low. Proprietor of Puja Garments, Rakesh Mohan, said, “Normally, we would earn ₹30,000 to ₹40,000 in April, but this year the stock lies untouched. It is likely that schools will reopen at the end of summer, so most people won’t buy uniforms. Due to this, we plan not to stock up for winters. Instead of uniforms, we will sell other clothes.”President of Sector-19 market Narinder Singh said the market that mostly houses garment sellers has recorded no sales, and most sellers, like Mohan, will not stock uniforms till next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-shadow-shops-selling-school-uniforms-hit-hard-in-chandigarh/story-HNZP1g9PsdSywfP0CCJVeO.html
24-08-2020||City||4 killed, 1 injured in Sonepat as car collides head-on with truck||At least four people were killed and one critically injured after a car and a truck collided head-on on GT Road near Murthal in Sonepat on Saturday evening, police said.The deceased have been identified as Tushar Gupta, Subham Sharma, Vaibhav Sakral and Medha Khatri, all residents of Delhi. Their friend Jyoti Swaroop sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital in Sonepat.Jyoti told the police that they were travelling from Delhi to Murthal to have dinner there.“When we were about to reach the restaurant in Murthal, Subham, who was driving the car, tried to avoid hitting a pedestrian and lost control of the car that collided with a divider and rammed into a truck coming from Delhi side. My four friends died in the accident,” he added.In-charge of Murthal police station Rajiv Kumar said that they have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the truck driver, who is at large.“The police are scrutinising the CCTVs installed near the restaurant,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-killed-1-injured-in-sonepat-as-car-collides-head-on-with-truck/story-CGzgUCVpHZzp8ZZEWSalyO.html
24-08-2020||City||55-year-old woman falls into 120ft well in Bhiwani, rescued||A 55-year-old woman from the Patram gate area in Bhiwani, allegedly tried to commit suicide by jumping into a 120-foot well. As per the police, the woman attempted suicide bid over a family dispute. She was rescued by the Haryana Police assistant sub-inspector who took her to Civil hospital in Bhiwani from where she was referred to the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences after first-aid.Speaking to HT, ASI Devender, who is also incharge of the Dinod gate check-post in Bhiwani said, “After receiving a call, I reached the spot within five minutes. The woman was stuck in around 30 feet under the well. She was pulled out by clinging onto a rope.”“The woman’s family members said that she is in a stable condition. We will record her statement on Monday morning,” the ASI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-year-old-woman-falls-into-120ft-well-in-bhiwani-rescued/story-m6eZkNmAkGIs36ByTZVlOM.html
24-08-2020||City||Bad behaviour, arrogance won’t be tolerated, Dhankar tells BJP district unit chiefs||Chairing the first meeting of the newly appointed district unit chiefs, BJP’s Haryana unit president Om Prakash Dhankar on Sunday said that arrogance and bad behaviour will not be tolerated at any cost.Speaking at the meeting in Rohtak, the former minister asked the new district chiefs to share their plans for improving the party’s performance in their respective areas. “All the district chiefs should appoint Mandal Pardhan (block chief) by the end of this month. I urge you to include people from each section of the society for the posts,” he added. Dhankar also asked the new district chiefs to open ‘Atal Seva Kendras’ in their district offices for helping people benefit from the state and central government schemes. A district president, who was present at the meeting, pleading anonymity, said that Dhankar told to work as a team to strengthen the party. “BJP workers have toiled hard for generations to bring success to the party in Haryana and any arrogance will bring a bad name to the party. You (new district chiefs) are hardworking and known for good behaviour. I expect you will bring a good name to the saffron party,” Dhankar is said to have told the newly appointed chiefs.Another district chief from central Haryana said Dhankar listed out eight points for improving the party’s performance. “He also told us to accept our mistakes, if we happen to commit any, strive to solve the grievances of the people and deal with them politely and avoid controversial statements,” the leader revealed.BJP’s Rohtak chief Ajay Bansal said 20 out of the 22 district presidents took part in the meeting physically. Captain Bhupender Singh from Hisar and Yogender Rana from Karnal joined the meeting virtually as both are in home quarantine after they started showing Covid-19 symptoms||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bad-behaviour-arrogance-won-t-be-tolerated-dhankar-tells-bjp-district-unit-chiefs/story-qIQlp6oDfle8vjg4KLlj6L.html
24-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal Covid tally climbs to 1,38,870 with record 3,274 new infections||The Covid-19 caseload of West Bengal went up to 1,38,870 after the highest single-day spike of 3,274 new infections was reported on Sunday, the health department said.The death toll due to the disease also rose to 2,794 with 57 more people succumbing to coronavirus infection, a bulletin released by the department said.Since Saturday, 3,048 patients have recovered from the disease and the number of active cases is now 28,069, it said.Of the fresh fatalities, North 24 Parganas reported the highest at 18, followed by Kolkata which accounted for eight deaths. The city recorded below 10 deaths after a gap of 48 days, the bulletin said.The remaining 31 casualties were registered in 12 other districts.Of the 57 deaths, 41 were due to comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental.While 696 new infections were reported from North 24 Parganas, 563 were from the city, the bulletin said.The districts which recorded more than 100 positive cases on Sunday are Paschim Medinipur (285), Purba Medinipur (209), South 24 Parganas (187), Hooghly (180), Howrah (159), Nadia (108), Bankura (105), Paschim Bardhaman (104), and Malda (102), the bulletin said.The number of active cases is now 28,069, it said.In the last 24 hours, 37,149 samples were tested. So far, 15,61,311 samples have been tested for COVID-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-covid-tally-climbs-to-1-38-870-with-record-3-274-new-infections/story-fpbwd9Y6D6dsSoz4ElEioJ.html
24-08-2020||City||Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry hits out at Haryana govt, says lockdown is not a remedy to defeat virus||Senior Congress leader and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry on Sunday hit out at the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana for imposing weekend lockdown in view of the surging Covid-19 cases.In a press statement, Choudhry said the Haryana government’s move to impose weekend restrictions will hurt the economy and this move will affect the livelihood of shopkeepers and other stakeholders.“It is evident that the lockdown is no remedy for the pandemic and it would only act as a pause button that won’t help in eradicating the pandemic. The government should revoke its decision and implement the safety guidelines in the state,” she added.Hospitals should conduct Covid-19 testing using the RT-PCR method She alleged that over 40% of Covid-19 tests are being conducted using rapid antigen kits across the state.“As per ICMR and WHO guidelines, the rapid antigen tests are not so authentic and the RT-PCR method is the best way to detect the virus. Private hospitals are charging high amounts from Covid-19 positive patients and the government should bear the costs of Covid testing. The government has also failed to keep a tab on manufacturers, who are not following due procedures in preparing sanitisers, disinfectants and other products,” former CLP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tosham-mla-kiran-chaudhary-hits-out-at-haryana-govt-says-lockdown-is-not-a-remedy-to-defeat-virus/story-8DxFBrTSPQuq1osPfAVseP.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Virus crawls into Haryana Vidhan Sabha||Ahead of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha session beginning on August 26, at least six employees of the assembly, including a close aide of Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday when 1,096 fresh cases were recorded across the state. In yet another ominous report, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gupta himself was reportedly unwell. He underwent a Covid-19 test on Sunday, the report of which is expected to come on Monday. It is learnt that more than 300 employees of the Vidhan Sabha were tested for the infection on August 22 in view of the monsoon session of the assembly. The Vidhan Sabha premises will be out of bounds to all, including the lawmakers until they have a Covid-19 negative report that is not older than three days. Among the six Vidhan Sabha staffers tested positive are a peon, a chowkidar, a canteen worker and a political aide of the Speaker. Already about eight employees posted at the residence of chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar too have tested positive, while the CM himself is in home isolation. COVID CLAIMS SIX LIVES The Covid-19 claimed six lives in Haryana on Sunday, taking the toll to 603. By Sunday evening, the cumulative number of Covid-19 patients in Haryana had touched 54,386. The number of active rose to 8,961even as the total number of the patients who have recovered from the disease stood at 44,822. At 942, Panipat district had the largest number of active cases, followed by Gurugram (861), Faridabad (709), and Karnal (667). Panchkula district has 545 active cases as of Sunday, the bulletin stated. So far, Haryana has tested 9, 64, 297 people for the infection. At least 809 patients undergoing treatment were discharged on Sunday, while there were 232 critically ill patients (203 on oxygen support, 29 on ventilators). The doubling rate of cases has risen to 33 days, the recovery rate has come down to 82.41% and the fatality rate of Haryana was 1.11% on Sunday. According to the state health bulletin, two patients succumbed to the infection in Ambala, while one patient each lost the battle to the virus in Kaithal, Sirsa, Kurukshetra and Hisar. As many as 1, 096 new cases were reported on Sunday with Panipat district recording the highest 134 cases, Gurugram (113), Faridabad (98), Sonepat (66), Rewari (45), Ambala (97), Rohtak (47), Karnal (51), Hisar (96), Palwal (13), Panchkula (40), Mahendergarh (27), Jhajjar (25), Bhiwani (38), Kurukshetra (75), Nuh (7), Sirsa (41, Yamunanagar (42), Kaithal (32), and Jind (9).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-crawls-into-haryana-vidhan-sabha/story-ma0s22OYXCD8uwpgV9JAJJ.html
24-08-2020||City||Five held for cheating in written exam for hiring of PTIs in Haryana||The fresh written exam to hire physical training instructors (PTIs) in Haryana, against the posts advertised in 2006, was conducted on Sunday strict police vigil and social distancing measures.The fresh exam was necessitated after the Supreme Court set aside the recruitments of 1, 983 PTIs, made in 2010 when the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government was in power, citing discrepancies in the hiring process.Officials said that the exam went off peacefully at all 95 centres, across the five districts of Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Panipat and Hisar, said officials.Later in the evening, a spokesperson of the Haryana police said that five persons from Hisar were arrested on charges of attempting to cheat in exam.The accused have been identified as Mandeep, a resident of village Danoda Kalan, Vikram, of Khanda Khedi, Bhupendra of Narnaund, Sunita of Patel Nagar, Hisar and Yudhveer of Badchappar. As per information, Mandeep had planned to provide answer key to an examinee in the examination centre and was arrested following a complaint by the centre supervisor while the other four had joined the Government Senior Secondary School, Jahajpur, Hisar as examinees.‘TERMINATED PTIs BOYCOTT EXAMS’As per officials, as many as 9,273 candidates had been issued the admit cards for the exam. However, the number of candidates who appeared for the exam was much lower as most PTIs, who had been terminated, had decided to boycott the exams. Around 200 of the 1,983 terminated PTIs appeared in the exam, as per sources.EXAM WAS TOUGH, SAY CANDIDATESThe candidates, most of whom were above the age of 40, claimed that the exam was tough as most questions were not related to this job. “Most questions were not related to sports or the job of physical training but related to Science and English,” said a candidate. The candidates also complained that only 75 minutes were given to solve 100 questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-written-exam-for-hiring-of-ptis-in-haryana-goes-off-peacefully/story-0DLBlLqBjJay1qGtf09HII.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Curve flattened, but 4 pockets in Dharavi still under BMC watch||Four most densely populated slum pockets inside Dharavi – Matunga Labour Camp, Kumbharwada, Kala Killa and Koliwada – continue to be on the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) watchlist, even though Dharavi flattened the Covid curve in mid-June. For the past few days, daily covid-19 cases in Dharavi are emerging in single digits, with a few exceptions. On Saturday, five new cases were detected in Dharavi, and on Friday, three new cases were detected. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward with jurisdiction over Dharavi, said, “BMC is watching these four slum pockets because they are very densely populated. We have very few cases from random areas now. Mostly migrated labour who have returned, or medical staff are turning positive now. But these four localities could spiral out of control very easily, so our interventions continue.” These four slum pockets are among 13 high-risk zones that were identified by the civic body for focused interventions in April and May, when the number of cases in Dharavi peaked. Interventions in these high-risk zones included door-to-door surveys and screening of maximum number of residents to identify those at high risk if exposed to the virus (such as people with co-morbidity, senior citizens, and those with low oxygen saturation in their bodies), and early detection of positive patients to isolate them from the community. In August so far, Dharavi’s average doubling rate has touched 406 days, as opposed to 300 days in July, 108 days in June, 43 days in May, and 18 days in April. The average growth rate of cases in Dharavi is 0.24%, as opposed to 0.39% in July, 0.83% in June, and 4.3% in May, and 12% in April. Until August 19, a total of 116 new cases have been reported in Dharavi in August, in comparison to 358 in July. Its peak was in May, when a total of 1,216 cases were reported, which dropped to 480 cases in June. The recovery rate in Dharavi is 87%, higher than Mumbai’s recovery rate of 80.79%. On Thursday, Dharavi saw a sudden spike in its trend of single digit cases, when 17 new cases were reported in a single day. Dighavkar said, “A few nurses from Dharavi working at KEM and Sion hospital tested positive, and the hospital organised tests for their family members, some of whom tested positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/curve-flattened-but-4-pockets-in-dharavi-still-under-bmc-watch/story-75yFOhVv6ygoA7BabJjLMO.html
24-08-2020||City||SUV crushes woman to death in Ludhiana||A Mahindra Bolero crushed a 45-year-old woman to death while trying to escape after thrashing her landlord’s son in Guru Nanak Pura on Bhamian road on Saturday night, the police said.The accused fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder was registered against the accused.The victim was identified as Nisha Shekhawat of Guru Nanak Pura. She along with her husband, Vinod Shekhawat, a garment trader, and two children had been living on the first floor of a rented accommodation in the area. Their landlords lived on the ground floor.Vinod Shekhawat said that Pankaj, their landlord’s son, had got into a scuffle with a group of youngsters a few days back. On Saturday night, five miscreants came in a Mahindra Bolero, barged into the house and thrashed Pankaj.Vinod added that when the accused tried to escape from the spot, the locals tried to stop their vehicle. His wife Nisha was also present on the street. The accused hit his wife and crushed her to death, and fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police have identified three accused, Johny, Sunny and Gurdeep. Two of their accomplices were yet to be identified, he added. Landlord’s son Pankaj sustained injuries, but is said to be stable.The ASI added that a case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC was lodged. A manhunt has been launched for the arrest of the accused.Victim’s husband has demanded a murder case to be added to the FIR or they will stage a protest against the police on Monday. He alleged that the accused had hit Nisha with the intention to murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suv-crushes-woman-to-death-in-ludhiana/story-cH33bPvY5AhPnnHo2yQLcK.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Graduates get 3-D avatars at IIT-Bombay convocation||In a unique experience, three-dimensional (3D) avatars of graduating students of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B), received their degrees in a virtual convocation, replete with graduates taking a virtual tour of campus and meeting friends, on Sunday.“You are the first batch of graduates among those who had faced extreme hardship due to the pandemic. But despair no more, dear students, you are now proud graduates of IIT-Bombay,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of the institute, urging them to fulfil their true potential. Over 2,400 graduates from undergraduate, post-graduate and doctoral programmes graduated from the institute this year. Of these, around 1,255 are likely to have used the ‘IIT Bombay Convocation 2020’ mobile application to take part in the ceremony from the comfort of their homes using a mobile application that the institute specially designed for the purpose. Apart from the ceremony, graduates could use the application to take a virtual tour of the campus and hang out with friends at their favourite joints. Once downloaded, the application does not require internet connectivity to run. For those who couldn’t use the app, the ceremony was telecast live on the social media channels of the institute as well as DD Sahyadri. It took the effort of 20 experts, most from the IDC School of Design, to plan, design and create this platform and mobile application. “It took more than 5,000 person hours to build the whole thing,” said P Sunthar, co-convenor of the Convocation Committee.“I will definitely miss the feel and the atmosphere of the convocation in the institute I’ve been part of for four years. At the same time, I was excited to have been able to take part in the virtual convocation,” said a graduating student, on the condition of anonymity.Chaudhuri told HT that the institute has received global praise for the virtual convocation ceremony. “[I am] glad that everyone liked the ceremony. We have received a lot of kudos from abroad as nobody has ever seen such a ceremony,” he said. The virtual avatars of students walked up to the stage to receive their degrees from 3-D avatars of the director and chief guest Duncan Haldane, a 2016 Nobel Laureate in Physics.“You are probably just as surprised as me over the profound changes that have taken place in academic life during the last four months, and the changed world,” said Haldane in his message. “There is a lesson for everyone involved in research. Even if you are involved in a very goal-driven project, try to find some small share of your time to investigate unexpected curiosities that sometimes show up along the way,” he advised the graduating students.Stephen A Schwarzman, chairperson and chief executive officer of global investment firm Blackstone, who delivered the commencement speech, said, “IIT engineers are defining the global technology landscape and the newest alumni will be the next generation of future global leaders who will advance that mission. You, IIT Bombay graduates, must seize the opportunity to be leaders of impact who are a force for change — and for good — in this world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/graduates-get-3-d-avatars-at-iit-bombay-convocation/story-qGPPM1mDyYmRmommrn6zRI.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||State gives nod to expand Junnar rescue centre||The Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Centre (MLRC) in Junnar will soon be able to increase the capacity of its captive leopard enclosures from 39 to 50 as the state government has issued a clearance to expand the rescue centre. The state irrigation department has issued an in-principle approval to hand over 15 hectares (ha) of land that it owns for MLRC’s expansion, said forest officers. “We are of the opinion that we do not need more area than 10ha. The cost of the land comes around ₹10 lakh per ha,” said JR Gowda, deputy conservator of forest, Junnar. Currently, MLRC is spread across 4ha and has 33 leopards across its 39 enclosures. However, the demarcation of the exact boundary for extension of the centre is yet to be assessed, said Gowda. “With help from the land records department, we will get exact figures and submit a proposal to the state for final approval for 10-ha expansion,” he said. A senior state government official said, “Based on MLRC’s requirement and their updated proposal, more approvals will be issued. The centre did a splendid job in giving care to leopards and can become an eco-tourism hub.” Apart from housing more rescued or trapped leopards (involved in conflict), MLRC has planned tourism-related activities across the additional 10ha, including aviary cages, rescue facilities and cages for sambar deer, jackals and other herbivores, as well as a secluded area where veterinary practices can be enhanced. “With permission from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), we would like to build a mini zoo for the public. We also intend to expand the size of the cages to a minimum of 250 square metre as per CZA guidelines,” said Gowda. Currently, MLRC has five enclosures allotted as quarantine cages for leopards displaying any symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-gives-nod-to-expand-junnar-rescue-centre/story-tc3x6yO0bGEaZXZKx0h8DL.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid toll past 22K; tally is 682,383||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 10,441 new Covid-19 cases in the state, taking its tally to 682,383. The state crossed 22,000 fatalities with 258 deaths on Sunday, pushing the toll to 22,253.Of the fatalities recorded on Sunday, 213 were from the previous 48 hours and 23 were from last week. The remaining 22 deaths were from the period before last week. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state stood at 3.26%. With 8,157 people discharged on Sunday, the tally of the people recovered improved to 488,271. The state now has 171,542 active cases.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that the next 10 days were crucial for the state’s battle against coronavirus. The state is anticipating a rise in cases with the increased movement of people during festivals, including Ganeshotsav and Muharram. Speaking via video conferencing during the commissioning of an 800-bed dedicated Covid hospital in Pune, Thackeray said the state is preparing health infrastructure in the state to fight in case there is a second wave.“The next phase is quite important for the state. The next eight-10 days are going to be crucial as Ganpati festival is on, Paryushan of the Jain community is going on, Muharram is also in a few days. Along with these festivals, there is monsoon, which brings diseases,” he said. State health department officials said that with opening up of restrictions in the state, they have seen an increase in cases, and the trend is expected to continue.The CM said though the situation in Mumbai is getting “under control” he cautioned the authorities against getting negligent to prevent a second wave of attack. Mumbai recorded 991 new infections on Sunday, taking the city’s tally to 136,353. It also recorded 34 fatalities, taking its toll to 7,422. Thackeray said that the administration should not remain lax as globally there is a second wave of Covid-19.“A dedicated Covid facility is being commissioned in Pune, and two more will be added in this week. People ask me do we require so many facilities? We cannot remain careless. Absolutely not. Today, the situation is in Mumbai the situation is in control, but I am not letting rest. We are continuing with the tracing, tracking, testing, etc. Globally it is seen that after a wave, a second wave [of Covid] comes. We are striving so that no second wave comes, but if it comes, then what will we do? Earlier, we had a shortage of PPE kits, N95 masks, and ventilators,” the CM said in the speech at the event.There have been demands from various quarters, including from leaders within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, to allow gymnasiums and religious places to open up. But so far the state has not taken a call. The Ministry of Home Affairs has asked state governments to allow unrestricted movement of people and goods between states. The state, however, is yet to take a call in it.The CM on Sunday indicated that the call to provide further relaxations will be taken cautiously to prevent another wave of transmission across the city and state. Thackeray said that the state is treading cautiously in opening up lockdown restrictions to “prevent a second wave”. He said, “When we say we want to resume our lives normally, then crowding is inevitable. We are opening things gradually, but while doing so we are also ensuring that a second wave does not start.”The CM added that the state government is increasing testing facilities in the state and decreasing the turnaround time to get faster control over the situation. He added that the state is also looking at ways to further reduce the rates of RT-PCR tests.He added that along with ramping up health infrastructure to fight the Covid battle, public awareness campaigns will pay off more to keep the virus at bay. He said that till a vaccine is invented, masks, sanitisers and social distancing is the only remedy available for the people of the state.“Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said that vaccine would be possible by December only. So, we will have to remain cautious for the next four months. For now, our medicine or vaccine are masks, sanitisers, and social distancing. If we follow this, the spread of the virus will reduce drastically, this has been proven across the world…Therefore, these facilities, doctors, medicines, etc will be required, but along with that, awareness campaigns will be required to educate people. Once we get habituated to precautions, then we will not fall prey to coronavirus.”Meanwhile, Pune city and its adjoining areas continued to record a chunk of the fresh cases on Sunday with Pune city adding 1,288 new cases, while Pune rural added 569 new cases, and Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded 679 cases. The district crossed 1.50 lakh confirmed cases on Sunday, and currently has 44,717 active cases. Pune district reported 67 fatalities, taking the district’s death toll to 3,741.Nagpur city recorded 680 fresh infections taking its tally to 14,675 confirmed cases. It reported 22 fatalities on Sunday, taking its death toll to 434. Jalgaon district reported 627 new infections, with total going up to 22,049 cases. Nashik district reported 438 new cases, while Ahmednagar 497 new cases. Rural areas including Beed, Osmanabad, Latur, etc continued to report more cases. Osmanabad added 183 new cases, while Beed added 81 cases, and Latur district added 146 new infections.Currently, 12,30,982 people are in home quarantine and 34,820 people are in institutional quarantine, the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-toll-past-22k-tally-is-682-383/story-shAXvFnM5KBAWcFD5fvAGO.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Geriatric care for leopards at rescue centre in Pune||Twelve-year-old male leopard Ganesh is suffering from complete loss of sight owing to cataract in his right eye. He suffered an injury when he was trapped in a conflict situation. A team of veterinarians created olfactory enrichments that encourage him to rely more on other senses instead of sight. Ganesh now uses his sense of smell and instincts to navigate within his enclosure and is an active leopard. Leopards enter the latter phase of their lives from the age of 12, when they start encountering more dental problems, issues relating to joints and a marked change in their overall behaviour and personality. At the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Centre (MLRC) in Junnar, Pune district, 20 of the 33 leopards — mostly rescued after serious injuries related to conflicts — are elderly. The four-hectare rescue centre is jointly run by the Maharashtra forest department and animal rescue group Wildlife SOS. It is home to the most number of rescued and orphaned leopards in the state. The specialised geriatric care offered at the centre for senior leopards has helped prevent infection, maintain core strength and improve immunity. Another male leopard, 20-year-old Samrat, is not as active as he once was — sharpening his claws against tree barks, climbing trees and enthusiastically rolling in the mud. Now, he lives a slow-paced life. Under the geriatric care routine, MLRC staff substituted most of the structural enrichments (objects in a captive enclosure to develop a suitable habitat) with food enrichments. “This motivates the leopards to remain active and fit,” said Dr Nikhil Bangar, wildlife veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS. Specialised immunoboosters, multivitamins and calcium supplements are provided to help control the onset of joint problems that may cause severe discomfort, allowing more strength to the bones of the wild cats, said Dr Bangar, adding, “Multivitamin syrups help prevent ectoparasitic infection (infestations on the skin) that may put their lives at risk.” While leopards in captivity live longer, forest officers said, some animals generally go through a lot of emotional distress (in captivity) resulting in them being overweight, inactive, facing health problems and even leading to self-mutilation. “Our intention is to ensure that their lives are not like a jail sentence. Some of these leopards have been hand-reared in captivity since the time they were orphaned as cubs, while others drawn in from conflict are not safe to be released again. The focus has been to improve existing facilities, provide more space, protect and increase their lifespan,” said JR Gowda, deputy conservator of forest, Junnar. Following the Covid-19 pandemic, a veterinary officer and his assistant carry out daily temperature checks twice for each animal. “Fortunately, no untoward incidents have been reported,” said Gowda. Leopards, , especially males, are mostly solitary. They are not generally seen getting along with other males. “This is not the case in Junnar where we have Ganesh and Vitthal (another male leopard who lost his right-hind paw in a snare trap) who are often seen playing together for hours. We observe their movements and ensure there is no discomfort while working on enrichments suited to their comfort,” said Dr Bangar. Animal enrichment involves providing mental and physical stimulation to captive animals through a variety of methods (food-based, olfactory, structural, social etc.) enabling them to exhibit their natural behaviour. “Enrichments are important as they give leopards the opportunity to tap into their instincts the way they would in the wild, and encourage them to use their motor and cognitive skills,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder, Wildlife SOS. Wildlife biologist Vidya Athreya said MLRC has come a long way to ensure holistic welfare of leopards. “From trapping leopards and keeping them in small cages to ensuring better infrastructure and implementing innovative behavioural enrichment models, Junnar stands as a case study for any captive animal unit in India. It also highlights the competence when a forest department and an animal welfare group collaborate,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/geriatric-care-for-leopards-at-rescue-centre-in-pune/story-lOSDrUj369Y4rPT8n7FM2O.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 31,255 immersions, drop from over 46K last year||Amid Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) advisory asking citizens to immerse Ganpati idols at their homes in buckets or drums, the city saw 31,255 immersions on Sunday, day 1 of immersions during Ganeshotsav.Of the 31,255 idols immersed until 9pm, 621 were from pandals and 30,634 idols from homes, according to BMC. Every year, more than 35,000 idols are immersed on the end of the a day-and-a-half of festivities. Last year, more than 46,000 idols were immersed on Day 1. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the state had asked citizens and mandals to keep celebrations low-key and issued several guidelines to ensure social distancing norms are maintained. “Devotees who are celebrating Ganesh festival in their homes are advised to carry out immersion of the Ganesh idols at their homes in a bucket or a drum as their first preference,” the advisory, issued on Sunday morning, stated. BMC said citizens can carry out immersions at 70 natural and 170 artificial ponds across the city by maintaining social distancing and hygiene norms. A list of the ponds is uploaded on the BMC website (http://stopcoronavirus.mcgm.gov.in/ganesh-visarjan-locations). However, only those citizens residing within the 2-km radius of the 70 natural water bodies mentioned in the list are allowed to immerse idols there. Citizens are not permitted to step inside the water under any circumstances but have to hand over the idols to BMC to immerse the idols, the advisory further stated.The civic body also banned processions for immersion rituals. Further, BMC also asked devotees to perform the rituals at their homes and prohibited rituals at immersion spots. Citizens were asked to wear masks, carry sanitisers and follow social distancing norms.BMC also directed the pandals and homes in containment zones to either defer the immersions till the next year or make arrangements using buckets or drums for the process within the sealed area.“Ganeshotsav mandals as well as citizens situated in containment zones shall immerse their Ganesh idols by creating necessary arrangement in the mandap/pandal and their homes itself. Alternatively, they can defer the immersion of the idols to next year. Devotees who are staying in sealed buildings shall mandatorily immerse their Ganesh idols in their homes itself (in bucket/ small drums) or postpone the immersion to the next year,” the advisory stated.This year, the civic body also arranged for mobile immersion spots by installing water tanks in trucks. Information on mobile immersion spots was also provided on the civic body’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-31-255-immersions-drop-from-over-46k-last-year/story-tiMWi9TWcBMsfwhjURYNOP.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Overnight rain wreaks havoc in Chandigarh’s periphery||Following heavy overnight rainfall in Chandigarh, floodgates of Sukhna Lake had to be opened as its water level crossed the danger mark of 1,163 feet in wee hours of Sunday.The gushing water made a breach in the Sukhna Choe, which carries water released by the lake, and overflowed its banks to flood nearby areas in Mohali’s Zirakpur. Baltana in Zirakpur experienced flood-like situation for the first time in its history with the police post, marriage palaces, municipal park and cremation ground submerged.Meanwhile, water discharged from check dams over the seasonal rivulet Patiala Ki Rao flooded low-lying areas in Khuda Lahora Colony near the PGIMER around 3am on Sunday.It was last on September 24, 2018, that floodgates of Sukna Lake were opened owing to heavy rainfall after a gap of 10 years. UT chief engineer Mukesh Anand said the floodgates were opened around 3am and closed around 1:15pm on Sunday after the lake’s water level dropped to 1,162.6 feet. “Before opening the floodgates, we had alerted the district administrations in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. Taking precautionary measures, we had blocked bridges on Sukhna Choe falling in the city’s jurisdiction,” he said.Anand said there were no reports of flooding along the route of Sukhna Choe in Chandigarh though the bridges were inundated.BALTANA SUBMERGEDAt the Baltana police post, cops managed to shift records, weapons and ammunition to safety. Assistant sub-inspector Kamal Kumar said there were around 50 two-wheelers and 22 three- and four-wheelers that were completely submerged under water. The police post staff broke a wall to make way for the water to flow towards the adjacent rivulet. It carried a three-wheeler along. The condition at the nearby municipal park was such that swings that stand 10-foot tall were all submerged under water. However, no households were affected. Administrative officials led by subdivisional magistrate Kuldeep Bawa reached the spot to oversee the rescue work. NO WARNING AT KHUDA LAHORAMeanwhile, the overnight rain also flooded Patiala Ki Rao flowing on the west of the city, taking Khuda Lahora Colony residents by surprise in early hours.Rohit Thakur, a local, said, “Water entered ours houses around 3am when we were sleeping. Of 450 houses here, around 100 were inundated with up to three-foot-deep water. There was panic, as there was no alert from the UT administration.”Municipal officials visited the area more than an hour after the flooding and started work on cleaning stormwater drains, said Thakur, adding that water level started receding by 6am.“Sewage was mixed with water overflowing from the choe and flooded the houses and street. The main sewage pipe and stormwater drainage opens up in the choe, the level of which at some places is elevated because of heavy siltation,” said PC Rana, a local whose house was flooded.While sewage lines are maintained by the MC, the UT engineering department handles desiltation work. “We have been requesting to both for the last 10 years to clean up the area, but no action has been taken,” said Rana.Raj Bala Malik, Chandigarh mayor and also councillor from the area, said, “When flooding reports came from Khuda Lahora Colony, MC teams were sent immediately. All 22 drainage pipes were clogged with sand and other floodwater debris. We have now cleaned up three of these, and work on cleaning up the rest is going on.” Though water had receded from houses in the morning, streets remained inundated even in the evening.FLOODGATES MAY HAVE TO BE OPENED AGAIN While 80.1mm overnight rain was recorded at the Sector 39 observatory of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the observatory maintained by the forest department at Sukhna Lake recorded much higher rain. “At Nepali Choe, we recorded 145mm rain on Saturday night and early hours of Sunday. Rain above 50mm in the catchment area of the lake causes a strong run-off, filling up the lake much faster, “ said Abdul Qayum, deputy conservator of forests (DCF).IMD, Chandigarh, director Surender Paul said high rainfall was the result of monsoon getting stronger. “Since Sukhna Lake is nearer to the foothills of Himalayas, more rainfall was recorded there.”He said there are chances of heavy rain from Tuesday till the first week of September, which may lead to rise in Sukhna water level again.Administrative officials said with forecast for more rains, flood gates could be opened again. With 419.2mm rain recorded this month so far, highest for August since 2004, the total this monsoon has reached 892.1mm. It has already crossed the normal value of 845.7mm for the whole season (recorded between June 1 and September 30) and is 5.5% surplus. For the period up to August 23, monsoon is 38% surplus.Last year, the city recorded 17.5% monsoon deficit with 697.4mm during the four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/overnight-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-chandigarh-s-periphery/story-Q1jAxqnXVSoQPET7y31dDM.html
24-08-2020||City||Commuters complain of delay, cancellations of trains on CR||Essential services workers who avail local train services to commute to work have raised complaints about irregularities in local services such as delay, cancellations and no proper announcements at railway stations. Some commuters from Kalyan and Dombivli took to social media sites and demanded that Central Railway (CR) take remedial measures. Manish Pathak, 37, a doctor who travel from Dombivli to Mumbai’s Kasturba Gandhi Hospital every day, said he was forced to wait at the station for hours as trains get cancelled at the last moment. “Local trains are the only mode of transport available to me. Earlier there was delay in the services, but since the past one week there have been cancellation of trains, which forced me to wait at the stations for hours. It affects my work as well,” said Pathak, who tweeted about the issue and tagged CR’s official Twitter handle. Pathak has asked CR to release local train schedule so that people can plan their travel accordingly. “The schedule, which they have given, is not working properly. If there is a cancellation, people should be informed in advance so that they don’t waste time. There are no announcements, no indicators,” added Pathak. Deepak Dubey, 29, who travels from Dombivli to Byculla for work said, “Railway stations and trains are mostly crowded due to irregularities in train services. While there is a schedule put up at the station, most of the times trains are delayed by hours. Since the past one week, we have also faced cancellation of trains.” He added, “This issue needs to be resolved soon as it affects our work. The frequency of trains also needs to be increased so as to avoid overcrowding.” Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR, said, “Due to heavy rains and waterlogging, there might be delay in local train services. And on Sundays there might be delay and cancellations due to mega blocks, for which public notice is provided in advance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commuters-complain-of-delay-cancellations-of-trains-on-cr/story-nfSFeujlBeZDoGWMK8BNnJ.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharastra may free intra-state travel in 1st week of September||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is likely to open intra-state movement without mandatory e-passes soon. The decision is likely to come in the first week of September once the 10-day Ganesh festival is concluded. Home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday said they will also be taking appropriate decision on allowing intra-state and inter-state movement after discussing it with chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had, on August 22, written to chief secretaries of all states saying there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. His letter also mentions that any such restriction would amount to a violation of guidelines by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued earlier during unlock phases.Currently, a person needs to get an e-pass from the state government for intra-state travel in case of emergency and unavoidable situation.Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said they will allow free intra-state movement after Ganesh Chaturthi. “We have already allowed intra-state movement. The condition for obtaining e-pass for travelling will also be scrapped. A decision on this is likely to be taken after Ganesh festival,” Kumar told HT.Government officials said they cannot take the decision immediately as more people are likely to travel because of ongoing festival. “It will allow people to visit their villages, which will lead to further spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in rural areas and make the situation more difficult for the state,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.“We have taken note of the recent guidelines announced by the Centre removing all restrictions on inter-state & intra-state movement of goods and people. Appropriate decision will be taken regarding the same after discussion with Hon’ble CM & DCM,” Deshmukh tweeted on Sunday. In another tweet, the home minister said, “As per the discussions held with Hon’ble CM, the existing #MissionBeginAgain guidelines will be in effect in Maharashtra, till any further announcement.”On August 19, the state government allowed resumption of inter-district bus services of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) which was suspended in March after the nationwide lockdown was imposed.According to the state government’s directive, passengers do not require an e-pass, permission or approval for inter-district travel in MSRTC buses. However, the transport undertaking will issue standard operating procedures for such travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharastra-may-free-intra-state-travel-in-1st-week-of-september/story-fFLPwRLrvITcFK0QcZwFgI.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||Four critical patients respond well to new drug; need to verify, say experts||Four severely critical Covid-19 patients who were on ventilator support due to extensive scarring of lung tissues that leads to low oxygen levels — a complication induced by Sars-CoV-2 virus — were sent home on minimal oxygen support after pulmonologists at the Pune-based Army Institute of Cardiothoracic Sciences (AICTS) administered a new line of treatment using anti-fibrotic drug nintedanib.“We had lost hope on these four patients. But when we administered Nintedanib with a combination of steroids, their condition turned around. Very safely and without any complications or side-effects, they could be sent home with minimal oxygen support,” said Brigadier (medical) HQ MG&G (Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa) area, adding that this subset of patients had clear evidence of having suffered pulmonary fibrosis in CT-scans. Nintedanib costs approximately ₹65,000 or less for a month (60 tablets). Lung fibrosis is usually seen in patients who are detected late and have extensive pneumonia. Many a times, it becomes difficult to wean these patients off oxygen despite anti-inflammatory therapies, such as steroids, and they remain in the intensive care unit for a long time. A patient infected with the novel coronavirus associated pulmonary fibrosis is put on high-flow oxygen or other ventilatory supports because he/she cannot maintain normal oxygen saturation levels on his/her own. While oxygen saturation levels for most healthy individuals is around 95% or more, it can drop to as low as 75% among Covid-19 patients, causing death. Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist at Hinduja Hospital, said that anti-fibrotics such as pirfenidone and nintedanib may have anti-fibrotic potential, but their efficacy needs to be validated in randomised control trials (RCTs).“We have seen several patients with high oxygen requirements and bilateral lung disease improve gradually, and get weaned off oxygen with time. The recovery can be slow, and at times we have discharged patients on home oxygen support, and eventually weaned them off,” said Pinto.He added, “In the absence of a control arm, it is impossible to know whether it was the drug or time that caused the resolution of clinical and radiological features. Already an RCT assessing the safety and efficacy of pirfenidone is underway, and we are looking forward to the results.”“There are plenty of observational studies of drugs for Covid (such as HCQ) that have had promising results, but have failed to show efficacy over placebo in clinical trials. We should definitely not change practice based on a case series of 4 patients,” said Pinto.The team said anti-fibrotic drugs are generally used to treat other types of lung fibrosis such as secondary to autoimmune diseases — rheumatoid arthritis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). “Nintedanib is a medicine which has often been used by some immunologists and rheumatologists in cases where the lungs have developed fibrosis as a result of an autoimmune disease in which the body’s own immunity goes haywire, begins recognising its own organs as foreign and starts attacking it,” said a spokesperson of the team. “In some of those conditions, lungs develop fibrosis and Nintedanib has been used effectively for clinical management of the condition because it’s an expensive drug,” the spokesperson added. Taking this as a cue, the pulmonology department at AICTS decided to try a combination of steroids with nintedanib in four patients with Covid-19-associated lung fibrosis who were difficult to wean off of oxygen due to extensive lung fibrosis and their condition was steadily deteriorating. Doctors said the anti-fibrotic drug was used on four patients who were at a very advanced stage of Covid-19 that required intense treatment. Having recovered, these patients will have to be on minimal oxygen support at home even after turning Covid-19 negative, and follow-ups will continue clinically and through laboratory investigations and CT-scan imaging. The team said nintedanib is reasonably safe but may cause diarrhoea followed by liver function derangement in some. “A patient cannot be discharged unless oxygen saturation level is not above 93-94% which will help him/her carry on with daily activities. The reason these four patients require low-level oxygen and follow-ups is because while their saturation levels will stay at 93-94% when stationery (like sitting), it will drop to 90-91% with little activity,” said the spokesperson. As an observational study, a report is in the pipelines for an internationally peer-reviewed scientific journal on the clinical management using ninetedanib on these four patients. Going forward, the team proposes to recognise similar subsets and utilise the same treatment protocol. The team said that at present there is no published case report of this drug being used on patients who have developed severe pulmonary fibrosis due to Covid-19 and are unable to wean off ventilator. HOW THE PATIENTS ARE CHOSEN Covid-19 patients who are detected late or progressed to the critical phase of illness — meaning they are unable to maintain their oxygen saturations without high-flow oxygen or ventilator support — are evaluated extensively. Computerised tomography pulmonary angiography is carried out to rule out the possibility of pulmonary embolism (clots in the lungs) and check the extent of fibrosis that may have developed in the lung. The patients also undergo various blood tests to look for ongoing inflammation by evaluating the inflammatory markers among other parameters. If the inflammation is controlled with steroids (which are the first line for Covid-19) and CT pictures reveal evidence of prominent fibrosis leading to the patient requiring continued supplemental oxygen and make it difficult to wean him/her off, the therapy with nintedabin begins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-critical-patients-respond-well-to-new-drug-need-to-verify-say-experts/story-tuADVn0LqDqxy4J2Onrj2K.html
24-08-2020||Mumbai||SpiceJet operates first long-haul non-stop India-Europe flight||Budget carrier SpiceJet became the first Indian airline to operate the long-haul non- stop cargo flight from Amsterdam to Mumbai using its wide-body aircraft Airbus A340 on Saturday. The same aircraft also operated from Mumbai to Khartoum, Sudan, on Sunday at 11.47am.The airline also became the first to operate a non-stop cargo flight from Europe on a dedicated freighter.Adding Netherlands to its international cargo network, SpiceJet carried 13 tonnes of cargo supplies to Mumbai on Saturday. The flight departed from the Dutch capital at 10.50pm (local time) on August 21 and landed in Mumbai at 10.54am (local time) on Saturday. Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director of SpiceJet, said, “We successfully operated our first wide-body long-haul flight from Europe. The induction of our first Airbus A340 cargo aircraft has significantly enhanced our operational capability and will allow us to operate non-stop cargo services across the globe to destinations in Europe, Africa and CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States) countries.”An airline official said that the A340 freighter that took off to Khartoum today carried 40 tonnes of cargo. This is SpiceJet’s first non-stop flight to Africa. Earlier, the low-cost carrier had flown to Sudan via Ras Al-Khaimah in the United Arab Emirates.Since March 25, after India imposed a lockdown, the airline operated more than 5,764 cargo flights and transported over 31,800 tonnes of cargo, which according to SpiceJet, is more than double of all the domestic airlines put together. These flights carried medicines, medical equipment, fruits and vegetables to various parts of India and the world since March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spicejet-operates-first-long-haul-non-stop-india-europe-flight/story-H36TeLkeRCSZ7qwqrtasMP.html
24-08-2020||Pune||FYJC admissions in Pune: Science, commerce streams in demand; Arts trails by some measure||A maximum students going into Class 11, or first year junior college (FYJC), have opted for the Science or the Commerce stream, with the Arts stream trailing by some measure, as per data shared by the education department.Of the total 72,820 students eligible for admission, 34,071 students have opted for science, 30,732 for commerce, 6,752 students for Arts and 1,265 students for the vocational stream.The temporary general merit list for the Class 11 admission process was declared on Sunday by the education department.“Till now, 98,946 students have registered for admissions. Of these 81,690 students have filled their part 1 form of the admission. While 75,410 students have filled part 2 form and now a total of 72,820 students are eligible for admission as per the temporary general merit list,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune.“Due to the current pandemic parents are confused about whether to send their children to city colleges or not. So, despite registering for the admission process many students have not completed the admission process. Is students register themselves and complete the admission process, later on when the effect of pandemic slows down, they can take the admission in subsequent rounds,” added Shendkar.Amid the Covid-19 chaos, the Class 11 admission process started late after the Class 10 results were declared. In Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad area in 304 colleges, 1,06,972 seats are available for this academic year, of which, the highest number of seats are for the science stream, at 43,981.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fyjc-admissions-science-commerce-streams-in-demand-arts-trails-by-some-measure/story-8dSdyEFECSlZVigmYdKQCI.html
24-08-2020||Pune||Puneites opt for eco-friendly visarjan, follow safety norms||People were seen wearing masks and following social distancing norms during the immersion of one-and-a-half-day Ganesha idols on Sunday.Many people also opted for an eco-friendly way of immersing the idols at homes as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had appealed to residents to immerse Ganesha idols at home or at the immersion centres started across the city to avoid the crowd.“Due to the current Covid-19 situation, we decided to immerse the Ganesha idol at home. We had brought Shaduchi mati (clay) idol and immersed it in a bucket with the help of ammonium bicarbonate,” said Kshitij Jog, a citizen of Narayan peth.Another resident Shailesh Kshirsagar said, “We followed all safety precautions while immersing the idol into the river. PMC has taken all measures to ensure that people immerse idols at home or in the artificial tanks. But at the same time, they should have made arrangements at the Visarjan ghats as there are people who want to go the traditional way and immerse Ganpati idol in the natural flow of water.”Dustbins used as makeshift tanks, allege MNSThere was a big tussle between the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers and Pune police officials and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staff after the MNS exposed the artificial tanks made by PMC for Ganpati visarjan were actually the dustbin containers. After the commotion, PMC removed the containers from one of its immersion centres near Shanipar chowk.“PMC has completely failed in making proper arrangements for public immersion. Dustbins were used as makeshift tanks which were not even washed properly. We oppose this irresponsible behaviour of PMC,” said MNS city head Ajay Shinde.Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner, said, “We have made all the arrangements for immersion at PMC tanks. We have used new containers and they are not dustbin containers. Still, I will look into the matter.”“We appeal to people to immerse the idols at home and or PMC tanks and follow all safety norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/puneites-opt-for-eco-friendly-visarjan-follow-safety-norms/story-GSIMiEN5Lmaxl93yREprcM.html
24-08-2020||Pune||30 ‘ponds on wheels’ ply on roads in Pune for early Ganesh visarjan||In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic to avoid mass crowding on the roads, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has introduced ‘artificial immersion ponds on wheels’, which was inaugurated by mayor Murlidhar Mohol at Balgandharva Rangmndir, on Sunday.A total of 30 such immersion ‘ponds on wheels’ took the roads as people bid adieu to Ganesha after one-and-a-half-day.“Last year at least five lakh Ganesh idols were immersed at various ghats and PMC’s artificial ponds. At least 25 lakh people were on the streets during the immersion process during the ten-day festival. So, to avoid such a situation amid the Covid-19 pandemic we have created the idea of artificial ponds on wheels,” said Mohol.According to civic officials last year 14,000 Ganesh idols were immersed after one-and-a-half-day.“As a safety precaution people should immerse the idol at homes and if not at PMC immersion tanks,” added Mohol.All the immersion ghats have been sealed and strict police bandobast is in place at every ghat.“Response to artificial ponds on wheels has been good since morning (on Sunday). This year we are expecting fewer numbers of Ganesh idols for immersion due to the pandemic,” said Dnyaneshwar Molak, head, solid waste management department, PMC.One of the members of Dagdusheth Ganpati Trust on the request of anonymity said, “This arrangement from PMC, is one of the best options in the time of Covid-19. People should follow all safety precautions and celebrate the festival at homes.”Meanwhile, in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) the civic body has sealed the immersion ghats and appealed to people to celebrate and immersion idols at homes as a safety measure amid the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-ponds-on-wheels-ply-on-roads-for-early-ganesh-visarjan/story-oDqlkd0BlFYL3fA1cax3fJ.html
24-08-2020||Pune||Bhimashankar Wildlife Sanctuary declared as eco-sensitive zone||In a boost to preserve the wildlife corridors in Bhimashankar Wildlife Sanctuary, which houses habitats of giant squirrel and other wild animals, the Union government, on August 5, declared the sanctuary as an eco-sensitive zone.The area consists of 42 villages from Pune, Thane and Raigad districts and is spread over an area 130.78 square kilometres. The sanctuary is known for avifauna with species of birds including Indian shag, little cormorant, little egret, Indian pond heron, Asian openbill, black-winged kite, brahminy kite shikra, red wattled lapwing, common sandpiper and spotted dove.According to Madhav Gadgil, prominent ecologist, the notification will ensure that no construction activity will take place in the wildlife surrounding and will help in maintaining the natural biosphere and ecosystem of the area intact.“This is a good step and will help in keeping natural reserves intact,” said Gadgil, who headed the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel, also known as the Gadgil Commission. The commission had designated entire western ghat saying the entire hill range in the ghat is ecologically sensitive. The commission had also proposed banning all kinds of activities.A draft notification was published in the Gazette of India, vide notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change dated July 25, 2019, inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby within the period of sixty days from the date on which copies of the Gazette containing the said notification were made available to the public.Villagers object to Union government’s decisionThe Adivasi community of Junnar and Ambegaon have objected to the Central government notification and submitted their suggestions and objections to the effect but they were overruled.Suman Kate, a villager, said, “We don’t want to lose our access to the forest and its produce as it has been our right since many generations. Currently, the area has been declared as an eco-sensitive zone and we fear that we might lose our rights to the forest. The decision must be reviewed with immediate effect.”Another villager Kamlesh Dethe said, “We had given our objections to the notification which was issued last year. It was not taken into consideration and the zone was declared without our consultancy. The villagers are unhappy with the development.”On the opposition from locals, Gadgil said, “The Forest Rights Act 2008 has finalised rights of the local community over the forest. If the government is trying to evict the local population, then people there have equal rights on forest resources.”The protected area of the sanctuary has high faunal and floral diversity with about 22 species of mammals, about 25 species of reptiles and many species of amphibian are found. The area also supports important wildlife such as common leopard, jungle cat, small Indian civet, striped hyena, barking deer, western hanuman langur, common grey mongoose, among others.Area coveredExtent and boundaries of the eco-sensitive zone: The one shall be to an extent of 0.05 kilometres to 10 kilometres around the boundary of the Bhimashankar Wildlife Sanctuary and the area of the eco-sensitive zone is 101.62 square kilometres.List of activities prohibited or to be regulated within eco-sensitive zoneCommercial mining, stone quarrying and crushing unitsSetting of industries causing pollution (water, air, soil, noise, and others.)Establishment of major hydroelectric projectUse or production or processing of any hazardous substancesDischarge of untreated effluents in natural water bodies or land areaSetting up of new sawmillsSetting up of brick kilnsNew encroachment and their regularisation on forest landEstablishment of hotels and resort: No new commercial hotels and resorts shall be permitted within one kilometre of the boundary of the protected area or up to the extent of the eco-sensitive zone, whichever is nearer, except for small temporary structures for eco-tourism activitiesConstruction activities: New commercial construction of any kind wiall not be permitted within one kilometre from the boundary of the protected area or up to extent of the eco-sensitive zone, whichever is nearer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhimashankar-wildlife-sanctuary-declared-as-eco-sensitive-zone/story-wni982LRT0C3Bm6KAzNFsN.html
24-08-2020||Pune||Pune gets its first jumbo facility: 200 ICU-, 600 oxygenated beds added in fight against Covid-19||The city got its first Covid-19 jumbo facility, almost six months after the first Covid-19 positive case was detected in the city which was also Maharashtra’s first positive case. This jumbo facility at COEP ground, will add 600 more oxygenated beds and 200 ICU beds to the health infrastructure of the city’s fight against Covid-19. The second jumbo facility will start at the Annasaheb Magar ground in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Although, Mumbai got the first jumbo facility in the state, Pune is now seeing more cases coming up compared to the capital and even more deaths per day. Despite multiple delays due to various reasons including rains, the facility is finally up and ready. The facility was inaugurated online by CM Uddhav Thackeray and the event was attended by deputy CM Ajit Pawar, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh. CM Thackeray said, “I wish good health for Punekars. The city is now amidst the Covid-19 peak, monsoon and also Ganesh festival and so Punekars have to be more cautious. I urge citizens to maintain social distancing and citizens should follow the same level of precautions which they have been following till date.” Rao had said that the facility has been outsourced to a private agency which will supply manpower and even the smallest details including laundry and consumables have been taken care of. CM also wished the citizens on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and also expressed thanks that people from all religions have celebrated the festivals in a restrained way this year due to Covid-19. He said, “It is seen across the world that once the first wave is over, the second wave comes and so citizens must not drop their guard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-gets-its-first-jumbo-facility-200-icu-600-oxygenated-beds-added-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-kd4F4RTS3pddulOVA9l8yK.html
24-08-2020||Pune||BVP’s post-Covid19 OPD reports complaints of blood sugar spike among some recovered patients||The Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital and research centre will be studying the onset of diabetes in patients who have recovered from the Covid-19 infection and did not have a blood sugar problem prior to the infection. In addition to recovered patients coming to the hospital with complaints of breathlessness and fatigue, non-diabetics are reportedly experiencing a spike in sugar levels, especially those who were on oxygen or on artificial respiratory systems. The impact of the virus is being studied by doctors and hospitals are setting up post-Covid-19, out-patient departments (OPD). Dr Jitendra Oswal, pediatrician and deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital and Research Centre said, “We are now witnessing patients coming back to us with various issues. Breathlessness and fatigue are definitely one of those but also those who never reported having diabetes showed a dramatic spike in sugar levels. This OPD will help us understand if there are is a new onset of diabetes among patients who have recovered from Covid-19. These complications are seen more among those who need critical care like oxygenation or ventilators.” However, according to Dr Oswal, it needs to be studied if the sugar spike is temporary or may lead to new diabetic patients. He said, “Indians especially are very easily likely to get diabetes and so India is the world’s diabetes capital, and we have seen this happen during treatment, now it needs to be studied if the spike remains even after discharge. After the patients recover from acute Covid-19 illness they are found to have respiratory, physical, and psychological dysfunction. Some patients may persist to have symptoms and may require supplemental oxygen therapy for many days after discharge from the hospital. Post-Covid complications are a “new dimension” and people have to be aware of them.” The hospital has been designated as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital since April 14, 2020, and around 3,000 patients have been discharged to date. Many of these patients required ICU care, ventilator support, and supplemental oxygen and anti-inflammatory drugs. Mildly symptomatic patients were managed under the hospital’s home isolation program. Given the number of recovered patients coming back, the hospital has now started its ‘Post Covid-19 OPD’ for all discharged patients since August 18. The OPD will have a physician, a chest physician, a pediatrician, and psychiatrist experts. In addition to diabetes, the post-Covid-19 OPD will check for pulmonary rehabilitation which will look for lung fibrosis (scarring) leading to chronic lung disease which is now the most commonly reported impact of the virus, thrombo-embolic conditions leading to stroke and organ damage, psychological rehabilitation, management of comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and cardiac diseases to avoid the risk of getting readmitted and management of persistent symptoms like cough, fever, dyspnea, musculoskeletal symptoms (myalgia, joint pain, fatigue), gastrointestinal symptoms, and loss of sense and taste for food. Dr Oswal also added that this phenomenon is being observed across the globe and in July, an Italian study published in the reputed JAMA, involving 143 recovered patients two months after the onset of the first symptom, found over 85 per cent had at least one symptom. The most commonly reported symptoms were fatigue and dyspnea (shortness of breath). In addition to adults, the impact of the virus among kids who have recovered also will be studied. Dr Oswal said, “Though children have usually mild Covid-19 disease, few of them are at risk of a serious, life-threatening immunological response called “hyperinflammatory syndrome”. This Post-COVID disease is known to give rise to heart (coronary) artery damage and risk of heart attack and death. These children will be closely monitored for this. Also, the children who were asymptomatic will be evaluated for their Covid-19 antibody response.” He added, “We will be keeping a close eye on these patients for at least a year for the development of any new sub-acute morbidity. In this period of distress due to the ongoing pandemic, such comprehensive Post Covid-19 care will provide a rehabilitation program to improve their respiratory, physical, and psychological health and get back to a normal life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bvp-s-post-covid19-opd-reports-complaints-of-blood-sugar-spike-among-some-recovered-patients/story-ozsYr3trPcfUFp554Tx8bL.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Four killed as car rams truck in Murthal||Four persons were killed and one sustained injuries in a head-on collision between a car and a truck on the GT Road near Murthal in Sonepat on Saturday night, said police on Sunday.The victims -- Tushar Gupta, Subham Sharma, Vaibhav Sakral and Medha Khatri -- all aged 23 were Delhi residents. Their friend Jyoti Swaroop sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment at Civil hospital in Sonepat.Jyoti told the police that they were coming from Delhi to have dinner at a restaurant in Murthal.“ When we were about to reach the restaurant in Murthal , Subham, who was driving the car tried to avoid a hitting a man, then their car hit a road divider and rammed a truck coming towards Delhi. My four friends died in the accident,” he added.Rajiv Kumar, in-charge of Murthal police station, said they have registered a case under sections 279(rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the truck driver, who is at large.“ We are collecting the CCTV footage of the incident from the cameras installed near the restaurants,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-killed-as-car-rams-truck-in-murthal/story-7Vk95nmycrCzbmIO5K8wDN.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal urges Centre to restart Metro services in city||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that he has urged the Central government to consider restarting Metro services in the city in a phased manner, if needed, and conduct a trial run regarding the same soon.“People of Delhi have been requesting us to start Metro services. We have taken this up with the Central government on several occasions. We have urged the Centre to explore the possibility of resuming Metro services in Delhi, while keeping it prohibited in other states as of now. Delhi is a special case because we have the Covid situation under control,” said Kejriwal in a speech at the end of a webinar with traders in the city.Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s services have been shut since March 22 (Janata curfew). With nearly six million passenger journeys daily, the Metro is the lifeline of Delhi. Though Metro services are closed, the Centre and the Delhi government allowed buses and para-transit modes to operate, with restrictions on the number of passengers, since May.According to transport officials, currently there are close to 6,500 buses plying on Delhi roads.With a majority of the services reopened since June, when the Centre announced Unlock 1, people of Delhi continue to face inconveniences while commuting and mostly have to rely on their personal vehicles.Kejriwal said, “We have urged the Centre to consider a phased approach for resuming Metro services, if needed. They can at least conduct trial runs on an experimental basis.”The decision to restart Metro services can be taken by the Union ministry of home affairs.Meanwhile, the DMRC and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which is in-charge of security, have prepared protocols to ensure smooth and contactless travel for passengers inside stations and on trains.The two agencies have drafted rules that focus on the need to ensure social distancing at Metro stations and in trains once the Centre allows operations to begin.Completely cashless transaction at ticketing counters, earmarking designated spots for passengers to stand while waiting for trains or at ticketing counters, use of face masks and Arogya Setu mobile application, leaving alternate seats vacant are some of the measures that Metro has decided to take once the services resume.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “The DMRC shall be prepared to commence operations whenever directed by the government. All necessary guidelines to combat the spread of Covid-19 shall be implemented and all efforts shall be made to make travel safe for our commuters.”The Metro recently launched its new smart card to promote cashless transactions and also ensure contactless trave. The smart card has an automatic top-up facility. The cards will be available to commuters once the Metro gets a go-ahead to resume its operations.According to senior Metro officials, the smart cards will automatically be recharged at the Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) entry gates with Rs 200 whenever the balance goes below Rs 100.These measures are based on the guidelines provided by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to all metro corporations in the country for drafting Standard Operating Procedures. HT had recently reported that the CISF has also started preparations for the resumption of Metro services in Delhi-NCR.According to officials, they have been asked to mobilise staff, set up equipment and ensure that all required precautionary measures are in place to resume train service on a short notice. The CISF has also prepared its own SOPs, which includes use of the Aarogya Setu app to identify Covid-19 patients. CISF personnel, who come in direct contact with travellers at Metro stations, will be required to sanitise their hands after every two or three travellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-urges-centre-to-restart-metro-services-in-city/story-1u8sgCSSKNYX02NzwrcjNO.html
24-08-2020||Pune||Four lakh tested in Pune; 1,225 fresh Covid cases, 38 deaths on Sunday||The Pune civic administration has till date tested at least four lakh residents of which 83,395 or 20.70 per cent have tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. On Sunday, 4,868 samples were collected by the Pune Municipal Corporation and 1,225 new positives were reported which took the progressive positive count to 83,395. At least 38 people were declared dead due to Covid-19 which took the total death toll to 1,988. Of the 14,818 active cases in the city, 803 are in critical condition, of which 493 are on ventilator and 310 without ventilator. Also, 2,661 are undergoing oxygen treatment. The city also saw 1,243 people being discharged after they were declared as cured, taking the total count of those who have recovered to 66,589 in the city. Among the deaths, 12 were reported from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), seven from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), three from Inlaks and Budhrani and Bharati hospital, two from Naidu hospital, Dalvi hospital and one each from Sana hospital, Sahyadri hospital (Karve road), Ruby hospital, Tarachand hospital, Kashibai Navale hospital, Poona hospital, Kasturba hospital, Sahyadri hospital (Kothrud) and Inamdar hospital.Also, 13 deaths were reported from city hospitals of those residing outside PMC limits, including five from SGH, two from Noble hospital and one each from Kasturba hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani, Tarachand hospital, Ruby hospital, Sanjeevan hospital and Parmar hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-lakh-tested-in-pune-1-225-fresh-covid-cases-38-deaths-on-sunday/story-rnxxZSkSi0Xe1651cqxknJ.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Extend deadline for new fire safety norms till March 2021: Hotel owners||As hotels and guesthouses in the capital gear up to reopen after a lull of five months, owners of such establishments have a new reason to worry — a bunch of new fire safety norms, which were notified in May 2019.The owners have requested the Delhi government to extend the deadline (from March 31, 2020 to March 31, 2021) for the implementation of the new norms that are currently under review.A delegation of Delhi Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association met chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in this regard on Friday. The new rules demand amendments to building bylaws to strengthen fire safety norms. As per the new amendments, kitchen or cooking activity in any form is not allowed on rooftops or basements of buildings, and storage of inflammable materials or temporary roofing is banned in terraces.Besides, inflammable materials — like carpets and wooden or foam panelings — are not allowed on passages, corridors and staircases of buildings, and storage of gas cylinders in violation of standards prescribed by the National Building Code is also banned.After a massive fire in Karol Bagh’s Hotel Arpit Palace claimed 17 lives in February last year, the Delhi government had got all hotels in Paharganj and Karol Bagh inspected. The government had later notified amendments to the building bylaws to strengthen fire safety norms in May 2019. The amendments, which are under review after hotel owners raised concerns about certain provisions, were to be implemented by December 2019 but was extended till March 31, 2020.In November last year, the Delhi government had constituted a sub-committee, which was chaired by a special commissioner of police (licensing), to review and make appropriate recommendations for fire safety of guest houses and restaurants. The committee is yet to submit its report, said a senior police official.Mohit Shah, general secretary of Delhi Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association, said, “The process got delayed due to the pandemic. Our fire NoCs are not valid right now since the new norms were notified. After the recommendations of the committee are notified, we need time to implement the new fire safety norms. In our meeting with the CM on Friday, we requested him to extend the deadline for the implementation of the new norms till March 31, 2021.”On Friday, the Delhi Fire Service held a meeting with the Delhi government’s principal secretary (home) to decide on the issue. A meeting with chief secretary Vijay Dev was also held recently to discuss the matter, said a senior official, requesting anonymity.According to a senior official in the home department of Delhi government, the decision to extend the deadline for the implementation of the new norms has to be taken by the urban development department.“So far no decision has been taken in this regard,” said a senior official with the urban development department.Hotel owners say that they need time till next year, as the industry is badly hit due to the pandemic and there is shortage of labourers. “Implementation of the new norms require some changes in our building. But right now, construction workers are not easily available. Moreover, we want to first restart our businesses,” said Boddy Lohia, president of Mahipalpur hotel owners’ association.The hotel owners had raised objections to a few provisions in the amendment, such as installation of Carbon monoxide detectors and fire check or protection doors, and no fire NoCs to hotels with more than four floors.Former DFS chief AK Sharma said the new amendments were an outcome of the Hotel Arpit Palace fire tragedy as it was realised that these hotels need additional norms with respect to life and fire safety. He said that the new norms should be implemented in a timebound manner.“Not only in view of the Covid pandemic, but even earlier also these hotel owner organisations had requested time for implementing these mandates. Are we not playing with the safety of people? Since the government has decided to open hotels, the review committee should get it done on war footing and the report must be submitted without delay. The same must be implemented in a time bound manner. Thereafter, those who do not implement the new rules must be penalised,” Sharma said.Every hotel or a lodging house needs a licence from DCP (licencing) to run it, under the Delhi Police Act. For obtaining the licence, an application form has to be accompanied with land ownership proof, rent agreement and the site and building plan and the premise has to be inspected by the licencing branch.Joint commissioner of police (licensing ) Suvashis Choudhary said the report is being prepared by the sub-committee cand is in its final stage. It is expected to be submitted within the next two weeks.“The new rules issued by the fire department through a notification dated May 27, 2019, were not being followed by many hotels at that time and therefore many of them were forced to shut down. Because hotel owners also had apprehensions towards the new norms, the committee was then set up in November last year to review them,” Choudhary said.Delhi police’s public relations officer Eish Singhal also did not comment on the matter.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “The government will consider their proposal and decide after examining all the details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/extend-deadline-for-new-fire-safety-norms-till-march-2021-hotel-owners/story-tOcPsFw5EP0ClUcSlfXMVI.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||After basements flood in GK-II, water supply in area to be shut off, teams to hunt out cause||After incidents of flooding in the basement of buildings in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash-II, officials from the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) and South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will conduct inspections in the area, after shutting off water supply in the neighbourhood for 24 hours between Monday and Tuesday.Officials will seek to ascertain if there is a leakage in a 600mm-wide water pipeline laid in the area in January this year. Along with GK-II, water supply is likely to affect part of neighbouring CR Park and adjoining neighbourhoods as well, including Kalkaji and Alaknanda. Officials said supply will remain suspended from Monday evening to Tuesday morning.The problem first came to light around a month ago, has currently afflicted at least 100 buildings in the neighbourhood. SDMC and DJB officials suspect the problem arose due to a “sudden” recharge of groundwater, the cause of which is still not known.According to a senior DJB official, though they have already checked the newly laid main pipeline for leakages, water supply is being suspended on the request of CGWB scientists.“The water pipeline was replaced in January this year, and had there been leakages, it would have been detected early on itself. However, after this issue was reported by residents, we dug up four or five test pits around the pipeline on Sunday to check for leakages, but found them dry. The CGWB will conduct a survey of the area to find out the probable reasons and work out solutions,” said a senior DJB official, who asked not to be named.Meanwhile, water tankers will be sent to the area during the day to help people store water. “Some tankers will also be on standby in case supply is shut off for a longer period,” the DJB official said.Area MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said the problem is likely because of the rising water table.“A DJB leakage-detection had inspected the area on Sunday morning. Test pits were dug up, but no leakage was found. Then along with municipal officials, we inspected tubewells installed by the corporation in the nearby market to water parks in the area. It was found that water could be traced at the level of 15 feet underground itself, which is too high. Usually, in Delhi water is found at the level of 300 feet,” he said.He added that the rise in the water table is probably because areas around GK, such as Sangam Vihar were dependent on tubewells for a long time. Now, he said, a large number of illegal tubewells in and around have been done away with by the DJB over the past two years, as water pipelines have been laid in many parts of Sangam Vihar now. “With reduced extraction of groundwater from illegal tubewells and borewells, the water table has risen. I have also written to the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) to join the survey tomorrow,” he said.Bhardwaj said this problem has previously occurred in many areas such as Nehru Enclave, Kalkaji and even Nizamuddn West. “It was found that the water table had risen in these areas as well, which is also a good sign for Delhi where the depleting groundwater table has long been a concern.”Residents of GK-II have complained that water has been accumulating in basements for around a month now. The area residents’ welfare association last week also wrote to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and asked for an immediate response. Sanjay Rana, president, RWA GK-II, said the problem started around a month back when water seepage was first spotted in the basement of a grocery store in M-block market. Later the problem spread to some other parts like E, W and S blocks. He said over a hundred buildings in GK-II are tackling the problem, with some basements flooded over one-foot deep in water.“It’s not sewer or drain water, because the water is clean. CGWB scientists checked and found that at a few locations the water was available at around 20 ft which was at 100 feet six months back. This is beyond comprehension. So acting on the advice of CGWB officials, the DJB has decided to shut off water supply in the neighbourhood on Monday evening and Tuesday morning to rule out any leakage in its water line,” Rana said.He said CGWB teams will monitor ground water levels every six hours during the 36-hour shutdown. Residents have been assured that water tankers will be available whenever required in area during the shutdown.Subhash Bhadana, deputy mayor, SDMC visited buildings that were facing seepage, and said SDMC engineers have checked and concluded that drains in the area were “not the source of the flooding”.“I have directed our horticulture department to pump out ground water from all tube wells situated in parks at GK-II so that the underground water level may drop. On Monday, a joint team of ground water department and DJB that will also have SDMC engineers will inspect the entire area to ascertain the cause and find solution to the problem. Our engineers are assuming that it might be the case of sudden rise in ground water level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-basements-flood-in-gk-ii-water-supply-in-area-to-be-shut-off-teams-to-hunt-out-cause/story-HbwVAuROZbCAn29OBR6P4I.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi witnesses cleanest August air in 4 years: CPCB data||The air in the Capital this August has so far been the cleanest for four years, thanks to repeated spells of intense rain and persistent drizzles, data from the apex pollution control body showsIn fact, as per the data, till August 23, available with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), this month has had only ‘satisfactory’ and ‘good’ air days, as per the air quality index (AQI).An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.As per data analysed by HT, while August 2019 had two consecutive ‘good’ air days and 20 ‘satisfactory’ days, it also recorded nine ‘moderate’ days. However, the same month in 2018, 2017 and 2016 did not record a single ‘good’ air day. According to CPCB officials, with a forecast of more rainfall over the next week in Delhi and the national capital region (NCR), air quality is likely to remain in the satisfactory category and may even improve. “Usually monsoon months are cleaner, but this year, because of widespread intense rainfall, pollutants were washed away from the whole of northwest region, thus directly impacting air quality. The continuing light showers are likely to keep air clean over the coming week,” said a senior CPCB official, who asked not to be named.On Sunday, as per the CPCB’s daily 4pm bulletin, Delhi’s 24-hour AQI was 53 (satisfactory). Delhi received a spell of ‘heavy to very heavy’ rainfall between August 20 and 21. On August 20, the city experienced a good air day with an AQI of 50. This was the second good air day this month, and third for the year so far. Previously, on August 13, after a period of heavy rain, Delhi’s AQI dropped to 50. The first ‘good’ air day this year was recorded on March 28, days after the nationwide lockdown was imposed, with an AQI reading of 45.“Since August 20, the AQI has been below 60, in the lower range of the ‘satisfactory’ zone, which is a good sign,” the above quoted CPCB official added. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said, “Generally, monsoon months are cleaner than the rest of the year. Higher number of clean air days this August is a combination of good rainfall and the overall reduction in pollution levels in the months preceding August (during the lockdown). Pollutants did not accumulate as much, and were washed away by heavy rainfall. It is crucial to keep this trend through the coming winter months with aggressive implementation of pollution control measures.”Scientists at the IMD said that with another week of rain forecast, this August is likely to become among the wettest compared to at least the last five years. IMD’s data between June 1 and August 22 shows that Delhi received a cumulative rainfall of 414.2mm. In August alone, Delhi received 217.5mm rainfall, which was a surplus of 32%.“Light rain will continue in many parts, but a ‘moderate’ spell of rain will hit Delhi on the night of August 25, and will continue on August 26 and 27,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the Central government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting wing, too has forecast that with more rains likely, the air quality over next week is expected to remain in the ‘satisfactory’ zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cleanest-august-air-in-4-years-cpcb-data/story-5gCFB6gp5xYNx8gDJQcPLK.html
24-08-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal says govt working with banks to provide ease loan process for traders||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that his government would soon talk to scheduled banks in the city to ease the process of giving loans for traders, start working on a portal that would help connect traders in the city with those in other states and countries, and improve infrastructure of existing markets in the Capital.In a web interaction with traders from across the city, the chief minister shared a broad road map for the revival of Delhi’s economy in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I want to assure you that in the days to come, we will have a number of announcements that would benefit industrialists and traders in the city. We are currently working on several schemes and policies that are aimed at improving business environment, trade and revive Delhi’s economy.”“Several traders in the city have told us that they are facing difficulties in availing loans under the Central government’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ scheme. We shall soon talk to scheduled banks and ensure that the process of availing loans is eased,” Kejriwal said in a speech at the end of the webinar.In May, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a Rs 20-lakh crore economic stimulus package – under the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ tag popularised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi – in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, which included collateral-free loans for medium scale, small and micro enterprises.On Sunday’s session, Kejriwal further said, “Delhi has several industrial areas and wholesale markets which produce or trade in some specific products. For them, we shall work on starting a portal which could help connect them with other traders in other states and other countries.”“We have also received a lot of suggestions on improving the infrastructure of existing markets in the city. Delhi’s markets should be of international standards and we are working towards that. We started with the Chandni Chowk project and in the coming days we will work towards improving the infrastructure of more such markets,” said Kejriwal.Leher Sethi, an entrepreneur from the event management industry who was present in the webinar, said: “The hospitality and event industry has been greatly affected. Measures must be taken to revive this industry because events are mostly happening online and this is likely to continue till 2021. In the past one month, around 60,000 events from across 11 countries have been cancelled.”In a web interaction, Kejriwal pointed out how Delhi is one of the rare states in the country which did not have to impose a lockdown for the second time and discussed a series of measures, such as creating a job portal and setting up a committee to advise him on reviving Delhi’s economy in the light of the pandemic.Sanjeev Mehra, president of the traders’ association in Khan Market, said: “We are thankful to the government for providing us with all the support to ensure that physical distancing protocols and hygiene is maintained in the markets. There has been no Covid case in Khan Market, and business is slowly picking up pace.”Praveen Goyal, president of Delhi marble traders’ association, said, “There are more than 1 lakh marble shops in Delhi and more than 1 lakh people are earning their livelihoods through marble business. But there is no organized parking in marble market areas in Delhi. If a marble facilitation zone is created on 100 hectares of land, it will be a huge relief.”Meenakshi Dutt, a salon owner who participated in the webinar, said: “The government must establish a women’s cell or a department in Delhi where women entrepreneurs can report their grievances and issues related to businesses. I want to thank the Delhi government for opening the salon industry in Delhi when the time was right.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-says-govt-working-with-banks-to-provide-ease-loan-process-for-traders/story-9Gyov2PoBC84sLGl3vHycK.html
24-08-2020||Pune||35-year-old man booked for sexual assault of minor niece in Pune||A 35-year-old man has been arrested for alleged sexual assault of a minor girl who was living with his family during the lockdown period.The alleged repeated sexual assault came to light after the 16-year-old girl was found to be 18 weeks pregnant in August, according to the police. The girl was in the care of her paternal aunt when the lockdown was announced, according to the complaint lodged by her 38-year-old mother.“They all lived in the same house. The man is the girl’s paternal aunt’s son. While the rest of the family had gone to their native place before the lockdown was announced, the accused and his wife stayed back with the girl. They had come to Sassoon hospital and we received a medico-legal case (MLC) from the hospital,” said assistant police inspector NS Nyamane of Chikhali police station who is investigating the case.As the lockdown was announced, the paternal aunt and her family had to stay back at their native place while the girl was awaiting a Class 10 board exam paper, according to her mother’s complaint.The accused man and his wife were involved in a fight after which she left the house and went to her parents’ house leaving the girl alone with the man, according to the complaint. Since March 14 - when the teenager was first assaulted - she has allegedly been assaulted on multiple occasions before her parents took her back to their place, according to the police.A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault), 376(i)(n), 354(b) (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 3, 4, 5(c)(2), 7, 8, 9(h)(2)(k) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) has been registered at the Chikhali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/35-year-old-man-booked-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-niece-in-pune/story-BGxcd23ygMrPbR2mMNFAeP.html
24-08-2020||Pune||Covid-19 cases breach 40,000-mark in PCMC||Industrial township Pimpri-Chinchwad has been witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases being reported over the last one week and the tally breached the 40,000-mark on Sunday.At least 679 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 16 deaths were recorded on Sunday, according to the state health department. This takes the total progressive positive cases count to 40,342 and the death toll to 753.According to the civic administration, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has been conducting 3,000 tests every day in the industrial town having a population of 1.7 million according to the 2011 Census. Most of the patients have been advised home isolation as they are showing mild symptoms, as per civic officials. In Pune, the progressive positive count of Covid-19 cases has reached 89,150 with death toll at 2,329 as of August 23.“Currently 14,234 people are in home quarantine and 78,478 have completed their home quarantine period since the pandemic began in PCMC. Since the last one-and-a-half months we have more patients with mild symptoms,” said Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.Along with PCMC hospitals, tests are also being conducted at nine private hospitals. “In a few days, Covid facilities at Auto Cluster (202 beds) will be functional and work at the jumbo 800-bed facility at Annasaheb Magar Stadium, Pimpri, is also going on with rapid speed,” added Salve.One of the senior doctors from the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital who did not wish to be named, said, “Cases will keep on increasing, we must be thankful that the death rate has not gone up. Unless we get a vaccine, the number will rise, but doctors are doing their best and they should be respected.”Fact sheet:Covid cases on August 23: 679Discharged from hospital (August 23): 27,957Total cases: 40,342Covid deaths on August 23: 16Total deaths: 753||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-cases-breach-40-000-mark-in-pcmc/story-RSHImWpeoSF2dHY6Ac8xSM.html
24-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 872 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||Jharkhand reported 872 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths today, according to the State Health Department.The coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 29,103 including 19,186 recoveries and 310 deaths.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of active cases stands at 9,607.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 case count neared 30 lakh on Saturday with 69,878 new cases reported in the last 24 hours.The death toll has gone up to 55,794 with 945 more persons succumbing to the virus.The Health Ministry said that India’s coronavirus case count stands at 29,75,702. It includes 6,97,330 active cases and 22,22,578 patients who have been cured/discharged or have migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-872-new-covid-19-cases-13-deaths/story-cVscidOtfItlaCBZkhA9MK.html
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar goes into home isolation for 3 days||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday went into a three-day self isolation after Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and certain officials posted at the CM’s residence in Chandigarh tested positive for coronavirus. Khattar had met Shekhawat on Tuesday to work out a solution for completing the construction of SYL canal. In a tweet, the CM said though he has tested negative, he is isolating himself for three days as a precautionary measure. As per the Union health ministry, the median incubation period for coronavirus infection is 5.1 days (range 2–14 days), though a new study has found that incubation period could be as much as eight days. The precise interval during which an individual with Covid-19 is infectious is uncertain. “As per the current evidence, the period of infectivity starts two days prior to onset of symptoms and lasts up to eight days,” says clinical management protocol of the health ministry. Khattar will undergo another RT-PCR test on Monday, the fifth day of his meeting with Shekhawat. MP Rattan Lal Kataria, who had also met Shekhawat, has decided to quarantine himself as well. Cases cross 50,000-markMeanwhile, Haryana reported 996 new infections on Thursday, 44% of which came from six northern districts of Panchkula, Panipat, Ambala, Karnal, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra. The new infections took the state’s tally to 50,926. Eleven infected people also succumbed to the illness on Thursday, pushing the death toll to 578. Among the dead, three were from Karnal, two each from Panipat and Faridabad and one person each from Panchkula, Jind, Kaithal, Kurukshetra. As per a medical bulletin, 737 infected patients recovered on Thursday and the number of those cured of Covid reached 42,793. There were 7,555 active cases in the state, whose recovery rate was above 84% and the fatality rate stood at 1.13%. Five NCR districts of Gurugram (111), Faridabad (88), Rohtak (72), Sonepat and Rewari (50 each) collectively accounted for 37% of the fresh cases reported on Thursday. Among other districts, Hisar saw 44 new infections followed by Sirsa (25), Palwal (23), Kaithal (20), Charkhi Dadri (17), Bhiwani (16), Mahendergarh (13), Fatehabad (11), Jhajjar (6) and Jind (5).Yamunanagar district magistrate Mukul Kumar said local markets will remain closed on Sunday and Monday and all shops and commercial institutions in the markets will open from Tuesday to Saturday from 9am to 7pmTest pregnant women at their doorstep: Badkhal MLA Badkhal MLA Seema Trikha on Thursday visited Rohtak and directed health officials to conduct Covid-19 test of pregnant women, elderly and people suffering from any severe disease at their doorstep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-goes-into-home-isolation-for-3-days/story-O4fjw0IU4GSbrrkOie0GGN.html
