25-08-2020||City||Runaway couple’s bodies recovered: Victims’ parents plotted their murder, say police||Two days after the bodies of a young runaway couple were recovered from a canal in Jhajjar, police arrested woman’s father and produced him in a local court in Sonepat on Tuesday.Jai Bhagwan, in-charge of Mohana check-post, said they arrested the woman’s father for hatching a conspiracy to kill his daughter and her husband after they ran away and tied the knot in Rohtak on August 10.“The court sent him in two-day police remand. During questioning, the woman’s father said his family members, along with the man’s kin, had hatched a conspiracy to kill the couple at the latter’s house. Their relatives brought the couple from Jind’s Safidon to the outskirts of their village, where they killed the duo,” he added.The cop said that the woman’s father claimed that they then packed the couple’s bodies in a plastic bag and threw them in Rithal minor.“The woman’s father said that he was not involved in the murder. Efforts are underway to arrest the remaining accused, including the man’s family members. We will also try to extract more information from the woman’s father during his remand,” he added.Sonepat superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Randhawa said they had handed over the couple’s bodies, who belonged to the same village, to their relatives on Sunday.The man’s mother had on Saturday told the police that her son eloped with an 18-year-old woman of their village on August 10. She alleged the woman’s parents had caught them from Jind’s Safidon a week ago and killed them. The couple had fled their homes on August 10 as their parents were objecting to their marriage. They got married at a temple in Rohtak and left for Jind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/runaway-couple-bodies-recovered-victims-parents-plotted-their-murder-say-police/story-E2mzGFlr4O6SBIE9ZHl94N.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||State plans to bear excess amount from inflated power bills||Citizens are likely to get some relief in the coming months as the Maharashtra government is likely to provide a waiver in electricity bills. The state government has planned to bear the financial burden of the surplus amount from the inflated bills for three months of the lockdown period — April May and June. According to the proposal moved by the state energy department, the state has divided the waiver into three slabs based on power consumption by each household. It will bear the entire cost of usage is up to 100 units in excess to the usage of the corresponding period last year. For 101-300 units, it has proposed to waive off 75% of the excessive amount and 50% if units in excess are up to 500, said, a senior official requesting anonymity.The proposal which is likely to cost around ₹1,100 crore is likely to come up for discussion in the next cabinet meeting.Officials said that giving waiver means the amount is going to be adjusted in the next month bill as it is not possible to provide cash. “The waiver will be implemented in the form of adjustment in the next power bill. The excess amount will be deducted from the current power bill and people will have to pay only the remaining amount,” an official said.The proposal applies to both private and government power distribution companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-plans-to-bear-excess-amount-from-inflated-power-bills/story-Vb6Pchoy04j4Kr1S8mEkWI.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain forecast in Chandigarh till Friday||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain up to 60mm in the city from Wednesday and chances of moderate rain over the weekend.Chandigarh IMD director Surender Paul said, “Under the influence of low-pressure area over southwest Rajasthan and adjoining Pakistan and moisture flux from northwest Arabian Seas and approaching trough in westerly’s wind regime, monsoon is expected to become active again. Heavy rain up to 60mm is likely till Friday after which the rain will decrease.On Monday, the maximum temperature of the city went down from 33.5 °C to 33.3 °C on Tuesday. The minimum temperature went down from 27.6 °C on Monday to 27.2 °C on Tuesday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 32 °C and 33 °C while the minimum temperature will remain between 25 °C and 26 °C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heavy-rain-forecast-in-chandigarh-till-friday/story-K3rWQOOf3A7RQDW9aZ5vgK.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Provide unsold, ready, affordable housing stock for purchase: Report||To give a directional plan to the Maharashtra government to solve the problems of overcrowding, inadequate housing, slum rehabilitation and high-density in cities, Mumbai-based NGO, Praja Foundation, on Tuesday, released a working paper on ‘The Need for Adequate Housing for All - Recovery and Development in Maharashtra’s Cities Post Covid-19’. The paper looks at resolving the issues related to the housing via four key strategies.The strategies include government-led rehousing in existing unsold ready stock to reduce slum density, relocation of labour-intensive businesses to reduce slum density, new adequate housing on government-owned land through community land reserves (CLR) and new adequate housing in peripheral areas around the city starting with improved connectivity through a strengthened public transport network.Milind Mhaske, director at Praja said, “In the short term, to tackle the issue of density in big slum clusters, the government can provide existing unsold and ready affordable housing stock for purchase and lease in the metropolitan region at construction cost to beneficiaries in lieu of their current dwelling (but with a larger area) and compensate developers accordingly.” The paper states that of the total unsold units in Mumbai, Pune and Thane, 34% are affordable housing. It further states, “If the unsold affordable units in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are offered to households in Dharavi; around 18% of the population can be relocated.”It also states that since 70% of the population in Dharavi is employed within the slum, “shifting of businesses along with better working and living conditions offered to workers will de-densify the existing area.”The paper emphasises on using untapped land in the metropolitan region and the eastern waterfront of Mumbai to create more affordable housing. It states that even if 10% of the land under the eastern waterfront is used for affordable housing, 11,000-12,000 units can be added in the city.It talks about the formation of CLR, which will act as a non-profit organisation that undertakes construction/redevelopment of the property. “In case of sale or management of lease, the flat is returned to the CLR which further sells/leases it to those beneficiaries who are currently living in inadequate housing such as slums. This ensures that the property is continued to be used for affordable housing,” said Shirish Patel, a noted urban planner.At 31,700 people per sq km, Mumbai is the second-most populous city in the world after Bangladesh’s Dhaka, as per the UN-Habitat. As per the slum population census of 2011, the density increases to 86,306 people per sq km. The paper further calculates the median annual income of a household to be around ₹4.74 lakhs but the cost of an affordable house to be almost four times the median annual income at an estimated ₹18.99 lakhs, emphasising on the need to prioritize housing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/provide-unsold-ready-affordable-housing-stock-for-purchase-report/story-5nTBqxxQwfZ5MrvbITYGJO.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Inquiry committee highlights violation of Univ Act; MU sends show-cause notice to 2 officials||The annual senate meet of the University of Mumbai (MU), which deals with approval of a new perspective plan, was on Tuesday taken over by a report tabled by the special committee put together to look into the ₹141 crore of varsity funds that was invested in the form of fixed deposits in Yes Bank, earlier this year. The inquiry committee in its report has highlighted the gross violation of the account code of the State Universities Act and based on its recommendations, MU has sent show-cause notices to both the varsity’s Finance and Accounts official Malati Ingole, as well as the deputy registrar accounts Rajendra Ambawade. Both were involved in this decision. A spokesperson for MU further stated that Ambawade has also been sent on forced leave pending further inquiry.This matter was first highlighted in the senate meeting held in March 2020, where a member of the senate had raised concern over the university’s funds being stuck in Yes Bank, days after the Reserve Bank of India put Yes Bank under moratorium. The university, in its reply, had revealed that the money— ₹141 crores— (part development fund and part excess fund) were deposited in various banks in 2019 as well as 2020.A committee put together to inquire into this matter tabled their report at the senate meeting on Tuesday and one of the highlights of the findings shows that the decision to invest ₹141 crores in Yes Bank barely five days before it shut down was made solely by the deputy registrar, without the presence of higher authorities or their permission.“This was done, despite rules in place under the Maharashtra Universities Act that only an investment committee appointed by the Finance & Accounts (F&A) committee can decide the policy of investment of funds of the university,” stated the report. “Documents pertaining to dates—February 11, 20 and 29 shows that only section officers and the deputy registrar have signed the quotations and no signature of F&A officer or the registrar appears on the documents.”The report further highlights the lack of coordination between the F&A department and other competent authorities as many financial sanctions were taken post-facto despite the universities act demanding pre-sanctions by higher-ranked university authorities.“The deputy registrar-accounts has over-performed his duty and willfully assumed, exercised powers which were not delegated to the post he is holding. Not only did he assumed powers of F&A officer but also acted as an alternative to all competent authorities by making decisions about investments of university funds… He is worthy of charge of causing damage to the interest of the university, misappropriation of university finance, determined disobedience of account code and willful negligence,” stated the report by the inquiry committee.BOX:The annual perspective plan, which has proposed 18 new colleges for the 2020-21 academic year was not tabled by the senate until 10:30 pm on Tuesday. These 18 proposed colleges also include a night college and two Arts/Commerce/Science colleges in Mumbai city and suburbs. The final approval depends on the decision of the university senate, said a spokesperson for MU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inquiry-committee-highlights-violation-of-univ-act-mu-sends-show-cause-notice-to-2-officials/story-xxeriHFYY4TBxhKLy91DrO.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Govt school teacher who developed apps with students selected for national award||For the last two decades, Manoj Singh Lakra has been teaching Hindi to students in government schools across the city while simultaneously encouraging them to embrace technology. Lakhra, currently an elementary headmaster at Government Senior Secondary School, Bajghera, is among the 47 teachers in the country selected for the National Awards to Teachers, 2020. A Najafgarh resident, the 48-year-old is a native of Chudani village in Jhajjar and has been a teacher since 2001. He is best known for his contribution towards the creation of multiple mobile phone applications that are being used across schools in the state. Under his guidance, students of Class 9 created six mobile apps in 2014. Two of these, an app for managing mid-day meals and another for the generation of e-mark sheets, were even adopted by the education department and are being used by schools across the state. In 2017, he collaborated with students in creating a GPS driven solar-plate summer helmet, which was aimed at improving compliance with road safety measures. This particular project was also awarded at the national level. Lakra said that even though he was not trained in science and technology, he was driven by the urge of lending support to students who were not as well-versed with technology as students of private schools. “I might be a Hindi teacher by qualification but I always took an interest in sciences. I took the help of online tutorials and other resources for assisting students. We don’t get much time during the day due to back-to-back classes. Therefore, we hold discussions in extra classes after school hours,” said Lakra. He said that the award was a recognition of the efforts that he had made along with the students. “Children in government schools often don’t come from backgrounds where technological devices are available to all. Despite all the challenges, our students and teachers have been striving to embrace technology and use it for useful purposes. This award will encourage more students and teachers to use science and technology in ways that will benefit society,” said Lakra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-school-teacher-who-developed-apps-with-students-selected-for-national-award/story-zGOIFi8AUd7s3eoCHwuXhN.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||College students await clarity on practical, final semester exams||College students in state universities are in a fix with uncertainty prevailing over practical exams for first- and second-year students, even as the final semester students await clarity on guidelines for online and offline examinations. While Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, to which government colleges in the city are affiliated, has asked final-year students to choose between online and offline modes of examination, junior students awaiting their results and subsequent promotion. Deepakshi Antil, a final-year student of history honours, said that students are frustrated since a lot of time has already elapsed and wanted the university to issue a final schedule with guidelines. “We have been waiting for clarity for months now. Many of us now want the exams to be over, regardless of the mode. We only hope that the exams are conducted without any chaos and we can start applying for jobs soon,” said Antil. She said that while there were concerns regarding patchy internet connectivity, physical visits to centres would be also fraught with risks. “Students have concerns about both physical safety and online exams but we don’t have much of a choice. We can’t skip the exams if the university chooses to conduct them,” said Antil. MDU, on Tuesday, said that it will be conducting terminal semester exams both in online and offline mode for final-year students of government colleges in September. Students are required to register their preference for the mode of examination by Saturday though an online survey initiated by the university. Students, however, are yet to receive the guidelines regarding the exams.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that while the department was prepared to conduct examinations in both modes, the schedule would be shared once it gets an idea about the preferences of students. “Some students might have concerns pertaining to online exams. At the same time, we have received many calls from parents and students who have expressed their reservations about physical visits to centres. There are students who can’t travel due to various reasons. All this will be taken into account before exams are conducted,” said Yadav. Besides final-year students, first- and second-year students are also awaiting clarity over the fate of practical exams in some courses. Srishti Yadav, a second-year BSc student of Government Girls College in Sector 14, said that multiple orders pertaining to practical exams had been issued and withdrawn in the past week. “Every alternate day, we are told that practical exams will be conducted and given a schedule, only for the order to be withdrawn. There is no final word, and due to the constant back and forth, our result cannot be declared,” said Yadav. Pooja Khullar, principal, Dronacharya Government College, said that Gurugram University had asked city-based colleges to conduct practical exams for first- and second-year students, but the state government’s guidelines did not permit students to visit colleges. “Practical exams in some courses cannot take place online. At the same time, we are unsure about calling students to colleges due to safety concerns. We are trying to get the exams conducted in an offline-online mode but so far, details regarding the same are yet to be finalised,” said Khullar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/college-students-await-clarity-on-practical-final-semester-exams/story-7W2FZvnKnPI2anTXS0pV2M.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Two held for several murders; targeted people for loot||The police on Monday night arrested two men accused of committing several murders in a fortnight over two months ago in Gurugram and Rewari. The police said between June 25 and July 8, the arrested duo and their two aides, who are at large, murdered four people with the alleged intention of robbing them. In all the cases, the accused men stabbed the victims with a knife before robbing them of their belongings including phones and cash. According to the police, the accused men were part of a gang of “seasoned criminals”, who targeted people for the prime purpose of loot and murdered them to minimise chances of getting caught subsequently. The police said at least two of the accused had earlier been arrested and were released on bail. According to the police, the crime branch of Farrukh Nagar arrested the suspects, Ashok Chauhan, 24, hailing from Mainpuri district of Uttar Pradesh, and Mahesh, a native of Katihar, Bihar from New Colony area on Monday night after a tip-off. Preliminary probe has revealed that on June 27 night, the arrested duo and their two aides, identified as Ayush alias Mayank and Vishal, had trespassed into a house in Surya Vihar, Sector 9, and murdered one Guddu Singh, who ran a travel business, and his wife Renu. The couple was tied up and stabbed multiple times with knives, said the police, adding that the suspects stole ₹60,000 from the victims. The following day, the victims’ landlord had filed a complaint after a neighbour had reported that foul smell was emanating from the house and the main door was left ajar. The police had found the dead bodies in separate rooms of the house, in a pool of blood, and booked unidentified persons for murder at Sector 9 A police station. The police said two days before the double murder, on June 25 around 8.30 pm, the four accused men had offered a lift to a mechanic, Ikramul, from Sidharawali in their car and snatched his mobile phone and some cash after stabbing him in the neck with a knife. They had thrown him from the car in a drain in Sector 99 and fled. He survived after he was rushed to the Civil Hospital by commuters. On July 7, Uttam Singh, 19, who worked as a supplier in an automobile company in sector 37, was on his way to his residence in sector 10 A, when he was offered a lift on a motorcycle by Ayush and Vishal. They slit his throat with a knife and stole ₹6,000 cash from him. Singh’s body was found dumped in a vacant plot in Sector 92 and a case of murder was lodged against unidentified persons at Sector 10 A police station. Using a similar modus operandi, on July 8, the same duo had picked up a man from Kapriwas Chowk on the pretext of dropping him to Rewari. He was stabbed to death and the suspects stole his phone and ₹10,000 cash. His body was found dumped in Sector 6, Dharuhera in Rewari. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “The accused men have been involved in at least four heinous crimes in Gurugram and Rewari. Prima facie, the suspects said that the motive in these crimes was loot and robbery. Two suspects are still at large. We are checking their criminal record and shall write to police in other jurisdictions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-for-several-murders-targeted-people-for-loot/story-rUT0UuOOkeOoiJEU9UHmTI.html
25-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Amid rising Covid-19 cases, containment zones increase from seven to 54||Gurugram With Covid-19 cases ticking up in Gurugram, the district administration has added 47 new containment zones to existing seven zones notified on August 18. There are now 54 containment zones in the district, according to a statement issued by the district health department on Tuesday. “The chief medical officer has observed that the public at large, especially those in congested areas, is not following the health etiquettes and not taking Covid-19 seriously which may be disastrous later,” said the statement. The drastic increase in containment zones comes three days after the state government issued an order for shutting offices, malls and markets on weekends, except those dealing in essential goods. “The current positivity rate is 6.84%, and imposing some restrictions are critical to control the pace at which Covid-19 cases have been increasing. The daily growth rate is 0.69%,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. In the containment zones, movement of people will be restricted except for essential services. There will be barricading at the entry and exit points of a containment zone, officials said. Jacubpura, Sector 12 under Patel Nagar PHC has also been notified as a large outbreak area by the administration.Though the district’s current positivity rate is less than Faridabad’s 10.9% and Panipat’s 8.5%, it is higher than the overall positivity rate of the state which is 5.7%, according to the official figures.In Gurugram, the total count of people infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus has reached 11,162, with 114 new cases reported on Tuesday. Of the total cases, 10,173 have recovered while 858 are active. The Covid-19 toll stands at 131. The number of weekly new cases has started increasing in the district. From 468 cases (August 1-7) to 573 new cases (August 8-14) , Gurugram registered an increase of more than 20% on a weekly basis. The cases rose further from August 15-21 when 648 positive cases were detected in the district, shows the data. From August 22 till Tuesday, at least 406 cases have been reported. Notably, in June, 1,000 average weekly cases were reported. To prevent June-like situations, the health department has identified two to five Covid-19 affected areas under each of the 19 Urban Primary Health Centres ( UPHCs). According to Yadav, testing will be more focused on the worst-affected PHCs. The data shows that between July 28 and August 25, a maximum of 591 cases have been reported from Wazirabad, 543 from Laxman Vihar, 504 from Sohna, 412 from Chanderlok and 342 from Rajiv Nagar. In each of these areas, there are at least five containment zones. Out of the 54, there is one containment zone each in Sohna, Pataudi and Farukkhnagar. According to the statement, a containment zone will be considered de-notified after the tentative period of 14 days provided no new positive case is reported from the zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-containment-zones-increase-from-seven-to-54/story-BTdIEdjHPSvegNyDZ7d92M.html
25-08-2020||City||40 firefighters, 10 tenders douse flames at Ludhiana hosiery unit in 22 hours||The fire department remained on its toes for more than 22 hours after a fire broke out at a hosiery unit, Vallabh Hosiery, in Mahavir Jain Colony of Sundar Nagar on Monday evening.The fire broke out at around 6.30pm on Monday and the firefighting operation continued till 5pm on Tuesday. Ten fire tenders and around 40 firefighters were deputed at the spot. No casualty was reported, but goods and machinery worth lakhs were completely gutted.The firefighters said that a lot of cotton and polyester were stocked in the building that had a single entry due to which they had trouble dousing the flames.The hosiery unit was situated in a narrow street and water was also not available in the nearby areas, so the tenders had to be refilled from Sundar Nagar fire station and King Palace. The fire tenders were refilled nearly 150 times during the operation.Sub-fire officer (SFO) Maninder Singh said, “The operation continued till 5pm on Tuesday. There was so much heat in the building and the flames had also engulfed the basement, due to which it was difficult to enter the building. There was a lot of smoke. The firefighters had to bring down a few walls of the factory for dousing the flames. Nothing much can be said about whether firesafety arrangements were made by the owner or not as everything was damaged, but we saw a few fire extinguishers.”EVENING RUSH DELAYED OPERATIONThe fire fighters deputed at different stations in the city faced trouble reaching at the spot on Monday evening because there was a traffic jam on city roads, as the residents were rushing back to their houses before imposition of night curfew from 7pm onwards.Residents living nearby accused that the firefighters reached an hour late due to which the fire spread. As per information, the tender from Sundar Nagar station reached the spot in 15-20 minutes, while the tenders from other stations took an hour to reach after an alert was received at 6.40pm.Fire station officer Shristi Nath said, “The firefighters from Sundar Nagar station were first to reach the spot. As it was a major fire, the sub-fire officer asked the other stations to send more tenders. It took some time for firefighters from other stations to reach the spot due to evening rush on city roads. However the operation was commenced by the team of Sundar Nagar station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-firefighters-10-tenders-douse-flames-at-ludhiana-hosiery-unit-in-22-hours/story-488nYNTd5ShiUcVlyDXSaI.html
25-08-2020||City||Armed robbers ram stolen SUV into police car in Pataudi||Two armed robbers rammed a stolen SUV into a police car, dragging it for 20 metres, before giving the police a slip by running off into a millet field in Pataudi area on Monday late night, said the police. According to the police, two gunshots were fired by the policemen in defence and one of them hit the bonnet of the SUV driven by the suspects. No arrests have been made so far. According to the police, around 8.30pm, Vinod Saharan, a Hisar resident, was returning home after meeting a friend in Sector 4, IMT Manesar. He had parked his car near Aliyar Chowk for an errand, when one of the suspects allegedly snatched his car keys and decamped with his SUV. The police said Saharan filed a police complaint at IMT Manesar police station, following which the crime branch in Manesar was informed. The police said the stolen car had a GPS device installed and using assistance from the local police, the crime branch traced the location of the stolen car to Faridpur Karola Road in Pataudi by 11.30pm. In the FIR registered on the complaint of a police official at Pataudi, the official stated that when crime branch officials reached the location in Pataudi, they signalled the suspects to stop the car. “Instead of stopping, they drove the stolen car towards us and rammed it head on into the police car, which was dragged for 20 metres and pushed off the road. Two armed suspects waved a gun and threatened to shoot at us. One of the police officials fired two gunshots at the tyres of the SUV in retaliation. A gunshot hit the bonnet while the other hit the road,” stated the police official. The police said since the doors of their vehicle got jammed due to the collision, the suspects ran off into the nearby millet and cotton fields and managed to escape. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, “An extensive search operation was carried out by the police for over four hours but the suspects took advantage of the dark and managed to escape. The SUV has been recovered.” A case was registered against the unidentified suspects under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) , 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code, relevant sections of The Arms Act and section 3 of The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act at the Pataudi police station early morning on Tuesday said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/armed-robbers-ram-stolen-suv-into-police-car-in-pataudi/story-zSOfYL3S7PFzVh9WsSLEGI.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Developer of Sector 67 housing complex issued notice after residents complain of deficiencies||A team from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Tuesday visited Shree Vardhman Mantra housing project in Sector 67 and inspected the site, after 850 families living in the residential complex raised multiple issues such as lack of occupation certificate, erratic power connection and high maintenance charges. The residents said that they had raised the matter with the department several times but no action was taken. Shree Vardhman project in Sector 67 was launched in 2010 and delivery of flats was promised in 2014 but, in reality, the possession was given to buyers only in 2019, said the residents. The project has around 1,350 flats, out which 850 have been handed over to buyers. This was the first low-cost affordable housing project in Gurugram under the policy which was in force prior to 2014.Pawan Kaushik, general secretary, Shree Vardhman Builder Buyers Association, said the colony doesn’t have proper residential power connection and depends on commercial connection for which the charges are high. “The colony depends on diesel generators for around 13 to 14 hours daily and it costs around ₹23 per unit, which is very expensive,” he said. Another resident said that the colony is yet to receive the occupancy certificate despite 850 families living there. “The club has not been constructed and the residents have to pay ₹2,800 per month as maintenance fee despite getting little service in return. We want the authorities to take action for the deficiency in services and infrastructure,” he said. RS Bhath, district town planner (DTP), who visited the colony in Sector 67, said that he inspected the Shree Vardhman Mantra project spread over 11 acres and listened to problems of residents. “The residents have complained about no regular power connection, lack of occupancy certificate and high maintenance charges. We have issued a notice to.developer to reply within a week. All efforts would be made to resolve the issues of residents,” he said.Sachin Jain, director, Shree Vardhman Group, which has developed the project, did not reply to phone calls and messages by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtp-issues-notice-to-developer-of-housing-complex-in-sector-67-regarding-deficiencies-in-project/story-v2LcCwalDXzrNIZ16GSy6L.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Police to launch campaign against underage driving, seek help from schools||Two days after a minor drove his car into a motorcycle killing its 49-year-old rider near Cybercity, police said that they will launch a campaign on Friday to discourage underage driving and will also seek the help of schools.Police said they will take strict action against parents whose wards were caught driving and the vehicles will be impounded with hefty fines. Under the Motor Vehicles Act, which was amended last year, the offence invites a penalty of ₹25,000. Not only is the offender tried in a juvenile court, even the parents/guardians face up to three-year imprisonment. The vehicle’s registration is also cancelled.There have been several accidents in Gurugram over the last few years in which people have lost their lives due to minors driving vehicles. In 2019, the offence had caused 401 fatalities, the year before that it was 469, and in 2017 it was 484.Gurugram’s police commissioner KK Rao said, “We have decided to start a campaign starting Friday where we have decided to take strict action against them and their parents for their irresponsible approach and risking life of others.”Police said despite repeated attempts and special drives, many parents do not take the issue seriously and still allow their children to drive without even attaining a driving licence. Rao said the parents of erring children will be called to the police station after they are caught as police cannot take the minor to a police station and the vehicle will be impounded and will be penalised. Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (East), said, “We have given enough warnings but now any child caught driving even inside the residential will be apprehended. Parents are allowing them to drive for their own convenience to go to tuition or visiting their friend’s place but now this practice will need to be stopped.” Mohan said they were also contacting school principals and will request them to mention in their online classes. “The students will not be allowed to take part in any of the school’s curricular activities if caught driving and will be punished by the school management,” he said.Sudha Goyal, director, Scottish High International School, said that they have not received any official order from the police but they will start informing parents starting Wednesday through their online classes. “We will support police in this campaign and will send circular to parents to ensure they do not allow students to drive,” she said. Rohit Mann, director, Lancers International School said that they will also inform parents. “We will try to engage children in online activities regarding the underage driving and will plan a quiz around this subject so that it’s easier for them to understand why they should not drive before the licence age,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-to-launch-campaign-against-underage-driving-seek-help-from-schools/story-v46zMlm2MTTQ4AzhIjKANK.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||With a toll of 7, Mohali hits highest single-day Covid-19 death count||Seven more Covid-19 deaths, the highest in a single day and all adult males, were reported in Mohali on Tuesday, taking the total count to 64 as 132 people tested positive.More worryingly 44 deaths have been recorded in just the last 16 days, even as the number of cases has gone up to 2,951. Tuesday’s fatalities included adult males with underlying comorbidities. A 50-year-old from Dhandrala, Derabassi, had diabetes; a 58-year-old from Bhagomajra had hypertension, a 42-year- old from Baltana was suffering from kidney disease and a 63-year-old from Mohali had cancer as well as diabetes. Three patients, aged 55 and 72 from Zirakpur and one aged 60 from Mohali, had diabetes with hypertension.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon of Mohali said all seven had been on tertiary (critical) care at various hospitals in the district for more than two weeks. They were cremated as per health protocols. The surge in cases, Dr Singh Said, was due to extensive contact tracing. The 132 fresh cases reported on Tuesday included 48 from Mohali city, 22 from Kharar, 20 from Zirakpur, six from Boothgarh, which includes Kurali, two from Banur and 34 from Gharuan. Also, with 83 patients recovering, the number of active patients was down to 1,289.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-hits-highest-single-day-covid-19-death-count-of-7/story-4qhwfgPxBKF2UxrPoYqhzN.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Haryana CM, Assembly Speaker admitted to private hospital in Gurugram for Covid-19||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was admitted to Medanta Medicity in Gurugram on Tuesday, a few hours after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease Covid-19. According to the hospital, his condition was stable. Vidhan Sabha Speaker 72-year-old Gian Chand Gupta who also tested positive for Covid-19, just two days ahead of the monsoon session of the state assembly scheduled for August 26, was also admitted to Medanta on Tuesday evening. A senior health official said he was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit, but the hospital did not offer an official statement.“The chief minister has been maintaining his vital parameters e.g. pulse, respiration, blood pressure. His general condition is stable and he is comfortable,” said the hospital in an official statement.Khattar, 66, had developed fever and body ache over the last three days, according to the statement. “Considering the age and history of diabetes, he was admitted to Medanta at 2:30am on Tuesday. He was examined by the Medanta Covid Ward team led by Dr. Sushila Kataria and treatment as per protocol was started immediately,” read the statement. Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram’s chief medical officer, also examined him along. He, however, declined comment. Khattar had announced his test result on Monday evening on Twitter. “I was tested for novel coronavirus today. My test report has returned positive. I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine,” he had tweeted. He arrived in Gurugram by road a few hours later.On August 20, Khattar had gone into home isolation in Chandigarh after Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and certain officials posted at CM’s residence in Chandigarh had tested positive for the coronavirus. Khattar had met Shekhawat on August 18 regarding the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal. The meeting was virtually attended by Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh, while Khattar had gone to Delhi to attend the meeting. Shekhawat had tweeted testikng positive status on August 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-cm-assembly-speaker-admitted-to-private-hospital-in-gurugram-for-covid-19/story-J1ciDgDBiko9SsprGJACwI.html
25-08-2020||City||Action likely against illegal farmhouses on Aravalli land in Bandhwari||Gurugram The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Tuesday morning carried out a site inspection of Bandhwari village, about 20km from Gurugram city, where several farmhouses are alleged to have come up illegally on Aravalli land.Officials said that action would be taken against those farmhouses which have been built in violation of multiple environmental and municipal laws. Besides, such structures also violate the Supreme Court’s directives calling for protection of the Aravalli range. RS Bath, district town planner who oversaw the inspection, said that he found five or six fully constructed farmhouses, with similar number of structures under construction. In addition, boundary walls have been erected at 10 other places to demarcate individual plots, he said. “Two to three tin sheds and electricity poles were also found erected in some of the plots. These are clear violations of the Haryana Controlled Areas Act (1963) as well as the Haryana Urban Areas Act (1975) which come under the purview of the town and country planning department and the municipal corporation. We have apprised the DTCP director of the matter. Action will be taken as per law immediately,” said Bath.A district-level DTCP official, requesting anonymity, said, “We will have to track down the individual violators and serve them show cause notices as per the law. The process leading to demolition of the illegal structures will take three to four weeks.” The official added that the department was also trying to ascertain the status of an access road carved out in the area through a now flattened Aravalli hillock. The district town planner said that the department is trying to “determine whether the road comes under the purview of the revenue department, so action can be taken accordingly”.“There seems to be no prior permission or clearance for these constructions in Bandhwari. Change of land use in Gurugram requires our express permission, which has not been granted to any of the properties,” Bath said. The district forest department, too, is preparing a report to ascertain whether any part of the encroachments lie on forest land. “It does not seem like it, but we are scrutinising revenue records just to make sure. We are also liable to take action if any trees have been felled in the area without permission. Even if the land is not notified under Punjab Land Preservation Act (1900), which gives it legal forest status, the land is largely ‘gair mumkin pahar’, or Aravalli land, as per a May 1992 notification by the Union environment ministry. One needs permission from the Centre to do any non-forestry activity in the area,” said Jai Kumar, district forest officer, Gurugram.The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), which is empowered to enforce the Aravalli Notification, 1992, in Gurugram, said it is probing the matter of unauthorised farmhouses coming up in the district. “If there has been any unauthorised construction on gair mumkin pahad land, or any other land use category that is classified as Aravalli, we will initiate prosecution under the Enviornment Protection Act (1986) against the violators,” said Kuldeep Singh, HSPCB’s regional officer in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/action-likely-against-illegal-farmhouses-on-aravalli-land-in-bandhwari/story-Fvw7ct9Wbdl946tpOnAeLJ.html
25-08-2020||City||Three robberies reported along Ambala-Delhi highway in 72 hours||Three robberies have been reported within 72 hours on the Ambala-Delhi highway, police said on Tuesday.In the recent case, a Rohtak man’s car was snatched in broad daylight in Ambala Cantonment on Monday. The incident happened when Bharat, a civil engineer from Mumbai, was travelling to Rohtak from Chandigarh along with his wife, and had halted at a showroom on the highway.The duo took the car along with his wife’s purse containing ₹1.7 lakh, a mobile phone, two gold rings and other cards and documents, Bharat told the police. A case under Sections 34 and 392 of the IPC and the Arms Act was registered.In the second case, a driver was allegedly thrashed by 10-12 drug addicts near Ambala Cantt bus stand on intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Complainant Rakesh Kumar told the police that his driver Abhishek, who was returning from Punjab, was dragged out of the car, thrashed and robbed of ₹3,000.The same night, a Volvo bus driver was also robbed, the police said, adding that most of the accused in the case were the same and three of them had been arrested.DSP (Cantt) Ram Kumar claimed that the police patrolling was always active in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-robberies-reported-along-ambala-delhi-highway-in-72-hours/story-6rnhMBpbdJUFLMiuuSAeIM.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC waiting on 390 more trucks to begin 100% waste segregation at source||A quick turnaround in the municipal corporation’s poor waste management record in the city is unlikely with MC officials claiming that complete waste segregation will begin only after an additional 390 waste segregation trucks are bought.It will take at least two months before the trucks are bought and made operational. Currently, the civic body has 100 waste segregation vehicles, but many of these couldn’t be used because the segregation drive failed to kickstart in many sectors.Chandigarh failed to break into top 10 in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 rankings mainly because of poor waste management. City’s score in the service-level progress parameter, which mainly comprises performance in solid waste management, dropped from 90% last year to 76.33% this year.The MC has a poor track record in waste collection, segregation and processing. More than 5 lakh metric tonne (MT) legacy waste is dumped at Dadumajra site, and an additional 25,000 MT is lying at the waste processing plant in there. Lack of segregation at source was one of the major disputes between the private firm, earlier running the plant, and the MC.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “As soon as we get the 390 waste segregation vehicles, we will begin with the perfect model under which 100% segregation at source will be done. Right now, it is an average model.”‘TECHNICAL ISSUES LED TO DELAY’On the delay in procuring the vehicles, Yadav said, “First, there was an issue regarding compliance with BS-VI norms. Then the pandemic hit. There were also some technical issues with the tender floated for procuring the vehicles. We are anticipating that by October we will get them.”The procurement of the additional 390 vehicles is still pending with the technical committee of Chandigarh Smart City Limited. Recently, CSCL had approved two firms in the technical bid out of the four that had applied. After financial bids are opened, the allotment of tender will take place.Even though it is yet to begin the segregation drive in urban areas, the MC had submitted with the Swachh Bharat Mission that 92.3% waste was segregated at source and 95% was being processed.In a report of the Centre for Science and Environment on Solid Waste Management released by the Swachh Bharat Mission, the MC had submitted that 100% waste segregation at source had been implemented in 24 of the 26 wards in the city.The report stated that against 479 MT waste produced in the city in a day, 455 MT was processed daily. But in reality, only 120 MT is being processed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-waiting-on-390-more-trucks-to-begin-100-waste-segregation-at-source/story-wEqnMeAeleSLGGahlnwMvL.html
25-08-2020||City||26-year-old gunned down in Modinagar, victim’s family names MLA’s husband in conspiracy||The police on Tuesday booked five people for the murder of a 26-year-old man in Modinagar late Monday evening.Based on the complaint submitted by the family of the victim, the police have also named three other persons for criminal conspiracy in the FIR lodged in the case . The three persons booked for criminal conspiracy include the husband of Modinagar MLA. Denying the allegations, the MLA hinted at political conspiracy to frame her husband.On Monday evening, 26-year-old Akshay Kumar was called outside his house by a few persons who fired several gunshots at him and fled the spot (near Tibra road in Modinagar town). The police said the victim was rushed to the hospital which is run by the MLA Dr Manju Siwach and her husband Dr Devendra Siwach. The victim was declared brought dead at the hospital.“The victim suffered several gunshots and succumbed to the injuries. His body was sent for an autopsy. Soon after the incident, local residents along with the victim’s family members jammed the main road for about an hour, but left the spot after being pacified by the police. They gave a police complaint and named eight persons, including three for criminal conspiracy,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).The victim was arrested last year in a murder case and was out on bail on health grounds, the police said.The five persons named in the FIR for murder and rioting are Ashwini Singh, Vikas Singh, Sappu Gurjar, Amit Kumar alias Chuhiya and Aditya Kumar alias Vasu. The three named for criminal conspiracy are Ruby Singh, who is wife of suspect Vikas, Dr Devendra Shiwach, and Ashish Kumar who is the husband of a local pradhan of Tibra village. “The victim has several cases against his name and had been to jail for killing a man named Dipendra Kumar alias Dippan . Kumar was granted bail in November on health grounds,” Jadaun added.The police said that most of the suspects named in the FIR were from Dipendra’s family or were known to him.“Ruby Dipendra’s sister and Vikas’ wife. Dipendra was murdered in April , 2019 and since then Akshay had been in jail and came out on bail in November, 2019. Earlier, Akshay and Dipendra were friends but they became rivals after a dispute regarding a canteen which they ran together,” Jadaun added.MLA Dr Manju Siwach, denied all charges against her husband and said that it is up to the police to conduct a free and fair probe.“I can only say that my husband’s name has been dragged unnecessarily into the incident. The victim’s family had brought him to our hospital and the on-duty doctor declared him brought dead. After that, my husband also had a look at the patient but he was already dead. Out of nowhere, onTuesday the victim’s family has named my husband in the case. I am sure that it is due to some political motives,” Dr Manju Siwach, said. “One of the reasons I could think of is that after the last year’s murder case, Akshay’s family had approached us to pressurise the police to lodge a counter FIR against Dipendra’s family. But we had denied to interfere in the matter and to take any side. Now, I want the police to probe the ongoing case in a free and fair manner ,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-year-old-gunned-down-in-modinagar-victim-s-family-names-mla-s-husband-in-conspiracy/story-NdTCIbZElafnwomrIIdAbK.html
25-08-2020||Noida||Region likely to witness heavy rainfall from Wednesday||Noida and Ghaziabad are likely to experience another spell of moderate to heavy rainfall from Wednesday evening, according to forecasts from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to the weather analysts, the rains will last at least till Friday and are likely to be as intense as the downpour that marred Noida and Ghaziabad last week. The IMD added that the rainfall may lead to disruption of traffic flow in the two cities with many major roads expected to be inundated in the next two days.“The low-pressure monsoon line of the trough is moving towards Delhi-NCR region and there are chances of convergence of favourable monsoon winds over the region over the next three days(starting Wednesday). Due to such favourable weather conditions, the rainfall activities are likely to increase over the entire region including the NCR and western Uttar Pradesh that includes Noida and Ghaziabad. There are high chances of moderate to heavy rainfall over the next three days. The major rainfall activity is likely to happen on Thursday. The rainfall will, however, not cease and continue for some more days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. “Heavy rains also could lead to water-logging in low lying areas, street and roads in the two cities. It’s advisable to check traffic congestion before stepping outside,” he added.The rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5mm is heavy.The low-pressure monsoon line which leads to the rains in the region oscillates around north-west India. According to the IMD, while it’s moving towards Delhi-NCR, there are also chances of convergence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal and south-westerly winds from the Arabian sea. The cumulative effect of the convergence and monsoon trough over NCR, like last week’s heavy rainfall, is likely to cause rainfall, the IMD official said.Till Tuesday, Gautam Budh Nagar had witnessed an average daily rainfall (starting June 1) of 65.3mm (34.2 mm till Thursday last week) against an expected 404.2 mm, putting the district at an 85% deficit. The neighbouring Ghaziabad district has experienced an average daily rainfall of 165.9mm— a 59% deficit.Meanwhile, the maximum temperatures are likely to hover around 30 degrees in the next few days, officials said.On Tuesday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 32.2 degree Celsius, against 34.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The minimum temperature was at 25.8 degrees Celsius against 26.2 degrees a day earlier. The humidity levels oscillated between 74% and 85%.Meanwhile, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Tuesday recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 47, on a scaled of 0 to 500, in Noida. This so far this year, has been the second time when the city experienced air quality in the ‘good’ category. The first time the city breathed ‘good’ air was on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/region-likely-to-witness-heavy-rainfall-from-wednesday/story-ZrPaKbEpaGWp9CoFR0Y7iM.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Fee waiver: Student bodies suspend protest as Panjab University agree to consider demands||A joint front of Panjab University student bodies on Tuesday decided to temporarily suspend protests after authorities agreed to consider their demands regarding semester-fee waiver and extending last date for fee submission. The front comprised Students For Society (SFS), Punjab Students Union (PSU-Lalkaar), All India Students Association (AISA), National Students Union of India (NSUI), Ambedkar Students Association (ASA) and Students Organisation of India (SOI). In a joint statement, the leaders said, “The protest has been terminated temporarily as authorities have promised to fulfil the immediate demand of extending the date of fee submission post August 31.”Dean students welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said they had received a representation by student leaders, following which they made recommendations to the vice-chancellor. “A meeting to discuss extending the date for fee submission will be held in day or two,” said Tomar.Fee waiver will be discussed on a case-to-case basis. “A performa will be released by the university, through which needy students will be identified and fee-waiver will be granted,” Tomar said.“Every student who has been physically, mentally, or financially affected by Covid-19 is a ‘needy’ student. Till every such student is considered ‘needy’, we will continue to demand that the entire semester fee be cancelled,” the student leaders’ statement noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fee-waiver-student-bodies-suspend-protest-as-panjab-university-agree-to-consider-demands/story-tyK1yPflBC8oUxmMI1wTRI.html
25-08-2020||City||Sewer water accumulation on Rahon road: Ludhiana mayor directs officials to clear waste in four days or face action||With shopkeepers and commuters raising hue and cry over potholed Rahon road and accumulated sewer water, mayor Balkar Sandhu, MLA Sanjay Talwar and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal visited the spot on Tuesday. The MC officials and the contractor have been given four days to clear the accumulated sewer water from the road or face action. Executive engineer Ranbir Singh has been deputed to oversee the work.The MC had received a large number of complaints regarding the ongoing work of laying the sewer lines on Rahon road. Deep potholes could be seen at the spot as most part of the road had been dug up. The situation became worse during rainfall and many vehicles got stuck in the potholes. Sewer water had also accumulated on the road.MLA Sanjay Talwar said, “The MC officials and the contractor have been given four days to clear the accumulated sewer water from the road. The officials said that slabs of two manholes collapsed recently due to which the sewer water accumulated on the road. Further, the manholes of old sewer lines are also being cleaned so that residents should not have any problem till the time the new line is being installed.”“The project to install new sewer lines worth ₹4 crore will be completed by September and tenders worth ₹5 crore have already been floated for constructing the road. This will benefit the 2 lakh residents living in the vicinity of Rahon road,” said Talwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sewer-water-accumulation-on-rahon-road-ludhiana-mayor-directs-officials-to-clear-waste-in-four-days-or-face-action/story-yz179Af7DtvvaANEZca8KJ.html
25-08-2020||City||Noida: Tea vendor alleges assault by two cops; inquiry ordered||Noida The Gautam Budh Nagar police have ordered an inquiry against a sub-inspector and a constable deployed with Sector 20 police station after a tea vendor alleged that they assaulted him and asked for money. The incident came to fore on Monday when a purported audio of the vendor was circulated on social media. In the audio, he has claimed that a sub-inspector of the Atta police post and a constable assaulted him when he tried to open his shop. He has also alleged that the two cops demanded money. “They first asked me for ₹10,000 and settled on ₹5,000. I tried to give them less, but they didn’t take it. Eventually I didn’t pay them,” said the victim in his audio. The audio was shared on the Noida police’s social media page after which they took cognizance of the matter. The commissioner of police handed over the inquiry into the matter to Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1. “I have spoken to the victim and the person who shared the audio on social media. Their statements have been recorded. It seems the personnel in question had gone to the area for a raid on August 23, and that is when the incident allegedly occurred. I will speak to the cops in question as well and then we will know more about the incident,” said the ACP. He said that a probe is underway and due action will be taken if the allegations are found to be true. On May 10, a constable was suspended for allegedly assaulting two people who were going to collect water outside a containment zone in Sector 22. In another case, the Sector 19 police post in-charge had been suspended for allegedly hitting women with a stick for violating the norms of social distancing while standing in the queue at a state-run ration facility. On June 2, a constable was suspended and an officer who was in charge of the Sector 29 police post was recalled to the Police Lines for allegedly harassing a man in Sector 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-tea-vendor-alleges-assault-by-two-cops-inquiry-ordered/story-51IGRfecjW9MVDDEX2GSBL.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali man booked for raping Delhi woman in 2018||Sarbjit, a Mohali resident, has been booked for raping a woman from Delhi taking coaching classes for civil services exams here in 2018.The 27-year-old woman called for action against him alleging that he was threatening to upload “objectionable” photographs of hers on the internet.In her police complaint, she said she connected with Sarabjit on Facebook when she was studying in Sector 15 in 2018. One day, after falling short of cash, she had asked him for help and he had taken her to a hotel to give her the money where he had given her a drink spiked with sedatives and raped her.Sarbjit had also taken objectionable photographs of her then, she complained.From then on, she said, he had sexually exploited her by threatening to send the photographs to her fiancé, once getting a friend along and raping her in March 28 at a Manimajra hotel and then in July 2018 at an Amritsar hotel.She said after she stopped contacting him, Sarbjit sent the pictures to her fiancé, who called off their engagement in July 2020. The woman had first lodged a complaint with Delhi police after which a Zero FIR (which can be filed at any police station) was lodged and later forwarded to Chandigarh police.A case under Sections 376, 506, 417 of IPC has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-man-booked-for-raping-delhi-woman-in-2018/story-nImEYTiXGt2nX7bH1TybwO.html
25-08-2020||City||GGSIPU entrance tests from September 9-14||New Delhi: Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU) will conduct online entrance tests for admissions to at least 67 undergraduate and postgraduate courses between September 9 and 14, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The entrance exams, which cater to around 200,000 aspirants, have been delayed by around two months this year.The notification comes at a time where students across the country are protesting against the physical entrance exams being conducted by the National Testing Agency for Joint Entrance Examination and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test.Vice-chancellor Mahesh Verma said, “As per the Indraprastha Vishwavidyalaya Act, all admissions to colleges under IP university have to be through a common entrance test (CET). But to make it easy for students during the times of Covid-19 pandemic, the CET will not be conducted in pen-and-paper mode. It will be conducted in computer mode through the Ministry of Education body EdCIL, which is similar to NTA.” Earlier, the university conducted entrance tests in pen-paper mode by itself.Verma also said, “All measures of social distancing and sanitization will be taken at these centres so that students can safely write their papers.”As per the notification signed by controller of examinations Prodyut Bhattacharya, the exams will be conducted at four centres — Delhi-NCR, Chandigarh, Lucknow, and Jaipur. Public relations officer Nalini Ranjan said the university had reduced the number of centres due to the pandemic. Candidates who have applied for the various courses will receive the link to download their admit cards on their registered email ID, the university said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ggsipu-entrance-tests-from-september-9-14/story-p8Ibdg60WWPdGj17sHvDMN.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Body of 11-year-old swept away in Ghaggar found 2 days later||The body of an 11-year-old boy was found near Brahmpur village in Dera Bassi on Tuesday, two days after he was swept away by the surging waters of the Ghaggar river after heavy rain.Happy of Bhankharpur village in Dera Bassi was wading in the river with two of his brothers and a friend on Sunday when a sudden surge swept him away while the others escaped.His parents are from Bihar and work as labourers in Dera Bassi. Heavy rain on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday last week led to various rivulets breaching embankments in the area, inundating homes and flooding streets.“We found the body on Tuesday, which was cremated as the father of the deceased said in a statement that his son had accidentally slipped into the river,” said Arshdeep Singh, police post incharge, Mubarakpur.Children of families living close by play dangerously close to the banks of the Ghaggar even though there is a ban on bathing in the river during the monsoon.However, with no supervision, such accidents take place regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/body-of-11-year-old-swept-away-in-ghaggar-found-2-days-later/story-Y4McA91qLxaIcWSWUDCR7H.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana fourth Punjab district to launch Tree for Gun scheme||The Tree for Gun scheme was launched here on Tuesday to check groundwater depletion by planting saplings, making Ludhiana the fourth district after Ferozepur, Patiala and Sangrur to launch this nature friendly initiative.Launching the scheme at the local district administrative complex, divisional commissioner Chander Gaind, who was accompanied by Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma and other officials, said that the motive was to encourage people to plant saplings besides increasing the green cover of the district by growing at least 54,000 saplings annually.Rolling out the plan to plant 10 saplings for getting a gun licence to unite people against deforestation, Gaind, who had launched the initiative in Patiala in July, said people applying for licences will be required to submit a selfie with each sapling as proof.After a month, before the application is sent for police clearance and dope test, the applicant will have to furnish fresh photographs as evidence of the health of the plants, he added.32,111 licences issuedThe divisional commissioner said the district administration had issued 32,111 arms licences till date and received 230 applications for licences. More than 10,000 applicants applied to the administration annually to renew their licences. Gaind said keeping in view this figure; as many as 53,425 saplings could be planted in the district per annum and 2.64 lakh saplings at the state level.The country had 732 districts and if each district gets 200 such applications then around one crore saplings could be planted in the country, which would mean greening a sizeable area.Applicants not having their own land could choose public places (Educational Institutions, religious places, spots near roads) for the saplings, provided they took the responsibility for its nurturing and care. Plants requiring low water consumption such as Amla, Neem, Babool, Seesham etc should be planted to contribute towards Jal Shakti Abhiyan, Gaind advised, urging people to avoid species such as eucalyptus.Speaking on the occasion, Sharma assured Gaind of the programme’s success in the district, with proper execution and monitoring of the planted trees and random checking by employees concerned to ensure compulsory plantation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-fourth-punjab-district-to-launch-tree-for-gun-scheme/story-LcFX40GGjqFTW93s0NcFrK.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Woman kept chained to her bed by husband rescued in Delhi’s Trilokpuri||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday said it, along with the Delhi Police, rescued a 32-year-old woman, who was allegedly chained to a bed in her house by her husband in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri. The DCW in a statement said when a team of its members and local police reached the spot, the woman was lying on the floor with her feet bound by iron chains. The woman lives with her three children aged 5, 7 and 1 years. She alleged that her husband had been torturing her and she has been kept chained for the past six months. The DCW said it got to know about the woman from a ground volunteer, who informed the commission that the woman was kept chained and was living in a miserable condition in Trilokpuri. “ The woman has been married for 11 years. The room in which the woman was kept had no fan and had a terrible stench as she was made to lie in her own excreta. She was tortured and beaten so brutally that her mental health has also deteriorated. Her husband was not in the house when the team reached there and found the woman lying in torn clothes,” a DCW member said. A video shared by the DCW shows the woman sitting on the floor, bound by iron chains with a lock. In the video, the woman is heard saying, while pointing to the wounds on her legs, “I have been married for 11 years. After I had my third child, my husband and in-laws who live nearby started torturing me. My husband beats me up badly.” According to DCW officials, the woman’s husband runs a flour mill. “The woman was perfectly fine earlier and it was after the third child that her husband and in-laws started torturing her,” a DCW member said. The DCW also spoke to the children, who confirmed that their father beats up their mother. The woman was freed in the morning and taken to Kalyanpuri police station. Later she was taken to a hospital for treatment. DCW said they will help in her rehabilitation.A senior police officer said, “The woman’s statement has been recorded. We are in the process of registering an FIR in the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-kept-chained-to-her-bed-by-husband-rescued-in-delhi-s-trilokpuri/story-DyOP1Kbe276K0lh2GhTUxL.html
25-08-2020||City||Man arrested for selling pork illegally||A 25-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly selling pork illegally in Dadri. The suspect was identified as Munna, a native of Balmiki Mohalla in Gautampuri area of Dadri.The complainant, the executive officer of Dadri municipality, alleged he did not have a valid licence. Sameer Kumar Kashyap, Executive Officer at Dadri Municipal Board, said the suspect had been running the shop for past few months. “It is alleged that the suspect steals pigs from the area and slaughters them in his shop. We conducted a primary investigation and found that he had no license for running this shop. The meat he sells can also be unhealthy,” he said.In July, the municipality had served him a show cause notice asking produce relevant documents needed to sell meat. However, the suspect allegedly did not reply. “We served him notice again and he ignored yet again. We then decided to file a police complaint against him,” said Kashyap.Following the complaint, police lodged an FIR against the suspect under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), Section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.Dinesh Kumar, Station House Officer at Dadri, said that the suspect was produced before the court and sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-selling-pork-illegally/story-pZqQLD8sz6tAfFvwsNNDLK.html
25-08-2020||City||Probe ordered into video showing a cop beating a man||New Delhi: Two days after a video of a policeman thrashing a man was widely shared on social media, Delhi police said it has ordered an enquiry into the incident.The video was posted on the social media on Sunday, showing a policeman in uniform beating a man with a stick. The victim was lying on the road, pleading the policeman to let him go. Another policeman can also be seen in the video standing close by. A senior police officer said they have been told that the video is from Delhi’s RK Puram area but the date of incident or credentials of the person who was being thrashed are not clear. The officer also said the police have so far received no complaint against the policemen.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya on Tuesday said an inquiry has been ordered and departmental action would be taken against the policeman based on its outcome.Additional deputy commissioner of police (southwest) has been asked to conduct a fact-finding inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/probe-ordered-into-video-showing-a-cop-beating-a-man/story-9ScIkYHZG60pPiH24r1bLM.html
25-08-2020||City||Delhi riots: Court dismisses bail plea of law student||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Tuesday dismissed a bail application of an accused, arrested in two cases related to communal violence in north-east Delhi in February, saying he should have been more vigilant towards his conduct being a law student.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav dismissed the bail pleas of Tanveer Malik in cases related to two persons receiving gunshot injuries during the riots in Dayalpur area on February 25.Ajay (aged about 30 years) and Prince (19) received gunshot injuries during the communal violence. The court said Malik has been clearly identified to be part of “riotous mob” by prosecution witnesses Prashant, Harish Chander, Kuldeep Bansal, constable Pawan and constable Saudan in both the cases.“It is apparent on record that the injured and public witnesses are persons from the same locality. The applicant (Malik), if released on bail at this stage, then the possibility of him threatening or intimidating the public witnesses cannot be ruled out.“It makes no difference at this stage that the applicant is entitled to bail just because he is a law student or that his father is a practising lawyer. In that case, he should have been more vigilant towards his conduct. He is clearly seen involved in at least three cases of rioting,” the court said in its order.During the hearing held through video conferencing, advocate Javed Akhtar, appearing for Malik, told the court that no recovery of any sort has been effected from him and was not visible in any of the CCTV footage.The advocate further argued that the call detail record location relied upon by the police clearly showed that at or around the place of incident, he was busy talking to his friends and family members.Malik was initially arrested in another case wherein one Ajay Goswami had suffered gunshot injuries during the riots, his lawyer said.Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the state, opposed the bail application saying the case was “sensitive” in nature, which involved the riots around the house of main accused Tahir Hussain. The public prosecutor further claimed that the accused persons in furtherance of criminal conspiracy committed the act of riots in the area of Khajuri Khas and Dayalpur and a “sense of terror” was created in the minds of general public. They not only mobilized the mob into a group of rioters by way of provoking their religious feelings, but also provided logistic support like lathis, dandas, stones, acids, knives, swords, fire arms, pistols, for committing riots in the area and to eliminate the members of other Community, Prasad claimed.He further said that the CDR of the accused duly showed his presence at the spot on the day of incident and he has been clearly and categorically identified by the injured persons to be a part of the riotous mob, who was allegedly present near the house of Hussain, having a gun in his hand and firing indiscriminately. The alleged role attributed to Malik in the matter by the witnesses was of indiscriminately firing at the persons belonging to other community and inciting the religious feelings of a particular community so as to cause maximum damage to the persons of other community, the public prosecutor said.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. PTI URD RKS RKS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-law-student/story-br9aW4NEaFqwYgK3eqjSiP.html
25-08-2020||City||Pipeline project on CISF road delayed by four months, daily commuters suffer||The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the UP Jal Nigam’s plan to flow treated wastewater into the Hindon river. The project, that was to be completed by July, now is likely to be completed only by the end of November. The pipelines would take water from three sewage treatment plants (STPs) at Indirapuram of capacities 56 million litres a day (mLD), 48MLD and 72 MLD. Work began in February, but the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown hampered its progress. “There was no work for about two to three months due to the lockdown. We also have to undertake shifting of drains and the Ganga water pipelines in the process. We think that the work will be expedited in October when Ganga water supplies are stopped due to maintenance of the Upper Ganga Canal,” said GS Srivastava, chief engineer of UP Jal Nigam. He added that the work was about 60% complete at present. The project was taken up under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. At present, the treated water from the three STPs is taken through a drain but the high volume of discharge from the three STPs often overflooded the CISF Road. For the project, one side of the CISF Road was dug up, causing major snarls over a 2.5-km stretch. The road caters to traffic from the Mohan Nagar Link Road, Hindon canal rod, Vasundhara and Indirapuram and connects it directly to NH-9. “As a result of the work, one side of the CISF Road is closed and the other side caters to both side traffic. During peak hours, there are frequent jams. In monsoon season, the situation becomes worse,” said BK Pandey, a resident of Vaishali. “The entire area is in a complete mess and affects large number of commuters and residents in Indirapuram. We had suggested that the CISF Road be made a one-way and the traffic from Link Road and Vasundhra should be diverted to Canal Road. But the traffic police has not responded,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners. The traffic police on their part said that their personnel have been put on duty on the CISF Road. “The diversion is not feasible as it will lead to longer travel for those who wish to go to nearby areas in Indirapuram. Further, there are chances that many vehicles will move on internal roads of Indirapuram locality and create problems for local residents,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). “At the CISF Road, there are low lying areas which results in water logging during rain. This often leads to slow traffic. Our personnel remain deployed to control traffic. At present we have no alternative but to control traffic through our personnel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pipeline-project-on-cisf-road-delayed-by-four-months-daily-commuters-suffer/story-4IKbQJfLYKaqphdWH1V02M.html
25-08-2020||City||Yamuna authority allots land to four companies, generates ₹80cr in revenue||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Tuesday allotted land to four manufacturing companies generating a revenue of nearly ₹80 crore. Officials said the investment by the four companies will boost growth along the 165-km Yamuna Expressway and will generate more than 1,110 jobs in the region.Yeida has allotted 161,784 square metres of industrial land to a firm that deals in manufacturing packaging films. Officials of the authority said the company alone will create 761 jobs and invest ₹959 crore into the project.Apart from this one big major allotment, the Yeida also allotted industrial land to three private companies, which will set up industrial units along the expressway. These three companies will create 380 jobs in this region and the authority. Plots spread over 500 square metres each have been allotted to the three companies at a total cost of ₹21.88 crore. These private companies are into manufacturing of boxes, paper products, and oil dryout equipment.“The investment by the companies will not only create jobs but also boost growth and attract other companies to invest in this region,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer, Yeida.The allotments were made after a committee headed by Yeida CEO and other senior officials interviewed officials of at least five private companies virtually on Tuesday.Yeida has been allotting industrial land via an open-ended scheme that does not have a deadline. The authority evaluates the profile of companies who apply to get the industrial plots and final selections are made over online interviews.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamuna-authority-allots-land-to-four-companies-generates-80cr-in-revenue/story-RiLKSUYbXrzssZ9kL57i3J.html
25-08-2020||City||Can make our weekly markets tourist attractions: Kejriwal||New Delhi: Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said weekly markets in Delhi would be transformed as places of tourist attraction once the Covid-19 pandemic subsides.Speaking at a meeting with representatives of weekly markets, Kejriwal said, “The environment is such that street-hawkers are often considered as a problem if they operate on the roadside. Street vendors operate in many developed nations such as the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. We will develop a system for setting up weekly markets so that tourists from countries like the US visit our weekly markets. Our weekly markets will be presented as one of the most attractive tourist places in Delhi,” he said.Kejriwal held the meeting to take feedback on how weekly markets are operating after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on August 21 allowed them to operate for a week on a trial basis.The chief minister said the Delhi government will soon create a proper management system so that more and more people are attracted to the city’s weekly markets. He took the example of Chandni Chowk, which has been redeveloped to make it more pedestrian-friendly and prohibit motor vehicles on a 1.5-km stretch.“We have some restrictions on us now because of Corona, but we will do this as soon as the situation settles down a little. I also realise that a lot of you are going through a difficult phase, but we have to support each other in this phase,” he said.Kejriwal requested the associations to maintain social distancing in the markets. “If you fail to do that, government officials might pressure you or take action against you, and this will affect your customer strength. Please appoint your volunteers with the heads of weekly markets for maintaining social distancing in the markets,” he said.The chief minister said public opinion is very important for businesses, and if the public starts complaining about no social distancing in the markets, it will pose a problem in the future.“This is also important so that the opening of markets on a trial basis is soon converted into a permanent plan by the lieutenant-governor (LG), and I will be able to advocate for the permanent opening of all weekly markets in Delhi. We have many plans for operating weekly markets in the city,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/can-make-our-weekly-markets-tourist-attractions-kejriwal/story-BSlpi8KfU4PBgwHScNPLYP.html
25-08-2020||City||Sero surveillance: Nearly 1,500 people to be tested in 45 wards of Ghaziabad||The first serological survey in Ghaziabad, that will test a section of the population for antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 —the virus causes Covid-19—will cover locations at 45 randomly selected municipal corporation wards under different local bodies in the district. Officials of the district health department said the survey will start from August 28 and will go on for five days wherein a total of at least 1,500 people in the age group of 18-59 years will be tested for antibodies. “The five-day long survey will start from August 28. We have been asked to form 10 teams comprising of one doctor besides other staff for sample collection. Teams from King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow will also come to the district for the survey. We are expecting that about 1,500 samples to be taken up with prior consent for testing during the survey. The samples will be sent to KGMU for testing,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Last week, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to launch serological surveillance or sero-surveillance in 11 districts, including Ghaziabad. The other districts are Kanpur City, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Agra, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Meerut, Moradabad, Lucknow and Baghpat, During the exercise, random people will also be checked for antibodies for others viral infections such as hepatitis-B and hepatitis-C simultaneously.Initially, the sero survey was supposed to start from August 26, but will now start from August 28 in the state.As per a list sent by the state health department, the survey will be conducted in 45 wards in Ghaziabadout of which 39 are in urban areas. The 39 urban wards also include 12 wards that falling under the jurisdiction of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation area. The twelve wards are: Garima Garden (ward 64), Shalimar Garden Main (ward 37), DLF Colony (ward 10), Makanpur, near Indirapuram, (ward 57), Govindpuram (ward 30), Ghookhna (ward 13), Dundahera, near Crossings Republik, (ward 27), Nehru Nagar 2(ward 8), Patel Nagar (ward 19), Arthala (ward 38), Sudamapuri (ward 7) and Rahul Vihar (Siddharth Vihar) (ward 2).Apart from these 12 wards, three wards under Dasna nagar panchayat, five under nagar palika of Loni, seven wards in Muradnagar, six under Modinagar nagar palika, and three nagar panchayat of Niwari among others will be included in the sero survey.The 45 different wards have an overall population of about 70,493 persons.Overall, across the 11 districts, the state officials have selected 495 wards for the sero-surveillance.A Covid-19 serological survey checks for an immune response against the coronavirus in the form of antibodies in the blood of a random sample of the population. It can help establish how far the disease had spread and how many people fought the virus without showing symptoms.Cities such as Delhi and Mumbai too had conducted the exercises. The latest in Delhi had found that around 29% of the population had antibodies to fight off the virus.Antibodies generally appear around two weeks after a person has been infected and is expected to last several months. “The survey will help in assessing the status of immunity which has developed in a population which has been exposed to Covid-19. Assessment of their age group, work and travel history will also be made. This is will help us form policies for prevention and treatment. The areas have been selected on random basis,” an officer from the state health department, who did not wish to be named, said.In Ghaziabad, the total Covid-19 cases till August 25 stood at 7,464 which is about 0.16% out of the district’s total population of 44 lakh (official estimate). Till August 24, the district health department had collected a total of 176,950 samples Covid-19 testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sero-surveillance-nearly-1-500-people-to-be-tested-in-45-wards-of-ghaziabad/story-94FDoutn311oFyd62ihM2J.html
25-08-2020||City||11 officers found missing from Covid-19 duties, DM orders their salaries be cut||Coming down on Covid-19 surveillance officers who have neglected their duties, the Ghaziabad district magistrate on Tuesday ordered that their salaries be cut.The district has 861 surveillance teams assigned to trace cases of people affected by influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (Sari) in the 338 active containment zones. On August 24, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey directed incident commanders (who supervise containment zones) to carry out surprise inspection in their respective zones. They found 11 senior officers -- designated as magistrates to supervise the surveillance -- missing from duty. “I have directed that the one-day salary of the 11 officers be withheld and they have also been asked to submit their clarification with regard to their absence from the duty. Unit in-charges and supervisors too were found missing and their salaries will be withheld till further orders. The surprise inspections will be conducted in future too and action will be taken accordingly,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The 861 surveillance teams are supervised by 174 supervisors who in turn report to 23 magistrates. The 11 erring officers, according to the list provided by the district administration include the district’s top officers for basic education, statistics, supplies, agriculture, excise, panchayati raj, horticulture, the chief engineer of UP Jal Nigam, the additional regional transport officer (enforcement), the assistant director (electrical safety), and the chief veterinary officer. According to official records, the surveillance teams since July 13 have surveyed about 282,945 people and found 63 suspected cases till August 25. Another survey conducted by block level officers in the district scanned 1,954,103 and could identify only 14 Covid-19 positive cases between June 1 to August 25. The findings that officers have been lax at their jobs have put question marks over these results. This prompted the district administration to clamp down on such allegations. “When we have deployed people to identify cases, we need results in terms of identification of possible positive cases in order to break the chain of infection,” said Pandey. “Further, I have also directed the surveillance teams to also gather information of people with co-morbid conditions so that they do not end up with health complication.”He added that 11,655 persons receiving old age pensions and another 17,253 retired persons in the district would also be brought under the ambit of surveys. During a special survey, on directions of the UP government, conducted from July 2 to July 12, the surveillance teams had gathered information of about 13748 persons having different co-morbid conditions like diabetes (8002), blood pressure (4254), cancer (227), heart ailments (988) and kidney ailments (277) across the district which surveying 38.38 lakh population. Further, the administration has also directed that patients in home isolation should be supplied with the anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and deworming tablets ivermectin, as per a state government order of August 6. Both are not a cure for Covid-19, but had been shown to help some patients. They do, however, come with restrictions and government agencies expect patients to inform them of any underlying conditions before they administer the drugs.The rapid response teams (RRTs) have been asked to provide government supply of HCQ and Ivermectin to patients in home isolation and also to their caregiver and family members. The HCQ is not to be given to patients with co-morbidities and both medicines should not be given to children and pregnant women. The six RRTs at our integrated command and control centre will daily monitor whether the field RRT teams have supplied these medicines to patients in home isolation or not,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The district magistrate said that even if the patients in home isolation purchased the HCQ and Ivermectin on their own, it will be ensured that RRT teams will provide them with free government supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-officers-found-missing-from-covid-19-duties-dm-orders-their-salaries-be-cut/story-9SYmIAGh4AcJo9TbiP7bHI.html
25-08-2020||City||32 undertrials among 195 new Covid-19 positive cases in Ludhiana||In an alarming development, 32 inmates of the Ludhiana Central Jail were among 195 Covid-19 positive cases reported in the city, taking the district’s tally to 9,026 on Tuesday. As many as 10 people succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 333 of which 245 deaths were reported in just 25 days. The active cases stand at 2,052, with 6,638 patients recovering so far. The fatalities include a nonagenarian woman and three men in their 80s. The woman was a resident of Gurdev Nagar Enclave, whereas three men aged 87, 84 and 85 from Partap Nagar, Chandigarh Road and BRS Nagar. A man and woman from a colony located near Rose Garden and Upkar Nagar also succumbed to the virus.Other fatalities include a 68-year- old man from Tagore Nagar, a 60-year-old man from Ambedkar Nagar, a 56-year-old woman from Haibowal Kalan, a 35- year-old from Shakti Nagar, Those who tested positive include 38 patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms, 41 contacts of already positive patients, 29 patients referred from OPDs, five police personnel, eight healthcare workers and 32 undertrials. High drama was witnessed at a private hospital after family members of an elderly woman who was injured in an accident was said to be Covid-19 positive and put on ventilator support. The family alleged that they told that the woman was initially tested negative for Covid-19, but a few minutes later another report was shared which stated her to be positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-undertrials-among-195-new-covid-19-positive-cases-in-ludhiana/story-0qOsUZnzHzQFvm4lUkX2mK.html
25-08-2020||City||Mission Fateh: Over 320 oxygen-aided beds added in Ludhiana’s Covid Care Centres||As many as 320 more level 2 oxygen-aided beds have been added at Covid Care Centers (CCC) in Ludhiana by the district administration taking the total number to 740. During his visit to CCC at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and Meritorious School, political secretary to Punjab chief minister Captain Sandeep Sandhu commended the district administration and health department for adding 320 more oxygen-aided beds in the Covid Care Centres and providing better health facilities. He said that at present more than 4,000 Covid-19 tests were being conducted every day, of which about 70% tests were being conducted in urban areas.Speaking to reporters, Sandhu said that after the addition of 320 oxygen-aided beds, bedded capacity in Isolation Centre at Meritorious School is 200, 50 each in Punjab Agricultural University Hostel No. 2 and Kular Nursing College and 20 in Community Health Center Jawaddi. Thus, the number of oxygen-aided beds in the Ludhiana district has now increased to 740.Captain Sandhu also visited the Covid Care Centre at PAU hostel 2. He inquired about the condition of the Covid-19 patients admitted there and also inspected the health facilities provided by the health department.“We are going through a peak, now we need to be more careful,” he said. He appealed to the people of the city to strictly follow the instructions issued by the state government for the next 15 days so that they could fight this pandemic and make the campaign ‘Mission Fateh’ launched by the Punjab government a success.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma assured the residents that there was no shortage of beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the district. He said that people should not panic and the data of all the private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment has been prepared, he said.Sharma added that by downloading the ‘Home Isolation Ludhiana’ app, one can apply for isolation at home.Captain Sandhu and DC also appealed to private hospitals to come forward and set up Covid Care Centres in their hospitals so that they could render true service to society during this difficult time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mission-fateh-over-320-oxygen-aided-beds-added-in-ludhiana-s-covid-care-centres/story-avptQhMwG0oxKbklj2Y5TK.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees record surge with 174 Covid cases||Three more deaths took Chandigarh’s Covid-19 fatality count to 40 on Tuesday, as the Union Territory also reported its steepest surge with 174 people testing positive in the past 24 hours. There are 3,209 confirmed cases in the city, of which 1,454 are active. As many as 1,713 patients have recovered so far, of whom 67 were discharged on Tuesday.The number of deaths reported in August has reached 25, while 2,100 cases have also been reported in the month. In comparison, only 15 deaths and 1,015 cases were reported till July 31 since the first case surfaced on March 18. Among those tested positive this month are deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, whose report came on Tuesday, and UT finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha.The health department said only three deaths in the city have occurred directly due to Covid-19 and those patients were above 60. The remaining 37 had pre-existing medical conditions.The three people whose deaths were confirmed on Tuesday also had comorbidities. They include a 51-year-old woman from Sector 44 who had a heart problem and died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. A 70-year-old woman from Palsora who died at the PGIMER also had heart problem and was diabetic. The third fatality is of an 80-year-old man from Sector 33, who was a patient of diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism and CNS lymphoma. He died at a private hospital in Mohali.1 death, 20 cases in PanchkulaA 73-year-old man from Sector 20 died due to Covid-19 while 20 fresh cases were reported in Panchkula district on Tuesday. Apart from them, 23 persons whose reports came positive are being traced.A doctor who is in charge of the lab where Covid tests are conducted at the civil hospital in Sector 6 is among those positive. The cases have been reported from Sectors 10, 11, 12, 15 and 20 in the city besides Morni, Kot, Barwala and Raipur Rani. The total has reached 1,657, of which 508 remain active.The elderly man who has died was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Panchkula. He also suffered from comorbidities, including hypertension and chronic kidney disease. The number of fatalities has risen to 13, while 1,136 patients have been discharged so far. Reports of 290 suspected cases are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-record-surge-with-174-covid-cases/story-RgCoDk4EfiwXuqoQYE1SaM.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||PAU to hold virtual kisan mela for Rabi season||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) will be cancelling its kisan mela (farmers’ fair) for the Rabi season and instead organising a virtual mela because of social distancing issues during the Covid-19 pandemic.The university, which had earlier cancelled the mela for Kharif crops in March, will reach out to farmers through mobile applications, webinars and YouTube videos.PAU experts are planning to hold a month-long programme to educate people on various farming techniques and methods to be adopted in the coming season.Confirming the development, PAU vice-chancellor (VC) Baldev Singh Dhillon said, “We have decided to bring the kisan mela to farmers’ houses across the northern region with the help of technology.”He said as necessity was the mother of all inventions, PAU was “laying emphasis on communication technology tools such as PAU Kisan App, PAU Kisan Portal, PAU Farm inputs, Kheti Sandesh, PAU agro advisory bulletin, PAU live streaming Webinar, facebook page, PAU YouTube channel, WhatsApp groups and Kisan mobile advisory service (KMAS) developed by PAU for rapid diffusion of improved agriculture knowledge to farming communities.” The PAU kisan melas, which began as kisan divas in 1967 at Gurdaspur, attract a large number of farmers from across and outside the state. Over three lakh farmers were estimated to have visited the two-day mela in Ludhiana in September last year.The fairs also also generate huge revenues for the university as many national and international companies vie for space to display their products.Workshop on ZoomIn order to expand its digital footprint, PAU’s Directorate of Extension Education also conducted its annual research and extension specialists’ workshop on Rabi Crops online. It was organised by the Directorate of Extension Education, at PAU through the online Zoom application.In his address, the chief guest, Dr Dhillon expressed delight at the impressive online presence of 408 participants and congratulated the scientists of PAU, kisan vikas kendras (KVKs), the agriculture department and the farmers for accomplishing the task of wheat harvesting and marketing in an exemplary manner, despite the nationwide lockdown.Dr Dhillon also said deliberations were continuing on how Rabi crops would be made available to farmers. “Online payment modes are being discussed. We are thinking of sending the seeds at KVKs located across the state,” he added.Kharif is harvested in September and rice is the principal Kharif crop. Rabi is sown after October and its principal crop is wheat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pau-to-hold-virtual-kisan-mela-for-rabi-season/story-2byQfNDjOEjt8alayCXeJO.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Domestic help decamps with cash, jewellery worth lakhs from hosiery owner’s house in Ludhiana||A newly-employed domestic help decamped with cash and jewellery worth lakhs of rupees after sedating the family of hosiery owner in Moti Nagar on Tuesday. Simranjit Kaur, station house officer at Moti Nagar police station said the victim, Harish Jindal, had hired the domestic help two days ago. The family hadn’t taken pictures and residential details from her and neither did they get police verification done. Jindal said the help laced their lunch with sedatives following which he, his wife and son lost consciousness. In the evening, Jindal’s elder son Sriyansh reached the house and found them, following which he raised the alarm and called doctors. The SHO said the victim’s statement has been recorded and efforts are on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/domestic-help-decamps-with-cash-jewellery-worth-lakhs-in-ludhiana/story-Huf7Ijv8LImLFmEycGakkK.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police commissioner bans setting up of stalls on footpaths||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Tuesday banned the setting up of stalls, kiosks and reheris in front of shops. After the administration imposed odd-even rule to open markets in the city to contain the spread of the disease, some shopkeepers were selling their products on a stalls and kept their shops closed, defeating the purpose, following which the order was issued. Also, people were not following social distancing rules while standing around raheris and stalls. The order will remain in forces for next two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-police-commissioner-bans-setting-up-of-stalls-on-footpaths/story-1rGPzSG0redY2MlCcBFzfI.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Seven booked for opening fire outside sanitation worker’s house in Ludhiana||Seven men have been booked on Tuesday for opening fire, brandishing sharp-edged weapons and threatening to kill a resident of Giaspura. The accused have been identified Rohit, Samrat, Ankur and the other four are yet to be unidentified. They are all residents of Giaspura and its surrounding area. The complainant, Sunny Pohal, 41, who is a sanitation worker and resident of Block C, Giaspura Flat in Daba, said the accused were drinking liquor in front of his house on August 23 and began hurling abuses at him and his family. Soon, the residents of the locality arrived and they fled. Pohal said that later in the day, the accused opened fire outside his house and threatened him with sharp-edged weapons. He said he saved himself by locking the house. Sunny said he used to work with the accused as a sweeper but left their company due to their illegal activities. The accused have been booked under Sections 336, 506, 149, and 149 and Section 25 and 27 of the Arms Act. Investigating officer Paramjit Singh said the accused are at large and efforts are on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-booked-for-opening-fire-outside-sanitation-worker-s-house-in-ludhiana/story-lFxER1DxNKYP0tZRDf0TwN.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Democratic Teachers Front to protest on August 26 against deputy DEO Saini||The Ludhiana unit of Democratic Teachers Front (DTF), Punjab, will stage a protest on Wednesday to support the Elementary Teacher Training Teachers Union which is seeking that deputy district education officer (elementary) Kuldeep Singh Saini be investigated for corrupt practices and removed from his post. DTF Ludhiana president Hardev Mullanpur and general secretary Daljit Samrala said Saini, who is notorious for rude and disrespectful behaviour towards teachers during zoom meetings, has been accused of tampering with various academic statistical figures. They demanded that the Punjab government investigate the allegations of corruption being levelled against Saini in order to improve the educational environment of the district and he should be removed from the post if he is proven guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-democratic-teachers-front-to-protest-on-august-26-against-deputy-deo-saini/story-VlB04mcbGqIbGwViUqimrK.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||MU releases 4th merit list for undergraduate degree seats||Colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai late on Monday released the fourth merit list for undergraduate degree seats. While some top colleges had no vacant seats left for allotment, several other colleges witnessed higher cut-offs than the previous merit list which was announced last week. All seats that remain vacant in colleges after this round will be allotted by individual colleges to students who approach them directly.“This wasn’t really the fourth merit list but a second round of admissions by the university, especially for students who had missed the first round of admissions as they were not able to complete the pre-admission registration round. Since these students were not allotted seats in the first round (there were three merit lists), their names appeared in the list released on Monday night,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra. She added that most vacant seats were allotted in this round.Colleges like St Xavier’s at Dhobi Talao had no seats left for this round whereas the administration of KC College in Churchgate decided to first give a chance to students whose names had already appeared in their previous lists but could not complete the process due to various problems. Most other colleges announced their fourth list on their respective websites.While as per MU’s original schedule, the third and final merit list was announced on August 17, the university on the same day announced that colleges will announce a fourth list by allotting vacant seats to students who ended up registering for UG admissions between August 2 and 5 after students complained about not being able to complete the registration process due to the Covid-19 imposed lockdown in several parts of the state.Students whose names have appeared in this list have time until August 27 to complete their admission process. Post-August 28, colleges will have to release a list of vacant seats across courses, if any, and students will then have the choice to opt for these seats by approaching each college individually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-releases-4th-merit-list-for-undergraduate-degree-seats/story-91nSjVSV9pyzNaWI83Rd1O.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Out for a jog, man stabbed in Chandigarh’s Ram Darbar||A 27-year-old man, who was out jogging in a park, was beaten up and stabbed after his shoulder brushed against the assailants’ in Phase-2, Ram Darbar, here on Tuesday. The victim, Sohan Lal, a photographer, said he accidentally brushed against a man while jogging. Soon after the man and his friend started hurling abuses at him and attacking him with sticks. One of the men pulled out a knife and stabbed him. The knife caught him in the armpit. Lal ran to the police beat box with the accused pursuing him. He was taken to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. The accused also took his gold chain. Lal said he suspected the men were under the influence of drugs. A case has been registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). This is third stabbing incident reported in the Union Territory since Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/out-for-a-jog-man-stabbed-in-chandigarh-s-ram-darbar/story-ZgmXJOthdzmCXmrvRRi4YP.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Three shooters who killed Dharwad real estate developer arrested||The Mumbai crime branch arrested three more persons, from Ghatkopar and Chembur areas on Tuesday, in connection with the murder of a real estate developer at Dharwad district in Karnataka on August 6. The three arrested accused are identified as Nilesh Govind Nandgaokar, 40, Sunil alias Mama Deoram Banao de, 55, and Navnath Arjun Dolas, 35. The Mumbai crime branch had arrested mastermind Rajendra Mohansingh Rawat alias Raju Nepali from Borivli on Monday. Crime branch officials said all the three were shooters, and an accomplice of theirs who also shot at the developer is still hiding in Mumbai. The crime branch is on the lookout for other accused. Crime branch officers said that Rawat, an associate of gangster Yusuf Suleiman Kadri alias Yusuf Bachkana from the past 10 years, had arranged for the shooters to murder the developer at the gangster’s behest for ₹10 lakh. Bachkana allegedly gave Rawat the contract over a financial dispute with the developer. The plot to kill the real estate developer was laid down in June and ₹2 lakh was transferred in Rawat’s account, said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan of the crime branch. Rawat’s name cropped up after the seven people arrested by Karnataka Police in connection with the real estate developer’s murder revealed his name and claimed that they were given the contract by Rawat, added Pathan. A police team from Karnataka then came to Mumbai and nabbed Rawat from Borivli area with the help of Mumbai crime branch officers. During the further inquiry, it was learnt that the shooters were from Mumbai and the accused who was arrested by Karnataka police had helped shooters for recce and provided vehicles to them to flee from the city after the murder. Police sub-inspector Sanjay Surve got information and laid a trap and arrested them from Wadala area. During inquiry, Nadgaokar confessed that he was involved in a diamond robbery a case which was registered in VP road police station in 2014. He met Rawat and Bachkana in Arthur road jail where he became part of their gang, said police inspector Satish Taware of unit 7. Two months ago, he met Rawat who made him talk to Bachkana at Hindalga central jail in Belgavi district of Karnataka, said officers. Each of the shooters was promised ₹2 lakh for the builder’s murder. The accused were brought to the unit office in Ghatkopar and during interrogation, they confessed the crime. They were handed over to the Karnataka police, said Talware. Rawat was in touch with Bachkana and was still working with him despite the latter being lodged in Karnataka jail. During his interrogation, Rawat confessed that he was given a contract of ₹10 lakh to arrange shooters. After scrutinising Rawat’s bank account, police found that ₹2 lakh was transferred into his account before the murder, said crime branch official. Rawat has a 2013 attempt to murder case and other cases under the Arms Act registered against him at Kasturba police station at Vanrai police station in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-shooters-who-killed-dharwad-real-estate-developer-arrested/story-1vmIcQUsChq73xfwg8hQ7O.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Seven held for murder of Ludhiana factory worker||Seven people were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly murdering a factory worker in Ladhowal on June 23. Police said a heated spat between the victim and a co-worker had led to the murder. A group of armed men had attacked 21-year-old Wakil Ahmed and his friend Arjun Pal after they left work on June 23. The victims were rushed to a hospital where Ahmed had succumbed to his injuries. Joint commissioner zone- 3 Bhagirath Meena said eight people had been booked for murder. The victim’s co-worker Lovpreet Singh, one Gursewak Singh, Rajvir Singh, Prabhjot Singh, Manpreet Singh and Jasmeet Singh, all residents of Ladhowal, have been arrested while one Rahul Kumar, a migrant labour from Uttar Pradesh, is on the run. The accused are 18-21 years old. Police said Lovepreet wanted to get back at Ahmed after the latter humiliated him at work and enlisted his friends’ help. On the day of the murder, Lovepreet remained inside the factory to ward off suspicion and alerted his friends when Ahmed left the factory. After the police started rounding up suspects, six of the attackers confessed to the crime. Station house officer Nidhan Singh said the police had recovered the victim’s voter card, four mobile phones and the murder weapon. The accused have been sent to police remand. Police are exploring the possibility of the gang being involved in other crimes in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-held-for-murder-of-ludhiana-factory-worker/story-hubRQFr47XDoZCgHOlleiI.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Expedite work on solid waste management or bank guarantees will be deducted from salaries: Ludhiana MC chief to staff||A day after the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal directed the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to impose bank guarantees on the municipal corporation (MC) for its failure in implementing solid waste management, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Tuesday directed health officials to expedite work or bank guarantees would be deducted from their salaries.A bank guarantee of ₹5 lakh has been imposed on the MC for failing to complete door-to-door collection of waste, ₹5 lakh for failing to construct a boundary wall and establish green belt around the Tajpur Road main dump site and ₹5 lakh for failing to start treatment of over 20-lakh tone legacy waste at the main dump site. Also, a bank guarantee of ₹7 lakh has been imposed for failing to upgrade sewer treatment plants required to deal with Buddha Nullah pollution. One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said officials also apprised the MC chief of different problems being faced at the ground level. Even if segregated waste is collected by the waste collectors from houses, there are no secondary dumping points to dump the waste separately. A2Z company, which shifts the garbage from secondary points to main dump site, also lifts the garbage collectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/expedite-work-on-solid-waste-management-or-bank-guarantees-will-be-deducted-from-salaries-ludhiana-mc-chief-to-staff/story-RCBNEzFyhpZvyMYFpSefvO.html
25-08-2020||City||Jammu: Pocso accused jumps into Tawi river, missing||A 25-year-old youth, who was facing trial under the POCSO Act, jumped off a bridge into the Tawi river here on Tuesday afternoon.The accused, who was not traced when reports last poured in, has been identified as Akshay Kumar, son of Kirpal Chand of Janak Nagar, Janipur.He had alleged harassment by the Janipur police, authorities of the government medical college and hospital and the minor rape survivor’s family.His friend Shan Ahmad said, “Around 1.45pm he jumped off the third Tawi bridge into the swollen river. At 1.42pm, he sent me two videos from his cellphone wherein he blamed the administration, health department, the minor survivor and her mother for the extreme step. He said in the videos that since Tuesday morning Janipur police had been harassing him for getting his Covid test done before being sent to jail, while the hospital authorities asked him to bring a police order for it.”Akshay had been on an interim bail since March 13 on humanitarian grounds citing ill health of his father.However, on Monday, the principal sessions judge Sanjeev Gupta had refused to extend his bail on the grounds of heinousness of the crime and critical juncture of the case where statements of the survivor and her mother had to be recorded.When quizzed about the allegations, SHO Naresh Sharma said there were no court orders for the police to get his Covid-19 test conducted.“His bail had been refused, and considering heinousness of the crime he was asked to surrender before the jail authorities. Under the Covid protocol, he had to get himself tested for the virus before the surrender, as directed by the court. Since he didn’t comply with the court order, we had to arrest him and take him to the court,” the SHO said.The police officer added that the accused didn’t want to go to jail and hence was frustrated.Meanwhile, Nowabad SHO Deepak Jasrotia said police and SDRF personnel were trying to trace his body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-pocso-accused-jumps-into-tawi-river-missing/story-3SV5ZcqWAvRr5gA8TY67aO.html
25-08-2020||City||Missing south Kashmir youths announce joining militancy on social media, security agencies on alert||After laying low for a couple of months, youths getting recruited into militant ranks, especially in south Kashmir, have again started posting these announcements on social media.In the past 10 days, four youths from different parts of south Kashmir shared their move to militancy on the web, alerting the security agencies in the valley.“Though militant recruitment is still on, the numbers have reduced significantly over the years. However, new recruits posting such content on social media is worrying as it is aimed at attracting more youths towards terrorism,” said a senior police officer from south Kashmir.Last week after two militants were gunned down in Handwara, J&K director general of police Dilbag Singh had said 26 top commanders were killed since January, terming it a big setback to militancy, especially to those involved in such recruitments.In the fresh audio messages released some youths who had gone missing, the latter have conveyed their taking up arms to their families.“My name is Shahbaz Ahmad Shah. My father is Ghulam Hasan Shah of Katrusu, Kulgam. Through this message, I want to convey to my family not to worry about me. I am safe and reached the ranks of Mujahideen. Pray for my success,” said a caller in one such message.In another message, identifying himself as Adil Rashid of Pulwama district, a caller said, “I belong to Chursu, Awantipora. I am the son of Abdul Rashid Bhat. I want to convey to my family that I have joined militancy, so please stop looking for me. Just think that I belong to the almighty and had got a call to join this mission. Please pray for my success and have faith on God.”A senior police officer said they are trying to ascertain the veracity of these audios. In the last 10 days, militants have also released messages about the abduction of a panch and army jawan in south Kashmir.So far, 148 militants have been killed in different operations across Kashmir and majority of them were locals who had joined ranks only this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-south-kashmir-youths-announce-joining-militancy-on-social-media-security-agencies-on-alert/story-6TPp1GVGsjIYiN9rtKjvXL.html
25-08-2020||City||Amid bickering in party, Himachal BJP calls for unity||Amid rumblings in the state party unit, the BJP top brass called for unity among the members during its virtual working committee meeting here on Tuesday.The internal strife in the ruling party, which had been brewing for quite some time, deepened after the government ordered preliminary inquiry into the land purchase allegations against social justice minister Sarveen Chaudhary, made by her arch-rival and Congress leader Vijay Singh Mankotia. Though Sarveen denied the charges, the party’s central command summoned her. After she complained about two other cabinet colleagues of hers, senior minister Mahender Singh Thakur was also called to Delhi.Many ministers were also displeased with the recent cabinet reshuffle as additional responsibilities were handed to some, while minister Govind Singh Thakur was divested of his forest and transport portfolios. Thereafter, newly-appointed state party chief Suresh Kashyap also wielded a stick of discipline, divesting over half a dozen leaders in the information technology wing and Mahila Morcha.The working committee meeting was chaired by BJP state president and MP Suresh Kashyap in the virtual presence of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur. The stage was conducted state general secretary by Trilok Jamwal. The meeting was telecast live at the BJP district headquarters where the district president, general secretary, district in-charge, co-in-charge, minister and legislators witnessed it on projector screens.Addressing the party workers, Kashyap said, “We have Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a strong leader at the Centre and CM Thakur in the state. Due to the timely decisions taken by them during the Covid-19 pandemic, situation in the country and state is much better.”He said the Himachalis who were trapped in other states due to the Covid-19 lockdown, were able to return home because of the CM’s efforts.“Solidarity amid members will help BJP repeat victory in the state in 2022. BJP workers should remain disciplined,” he said.Stating that the central government is working to strengthen the country, Union minister Anurag Thakur said the Atal Pension Yojana has emerged as a big scheme in the country. As part of it, every citizen will get pension after the age of 60.National general secretary Anil Jain said it is a privilege to be associated with BJP, which is the largest political party in the world. He also congratulated CM Jairam Thakur for his good work during the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-bickering-in-party-himachal-bjp-calls-for-unity/story-RZibC8b9nY8OA6g71vAz9K.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi reports 1,544 new coronavirus cases, 17 deaths||Delhi on Tuesday reported 1,544 new Covid-19 cases, taking the city’s tally to 1,64,071. As of now, Delhi has 11,998 active cases. In last 24 hours, 1,155 people have been cured of the virus in Delhi. Out of the total Covid cases, 1,47,743 patients have recovered in the city so far. Delhi reported 17 new deaths due to the virus, taking Covid-19 death toll to 4,330.There are 7,04,348 active coronavirus cases in India which comprises 22.24 per cent of the total caseload, according to the health ministry data on Tuesday. With 60,975 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, India’s tally rose to 31,67,323 with recoveries surging to 24,04,585, pushing the recovery rate to 75.92 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-reports-1-544-new-coronavirus-cases-17-deaths/story-x4IVvLWQOBb2vCdvBkI0PK.html
25-08-2020||City||Kathua woman succumbs to virus, family alleges medical negligence||After a terminally ill woman died due to Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district late on Monday, her husband and other family members allegedly ransacked the isolation ward and accused doctors of medical negligence.The woman’s husband said, “She had blood deficiency and we came here to the Kathua district hospital for blood transfusion but she was not properly attended. I even offered money but nobody cared about her.”Kathua deputy magistrate OP Bhagat said the woman was terminally ill with severe liver ailment and was not in a state to recover. “We pacified the family and explained that she was terminally ill,” he added.A senior woman doctor said the patient was in a critical condition when she was brought to the hospital three days ago. “We could not even take her swab for the Covid test at first and kept her in CCU. After slight improvement in her condition, we collected her swab and kept her under constant observation,” she added. The doctor said the woman had tested positive for the virus and was shifted to isolation ward where she was being treated. “She was battling for life since three days and we tried our best,” she added. On Tuesday morning, two ambulances, 15 PPE kits, gloves and sanitisers were given to the family to perform the last rites at her native village in Billawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kathua-woman-succumbs-to-virus-family-alleges-medical-negligence/story-v0ALA8fKm73HZFXkeiKN2L.html
25-08-2020||City||Rewari police crack four murder cases with arrest of 4||With the arrest of four persons, Rewari police on Tuesday claimed to have solved four murder and one attempt to murder case.The accused have been identified as Vishal and Ayush alias Mayank of Madhya Pradesh, Ashok of Uttar Pradesh and Mahesh of Gurugram.Rewari DSP Amit Bhatia said they arrested Vishal and Ayush from Dharuhera and the other two were later caught by Gurugram police.“During questioning, the accused confessed that they executed four killings and were involved in a murder bid in Gurugram and Rewari. They had killed a couple on June 28 at Gurugram’s Sector 8 and decamped with their cash and jewellery. These criminals had committed these crimes in the last two months,” the DSP added.He said they were unemployed and had formed a gang a few months ago, aiming to execute highway robberies. “They used to take lift from people travelling alone in their vehicle. Their modus operandi was to snatch the victims’ valuables and later kill them,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rewari-police-crack-four-murder-cases-with-arrest-of-4/story-ICdYINgt9Zu1PrsEFwIV8L.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Juvenile stabs 14-yr-old friend to death to avenge slap in Chandigarh’s Hallomajra||A 14-year-old boy stabbed his friend, also aged 14, to death allegedly to avenge a slap in Chandigarh’s Hallomajra locality on Tuesday. On seeing his friend collapse on the ground and bleeding profusely, the accused fled into a nearby forest area, where he dumped the kitchen knife used in the crime. He later returned to the locality, where he was apprehended after an hour-long search, said police. The incident comes two days after four youths stabbed a teen to death over an old feud in Colony No. 4 near the Industrial Area. The accused, who dropped out of school after Class 5, was produced before the juvenile justice board and sent to a reformation home. His mother works in a factory while the father is bedridden, said police.It was around 9:30am that the victim’s grandmother made a call to the police control room to report the incident at Deep Complex in Hallomajra.CCTV footage showed the two chasing each other. The accused tripped following which they came to blows. He can later be seen going home and returning with a kitchen knife with which he stabbed his friend in the back.Police rushed the victim to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Cops said he used stay with his father and grandmother after his mother deserted the family. On getting a lead that the accused had run towards a forest area near the mosque in Ram Darbar, police launched a search operation. The boy, however, had returned to Hallomajra and was apprehended later. The knife was also recovered from the forest area on revelation made by him. The juvenile reportedly told police that the two had an argument on Monday too, and his friend had slapped him. It was to avenge the slap that he stabbed him, he allegedly said. A case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. The victim’s body is kept in the mortuary and the postmortem would be conducted after receiving his Covid-19 test report, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/juvenile-stabs-14-yr-old-friend-to-death-to-avenge-slap-in-chandigarh-s-hallomajra/story-HBJOJ8dkISlorH40VHzFrK.html
25-08-2020||City||After 19 hours under debris, 4-year-old rescued from Mahad building collapse||Mahad (Raigad)  Amidst the gloom at Mahad, where a five-storied building collapsed on Monday, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team recused a four-year-old boy, who miraculously survived 19 hours under the debris.According to local authorities, Mohammad Javed Bangi was rescued out alive at 1.15 pm on Tuesday and was taken to nearby hospital for treatment. NDRF commandant Alok Kumar who carried out the rescue operation said, “We felt happy to rescue Bangi safe and sound. Once we located him with the help of sniffer dogs, we ensured that the debris removal work was done smoothly and slowly as there was a possibility of debris falling on the head. He is fine and doing well.” While Bangi suffered minor injuries, his first reaction after being brought out of the debris was to smile at his rescuers, the NDRF team said.According to Prajit Salunke of the Salunke Rescue Team, a private group from Mahad, Bangi was under a collapsed piece of wall. “He smiled at us and it was a beautiful sight. The citizens and rescue workers clapped for he was rescued alive,” said Salunke. The child was immediately bundled into an ambulance and taken to the hospital where he inquired about his mother.His mother is one of deceased, whose body was retrieved by the NDRF earlier during the day. His paternal aunt Rupasa said Bangi was trapped under the debris along with his two sisters and mother. “His sisters are still trapped under the rubble. I pray for everyone’s survival,” she said. A 10-year-old building collapsed on Monday evening with 25 people initially trapped. The NDRF has so far rescued seven persons while the search is still on for others. District collector Nidhi Chaudhary said, “Despite the challenges, the administration supported by all the stakeholders did a good a job in rescuing the child. We are doing our level best to remove the debris from the spot at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-19-hours-under-debris-4-year-old-rescued-from-mahad-building-collapse/story-VzIYMVlXj1iQY9saWRx1OP.html
25-08-2020||City||53 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally now 5,154||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 53 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state tally to 5,154 , officials said.Of the new cases, 16 were reported in Kangra, 111 in Una, 10 each in Sirmaur and Solan, three in Kullu and two in Shimla and one in Mandi. Active cases in the state stand at 1,326. Also, 164 more patients have been cured, taking total recoveries to 3,748.HEALTH WORKER, ARMY JAWAN AMONG NEW CASES IN KANGRA An additional registrar of cooperative societies, three health workers and three army soldiers are among 16 people found infected in Kangra. The authorities have sealed the Dharamshala office of registrar, cooperative societies and the staff has been home quarantined. The women police station, located in the same building will, however, remain open. The building premise has been sanitised.Two health workers tested positive in Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda. They have no travel history. On Monday, two doctors were found infected in RPGCM. A health worker was found infected in Sakoh ward of Dharamshala town. Three army jawans, with no travel history, have tested positive at Military Hospital, Yol.Three farm labourers, hailing from Azamgarh of Uttar Pradesh, tested positive for the virus in Kullu district. They were institutionally quarantined. Ten people were found infected in Sirmaur district, seven of them from HIMUDA colony in Nahan town. A woman admitted at Nahan hospital has also tested positive. Three members of a family were among 11 people who tested positive in Una. MAN SUCCUMBS TO VIRUS, DEATH TOLL 28 A 75-year-old man succumbed to the disease on Tuesday. With this, the death toll has risen to 28. The deceased suffered chest pain on Monday and was admitted to Nalagarh hospital where he died late night. His samples came out positive for Covid-19 after death. Solan is the worst-hit district with 1,283 infections followed by Kangra at 717 and Sirmaur at 659. Hamirpur has 468 cases, Mandi (391), Una (393), Chamba (361), Shimla (272), Bilaspur (269), Kullu (258), Kinnaur (76) and Lahaul-Spiti (7).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/31-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-now-5-132/story-pXnBY1uOTWQaYL7twUUGQL.html
25-08-2020||City||Mahad incident revives tragic memories of Savitri river bridge collapse||Mahad  When the five-storied building in Mahad came crashing down on Monday, many in this industrial town recalled how the swollen Savitri river had claimed 40 lives in August of 2016. It was 10 pm on August 2 when 106-year-old bridge on the Savitri river near Mahad collapsed. Two state transport buses and an SUV carrying at least 40 people were washed away as the driver did not gauge that a portion of the road had given way. Some bodies were recovered from as far as 150km from the spot during an 11-day long search and rescue operation. While the British era bridge on the Savitri was too old, there is a common link between the two incidents. Despite the bridge being old, the government failed to carry out a structural audit. In the latest incident, the building constructed in 2013 was not old, but gave in. Despite previous warnings by locals, no action was taken, which could have prevented the incident. “If the Savitri river tragedy was unforgettable, so is the latest one. Both incidents have created long lasting impact on our mind,” said Amit Dahave, a 60-year-old grocery shop owner in Mahad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mahad-incident-revives-tragic-memories-of-savitri-river-bridge-collapse/story-3U2tbMY6YXDqDGWhK0LNVO.html
25-08-2020||Pune||PCMC fines teachers for missing Covid duties||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) continued to take action against school teachers at PCMC schools for avoiding Covid duties. Until June,74 teachers were given a showcause notice. Three teachers were also fined earlier this month.“Civic chief Shravan Hardikar has fined three teachers of the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation schools for failing to attend the Covid survey duty earlier this month. The teachers were issued showcause notices and were told to give a reply,” according to a PCMC official. Generally, teachers have been assigned work to assist doctors and health care workers. Duties include a door-to-door screening of residents, Covid surveys, and sending WhatsApp awareness messages to the public. In two months (July and August), a number of teachers were fined by PCMC. “The civic body keeps fining those who are avoiding Covid duties. It is a must for all PCMC teachers, they have been given rotational duties,” said Jyotsna Shinde, administration officer, education department, PCMC. Shinde added, “If a teacher continues to miss Covid duties, strict action will be taken against them. Currently, most of the teachers have been given show cause notices but we are thinking to take more strict actions if teachers keep on repeating such mistakes.” “Duty is given to all the teachers and it is compulsory. None of the teachers should give false reason and ignore duties,” she said. Box YCMH doctors protest against PCMCDoctors at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) wore black bands to protest against the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).On Saturday in the general body meeting, many corporators talked disrespectfully with Dr Rajendra Wable, dean of YCMH hospital and that’s why doctors protested on Monday. However, work continued at the hospital.The letter from YCMH stated, “It is not the first-time senior doctors were disrespected in a general body meeting. Since the last two years our doctors have been treated in the same way. Corporators should give us respect, we are doing duty devotionally even during Covid times. Due to such foul language our sentiments have been hurt and that’s why we are working today with black bands.”Dr Wable was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-fines-teachers-for-missing-covid-duties/story-bAFmLwqdsFMAfndorLvkwM.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||HC to hear multiple petitions seeking a curb on begging, welfare of women and children next month||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to put together all petitions filed at all three seats of the HC at Mumbai, Nagpur and Aurangabad seeking directions to the state, to take steps to curb begging by women and children and providing them with shelter homes. The court issued the directions after it was informed by the state that a similar petition, the one filed by a Pune resident at the principal seat in Mumbai, was being heard at the other two seats of the HC.After advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that it would be appropriate to club all the petitions together and they be heard together at the principal seat in Mumbai, the court allowed the same. HC directed the state to proceed to club all petitions and place them before the chief justice next month.A division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice NR Borkar while hearing the public interest litigation filed by Pune resident Dhyandeshwar Darwatkar was informed by advocate Shekhar Jagtap that though the earlier bench of the HC had directed the state to inform about the policy framed to curb begging and for the welfare of women and children, the state had failed to respond.However, Kumbhakoni drew the attention of the bench to various petitions filed at the Nagpur and Aurangabad bench of the HC and submitted that the petitions had sought similar reliefs as the current petitioner and some orders had also been passed with regards to the grievances raised by the petitioners in those cases. In light of these submissions, Kumbhakoni requested that the court allow all petitions to be clubbed together and heard at one seat as it would avoid repetition and also save the time of the court.After hearing the submissions, the court allowed the state to club all petitions and posted the matter for hearing in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-to-hear-multiple-petitions-seeking-a-curb-on-begging-welfare-of-women-and-children-next-month/story-dDIbbrnZEVfaupT53Q8VBL.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Woman arrested 50th time for theft||A 34-year-old woman Vanita Gaikwad was arrested for the 50th time by the Mumbai police for stealing gold and diamond jewellery worth ₹8.90 lakh from a makeup artist in Andheri (West) on Sunday.Amboli police also arrested three of her accomplices - Anita Shinde, 34, a Wadala resident; Amit Waghmare, 32, and Arif Shaikh, 30, both residents of RCF colony. Atul Sanap, assistant police inspector at Amboli police station said, “Vanita Gaikwad is a habitual criminal with 50 cases of theft registered against her. I had arrested her for a similar crime in 2019, and later she has been arrested by various police stations. She manages to get bail easily, and again commits the same offence.”Someshwar Kamthe, a senior inspector said, “At around 12pm on August 17, Gaikwad walked into a plush society in Andheri and said that she was looking to be employed as a house-help. The makeup artists who was looking for a house-help checked her Aadhar card and hired her.”On August 18, at around 10am, she went to the house of the makeup artist with Shinde and introduced her as her cousin, who too was looking for a job. Gaikwad told the make-up artist that a flat owner from another society had called Shinde at noon and that if she could stay with her for the day and help her clean.The make-up artist then asked Gaikwad to clean another flat of theirs. “The complainant accompanied Gaikwad and Shinde. But the complainant got a phone call and she went to the living room,” said Sanap.While the complainant was on the call, Gaikwad came out and told her that Shinde had got a job at a society in Lokhandwala and that she would drop her to the location and come back, said Sanap. “Gaikwad did not return. The next morning, the make-up artist opened her cupboard to find her jewellery was missing. She then approached Amboli police station and filed a complaint against the accused. Following her complaint police registered FIR under sections 381 (theft by a servant of property in possession of master), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 414 (assisting in the concealment of stolen property), and 34 (common intention) Indian Penal Code,” said Sanap.“We showed her a list of habitual woman thieves and she identified Gaikwad. We then arrested both the accused,” said Kamthe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-arrested-50th-time-for-theft/story-HQwlTKXHc4vEPilieWOhCK.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two ITBP personnel missing as vehicle falls into Satluj river||Two Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawans went missing on Tuesday after their vehicle veered off National Highway five and plunged into the Satluj river near Spilo village in Kinnaur district on Tuesday.They have been identified as rifleman Neema Dandoob, 30, from Arunachal Pradesh and driver Pradeep Kumar, 30, from Ghumarwin in Bilaspur district.The two were on their way to Hurling from Reckongpeo at about 10:30 am when the driver lost control of the vehicle.Eyewitnesses informed the police and rescue operations were started with ITBP personnel.Superintendent of police (SP) Kinnaur SR Rana said efforts were being made to trace the men. An INSAS rifle and some documents have been recovered from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-itbp-jawans-missing-as-vehicle-falls-into-satluj-river/story-4MK4RUM7ljgaO7lYx904SO.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt announces ex-gratia for people killed, injured in Raigad building collapse||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced compensation for people who were killed and injured in the building collapse in Raigad building collapse.“We have announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased. Financial assistance of upto Rs 50,000 will be provided to those injured in the incident,” Maharashtra Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said.The death toll from the collapse of the five-storey building rose to 12 on Tuesday evening, officials said.The personnel of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are also involved in the rescue operation which took place in Kajalpura area of Mahad town, around 170 kilometres from Mumbai.“As per official status from collector’s office, 17 more may be feared trapped,” Alok Kumar, NDRF officer, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI earlier. The 10-year-old building collapsed on Monday evening and around 25 people were initially trapped. Raigad superintendent of police (SP) Anil Paraskar said the collapsed building had 95 residents.Police on Tuesday registered an offence against five people in connection with collapse, an official said.The offence was registered against builder Farooq Kazi, RCC consultant Bahubali Dhamne, and architect Gaurav Shah under sections 304, 304A and 338 of the IPC, the official said.Maharashtra minister for urban development Eknath Shinde reached Mahad on Tuesday to oversee rescue and relief work.“We will not spare anyone. Information is being gathered on whether structural audit of this building was conducted,” he said.Aditi Tatkare, guardian minister for Raigad district, said a committee would be formed to probe the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-announces-ex-gratia-for-people-killed-injured-in-raigad-building-collapse/story-zw1ZzdH7FFwQNzm2dXSZaJ.html
25-08-2020||Pune||One arrested for extortion in Pune land deal||PUNE One person has been arrested and another booked by the Pune police on Monday, in a case of extortion and blackmail involving the sale of a plot of land. The accused booked in the case is a city-based journalist named in at least four other cases in the city.The arrested man has been identified as Saddam alias Dattatray alias Balasaheb Gulabrao Kamthe, a resident of Hadapsar.The one-hectare land in question is located in Shewalewadi. The complaint in the matter was lodged by the 26-year-old grandson of the owner of the land.The complainant wanted to sell the land and was interested in selling it to a man, who is now a witness in the case, according to the police.Kamthe had insisted that the land deal be made with him as the mediator, according to the complainant. He further allegedly demanded Rs 10,00,000 in order to ensure smooth transaction of the deal.Further Kamthe also registered an objection to the 7/12 land registration and demanded Rs one crore money in order to withdraw the objection, according to the complainant.The other person identified himself as a journalist, went to his house, and threatened the complainant’s grandfather with misleading news articles if they fail to pay money to him and Kamthe.The duo managed to take Rs 15 lakh from the family, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station. Assistant police inspector Ratnadeep Gaikwad of Hadapsar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-arrested-for-extortion-in-land-deal-in-pune/story-wg6MCO5xmzNTuOzD4k3wgJ.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh DC Mandip Singh Brar tests positive for Covid-19||Chandigarh deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar has tested positive for Covid-19. Brar is the second senior Union Territory official after UT finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha to test positive for coronavirus infection. Sinha tested positive on Sunday.After Brar developed symptoms on Monday, he got tested for coronavirus on Tuesday. He has quarantined himself at his residence. Brar had met Sinha on Thursday at an official meeting at the UT Secretariat, Sector 9. A superintendent in the DC office had also tested positive last week, consequently, the DC office was sealed for two days for sanitisation. Brar had attended the war room review meeting on Monday at the UT Secretariat in which UT adviser Manoj Parida, home secretary Arun Kumar Gupta and municipal corporation (MC) commissioner KK Yadav were present. Parida has also got himself tested. He confirmed his sample was found to be negative.Parida had also attended a meeting with Sinha at Raj Bhawan on Friday. After Sinha tested positive, Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore had gone into self-isolation on Monday.After UT administrator VP Singh Badnore’s principal secretary JM Balamurugan tested positive on August 9, a two-day exercise of rapid antigen testing was carried out at Raj Bhawan. Besides senior UT officials, more than 300 people, including security personnel, were tested. Both Badnore and Parida had tested negative at that time. Three officials were reported positive in Parida’s office in the UT Secretariat. WAR ROOM REVIEW MEETING TO CONTINUEParida said the war room review meeting will continue to take place. In the next review meeting, the administration is likely to take a call on allowing salons to open on weekends and remain closed on Tuesday instead. Scrapping of odd-even system for congested markets will also be under consideration besides opening of liquor stores on weekends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-dc-mandip-singh-brar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-lh1fh158tci1aBJzu2P11M.html
25-08-2020||City||Himachal govt approves creation of 230 new panchayats||The Himachal Pradesh government has given its nod for the creation of 230 new panchayats from the existing 3,226, which fulfill the criteria, ahead of the panchayat polls.A notification regarding this was issued on Monday. Out of more than 470 proposals received by the panchayati raj department, only 230 fulfilled the criteria approved by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for creation of new panchayats.Maximum 65 proposals from Mandi district have been approved while 33 new panchayats will be carved out in Kangra, said panchayati raj minister Virender Kanwar. Kullu will have 28 new panchayats, Shimla ,25, Chamba,18, Solan ,17, Bilaspur,14, Hamirpur,9, Sirmaur,8, Kinnaur,7, Lahaul-Spiti,4, and Una 2.The state government has invited suggestions and objections from residents of the panchayats concerned till August 29. The same will be decided by the deputy commissioners within three days, who will send the final recommendations to the department.With creation of new panchayats in the state, the total number will go up to 3,456.In non-tribal areas, new gram panchayats from those existing are being created, where total population as per 2011 census is equal to and more than 2,000; number of households equal to and more than 500; number of villages equal to and more than five and distance of the farthest village from the existing headquarter of the gram sabha is equal to and more than five km subject to the condition that minimum resultant population of the existing and newly proposed gram panchayat before and after bifurcation is minimum 600.The same criteria is applicable for backward areas.In tribal areas, new gram panchayats from those existing will be created, where total population is equal to and more than 750, subject to the condition that minimum resultant population of the existing and newly proposed gram panchayat before and after bifurcation is minimum 300.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-approves-creation-of-230-new-panchayats/story-FXuKP0bzBBG8M4A7DZmeDL.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar must respond to allegations of unequal distribution of development funds: Sena corners deputy CM||In a move to corner Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on the issue of unequal distribution of development funds, the Shiv Sena, in an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, said that the state finance minister must respond to the allegations of Congress legislators. In the past, Shiv Sena legislators have also voiced their disappointment to chief minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray over the unavailability of funds for their constituencies. They have alleged that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislators get priority over legislators of the two other parties (Shiv Sena and the Congress) that are part of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi.Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Sena MP and Saamana editor Sanjay Raut told reporters that though Pawar is the finance minister, the three parties of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi can sit together to resolve the issue. Raut said that earlier, Thorat and senior Congress minister Ashok Chavan spoke to the chief minister about the distribution of funds.“Maharashtra Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat called me and said that Congress MLAs are unhappy with the unequal distribution of funds. He said that it is important that funds are distributed equally, as this is a three-party government. I think the stand he has taken is appropriate. At the end of the day, when a legislator develops his constituency, it leads to the development of the State… at the end the three parties will meet and find a solution,” Raut told reporters.In an editorial in Saamana, the party had said, “Congress [leaders] say that NCP gets more importance in the government and that NCP has taken more of the development funds. What do we say on this? Finance minister Ajit Pawar alone can respond to these allegations.”Congress’ Jalna MLA Kailash Gorantyal has threatened to go on a hunger strike over constituency development funds. He has claimed that he has the support of 10 other Congress legislators, who he has not named. He added that Congress constituencies are given a step-motherly treatment in the distribution of funds. However, Pawar reportedly spoke to Gorantyal on Tuesday and the legislator has decided to call off his protest.The Sena, however, took a dim view of the 11 Congress legislators from Maharashtra protesting against the government and said that it is akin to raising questions against Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, who supported the formation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. The Sena, in the editorial, said there is “instability and unease” within the Congress, but it needs to play the role of an active opposition party. The editorial in the Marathi daily said that the MVA government will complete its full five-year term, and the opposition party in Maharashtra need not rejoice over the display of resentment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-must-respond-to-allegations-of-unequal-distribution-of-development-funds-sena-corners-deputy-cm/story-OnSoH723TPohZpH1KHCUaJ.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to procure 170 lakh tonnes paddy; goes online for smooth milling operations||Chandigarh: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, all rice delivery operations in Punjab, including allotment, registration and physical verification of rice mills, will be managed and monitored online, under the new Punjab Custom Milling Policy for paddy for the 2020-21 kharif season. The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the new policy, aimed at ensuring seamless milling of paddy and delivery of rice into the Central Pool from more than 4,150 mills operating in the state. The state is expected to procure 170 lakh metric tonnes (MTs) of paddy during the season beginning on October 1, with a total area under paddy sowing this year at 26.6 lakh hectares. Last year, 29.2 lakh hectares was under paddy cultivation. www.anaajkharid.in PORTAL LAUNCHEDThe state government will launch a dedicated portal, www.anaajkharid.in, for smooth paddy procurement. The whole gamut of yearly procurement operations – from allotment of mills, their registration, application of release order and deposit of fee, besides all important monitoring of stocks, will be done online now on, according to an official spokesperson. State procuring agencies, including Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation (PSWC) and rice-millers and other stakeholders will operate and interact on the website, with the department of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs acting as the nodal department. The spokesperson said that under the policy, the sole criterion for allotment of free paddy to mills this season would be the miller’s performance in the previous year (kharif marketing season 2019-20), and an additional percentage-wise incentive would be provided to mills as per their date of delivery of rice against milling of custom-milled paddy, including RO paddy in the previous year. Mills that had completed their entire milling by January 31, 2020, would be eligible for additional 15% of free paddy milled in 2019-20, as per the policy. Those who had completed delivery of rice by February 28, 2020, would get an additional 10% of free paddy. ENHANCED BANK GUARANTEE The government has also enhanced the bank guarantee for security of the stocks and millers will be required to furnish enhanced bank guarantee, equal to value of 10% of acquisition cost of allocable free paddy above 3,000 metric tonnes (MTs), as against 5% on 5,000 MTs last year. “Lowering of the threshold limit for submission of bank guarantee will bring an additional 1,000 mills within the direct monitoring ambit,” the spokesperson said. In addition, a miller will have to purchase a minimum of 150 MTs of paddy in his own account or deposit an amount of Rs 5 lakh (non-refundable) in state treasury and Rs 5 lakh in the form of refundable security online in Pungrain account. Another measure to guard against any paddy diversion is the decision to bring RO paddy into the ambit of custom milling security (CMR). Millers will be required to deposit Rs 125 for each MT for every paddy stored or part therefore, including RO paddy, with the agency concerned. To tackle the issue of moisture content in CMR, the policy stipulates compulsory installation of dryer and sortex for a new mill and/or in case of enhancement of capacity. The target is to complete the custom milling of paddy and delivering all due rice to Food Corporation of India by March 31, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-procure-170-lakh-tonnes-paddy-goes-online-for-smooth-milling-operations/story-HQqoQnFgo3eMuXaXWx6vJJ.html
25-08-2020||Kolkata||Smuggler of fake Indian currency nabbed on Bangladesh border||Police arrested a fake Indian currency note (FICN) smuggler with notes in denominations of Rs 2,000 and 500 in Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Monday night. The face value of the seized notes is Rs 1.34 lakh. Officers from the Shamserganj police station arrested 38-year-old Kabirul Sheikh from the Dhulian Ghat area. Though the counterfeit notes have a face value of only Rs 1.35 lakh, the arrest is being seen as a proof that FICN smugglers are active during the pandemic. The district is located along the Indo-Bangladesh border and the smuggling of illegal firearms and narcotics is reported intermittently from several areas. Cows are also smuggled into Bangladesh. Police said Sheikh is a resident of the Baishnabnagar area in adjoining Malda district. An officer from the raiding team said on condition of anonymity that Sheikh had plans to sell the consignment and an officer posed as buyer. Officer-in-charge of Shamserganj police station Amit Bhakat said, “Sheikh has been produced before Jangipur court on Tuesday afternoon with prayer for police remand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/smuggler-of-fake-indian-currency-nabbed-on-bangladesh-border/story-udVYbT2UKAgEjf1aZ2ZJFP.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet okays Rs 1.5 crore per annum as recurring grant for 11 more constituent colleges||Chandigarh: To improve the standard of higher education in Punjab, the council of ministers on Tuesday approved the release of a total of Rs 75.75 crore recurring grant for 11 more constituent colleges at Rs. 1.5 crore per college per annum from the year 2016-17 to 2020-21. The cabinet, led by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, also okayed regular budgetary provision of Rs 1.5 crore per annum per college for the subsequent year. With this, the total number of colleges to which the state government is paying recurring grant has gone up to 30. Of these colleges, three, namely University College, Dhuri (Sangrur); University College, Bahadurpur (Mansa), and University College, Barnala, are part of Punjabi University, Patiala. Six others, namely University College, Pathankot; University College, Sujanpur (Pathankot), Baba Namdev University Degree College, Kishankot (Gurdaspur), University College, Phillaur (Jalandhar), University College (Nakodar); and University College, Kalanaur (Gurdaspur), are part of Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, while the remaining two, University College, Ferozepur and University College, Dharamkot (Moga), come under Panjab University, Chandigarh. The grant will help in the timely release of salary to teachers, thus motivating them to continue imparting better quality education to the students, a press release said. In another decision, the cabinet approved the annual administrative report of the social security, women and child development department for 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cabinet-okays-rs-1-5-crore-per-annum-as-recurring-grant-for-11-more-constituent-colleges/story-tNhv1yLZHAXp4mXgLqd5UJ.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkapura man booked for daughter’s death, honour killing suspected||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly murdered by her father and a few of his accomplices in Faridkot district’s Khara village, Kotkapura sub-division, on Tuesday in a suspected case of honour killing.The body has not been recovered as yetPolice started investigations on a tip-off that Amandeep Kaur was murdered by her father Jaswinder Singh of Khara village.Deputy superintendent of police Balkar Singh Sandhu said sub-inspector Ranjit Singh, who was patrolling the area, was informed about the killing and disposal of Kaur’s body.“We have started investigating the case. The body of the victim has not been recovered so far, but the family of the girl is missing from home, which makes the information more reliable. We have booked the girl’s father and some unidentified persons for murder on the basis of information and police teams are conducting raids to nab him,” Sandhu added. Meanwhile, a case has been registered under sections 302 (murder), 201 (disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 34 (common intentions) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sadar police station at Kotkapura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkapura-man-booked-for-daughter-s-death-honour-killing-suspected/story-4WB3oycfpL9mRXK6Y7x8hP.html
25-08-2020||Bhopal||​Gadkari inaugurates 26 road projects and lays foundation of 19 others in Madhya Pradesh||Quoting former US President John F Kennedy, “It is not our wealth that built our roads, but it is our roads that built our wealth”, Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari inaugurated as many as 26 highway projects and laid the foundation of 19 other projects measuring 1,361 kilometres (worth Rs 11,427 crore) in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday through a virtual programme. Others who attended the programme include Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Thaverchand Gehlot, Prahlad Singh Patel and VK Singh, chief minister Madhya Pradesh Shivraj Singh Chouhan and PWD minister Gopal Bhargava, besides officers of the ministry of road transport and highways and the Madhya Pradesh government.In his address, Gadkari spoke of how these road projects would change the lives of people not only in Madhya Pradesh but other states connected through these roads as well. This would result in better transport and significant reduction in travel time and fuel expenses, he added.He said the highway projects were being built with a view to reduce traffic and accidents in the future.Expressing concern over the death of 0.15 million people in 0.5 million road accidents every year across the country, Gadkari said 40% of those killed in these accidents were aged 18 to 24 years. Appreciating Tamil Nadu for its work on black spots in the state where significant number of road accidents take place, he asked chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to work on black spots in Madhya Pradesh. Underlining the need of more drivers in the country, he said there should be one driving school in every district.Chief minister Chouhan urged the Union minister to formally approve Chambal Progressway, the upgrading of six highways worth Rs 1,569 crore, and 65 other small projects worth Rs 182 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/gadkari-inaugurates-26-road-projects-and-lays-foundation-of-19-others-in-madhya-pradesh/story-yjj4w5THxCKn2hZg6poGuN.html
25-08-2020||Patna||Miscreants in Bihar loot Rs 26.45 lakh from ex- MLA’s employee||Armed miscreants decamped with over Rs 26.45 lakh after looting an employee of former member of legislative assembly (MLA) of Bochaha, Musafir Paswan, at Sahbazpur chauk under the Ahiapur police station of the town on Tuesday noon.The incident occurred barely 150 meters from the Ahiapur police station.According to the employee, Mukesh Kumar, the incident took place at around 1.15pm. He said he was on his way to Motihari on his motorbike to make payments to the traders at railway’s rack points of Motihari and Bettiah. “The money was kept in two bags. As soon as I reached the Sahbazpur roundabout on national highway 77, seven miscreants on four motor bikes intercepted me. They asked me to hand over the money. When I refused, four of them pointed guns at me. One of them tried to shoot me but his gun misfired,” said Kumar, adding that later the miscreants broke open the storage box of the bike and made away with the cash.He said the incident took place in full public view but no one came to his help.Dy SP Paswan said all exit points had been cordoned off. “We have alerted police stations of the neighbouring districts of Sitamarhi and Darbhanga. We are also trying to identify the criminals after reviewing the CCTV footage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/miscreants-in-bihar-loot-rs-26-45-lakh-from-ex-mla-s-employee/story-sW8RT69LwbKD1okSXRL6oK.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Divers recover body of 19-year-old from Chandratal Lake in Lahaul-Spiti||The body of a 19-year-old youth who went missing on Saturday was recovered from Chandratal Lake in Himachal’s Lahaul and Spiti on Monday evening, police saidThe deceased has been identified as Amar Chand from Manali. He reportedly fell into the lake on August 22, but could not be rescued by a police and district administration team because of unavailability of divers.On Monday a team of Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) divers lead by senior diver Balbir Singh arrived at the spot for search operations and recovered the body by the evening.After an autopsy conducted at the Community Health Centre (CHC) Kaza the body was handed over to relatives, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kaza Jeevan Singh Negi confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/divers-recover-body-of-19-year-old-from-chandratal-lake-in-lahaul-spiti/story-GpRgQ9G1w7RisQl6TVsDTI.html
25-08-2020||Kolkata||Facebook page demanding ex-Meghalaya governer as BJP’s Bengal CM face surfaces||A Facebook page, created on Monday night and called “Tathagata Roy for CM”, has caused embarrassment for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) less than 48 hours after Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s national general secretary, had announced that nobody would be projected as the chief ministerial candidate for the crucial West Bengal assembly polls slated to be held next year. The page had very few views until Tuesday afternoon. A photograph of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, the founder of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh (BJS) and the BJP’s icon, was posted on the home page. Vijayvargiya is one of the BJP leaders, who look after the organisational affairs of the party’s Bengal unit on behalf of the central leadership. Roy had met Vijayvargiya in Kolkata on Monday afternoon and expressed his wish to actively work for the party. After the meeting he said that he did not aspire for any post and would serve in any role that the leadership assigns. Roy had to give up the party membership because he had served as the governor of Tripura and Meghalaya. He returned to Kolkata on Sunday and is supposed to apply for the party membership again. Around Monday midnight, one of the posts in the Facebook page ridiculed Vijayvargiya, suggesting that he is an outsider and questioning his right to decide who would be the chief ministerial face in poll-bound Bengal. Roy (74) had served as the governor of Tripura from 2015 to 2018 and then of Meghalaya from 2018 until Satya Pal Malik succeeded him on August 19. Roy, a member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and known for his penchant for making controversial statements, was the president of the Bengal unit of the BJP between 2002 and 2006. Roy did not respond to calls from HT on Tuesday afternoon. Jay Prakash Majumdar, one of the senior vice-presidents of the state BJP, said, “Whoever has created the page is not aware of how the party operates. It must have been done by our political rivals. But if people in the BJP are responsible, then I must say they are completely oblivious and not even distantly connected with the organisation.” The BJP would not project anyone as its chief ministerial candidate, Vijayvargiya had announced in Kolkata on Sunday. “The achievements of the Narendra Modi government will be our face and it will ensure our victory. After the polls, elected BJP lawmakers can select their leader,” said Vijayvargiya, who is in the city to attend a series of meetings where strengths and weaknesses of district units in south Bengal are being evaluated. A silent campaign over the BJP’s ‘prospective chief ministerial face’ for the 2021 election had become a thorn in the flesh for the leadership, a number of BJP leaders told HT. “We strongly suspect that the campaign was started by a section of party leaders, who are pursuing personal agenda. It became the subject of widespread gossip and speculative news items, helping the ruling TMC (Trinamool Congress) to project our Bengal unit as a divided house. All this will end with Vijayvargiya’s announcement,” a BJP leader, who requested anonymity, had told HT on Sunday. Quoting unnamed “BJP sources,” numerous news portals, social media pages and vernacular dailies have named a prominent sports personality, a BJP Rajya Sabha member, a Union minister, a member of a right-wing think tank and, last but not the least, a monk from the Ramakrishna Mission as the possible chief ministerial candidate against TMC leader and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. While the monk dismissed the rumour, the others were evasive about engaging in any debate on this issue. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/facebook-page-demanding-ex-meghalaya-governer-as-bjp-s-bengal-cm-face-surfaces/story-GvWHTPrStdwPMpiyH09PaO.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab industries minister Sunder Sham Arora besides two MLAs from Patiala district test positive for Covid-19||Chandigarh/Patiala: Punjab industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora and two legislators from Patiala district tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Arora took to Twitter to announce his health status in the afternoon. “I have tested positive for Covid-19 and have quarantined myself at my Chandigarh residence. I request all those persons who came in contact with me during the last few days to please get tested for coronavirus infection. Otherwise, I am at present not having any physical problem,” he tweeted. Earlier, two legislators from Patiala district, Hardial Singh Kamboj and Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra, tested positive. Kamboj is the Congress MLA from Rajpura assembly segment, while Chandumjara is the Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Sanaur constituency. Kamboj is also the chief whip of the Congress in the assembly, which has been convened for a day on August 28. Punjab assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh has asked all MLAs and staff to get their Covid-negative reports for entry into the House for the session. Patiala civil surgeon Harish Malhotra said that Kamboj and Chandumajra had tested positive in a rapid test. While Chandumajra had fever and body ache, Kamboj was asymptomatic. Both the MLAs are under home quarantine and have asked all those who were in direct contact with them to isolate themselves and get tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-industries-minister-sunder-sham-arora-besides-two-mlas-from-patiala-district-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-xBU0n9V1koa5AnOLIt86RK.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain forecast in HP on Wednesday||Shimla Heavy rainfall has been forecast in Himachal Pradesh for Wednesday with the state meteorological department issuing an orange warning for Kangra, Sirmaur and Bilaspur districts and yellow warning for Una, Hamirpur and Solan districts.According to the Indian meteorological department’s colour coded warnings, orange is an alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall, and yellow warning advises the people to “watch” and stay updated.Yellow warnings have also been issued for the middle and lower hills of the state for August 27 and 28.Manmohan Singh from the state meteorological department said rain would continue till August 31. No significant changes were observed in temperatures during the last 24 hours, he said. Ghumarwin in Bilaspur district received the state’s heaviest downpour (100mm rain); followed by Kangra (56mm), Mandi (25mm); Nahan (19mm); Dharamshala (16.8 mm); Palampur (14.4mm), Paonta Sahib (11.4 mm); Solan (11mm); Dalhousie (10mm) and Bilaspur and Kufri (4mm each). The maximum temperature in state capital Shimla was 21.8°C, while Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded highs of 27.6°C, 26.6°C. and 19.5°C, respectively.Solan recorded a high of 27°C, Bilaspur 31°C, Hamirpur 30.8°C, Nahan 25°C and Kalpa, 26.2°C.Una was the warmest place in the state at 33.6°C while Kufri, 14 kilometres away from Shimla, was the coolest at 14.8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heavy-rain-forecast-in-hp-with-severe-weather-warning-for-aug-26-27/story-o4Sl0arkK75PxuKSttVzaK.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Raigad building collapse: After 19 hours under debris, 4-year-old survives||Rescuers from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) pulled out a four-year-old boy alive from the debris of a five-storeyed building almost 19 hours after it collapsed at Mahad near Mumbai on Monday. Officials said Mohammad Javed Bangi was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he asked for his mother, whose body was later retrieved from the rubble. They added the boy has suffered minor injuries.Also read: Police to file FIR against 5 in building collapseHis aunt, Rupasa, said the boy was trapped under the debris along with his two sisters and mother. “His three family members are still trapped under the rubble. I pray for everyone’s survival,” she said before the body of the boy’s mother was recovered.The 10-year-old building collapsed on Monday evening and around 25 people were initially trapped. The rescuers have so far saved seven people while the search is still on for others.Officials said the boy was rescued at 1:15 pm on Tuesday. They added he was found ensconced under the roof covered with debris. NDRF commandant Alok Kumar, who is part of the rescue operation, said they are very happy to have rescued the boy safe and sound. “Once we located him with the help of sniffer dogs, we ensured that the debris removal work was done smoothly and slowly as there was possibility of debris falling on the head. He is fine and doing well.” Prajit Salunke of Salunke Rescue Team, a private group from Mahad, said the boy was under a collapsed piece of wall. “He smiled at us and it was a beautiful sight. The citizens and rescue workers clapped when he was rescued alive,” said Salunke. District dollector Nidhi Chaudhary said despite the challenges, the administration supported by all the stakeholders did a good a job in rescuing the child. “We are doing our level best to remove the debris from the spot at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/raigad-building-collapse-after-19-hours-under-debris-4-year-old-survives/story-O9jNsXzIhdz8hFyjtY2JzK.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC to prepare master plan to create tourism facilities around Mithi river||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities have chalked out elaborate plans for the over 15-kilometre (km)-long Mithi river, which is often denigrated as Mumbai’s garbage-strewn nullah that starts from Powai and empties into the Arabian sea near Mahim. The civic body is working on a master plan to create tourism facilities around the river, including recreational boating facilities on the river or at artificial holding ponds built near it. The plan includes constructing recreational facilities such as mangrove parks and gardens and encouraging aquatic life in the water body. The river that snakes through Kurla, Saki Nakka, and Vakola is often less of a river and more of a sewer because of garbage, sewage, plastic and pollutants. It is among the most polluted water bodies in Mumbai. The BMC has failed to clean the river for more than a decade. The 2005 deluge had brought Mithi’s deplorable plight to limelight. The civic body officials told HT that creating tourism facilities around the river is part of the plan to rejuvenate it. The master plan will be prepared by a consultant while factoring in all ground realities. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We are going to appoint a consultant for creating holding ponds and to develop a tourism ecosystem around the river. This is a part of the plan for the river’s rejuvenation. We are drafting a comprehensive master plan for this exercise.’’A BMC official conceded that the waste discharged illegally in to the river would be a challenge, but plans are afoot to divert sewage into municipal pumping stations and block the ingress from where the pollutants enter the river in line with the suggestions of a Swedish consultant. The artificial holding pond plan was mooted by the BMC last year on the lines of Japan. The holding pond will be used to store the excess rainwater from the Vehar, Tulsi, and Powai lakes, instead of discharging into the river that overflows during monsoon.The BMC is working on several aspects for the river’s rejuvenation, including encouraging aquatic life, increasing green belt along its banks around Powai and Jogeshwari Vikhroli Link Road. The bid document prepared by BMC cites assessment on the possibilities of the urban development for commercial and public activities along the river banks and boating facilities in a bid to boost tourism.The plans are in consonance with BMC’s budget for 2020-21 that had proposed for a separate allocation for tourism. The civic body had set aside Rs 183 crore to boost tourism in Mumbai.Environmental and civic activists are sceptical of the BMC’s ambitious plan.Nikhil Desai, a civic activist from Mumbai, said, “Mithi river is filthy. A reveller, who wants to go there for a boating excursion, will fall unconscious, unless there is a major transformation. The civic body’s priority must be to stop the sewer and industrial waste entering the river and polluting it. Navigation in the river is only possible, if wanton pollution of the river can be stopped at the earliest. Though crores have been spent on the exercise, the results have not been encouraging to date.”Zeeshan Usman, a ferry owner from the Gateway of India in Colaba, said, “On paper, it appears to be an ideal plan. In several countries, rivers and seas have been interlinked for transport and tourism purposes. However, nothing can be done unless encroachments are removed and a concerted bid is mounted to prevent the indiscriminate dumping of waste into the river.”Both the Maharashtra government and the BMC authorities have come under fire several times over their shoddy handling of industrial waste being consistently dumped into the river, especially after the 2005 deluge, when the river overflowed and Mumbai was marooned for days on end.In August 2017, the Supreme Court (SC) had reprimanded the state government for turning the river into a “garbage-strewn drain”. The apex court had said that no effective steps appear to have been taken by the state government to restore the river even more than a decade after the floods had brought Mumbai down to its knees. The SC had asked the government to deposit Rs 50 lakh with it for setting up an expert committee to salvage the polluted river..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-prepare-master-plan-to-create-tourism-facilities-around-mithi-river/story-owKlxYzQyEn9lPAHtp4CzH.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC issues notice to Railways after Matunga resident highlights ‘indiscriminate’ tree felling||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) garden department has asked the Western Railway authorities to clarify the allegations of tree felling at the Matunga Railway Colony on Tulsi Pipe Road.The notice was issued by the BMC following a complaint filed by advocate and tree activist Deepak Chattopadhyay, who had alleged that around 10 trees were chopped in the residential colony and no action was taken by the railway authorities, despite repeated reminders. “Without any permission from the BMC or the railways, a few residents had hired a private contractor to cut trees and use the vacant area to park their vehicles. These incidents are commonplace,” said Chattopadhyay.He cited that the move is a violation of the Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 1975. “The Act mandates that a proposal be submitted to the BMC garden department even before a single tree can be felled. However, no such proposal was submitted. Mumbai, a city starved of green spaces, is further losing its tree cover because of such rampant illegal activities,” alleged Chattopadhyay.Rupesh Poojari, a BMC tree officer from G (North) ward, who had inspected the site, said he had found six to seven trees either hacked or their branches sawed off at the location cited by Chattopadhyay in his complaint. “We checked our records. However, we did not find a copy of any permission issued by our department,” he said.Dayandev Mundhe, assistant superintendent, BMC’s garden department, said, “We issued a notice to the Western Railway authorities, seeking an explanation about the matter. If they are unable to present the permission for the felling of trees, action will be taken for the violation of the 1975 Act,” he said.The Western Railway authorities denied allegations of the felling of trees. “We have not received any notice from the BMC. No tree felling has ever been carried out without the BMC’s permission. If a private party is involved, then it is within the BMC’s jurisdiction to take action,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Western Railway.Chattopadhyay pointed out this was not the first time that such violations had occurred in the railway colony. “Around 30 trees have been felled in the residential complex to make space for parking vehicles. There is scant regard for the environmental consequences,” he said.A 2020 July study by Indian and Chinese institutes found a 42.5% drop in Mumbai’s green cover between 1988 and 2018. The ratio of green spaces to total geographical area had fallen from 46.7% in 1988 to 26.67% in 2018 due to rampant and unplanned developmental activities. “We need stringent regulation on arbitrary tree cutting and the formulation of a policy at the district level that encourages social forestry and urban green belts at the earliest,” said Pankaj Kumar, one of the authors of the study and an assistant professor at Delhi School of Economics (DSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-issues-notice-to-railways-after-matunga-resident-highlights-indiscriminate-tree-felling/story-i18sRaZeFGGGB3BhWxtezO.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Three persons, including husband and wife, arrested for chain snatching in Oshiwara||Police have arrested a man, his wife and an auto-rickshaw driver for snatching a gold chain of a woman (61) at Lokhandwala in Mumbai’s Andheri (West) on Sunday. At around 5 pm on Sunday, Jayshree Jain (61) had gone to buy vegetables near Maheshwari Bhavan at Lokhandwala in Andheri (West), when a man came from behind and snatched her gold chain worth Rs 65,500 and then fled in an auto-rickshaw, said Oshiwara police officials, who have registered a first information report (FIR) in the case. The passersby, who had tried to chase the auto-rickshaw, had taken down the four digits of the vehicle’s registration number, said the police. “We scanned CCTV (closed circuit TV) camera footage of that area and managed to get the missing digits of the vehicle’s registration number with the help of the traffic police personnel. Later, we tracked down and arrested the auto-rickshaw driver, Laxman Pujari (35),” said Kiran Pawar, assistant police inspector (API), Oshiwara police station. Pujari gave details about the chain snatchers, Raju Das (31) and Lata Kale (40) , who are husband and wife, respectively. The couple was arrested on Monday evening, Pawar said. Pujari told the police that he and Kale were waiting in the vehicle, while Das snatched the chain. All the three accused are residents of Gazdhar Bandh area in Santacruz (West). Dayanand Bangar, senior police inspector, Oshiwara police station, said,” Pujari has seven cases of theft, burglary and chain snatching registered against him at various police stations in Mumbai. However, we have not found any criminal record against Das and Kale until now.” The accused will be produced before a local court later in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-persons-including-husband-and-wife-arrested-for-chain-snatching-in-oshiwara/story-mdpXufIPeI1CCqi4wOzRQO.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Overcast skies in Delhi, light rain likely||Dark clouds shrouded the skies in the national capital on Tuesday morning, with the Met department forecasting light rain during the day. The cloud cover is expected to keep the maximum temperature below the 34 degrees Celsius mark, the weatherman said. The national capital is likely to witness another spell of “moderate to heavy rain” between Wednesday and Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the monsoon trough is likely to shift northwards and will remain close to Delhi-NCR from Tuesday evening to Friday. Under its influence, convergence of lower-level easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal and south westerly winds from the Arabian Sea will take place over northwest India, he said. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy showers are likely to occur over northwest India during the period. “One or two spells of moderate rain, thundershowers with isolated heavy rain may occur between Wednesday night and Friday afternoon,” he said. Delhi has recorded 213.3 mm rainfall against the normal of 210.6 mm in August so far. Overall, it has gauged 531.9 mm precipitation against the normal of 486.7 mm since June 1, when monsoon season starts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/overcast-skies-in-delhi-light-rain-likely/story-jPhUGwvjCTYK27Xa8nzNIL.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||BJP-led corporations launch mega dengue awareness campaign in Delhi||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in the national capital will launch a mega campaign to create awareness about dengue and other vector-borne diseases on Tuesday morning. Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), along with BJP national vice-president Shyam Jaju will participate at a programme on Flagstaff Road in front of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence, while Anamika Mithilesh, mayor, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), will start the campaign from the Civic Centre.Also read: Bengal braces for three-pronged attack of Covid, flood and dengueWith municipal elections scheduled in 2022, the BJP has put its entire state machinery behind the campaign, as the party is hoping to win a fourth consecutive term.The BJP has been ruling the three corporations in Delhi since 2007. Last August, the Aam Aadmi Party(AAP)-led Delhi government had launched a campaign — “10 Hafte-10 Baje-10 Minute” — to tackle the number of dengue, chikungunya and other vector-borne disease cases in Delhi. CM Kejriwal had urged the public to check their residence every Sunday for mosquito breeding. Several celebrities had also supported the campaign. This time around, the BJP is leaving nothing to chance. The party has asked its leaders, including all seven Members of Parliament (MPs) from Delhi, members of the Delhi legislative assembly (MLAs) to participate in the month-long campaign. “It was the municipal corporations, which did everything to control dengue and chikungunya. We were doing the work on the ground but the government took credit. They hijacked it. This time we are set not only to take measures to control dengue, chikungunya and malaria cases, but also to spread awareness among masses about these vector-borne diseases. The public should also know that MCDs are working for them tirelessly,” said mayor Jai Prakash.He said the importance of campaign could be gauged from the fact that all seven MPs, BJP MLAs and state BJP leadership would take part in the campaign and “convey the message” to the masses.BJP MPs Manoj Tiwari, Meenakshi Lekhi and Hans Raj Hans will spread awareness among masses about vector-borne diseases at Civil Lines, Karol Bagh, and Narela, respectively. All eight party MLAs have been asked to campaign in their areas. The Delhi government’s campaign last year had led to a tussle between the AAP and the BJP. While the BJP had accused the ruling party of taking away the credit from municipal officials, who have worked hard to limit the number of vector-borne disease cases, the AAP had accused the BJP of trying to negate Delhi government’s campaign to combat dengue by “politicising the seasonal disease”. Spread of vector-borne diseases is a major issue in the national capital. According to civic records, in 2015, as many as 15,867 dengue cases were reported and 60 people had died. The number of dengue cases in 2019 was controlled at 2,036 and two deaths were reported. The AAP has already started its preparations for the civic polls. According to AAP functionaries, the party has started strengthening its workforce on the ground for civic elections. The AAP has also started cornering BJP-ruled municipalities on issues such as corruption, laxity of work, and sanitation, among others.According to civic records, till August 17, 41 cases of dengue, 26 cases of chikungunya and 48 cases of malaria has been reported in the national capital. No death has been reported due to dengue, chikungunya and malaria to date in Delhi.Mayor Mithilesh said, “Municipal staff and BJP leaders will visit households in different areas and appeal to the public not to let water accumulation happen to prevent mosquito breeding. We will also distribute pamphlets carrying information about preventive measures to be taken by people for dengue, malaria and chikungunya.”The domestic breeding checkers (DBC) and sanitation employees will visit every household to check water accumulation in the buildings. The fogging exercises and spray of anti-larva solution has already started in most of the localities of the city and it will be intensified.Vikas Goel, an AAP member and the leader of opposition in NDMC, described the move as an eye wash and a “photo opportunity” for BJP leaders.“Instead of such photo opportunities they should do some work on the ground. They should make efforts for continuous fogging, in-house checking and spray of anti-larva chemicals to prevent breeding of mosquitoes,” alleged Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-led-corporations-launch-mega-dengue-awareness-campaign-in-delhi/story-gCbUhfgkTxoUveP3tncZfO.html
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 shadow on Haryana assembly session: After CM, transport minister Mool Chand Sharma tests positive||Chandigarh: A day after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and two BJP MLAs tested positive for Covid-19, state transport minister Mool Chand Sharma was also diagnosed with coronavirus infection on Tuesday, the eve of the monsoon session of the assembly. With Sharma the latest BJP leader to test positive, Covid-19 has cast its shadow on the assembly session that gets underway at 2pm on Wednesday. Deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa, who tested negative on Tuesday, will preside over the assembly proceedings in Gupta’s absence.Sharma, the BJP MLA from Ballabgarh in Faridabad district, said he was asymptomatic. “Until Tuesday morning, I had no symptoms. I am not running fever, my throat is clear, there is no runny nose and there are no flu-like symptoms. As of now, I have isolated myself at home,” he said.He appealed to all those who had come in contact with him over the past few days to get themselves tested. The minister had carried out a surprise check of a bus stand in his assembly constituency on Monday. Ratia BJP legislator Lakshman Napa and his Indri counterpart Ram Kumar Kashyap tested positive on Monday, while Ambala City BJP MLA Aseem Goel tested positive on August 21. KHATTAR HOSPITALISED IN GURGAON Khattar’s test report came positive on Monday, six days after he attended a meeting with Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in Delhi in connection with the discussion on the Sutlej Yamuna Link canal issue with Punjab. Shekhawat was later found infected with the virus. The chief minister was taken to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh for a detailed check-up, an official said. After returning to his residence, Khattar left for Gurgaon on Monday evening where he was admitted to a private hospital, the official said, adding that his condition was stable. Khattar, who is also the leader of the assembly, will not be available for the monsoon session, which sources indicated was likely to be curtailed. The Speaker had mandated all MLAs and assembly staffers to undergo the Covid test ahead of the session. Incidentally, the 73-year-old Speaker, who is the Panchkula MLA, has also tested positive. Earlier, six assembly staffers, including Gupta’s political secretary, tested positive. COVID-NEGATIVE CERTIFICATE MUST TO ENTER ASSEMBLYOn state health minister Anil Vij’s suggestion last week, the Speaker had made it mandatory for anyone entering the assembly complex to show a Covid-19 negative certificate. The seating arrangement in the 90-member House will also be changed to ensure social distancing. BJP MPs from Hisar and Kurukshetra constituencies Brijendra Singh and Nayab Singh Saini, and party legislator from Thanesar Subhash Sudha had tested positive for the novel coronavirus earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-shadow-on-haryana-assembly-session-after-cm-transport-minister-mool-chand-sharma-tests-positive/story-3yBPpgDb9RIckbWfTI41OL.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Police to file FIR against 5 in Raigad building collapse in Maharashtra||A day after a five-storeyed building collapsed in Mahad town of Maharashtra’s Raigad district, which is located around 170 kilometres (km) from Mumbai, police said they had started the process of filing the first information report (FIR) against five people. Also read: PM Modi extends condolences to families of victims of Raigad building collapseRaigad superintendent of police (SP) Anil Paraskar said the FIR would be filed against the builder and four others: the contractor, engineer, architect, and the building consultant. The SP said the collapsed building had 95 residents. “Fortunately, 75 had managed to come out before the incident occurred. The person, who died in the incident, is not a resident of the building. He has been identified as Sameer Sayyed,” he added. Maharashtra minister for urban development Eknath Shinde, who visited the site, said the police have been instructed to book all those responsible for the incident. “We will not spare anyone. Information is being gathered on whether structural audit of this building was conducted.” Aditi Tatkare, guardian minister for Raigad district, said a committee would be formed to probe the incident. “The panel will investigate how and why this happened. Structural audit will also be carried out of other buildings to prevent similar incidents,” Tatkare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-to-file-fir-against-5-in-raigad-building-collapse-in-maharashtra/story-tdlV5QsWOKm6cFpXkWwSEL.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Raigad building collapse: 2 dead, 16 still feared trapped||Hours after a five-storeyed building collapsed in Mahad town of Raigad district, rescue operations continued on Tuesday morning with police saying 16 persons are still missing with two persons have died in the incident. According to Raigad District Superintendent of Police Anil Paraskar, one person died after he was hit by stone from the falling building while the search for 19 were still on as three teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) along with local administration were trying to sift through the rubble. While the administration had earlier claimed there could over 50 persons trapped, the police after 40 per cent of debris removed said those trapped under rubble may be less. The building identified as Tariq Garden in Kajalpura area of Mahad collapsed at around 7 pm on Moday, leading to initial chaos for some time. one of the victim died in the tragedy wasn’t the resident of the building, but was walking nearby when it collapsed and was hit by a stone from the falling debris. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari said there were total 41 flats in the building of which 18 were vacant. “When the building collapsed, around 60 people were out, saving many lives,” said Choudhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-dead-16-still-feared-trapped-in-mahad-building-collapse-tragedy/story-yx8Z4VQDkqALUZScY439OL.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Third serological survey in Delhi from Sept 1 to 5||The third serological survey in Delhi will be held between September 1 and 5 and around 17,000 people are expected to be surveyed, officials aware of the matter said on Tuesday.“Samples will be collected from all the 11 districts of Delhi and across all age groups. Around 17,000 samples will be collected,” said a health department official, who did not want to be named.Also read: Why Delhi sero survey findings don’t mean you are safeThe number of samples to be collected will be more than the second serological survey. They will lesser than those collected for the first survey led by the National Centre for Disease Control.The first survey was held between June 27 and July 10 during which 22.86% of people were found to have developed antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19. The second survey was done between August 1 and 7 and antibodies were found among 29.1% of people surveyed.In the first survey, samples were collected from 21,387 people and in the second from 15,000. The second survey showed a prevalence of antibodies among women in Delhi was more (32.2%) when compared to men (28.3%).According to the second survey report, the prevalence of antibodies among those aged less than 18 were found to be 34.7%, those between 18-50 28.5% and those above 50 31.2%. Officials said even if the third survey finds the prevalence of antibodies in around 35% of Delhi’s population, the Covid-19 management strategies would largely remain unchanged.“Whether there is a high prevalence of antibodies in one district and lower in another, both cases would need the same strategy of the test, track, and treat. Active surveillance and contact tracing will have to continue and high-risk group and special surveillance groups will have to be checked on frequently,” said a health official, who did not want to be named.The Covid-19 positivity rate has started rising again in Delhi. As many as 7.4% of all tests conducted in the last week came positive, the highest in over a month, suggesting that Delhi may be facing a fresh challenge to control the outbreak it had contained to a considerable extent.The positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with an increase in new cases, it indicates that the virus is spreading fast.The national capital reported 1,061 cases and 13 deaths as per Monday’s Covid-19 bulletin, taking the total number of infections in the city to 162,527 and fatalities to 4,313.Dr. Lalit Kant, a former head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said Delhi’s positivity rate has once again started to gradually increase which means the infection is still spreading in the city.“At this juncture, Delhi cannot be complacent. Testing numbers should not decline. More and more testing is the key to managing Covid-19 and the mode of testing should preferably be RT-PCR [reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/third-sero-survey-in-delhi-from-sept-1-and-5/story-id0omqZZXvMpr1WbWPaVzK.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi Tigri Camp firing leaves 15-yr-old boy dead, 1 injured||A 15-year-old boy was killed and an 18-year-old man was injured after a group of nearly a dozen people allegedly resorted to firing and stabbing in south Delhi’s Tigri Camp late on Monday, triggering panic and fear among local residents. Two separate cases of murder and attempt to murder have been registered.Also read: Delhi Police file case in Jamia firing, say no empty shells foundPolice officers said preliminary probe has revealed that the attack was the result of enmity between two groups over a past incident.Later in the day, an 18-year-old man was arrested and two minor boys were apprehended for their alleged involvement in Monday night’s violence. “The three apprehended persons told us that the attack was planned and led by one Annu alias Sourabh in retaliation of the murder of one Vinay that was recently reported in Dakshinpuri area. Their disclosure is being verified and corroborated with the facts pertaining to Vinay’s murder,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur, adding that raids are being conducted to nab Annu and other absconding suspects. “One boy aged 15 was declared brought dead at the AIIMS Trauma Centre. He had suffered injuries in the attack. The other injured person, Amman alias Mohammad Ali,18, was fired upon and stabbed by the group of attackers. He is undergoing treatment,” said DCP Thakur. Police said that Amman’s statement has been registered and using the details and physical descriptions of the attackers that he gave, the investigating team are looking for the suspects and conducting raids to nab them. To avoid further clash, police personnel remained deployed in Tigri Camp area throughout the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-tigri-camp-firing-leaves-15-yr-old-boy-dead/story-GDAzjQ5mVniI9Da9WqGJaO.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra liquor excise drops to Rs 3,384 crore from an estimated Rs 6,415 crore||The Maharashtra government has been able to earn only Rs 3,384 crore as excise duty from the sale of liquor in the last four months (April to July 2020) in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown.This amount is substantially low as the state needs to generate an average of Rs 6,415 crore every four months to meet its annual target of Rs 19,245 crore.Also read: Haryana excise officials admit to shortfall in liquor stocks before SETThe state excise department attributed the shortfall to a variety of reasons. “The wine shops have still not fully opened. Even the restaurants have still not reopened,” said excise commissioner Kantilal Umap. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, many people stopped drinking chilled beer, whose sales took a big hit,” said Umap. However he said that the state government is working out various ways to meet this shortfall and shore up the revenues.Excise duty is one of the biggest revenues for the state government as it netted Rs 15,434 crore during the last financial year (April 2019-March 2020). This was the reason that the cash-strapped state government allowed opening of liquor shops from May 4. In order to curtail huge crowds at vends, the state even allowed home delivery of liquor.However, it has still not allowed opening of hotels and restaurants which have been shut for the past five months.Meanwhile, wine merchants and hotel owners are bearing the brunt of low sales. “Lakhs of migrant workers who left for their native towns were one of our major clientele and this factor has affected our sales substantially.” “In addition, people visited each other and indulged in social drinking which has completely stopped now,” said Arvind Miskin, president, Association of Progressive Retail Liquor Vendors, a body of wine shop owners. There are 15,000 restaurants, 1,685 wine shops, 5,000 beer shops and 4,045 country liquor bars in the state which serve liquor. Restaurant owners are all for reopening of their establishments. “Liquor revenue will increase substantially once we are allowed to start our business,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-liquor-excise-drops-to-rs-3-384-crore-from-an-estimated-rs-6-415-crore/story-IGDOA6DC2aQ4iW6vtMxEwI.html
25-08-2020||City||3 murder 45-year-old man in Thane, held||Mahatma Phule police arrested three people for allegedly assaulting a 45-year-old man from Kalyan’s Waldhuni area on Monday. According to the police, the laundry business of the victim’s relative took a hit due to the lockdown, owing to which the latter started a bakery. However, this affected the business of the three accused, whose shops are located near the shop of the victim’s relative, Amarbahadur Kanojia. The accused have been identified as Salluddin Ansari, 25, his brother Kashimuddin, 28, and relative Mohammed Ansari, 20. According to Mahatma Phule police officers, the accused have been running a bakery shop from the past five years. The victim’s kin had opened his bakery shop 20 days ago after closing his laundry shop. “On Monday morning, the three accused approached Kanojia and threatened him to close his business. They were angry at him for starting the same business that the three accused operated and for selling products for lower prices to attract more customers. The accused then started assaulting Kanojia. When his relative Roshanlal Kanojia intervened, they assaulted him also till he fell unconscious,” a police officer said.The accused later fled the spot, even as Roshanlal Kanojia was rushed to the hospital, where he declared dead. Senior police inspector, N Bankar said, “With the help of CCTV footage and eyewitness, we arrested the trio under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-murder-45-year-old-man-in-thane-held/story-IWDOcls74gQFiIkvueYlcL.html
25-08-2020||City||30 villages in Thane receive contaminated water||Residents from around 30 villages in Thane’s Shahapur have complained of receiving contaminated water at their homes for the past two months. They have alleged that despite several complaints to the zilla parishad, the issue has not been resolved. Almost 75% of villagers have fallen ill in the past two months after drinking the contaminated water, said residents. The villages have been supplied with water of the Bhatsa river from a direct pipeline without purification. The zilla parishad representatives have claimed that owing to the lack of funds, their proposal to install purification plants has not been going moving ahead. Manik Awhad, deputy engineer, Shahapur, said, “The proposal to install purification plants in these villages is not moving ahead owing to lack of funds. There is a purification plant at Cherapoli village, but it’s not functional. So we have sanctioned money for its repair and restoration. Also, we are soon in the process of starting water ATMs plants in every village to provide drinking water facilities for the locals.” With many residents at home owing to the lockdown, their more need for water and locals have been buying bottled water or calling water tanks for supply of water. However, they are facing difficulties to find the supply owing to the lockdown. As many residents have either lost their jobs or face salary cuts, it has become difficult for them to pay for water. Shahapur-based social worker Baban Harne has helped some poor families in getting water. “Villages under around 30 gram panchayats face this problem every monsoon. Residents get muddy water, which they cannot even use to wash clothes or utensils. Earlier, villagers used to order tankers for water supply, but this year, most of them have lost their jobs or cannot go out to earn due to closure of train services. How will they buy water, which is the most essential thing in life? Most of the villagers have suffered from stomach infections and other diseases due to contaminated water,” said Harne. Forty-year-old Jagdish Pawar, one of the villagers, said that during monsoon the river gets muddy and residents receive the muddy water into their homes. “We can’t even wash our hands from the water. This year we have been facing more problems. In the first three months [of the lockdown], we used all our savings to run our homes, owing to which by monsoon, we don’t have much money left to order 5 litres of water for eight members of family,” said Pawar. According to the villagers, the muddy water has damaged most of their equipment such as motor pump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-villages-in-thane-receive-contaminated-water/story-0IXvvrqnhHExs1KRKn4SsO.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||HC directs state, railways to deposit compensation of dead policeman||The Bombay high court has directed the state and railways to deposit the compensation amount accruing in the name of a railway police personnel who died of Covid-19 in the court. The daughter of the police personnel had approached the court seeking proportionate distribution of the compensation amount between the two wives and daughters of the policeman. The court directed the first wife and her daughter to be present for the hearing, without which, the petition could not be decided and posted the matter for hearing on Tuesday. A division bench of justice S J Kathawalla and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition filed by a woman, was informed by advocate Prerak Sharma that the father of the petitioner was serving as an assistant sub-inspector with the Maharashtra Railway Police Force till his untimely death due to Covid-19 on May 30. Sharma submitted that it was only when his client’s mother wrote to the railway authorities to provide her with the employment, gratuity, pension benefits accruing in her late husband’s name, she came to know that there was a similar letter written by another woman who also claimed to be the dead policeman’s wife, having one daughter. Sharma added that both marriages were registered with the Registrar of Marriages and under section 16 of the Hindu Marriage Act, his client being the child of the second wife had a right to family pension and death-cum-retirement gratuity, hence she and her mother should get an equal proportion in the compensation that has been disbursed by the state government and the railways in the name of her father. On its part, deputy commissioner of police, Pradeep Chavan, West zone, Railways, submitted that they had already collected the compensation and other benefits for their demised personnel and were willing to hand it over the beneficiary, as per court orders. The state also submitted that it had expedited the disbursal of the compensation and would hand it over as per court orders. After hearing the submissions, the court sought the presence of the first wife and daughter as without them the court could not decide on the distribution of the compensation on Tuesday and directed the railways to deposit the compensation amount in the court within a week. The court also asked the state to inform when it would be able to deposit the compensation amount of ₹60 lakhs with the court and posted the matter for hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-state-railways-to-deposit-compensation-of-dead-policeman/story-dAZjw92WWOR6dbduQrp9JJ.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Gangster Yusuf Bachkana’s aide held from Mumbai for killing real estate developer||Mumbai crime branch officers arrested a 38-year-old man, identified as Rajendra Mohansingh Rawat alias Raju Nepali, from Borivli on Monday in connection with the murder of a real estate developer at Dharwad district in Karnataka on August 6. Officers said that Rawat is an associate of gangster Yusuf Suleiman Kadri alias Yusuf Bachkana from the past 10 years and arranged for shooters to murder the developer at the gangster’s behest for ₹10 lakh. “Bachkana allegedly gave Rawat the contract over a financial dispute with the developer. The plot to kill the real estate developer was laid down in June,” said an officer from crime branch. Bachkana, who worked for gangster Ravi Pujari, is currently serving life sentence at Hindalga central jail in Belgavi district of Karnataka for the murder of a builder, said officers. Rawat’s name cropped up after the seven people arrested by Karnataka Police in connection with the real estate developer’s murder revealed his name and claimed that they were given the contract by Rawat. A police team from Karnataka then came to Mumbai and nabbed Rawat from Borivli area with the help of Mumbai crime branch officers. “We alerted our informant and found out that Rawat was in touch with Bachkana and was still working with him despite the latter being in Karnataka jail. During his interrogation, Rawat confessed that he was given a contract of ₹10 lakh to arrange shooters. After scrutinising Rawat’s bank account, we found that ₹2 lakh was transferred into his account before the murder,” said police inspector Sagar Sivalkar of unit 12 of the crime branch. Rawat has a 2013 attempt to murder case and other cases under the Arms Act registered against him at Kasturba police station at Vanrai police station in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gangster-yusuf-bachkana-s-aide-held-from-mumbai-for-killing-real-estate-developer/story-eXYV1lA9SQEWQDhQFv0U0K.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC to now get 50,000 more rapid antigen kits for city||After using over 72,000 of the one lakh rapid antigen kits obtained in the first week of July, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) now plans to procure 50,000 more kits by September, as it looks to ramp up testing from next week. The civic body conducts antigen tests majorly on frontline workers, shopkeepers and vendors in containment zones and high-risk contacts. The kits deliver test results within 15-20 minutes, but are less sensitive compared to RT-PCR tests. If a symptomatic patient is tested negative through the rapid antigen test, the patient is tested again through RT-PCR. As of August 23, 72,515 antigen tests have been conducted, of which 4,105 have come positive. Of the total Covid tests conducted daily, more than 50% are rapid antigen tests. More than 2,000 antigen tests are carried out by BMC on a daily basis, which is apart from the ones conducted by private labs. BMC has issued an expression of interest for procurement of next instalment of antigen kits. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are conducting antigen tests on a much larger scale. For now, we have issued a requirement of 50,000 kits and will procure more in the future.” A senior civic official said, “We are going to continue aggressive testing through antigen kits. The 50,000 kits are expected to be received by September. Recently, all ward officers were given a target of completing 1,000 tests daily. These tests will majorly involve antigen kits as well as RT-PCR tests wherever it is required.” Meanwhile, on Monday, Mumbai reported 743 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest single-day figure in August. The previous lowest daily count recorded was on July 28, when the city saw only 700 cases. There were 20 deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the toll to 7,442. Of the 137, 096 cases recorded in the city so far, 18,267 are active. The case fatality ratio of the city is 5.4%, and the recovery rate stands at 81%. As per BMC’s data, of the 20 deaths, 1 was of a patient below 40 years of age, six were between 40 and 60 years and 13 above 60 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civic-body-to-now-get-50-000-more-rapid-antigen-kits-for-city/story-nOT1u19iWRvOL1U5x3Zl8H.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro to explore non-fare sources such as advertising, land monetisation for revenue||At a time when metros across the country are facing losses owing to the lockdown, the Maha Mumbai Metro Operation Corporation Limited (MMMOCL) is exploring at non-fare revenue sources for the Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) corridors, expected to be operational by May 2021. MMMOCL, which will be operating all metro corridors in the future, has invited bids to undertake a study of the upcoming 30 stations on the two corridors and suggest measures to “maximise the revenue”. The documents released by the MMMOCL states, “Public transport projects like metro are capital and maintenance intensive, hence will not be financially sustainable only depending on fare box revenues. The Metro Rail Policy adopted by the government of India stipulates the exploitation of various alternate revenue sources and opportunities such as advertising, commercial utilisation of land around metro station premises, transit-oriented developments (ToD), value-captured tax/financing, digital marketing etc.” DK Sharma, managing director, MMMOCL said, “We are expecting some out of the box ideas to maximise our revenue sources. The consultant will be expected to do a detailed study of all the stations.” Mumbai’s first metro line (Versova-Ghatkopar) is also reeling under losses since its inception. Last week, HT reported that Reliance Infrastructure, which owns a major stake in the company, wants to sell the stakes of the metro. According to sources, the metro is facing losses worth ₹80 lakh to ₹1 crore each day. As per a recent study conducted by a consultant appointed by the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation, metros across India are facing losses owing to various reasons, including sub-optimal monetisation of non-fare revenue options such as commercial space leasing, advertisement space leasing, property development, land monetisation, etc. due to various constraints, including regulatory and contractual restrictions. Sudeept Maiti, senior manager from the World Resources Institute (WRI) said, “Non-fare revenue becomes crucial for any metro, which is a very high-investment project. Many cities have started exploring ideas around non-fare revenue but have not yet been able to achieve significant revenue shares. One example would be to look at the Hong Kong model, where approximately 40% of the revenue is via non-fare box.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-to-explore-non-fare-sources-such-as-advertising-land-monetisation-for-revenue/story-KZEQXEcq6Mfgt24kgJgihP.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Kisan Rail to operate twice a week||After the good response to Kisan Rail, a train service to provide supply and faster transportation of perishable farm produce, the Central Railway (CR) has increased the frequency of the train. Kisan Rail was first operated between Devlali in Maharashtra and Bihar’s Muzaffarpur railway stations on August 7. The train, which was operated once a week, will now run twice a week. The second train will connect Sangola in Solapur district of Maharashtra to Muzaffarpur in Bihar.The train on its third run on August 21 transported 235.44 tonnes of produce which included pomegranate, lemon, cauliflower, garlic and eggs. “The train has got a good response from farmers and is being operated with assurance of faster and cheaper transportation, providing a seamless supply chain and preventing destruction of perishable farm produce, thus leading to increase in income of farmers. Prior to Kisan Rail, farmers largely depended on road transport,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kisan-rail-to-operate-twice-a-week/story-ztIiSoKn4KGQLTjGLhSv5M.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha nears 700,000 cases as recoveries cross 500,000 mark||Maharashtra inched closer to the 700,000 mark for Covid-19 cases with 11,015 new infections on Monday, taking its count to 693,398. Active cases also rose to 168,126, which is 24.24% of the total cases reported so far. Death toll of the state reached 22,465 with 212 more fatalities reported on Monday, of which 164 were reported in the past 48 hours, 19 were from the past week, while the remaining 29 deaths were from the period before that, health officials said.The single-day toll was the lowest since July 20, when 176 deaths were reported. On July 27, the state reported 227 casualties. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, meanwhile, cautioned people about the possibility of a second wave of the pandemic. The state also crossed the 500,000 mark for Covid recoveries after 14,219 patients recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the count to 502,490. This has led to improvement of recovery rate of the state to 72.47%, against the national average of 75.27%. Maharashtra continues to face a surge in Covid-19 cases as the number of fresh cases is yet to flatten. It has recorded over 14,000 cases for three consecutive days past week on August 20, 21 and 22. In the past 24 days of August, it recorded 271,719 cases, highest in any month, so far. It also accounted for 11,321 per day, on an average. With seven more days to go, it is likely to rise even further. The state has reported 247,392 cases in July, 102,172 cases in June, 57,157 cases in May, 10,196 cases in April and 302 cases in March.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said that the state is going through its most crucial phase. “We are facing very challenging situation as festivals and monsoon, which lead to spread in other diseases, have come at the same time and thus local authorities will have to be more vigilant even if cases are reducing at some places,” Thackeray said, while holding a review meeting of the Covid-19 situation of Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli municipal corporations where the Covid-19 cases had shot up since early June. He was in Thane on Monday. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said that the peak is coming in different cities at different time and they are hoping flattening of the curve soon. “Going by the experience of other countries, number of cases flatten after reaching peak and then start declining after sometime. In our state, peak is coming in different cities at different time. For instance, cases have flattened in Mumbai, but Pune, Solapur and Sangli are currently experiencing a peak,” he told HT.“Even in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) cases have started coming down. Hopefully, cases will be flattened in the coming days,” he added.State health minister Rajesh Tope has recently said they expect the downward trend of the Covid-19 infection after mid-September. Chief minister is concerned of second wave and has asked local authorities to remain vigilant. “The recurrence of the second wave is observed in some of the countries in the world whenever authorities go negligent. We have granted relaxations for some activities and the efforts are being made to make day-to-day activities smooth, but we have to remain alert,” the CM cautioned.Meanwhile, the state is contemplating on opening up intrastate and interstate movement, following directives from the central government.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on August 22 has written to chief secretaries of all states saying that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. The letter also mentions that any such restriction would amount to a violation of guidelines issued earlier by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) during the unlock phases.The chief secretary has said that they will be allowing free intrastate movement after Ganesh Chaturthi. “We have already allowed intrastate movement. The condition for obtaining e-pass for travelling will also be scrapped. A decision on this is likely to be taken after Ganesh festival,” the chief secretary told HT on Sunday.Officials are wary that the move could further lead to spread in cases due to free movement of people “Opening of intrastate and interstate movement is nothing, but removing all travel restrictions. It will allow people to move freely and ultimately increase their movement. It is not advisable when the cases are already at a peak,” said an official from state health department.State transport minister Anil Pawar, too, said that it will put further strain on the existing health infrastructure. “The state is yet to take decision on this but allowing intrastate and interstate travel will put more strain on the health infrastructure,” he opined.However, chief minister said that they won’t be taking any decision, which will lead to withdrawal of existing relaxations. “Since June we have started Mission Begin Again and have given many relaxations in rural and urban areas, but whatever is not possible is not possible. We won’t be taking any decision hastily. We will not take a decision until and unless we are sure that it won’t being negative impact. No decision will be taken, which will lead to withdrawal of existing relaxations,” Thackeray told reporters.On Monday, Mumbai recorded 743 cases, taking its tally to 137,096. Of them, active cases are 18,267.This is for the fourth time the daily caseload in the city dipped to 700-mark in the past month. On July 28 and August 4 and August 17, it recorded 700, 709 and 753 cases respectively.On June 27, Mumbai has reported highest single-day spike with 2,077 cases. It has been maintaining a sort of stability in the fresh cases in the past one month.City toll stood at 7,442 after 20 deaths were reported on Monday.Pune city continue to contribute maximum infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,107 cases on Monday. Its tally stands at 90,257 cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad, satellite city in Pune Metropolitan Region (MMR), recorded 815 cases, third highest-contributor in the state. Its tally went up to 41,157.Apart from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, peak in cases can be seen at Nashik city with 699 cases, Jalgaon (539 cases), Nagpur city (478 cases), Satara (446 cases) and Kolhapur (426 cases), according to the data shared by the state health department.High number of casualties continued to be another concern the state is struggling with. In the last 24 days, the state has reported 7,471 deaths, which has broken the record of highest number of casualties in a month. In July, a total of 6,988 deaths were reported, while in June, May, April and March, total number of deaths recorded were 5,638, 2,286, 449 and 10 deaths respectively. Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 3.24% on Monday, slightly less than Gujarat, which is having highest CFR in the country as present. On Sunday, Gujarat’s CFR was 3.34% with 2,805 deaths (86,624 cases), according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.On Thursday, it has conducted 46,784 tests and total number of tests conducted so far are 3,663,488. While reviewing Covid situation in municipal areas, Thackeray directed officials to follow-up on recovered patients for a month after their discharge.Thane district, according to the health department data, has a recovery rate of 81.5 per cent as 100,570 people have been discharges so far. Thackeray during the review meeting held in Thane stressed that the administration should keep a close watch on asymptomatic patients as well. “There should be contact with the Covid-19 recovered patients for one month. The symptoms of corona are changing day by day. The attention must be paid to asymptomatic patients,” the CM said in the review.Thackeray also stressed on dealing with monsoon-related ailments, condition of roads, garbage disposal and other issues within the municipal corporations. The CM also called for increased coordination between elected representatives and authorities along with greater involvement of locals for public awareness campaigns. “Now it is necessary to focus on monsoon-related diseases, potholes, roads and garbage along with other issues. If the municipal corporations, the health department, police and revenue authorities and the elected representatives work together, then we can defeat corona,” a note from the Chief Minister’s Office quoted the CM.Currently, 34,820 people have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities and 1,230,982 people are home quarantined across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-nears-700-000-cases-as-recoveries-cross-500-000-mark/story-pTzi1jjjLyBSAgOIfq1D6O.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Implementation of NEP 2020: Maharashtra education department holds consultations||Days after the Union cabinet passed the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, the Maharashtra education department has been holding several consultations with experts and stakeholders over its implementation in the state. On Tuesday, officials from the education department will hold a meeting with the representatives of private schools to get their feedback and suggestions on the issue. Over the past two weeks, several consultations were held with educationists, heads of various non-governmental organisations (NGO) and other stakeholders such as schools, colleges and standalone education institutes. “Various meetings were conducted with experts, and several suggestions have come to the government over the past few days. They will now be studied by a committee which would be formed to come up guidelines on the implementation of NEP,” said an official from the education department. On August 21, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the formation of a committee to look into the implementation of the policy in Maharashtra. Meanwhile, teachers across the country have been asked to submit their feedback on the new policy introduced by the Centre. Some of the key themes under which suggestions have been invited include early childhood care, foundational literacy and numeracy, curtailing dropout rates, curriculum and pedagogy, teachers’ issues, inclusive education and use of technology in education. “In a state like Maharashtra, the implementation of the policy has to be in a phased manner because of the large number of students and the diversity in the learning backgrounds involved,” said a teacher from a suburban school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/implementation-of-nep-2020-maharashtra-education-department-holds-consultations/story-GLMhKFvG3PL29c23VsAneL.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: CBI continues to quiz staff, friend||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) continued its investigation into allegations of abetment in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. This is the fourth day of the Central agency’s probe into the incident and it has not made any major breakthrough so far. On Monday, CBI questioned members of Rajput’s staff, including cook Neeraj Singh, domestic help Keshav Bachner, as well as Rajput’s friend and creative content manager Siddharth Pithani. The interviews were conducted at the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s guest house in Santacruz (East). CBI officials also went to Rajput’s flat in Bandra with the four people who had been present in the apartment on the day Rajput died – Singh, Bachner, Pithani and Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant. This is the second time since Saturday that CBI has returned to Rajput’s home. Another CBI team visited Waterstone Resort in Andheri (East) where Rajput had spent two months last year. A few employees of the resort were questioned. On Monday afternoon, a CBI team also visited Cooper Hospital and met the team of doctors who had conducted the autopsy. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14 and a case of accidental death was registered by Mumbai Police. The post-mortem report concluded Rajput had died by suicide. The probe into Rajput’s death was handed over to CBI by the Supreme Court on August 19, after the court upheld the validity of a first information report (FIR) lodged by Bihar Police in response to a complaint filed in Patna by Rajput’s father, KK Singh. Singh accused actor Rhea Chakraborty of abetment to suicide and misappropriation of funds. Chakraborty’s lawyer said she and her family have not received any summons from the CBI, so far, in connection with the case. “…If they receive a summon, they will appear before the agency,” Satish Maneshinde said.A senior CBI official said that after four days in Mumbai, CBI has not made any major breakthrough in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-cbi-continues-to-quiz-staff-friend/story-p42Lr9IABgX6FNSIa4ELiO.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC sends queries to ICMR about Covishield trials||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may have to wait for a while to start clinical trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which has been named Covishield in India, for Covid-19 treatment. BMC sent two queries to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) about the trial on Saturday. The queries were raised by the ethics committee of King Edward Memorial (KEM) and BYL Nair hospitals which have been selected to run the trial in Mumbai.A civic official, requesting anonymity, said, “We have sent two queries to ICMR asking about the budget and insurance of the volunteers who will participate in the trial. The insurance amount has to be similar across the country. So, the council needs to inform us about the insurance amount.”Both the hospitals are waiting for the final nod from their respective ethics committee to begin clinical trials of the promising Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. After a nod from the ethics committees and a response from ICMR, the trials can start.“We are expecting to hear from ICMR by tomorrow (Tuesday). If the queries get resolved, we will start the trial by this weekend,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-sends-queries-to-icmr-about-covishield-trials/story-TrjO1jNrXHP3feTMiFKaGL.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||AIIB’s ₹3,500-crore fillip to Railways’ MUTP-3 project in Mumbai Metropolitan Region||In a major boost towards upgrading the suburban railway network in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC) along with the Maharashtra government on Monday signed a loan agreement of ₹3,500 crore ($500 million) with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) for railway projects under the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP)-3.The total cost of the project is ₹10,947 crore of which ₹3,500 crore will be financed by AIIB. “The loan from the AIIB has a five-year grace period [for repayment] and a maturity of 30 years,” said a senior MRVC official, on condition of anonymity.MUTP-3 aims to expand the suburban railway network, improve the services and east-west connectivity in MMR.The projects under MUTP-3 will include a new suburban railway corridor between Panvel and Karjat railway stations for an estimated cost of ₹2,783 crore; procurement of 47 air-conditioned (AC) local trains worth ₹3,491 crore; quadrupling of the railway line between Virar and Dahanu stations for ₹3,578 crore; elevating railway corridor between Airoli and Kalwa stations for ₹476 crore; controlling midsection trespassing for ₹551 crore; and providing technical support for ₹69 crore. Of the remaining amount for the projects under MUTP-3, ₹2,629 crore will be taken on lease from the Indian Railway Finance Corporation (IRFC), while the rest of the cost will be shared by the railway ministry and the Maharashtra government. The Maharashtra government and MRVC in August signed a Subsidiary Finance Agreement (SFA) for projects under MUTP-3. Welcoming the move, transport experts stated that railways and the state government should work in sync to start the on-ground work instantly for the project. “Projects under MUTP-3 are very crucial as Mumbai is now overburdened and after projects under MUTP-3 materialise, the population will shift to MMR, which is necessary. The state government should work alongside railways and provide support in land acquisition and rehabilitation. The projects should not be delayed,” said transport expert AV Shenoy. MRVC has started work on the midsection trespass control on the railway lines and the tendering process for other projects is also being initiated. The land acquisition for the projects started in 2019, while the on-ground work is likely to start after monsoon this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aiib-s-3-700-crore-fillip-to-railways-mutp-3-project-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region/story-A06flSqtNfS295BFYd1VIK.html
25-08-2020||City||Man complains against civic staff over misleading Covid test report||A 37-year-old man from Kalyan, who got tested for Covid-19 using a rapid antigen kit at a civic hospital in Kalyan (East) on August 11, complained that he was told he tested positive and was asked to go to a quarantine centre, but the test result was not provided to him. A week later, when he got the hardcopy of the report from the hospital, it showed he was negative for the infection. Rupesh Dwivedi has written to Kalyan Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi citing that civic staff at Geeta Harkisandas Dalal Hospital had said that he tested positive for Covid around 45 minutes after the test and asked him to be ready to move to Tata Amantra quarantine centre. Dwivedi, a banker by profession, had decided to get tested on his own in a bid to keep his mother, who underwent a bypass surgery earlier this month, safe. “When I asked them to show me the hardcopy of the test result, they did not show it and kept insisting that I get quarantined at the institution. In fact, even before the tested me, they had asked me to go home and pack so that I could be shifted to a quarantine centre, which was shocking,” Dwivedi said. The next day, Dwivedi got RT-PCR, which is more accurate than rapid antigen test, and some other tests at Metropolis Lab in Kalyan (West) and the report came negative. “I did not go to the quarantine centre as they did not give me the test report. Considering that my antigen test was positive as reported by KDMC, I continued with extra precaution and got several tests done, all of which came negative,” said Dwivedi. After repeated request and follow ups, the hospital gave him the hard copy of the test report on August 17 which showed he was negative, he claimed. “I have spent ₹14,000 for the tests and the mental stress was unbearable. I couldn’t even meet my mother. Later when I complained, one KDMC official claimed that they hadn’t told me that my report was positive. I want the civic body to look into the matter and take action,” added Dwivedi. Civic chief Vijay Suryavanshi did not respond when asked about the complaint.However, KDMC epidemic officer Pratibha Panpatil said, “The person tested negative in antigen test. But since he had symptoms, we had asked him to go to a quarantine centre where he would get RT-PCR test done for free. If a patient tests negative in antigen testing but has symptoms, we ask them to get RT-PCR test done. The patient took the message wrong and refused to go to the centre.”“Whatever tests he carried out was his choice. We did not ask him to get the tests done at a private lab. The only mistake my staff did was not providing the report on time to the patient which led to miscommunication. For this I have warned the staff,” added Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-complains-against-civic-staff-over-misleading-covid-test-report/story-PBNp37YUI71wOfqRwKowhO.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||Varsity insists on form submission on campus; LLM students object||Even as the Apex court is yet to decide on the fate of examinations for end of term final-year students of professional and non-professional courses, students of LLM colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) are facing fresh trouble as the university is insisting on physical submission of exam forms and exam fees at the varsity’s Fort campus.Several students have raised objection to the decision and requested that the procedure be conducted online in view of the Covid-19 situation in the state and city. Several students have cited that they are stuck in their hometowns due to the pandemic and the ensuing travel restrictions. However, the university has not responded yet. On Monday, officials at the examination department of MU told HT that it has decided to give concession of time to students who are currently in their hometowns and cannot travel. “Processes like applying for re-evaluation is being conducted online but applying for the upcoming examination session -- ATKT or fresh examination -- is only possible physically, which is unfair. Some of my friends, who are stuck in Punjab and other states, have been trying to convince other friends to visit the university campus and complete the process,” said Harshal Nahata, an LLM student who is currently stuck in his hometown in Chhattisgarh. Since June, several LLM students have taken up this matter with the university, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant as well as other senior officials in the state education department, hoping for some relief. MU, meanwhile, has extended the deadline for completion of the application process over three times but the students have to complete it through physically visiting the campus.“At a time when Covid-19 cases are rising and the government is still unclear about the status of examinations, we don’t see why LLM students are submitting exam forms and fees. But the university seems adamant,” said another LLM aspirant on the condition of anonymity. For now, without releasing any official circular, MU officials confirmed concession of time for students. “We got complaints from some students who are either stuck in a remote town of Maharashtra or in other states. Therefore, they have not managed to submit their examination forms as well as fees. In such cases, we are going to allow them to finish this process later on once travel restrictions are eased and the students are back in the city for examinations,” said Vinod Patil controller of examinations, MU.Students, however, said they won’t believe this decision until the university released an official notification or circular clarifying the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/varsity-insists-on-form-submission-on-campus-llm-students-object/story-DpWgkcvHDdB1H8FR8GVCJJ.html
25-08-2020||City||Woman found with her throat slit in Taloja home||An unidentified person on Monday killed a 45-year-old woman by slitting her throat at her apartment. Police suspect someone known to her may have murdered the woman.“Her body was found in the kitchen. Based on injury wounds, her throat was slit with a sharp weapon,” said Kashinath Chavan, senior inspector of Taloja police adding that the murder weapon was not found at her apartment.According to police, Rekha Sharma, 45, stayed with her husband and 14-year-old son at their Taloja Phase-1 apartment in Sector 11. On Monday, at around 9am, her husband, who works as a mason, had left for work and her son was at his sister’s house. Police suspect the killer may have been waiting for her husband to leave before he entered her apartment and slit her throat. This was Sharma’s second marriage and she has three children including two daughters and a 14-year-old son from her first husband. Both daughters are married. Her first husband died by suicide around three months ago, in West Bengal, said police.After around 10 am, Sharma’s daughter was trying to call her mother, but she did not answer her phone. She then called her step-father and eventually went there to open the door using a duplicate key.“On seeing the body, the watchman of the society alerted the police. We are checking the CCTV footage to identify any suspicious person entering the building around the time of the murder. We suspect the killer to be someone known to the woman,” said Ravindra Gidde, assistant commissioner of police, Panvel division.The victim had recently taken to selling onions and potatoes during the lockdown, said police. Officers are investigating to ascertain if the motive behind the killing was personal or a professional enmity.The Taloja police have registered a case of murder against an unknown person under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-found-with-her-throat-slit-in-taloja-home/story-p4CLaor5yznYDeCNloFL5I.html
25-08-2020||City||3 of 4 held for stealing trucks tests positive for Covid||Three of the four accused arrested by the NRI police for stealing trucks have now tested positive for Covid-19. The two undertrials with their accomplices stole at least three trucks from Navi Mumbai after they were released on bail on June 29, due to the Covid-19 situation. On July 30, the men allegedly stole a truck from Nhava Sheva and stole a container from Panvel on August 8. They struck the third time by stealing the truck in Ulwe, said police.Police learnt that the four accused men, two of whom are in their mid-twenties and two others, aged 41, stole the truck from Ulwe in the early hours of August 16 by hot-wiring the truck.Two of them met in Taloja prison, where they were lodged in separate theft cases from APMC and Taloja police stations. After they were released on bail on June 29, they decided to steal trucks, as both of them had previously worked as truck drivers. With two other accomplices, they would travel in an autorickshaw and identify parked trucks along the highways in Navi Mumbai and steal it at night, an officer said.Based on CCTV footage and informant network, police managed to trace two of the men in Nerul and arrested them last week. The other two men were planning to sell the truck in Pune, from where they were nabbed. “The accused had scrapped two vehicles but we were able to nab them before they sold the Ulwe vehicle. Three of them have multiple cases of theft against them dating back to 2014,” said Samir Chaskar, an assistant inspector at NRI Coastal police station.The police have recovered the truck worth ₹30 lakh from the accused men.Soon after their arrest, the four accused were tested for Covid-19 as per protocol. Three of them have been tested positive. The accused are admitted at Vashi Hospital and Indiabulls quarantine centre. The officers and constables who have come in contact with the accused have quarantined themselves and will be tested for the infection in two days, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-of-4-held-for-stealing-trucks-tests-positive-for-covid/story-nLUTkC1x9Wshs3fPHXYuYK.html
25-08-2020||City||Haryana CM, assembly speaker test Covid-19 positive||CHANDIGARH Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, just two days before the beginning of the assembly session on August 26. Besides, two legislators of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were also found positive on Monday. Khattar announced his Covid-19 positive status via Twitter in the evening, while Gupta’s test report was made public early in the afternoon. “I was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive. I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine,” Khattar tweeted. On August 20, Khattar went into self home isolation after Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and certain officials posted at the CM’s residence in Chandigarh had tested positive for coronavirus. Khattar had met Shekhawat in Delhi to hammer out a solution to the Sutlej Yamuna link (SYL) canal logjam. Till Monday evening, at least three BJP MLAs, excluding CM and speaker, were Covid-19 positive. Ratia MLA Lakshman Napa and Ram Kumar Kashyap (Indri) tested positive on Monday, while Ambala City legislator Aseem Goel was found positive on August 21. Goel is in home quarantine since then. Another BJP MLA Mahipal Dhanda (Panipat Rural), who had tested positive early this month, recovered last week, while Subhash Sudha (Thanesar MLA) had contracted the infection a month back and recovered. On Monday, three employees -- sweeper, cook and room attendant -- posted at Haryana MLAs’ hostel in Chandigarh were also found Covid-19 positive. On Sunday six Vidhan Sabha employees, including speaker Gupta’s political aide, had tested positive for coronavirus infection. More than 350 employees of the Vidhan Sabha were tested for the infection on August 22 in view of the monsoon session of the assembly. DEPUTY SPEAKER TO PRESIDE OVER SESSION The deputy speaker of Haryana assembly, Ranbir Gangwa, will preside over the assembly proceedings in Gupta’s absence. According to Vidhan Sabha secretary RK Nandal, speaker Gupta informed him on telephone on Monday that he had been declared Covid-19 positive. “Therefore, under Article 180 (2) of the Constitution of India, in the absence of Speaker of the Assembly, deputy speaker of the assembly shall act as Speaker,” Nandal said in an order. Nobody, including the lawmakers, can enter the Vidhan Sabha premises until they have a Covid-19 negative report that is not older than three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cm-assembly-speaker-test-covid-19-positive/story-UojxzxxT6GMj2m9JcL9UqM.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Family remembers the deceased biker as a stickler for road safety rules||Family and friends of Alok Gupta — who lost his life on Sunday morning after a car, allegedly driven by a minor boy, crashed into his Harley Davidson motorcycle near Cyber City — remember him as a passionate biker who never failed to adhere to road safety rules. His friends said that he was so concerned about safety on the road that he would avoid busy evenings on Saturday. But riding his Harley Davidson on Sunday mornings was a ritual that the 49-year-old Gupta never missed. He was on his way to Greater Noida on one of his weekly rides when the driver of a Ford Eco Sport car on the opposite carriageway lost control and rammed into his bike.Supriti Batra, a family friend of Gupta, remembered him as a “great friend” whose “biggest passion was biking”. “We often used to visit each other’s house and were dance partners in our parties. He was the live wire of our group and without him any party felt incomplete. He never planned a party on Saturday as he never skipped his ride on Sunday morning,” she said. Gupta, who worked as the chief financial officer of a private company in Gurugram, is survived by his wife and two sons, aged 17 and 13. His wife, Mihika Wahi Gupta, said, “He loved many things, but biking was his greatest passion. Apart from that, he enjoyed music and loved spending time with the family. He was a family man. Once home, he just enjoyed with the boys and kept them engaged,” she said. Gupta had been living in the city since 1996 when he moved here for work after studying in Dehradun. Anurag Gupta, his younger brother, said that he had a motorcycle back in college, but he had never owned a Harley Davidson until 2016. “In January 2016, he bought his dream bike and kept his Sunday mornings free to ride it”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/family-remembers-the-deceased-biker-as-a-stickler-for-road-safety-rules/story-LlE3trER7nSRHHdDMmfM5I.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Cyber City’s killer bend has witnessed 9 accidents so far this year||A sharp bend near DLF Phase 2 rapid Metro station has emerged as one of the most accident-prone spots in the city, with over nine accidents taking place there so far this year, data from Gurugram police revealed. The killer bend’s, located opposite Belvedere Park, latest victim was a 49-year-old man, Alok Gupta, who worked as the chief financial officer (CFO) of an electrical manufacturing company and was killed on Sunday after being hit by a speeding sedan.Less than 100 metres before the sharp bend, vehicles coming from the carriageway from Golf Course Road through the Sikanderpur underpass, converge with traffic coming from unidirectional MG Road-Cyber City flyover. On both these stretches, vehicles tend to travel at a very high speed. To make matters worse, just prior to the sharp bend, the carriageway narrows by one lane, often resulting in vehicles suddenly switching lanes at a high speed, often without warning. On the opposite carriageway, vehicles coming from Shankar Chowk and travelling towards MG Road/Golf Course Road also encounter this sharp-bend. However, apart from some rumble strips, there is an absence of other major speed-calming measures or traffic signals on the stretch. Manu Kalra and Adil Nargolwala, residents of IREO Victory Valley in sector 67 and Beverley Park 2 in Cyber City respectively, both said that they feel unsafe while driving or jogging past this spot and feel there needs to be a system in place for checking speeding vehicles. They added that proper speed-calming measures also need to be introduced at the spot at the earliest. “Twice, I have had a narrow escape on the stretch. On both occasions, the vehicles were being driven at a high-speed and switched the lanes at the very last moment,” said Kalra. Nargolwala said that besides engineering changes at the spot, “a heavy presence of traffic police is required, especially during the morning hours to penalise offenders for speeding.” Sarika Panda Bhatt, road-safety expert and associate director, Nagarro, agreed. “The sharp-bend at Cyber City is a perfect example of an engineering design blunder. Redesigning the entire bend will not be feasible, nor will it take place on a short-term basis. To control accidents, serious speed calming measures, such as speed breakers should be introduced since rumble strips will make no difference on the stretch as the vehicles tend to travel at a high-speed. In addition, speeding needs to be checked through speed-monitoring cameras. Serious enforcement and introduction of speed-breakers are the best possible quick fix solutions to this crisis,” said Bhatt. A police team inspected the spot on Monday morning and said that they will be making a few changes. such as installation of speed breakers and putting a speed limit. “We will write to DLF for constructing speed breakers. We will also deploy a traffic police team to monitor the speed of vehicles. Simultaneously, we are also starting an awareness drive for underage drivers and will involve all schools and parents so that they are careful to not let their children drive. Four police vans will patrol the stretch 24x7,” said Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), DLF. DLF officials said that they had installed necessary speed-calming measures but speeding, and not road design, is the reason why accidents are taking place at the spot. “Before the sharp bend, we have constructed rumble strips to check speed. A vehicle travelling at 60-70 kmph can easily make the turn without facing any difficulty. However, the issue on this stretch is high speeding which is leading to accidents. If there was an inherent engineering design fault, then the total number of accidents at the spot would have been much higher. Traffic police need to install cameras at the stretch and fine people to prevent accidents from taking place,” said a spokesperson for DLF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cyber-city-s-killer-bend-has-witnessed-9-accidents-so-far-this-year/story-DtSjRN1Bwnbvwh1J7B2o5I.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Light rain predicted for Tuesday||The city might witness another spell of light to moderate rainfall starting Tuesday evening, weather analysts said on Monday. According to India Meteorological Department officials, rainfall activity is expected to increase over the next few days across Delhi-NCR and is predicted to last at least till Friday. Last week, Gurugram had to face a severe water-logging crisis following incessant rains for two days.While the IMD has predicted light to very light rain, accompanied by thundershowers, on Tuesday, moderate rainfall, with some isolated pockets experiencing heavy rainfall, is expected in the following days. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Delhi, said one or two spells of moderate rain accompanied by thundershowers with isolated heavy rain can occur on Wednesday night and last till Friday morning.“The monsoon trough is very likely to shift northwards and will remain very close to Delhi-NCR starting from August 25. Under the influence of this, the convergence of lower-level easterlies from Bay of Bengal and south-westerlies from the Arabian Sea will take place over northwest India,” said Srivastava.Gurugram’s maximum temperature on Tuesday is expected to rise slightly and touch 34 degrees Celsius, as per IMD’s weekly forecast. The maximum temperature on Monday was recorded at 32.7degrees— a marginal drop from Sunday’s 33.5 degrees—and a degree below the normal temperature. The minimum temperature stood at 26.2 degrees Celsius on Monday.Air quality in the city remained in the ‘good’ category on Monday, with the air quality index at 36, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s bulletin. This was an improvement from Sunday’s AQI at 51 which fell in the‘satisfactory’ category. The improvement in air quality was attributed largely to an increase in wind speed and rainfall activity. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘good’ category on Tuesday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/light-rain-predicted-for-tuesday/story-DxkJwhpWQNhUQ1Zly9wwyK.html
25-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Hospitals and private labs to tie-up for Covid antigen testing, says health dept||Gurugram: With the Haryana government allowing private facilities to conduct Covid-19 antigen and IgG antibody tests at a fixed price, the district health department officials on Monday said that private labs will have to tie up with hospitals to streamline the reporting process of positive cases, so that timely treatment and contact tracing can take place through proper channels.The state health department allowed private testing in an order on August 21 albeit with a maximum price limit – rapid antigen testing at ₹650 and IgG antibody test at ₹250. For the gold standard front-line Covid-19 test - Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) - the price was capped at ₹2,400.“If an individual tests positive in an antigen test conducted by a private lab, the lab needs to recommend the patient to a hospital. Following the same procedures as in RT-PCR, labs will have to inform the health department about positive cases with correct contact details so that it can conduct proper contact tracing,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Private facilities will have to ensure all symptomatic negative patients get real-time RT-PCR tests done as well, as the antigen tests are moderately sensitive. According to Yadav, hospitals and labs will have to tie up for this.“Hospitals which are not accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) will have to collaborate with private labs, authorised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct Covid-19 testing, so that symptomatic patients who are negative in rapid antigen tests can be tested through the gold frontline RT-PCR test,” said Yadav. There are only three hospitals in the city which are NABH accredited and can conduct the test on their own. Hospitals and labs that intend to perform antigen tests will have to register with the ICMR for data entry. The antigen tests look for specific proteins associated with the SARS-CoV-2 virus — the pathogen that causes Covid-19. In the antibody test, blood samples are collected to check for antibodies which appear after the person is infected with Covid-19 and stays in the blood for months. The antibody test is used for Covid-19 recovered patients who donate convalescent plasma for severely ill patients. It is not used for active infections. For antigen tests, ICMR has recommended use of Standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection test, a point of care diagnostic assay, for testing in the containment zones as well as in hospitals in combination with RT-PCR test. As per the guidelines, tests have to be done in containment zones for all symptomatic and asymptomatic patients who are high-risk contacts with comorbidities. They have to be tested once between day five and day 10 of coming into contact. Also, tests have to be done for patients who are hospitalised or seeking hospitalization due to other health issues, like those undergoing chemotherapy, immune-suppressed and elderly patients. It also includes asymptomatic patients who are having surgical or non-surgical procedures. The health department has been conducting antigen tests by holding camps in affected areas, as well as in 19 urban Primary Health Centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-hospitals-and-private-labs-to-tie-up-for-covid-antigen-testing-says-health-dept/story-ZgYQ7zvTWlIcTN4nyGNWQJ.html
25-08-2020||Mumbai||2.5-L-sqm at SoBo stations to be developed commercially||In what can be a called a major redevelopment plan of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), the Indian Rail Station Development Corporation (ISRDC) will be shifting the existing suburban harbour railway lines of the terminus to the P D’Mello entrance of the railway station.A city centre rail mall will be constructed at CSMT along with other commercial developments at the terminus, Byculla railway station and Central Railway’s Wadi Bunder railway yard. Nearly 2.5 lakh sq meters of land will be used by the ISRDC for commercial developments of which 1.3 lakh sq meters will be utilised at CSMT and 80,000 sq meters at Byculla and 30,000 sq meters at Wadi Bunder, according to the information available.Passengers travelling from CSMT will also have to pay a fee - a user charge as commercial developments will also be provided on the terminus.The ₹1,642 crore redevelopment work is expected to start by next year and is targeted to be completed in the span of four years. Outstation terminus along with harbour railway will be operated from the P D’Mello entrance of the terminus. The shifting of the harbour railway to P D’Mello entrance was earlier planned by Central Railway and Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC).Other developments that will be done on the terminus will include the restoration of the heritage structures along with the creation of a concourse area with separate arrival and departures. Commercial kiosks at platforms, pick up and drop services of cabs at the P D’Mello entrance of the terminus will also be provided.ISRDC along with Central Railway is also in talks with Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) for the development of the railways Haji Bunder land in South Mumbai. The Central Railway owns 17.5 acres of land in Haji Bunder. Currently, the railway land at Haji Bunder is being used as scrap depot, where CR auctions scrap from its land across the city.The terminus will be redeveloped under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) model. The selected bidder will undertake the redevelopment of the terminus and commercial establishment for the railway land on leasehold basis for 60 years. The ISRDC last week invited bidders for the Request for Qualification (RFQ) for the redevelopment of CSMT.The development will be undertaken in two phases; phase one will involve the shift of railway offices from CSMT, construction of offices and commercial establishments. The second stage will involve the segregation of traffic along with development at the terminus.To access the facilities the passengers will have to pay a user charge that will be taken by the redeveloper. The charges that the passengers will have to pay have not been decided yet. “A user fee will be charged. The price of the charges will be decided by the ministry of the railways. The redeveloped station building has to function like a city centre rail mall where in addition to a passenger’s transportation needs, his daily needs are also fulfilled, like- retail, food and beverages, entertainment and souvenir shopping. The aim is that most of his daily needs are catered to by visiting the railway station thus avoiding unnecessary travel within the city.” said Sanjeev Kumar Lohia, managing director, ISRDC.Passenger associations have asked the railways not to charge any money from the suburban railway commuters. “A passenger travelling from Thane to CSMT to work should not be charged a fee. People coming from outside that wish to wait and utilise other commercial facilities can be charged,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.Urban planners have raised concerns of road traffic coming from the Eastern freeway after shifting of the harbour railway lines to the P’D Mello entrance. “The move to shift the railway lines to the P’D Mello entrance has been long planned. However, there is a concern about the road traffic coming from the freeway. Presently, the entire traffic has to be stopped to take the turn to enter the CSMT railway station. A complete plan has to be decided. The introduction of commercial establishments is a good factor and we should move on from the traditional railway stations. Railway stations in London and New York Central have shops and restaurants.” said urban planner Sulakshana Mahajan.The ISRDC will also be undertaking redevelopment work of Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Kalyan, Andheri, Thakurli, Dadar, Borivli and Bandra Terminus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-5-l-sqm-at-sobo-stations-to-be-developed-commercially/story-vllk3wfNx0O7Zv1VKq7gRL.html
25-08-2020||City||Fresh rules for home isolation of asymptomatic patients, those with mild symptoms||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Monday issued fresh guidelines for home isolation of asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients of coronavirus. The patients aged more than 60 years or with co-morbidities as will stay in home isolation. All such patients will be offered the opportunity to give undertaking at the time of sampling about availability of home isolation facility in case they turn out to be positive for Covid-19. Giving details in a press communiqué, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said instructions have been issued to deputy commissioners and civil surgeons. He said the doctor at the time of sampling will assess all such persons for clinical fitness for home isolation. In case such patients test positive for Covid-19, they will stay in home isolation as per the protocol provided they remain asymptomatic or show only mild symptoms. Sidhu added that it is compulsory to procure a kit containing a thermometer, pulse oximeter, vitamin C and Zinc tablets and regularly monitor themselves for symptoms and report to health department accordingly. The follow-up of home isolated patients will be done by the district administrations’ tracking teams. These teams will also ensure follow up of these patients on phone and with at least threevisits during the home isolation. Also, asymptomatic and mild symptomatic pregnant women with non-high-risk pregnancy and likely not to deliver in the next three weeks may be allowed home isolation if certified by a gynaecologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-rules-for-home-isolation-of-asymptomatic-patients-those-with-mild-symptoms/story-zvFGPLjxhfmfyRmpT7S6WP.html
25-08-2020||City||195 defaulters owe Panipat MC ₹151 crore as property tax, reveals RTI query||With several government institutions defaulting on property tax payments for the past several years, officials of the Panipat municipal corporation (MC) are facing a tough time trying to recover the dues.As per the information sought in a query under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, Indian Railways, Punjab National Bank, L&T toll plaza, post office, BSNL, tehsil office, government schools, NFL, Haryana PWD, UHBVN, sugar mill, Haryana Roadways and advocates’ chambers and private shopping malls are on the list of top property tax defaulters. The figures revealed that ₹151 crore was due with over 195 defaulters having pending amount over ₹5 lakh.Panipat-based RTI activist Viabhav Deswal, an advocate, said several private and government institutions did not pay their property tax for the past several years. The figures revealed that the two shopping malls of Panipat have to pay ₹34 crore, National Fertilizers Limited ₹11.20 crore, advocates’ chambers ₹4.75 crore and Haryana government ₹2.81 crore. Even Panipat toll plaza owes ₹98 lakh to the MC, the response revealed. Panipat mayor Avneet Kaur said they had identified several defaulters who owe ₹5 lakh or more as property tax and notices will be served on them as she has already written to the MC commissioner.She said this money will be used for the development of the city as several areas need basic facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/195-defaulters-owe-panipat-mc-151-crore-as-property-tax-reveals-rti-query/story-KBISow5utCM6NH0jrJBbQP.html
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 45-year-old man dies after being run over by unidentified vehicle||A 45-year-old man was killed after an unidentified vehicle ran over him near Krishna Chowk in Sector 22A on Sunday, the police said. An FIR has been registered against the unidentified driver who fled from the spot.The deceased, Kalu Ram, worked as a daily wage labourer and was from Salapur Khera in Delhi.According to the police, the incident was reported around 3pm when the police control room received information about a dead body lying on the road near a farmhouse, about 100 metres from Krishna Chowk. A police team from Palam Vihar police station was subsequently sent to the spot.The police said a preliminary probe suggested that the victim had died on the spot from the injuries suffered in the accident, and the driver had fled the spot.Victim’s son, Satish, 22, said, “As per his routine, my father had left for work in Palam Vihar at 9am. He used to return home on foot in the evening. Around 3pm, we received information from the police that an unidentified vehicle had hit him while he was returning from work.”Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The driver of the vehicle is yet to be identified. We are checking the footage from CCTV cameras in the area and also taking the assistance of regional transport authority officials to identify the suspect.”A case was registered against the unidentified driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at Palam Vihar police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-45-year-old-man-dies-after-being-run-over-by-unidentified-vehicle/story-NWM3b8XDWvhMbgNxOuDklN.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Six months later, north-east Delhi riot victims pick up pieces, rebuild lives||Six months after the communal riots in north-east Delhi in which 53 people were killed and over 400 injured, thousands of people rendered homeless and hundreds of properties vandalised and set on fire, people are still picking up pieces and struggling to rebuild their lives.Sitting outside his fruit shop-cum-house in Khajuri Khas, Deen Mohammad (58) said the building was set on fire by the rioters. He said he was happy that he managed to save the lives of his family members.With no money left to reconstruct the building, Mohammad and his two brothers had to rent a house in Chand Bagh, just across the road.Pointing at the walls of his house that are still covered in soot, he said, “I have taken loans from relatives to revive my business. The sale is not even 30% of what we used to have. Two of my brothers have already received Rs 1.5 each as compensation from the Delhi government but mine is still pending. We are just hoping we manage to repair our home soon and start living a normal life again.”Just across the road, Ashish Maheshwari and Mahendra Kumar Aggarwal re-opened their petrol pump in Bhajanpura, which was set on fire, in July. A huge blue tin sheet wall has been erected to cover the vandalised portion of the fuel station. With their office burnt down, the partners sit outside in shade to monitor the work.Maheshwari, 44, said it took them four months to re-start the business. “We had to fix three oil dispensing machines with one of them completely damaged by rioters. All the documents and stuff kept in our office also got destroyed. We had to take loans from relatives and friends to make this petrol pump functional,” he said.The coronavirus pandemic has come as a double whammy for the residents of the riot-affected areas. “We just want the year 2020 to end. It has been difficult to make ends meet in the past few months,” said Raj Kumar, owner of a general store in Shiv Vihar, whose shop was vandalised by rioters. “We somehow got the shop repaired, but then Covid spread. The business is down by almost 50%,” he said.A group of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protesters on February 22 moved their ongoing protest at Seelampur to Jafrabad metro station. Violent clashes broke out between Hindus and Muslims in several areas of north-east the next day. Life returns but tension palpableAfter the violent clashes in February, Shiv Vihar crossing resembled a war zone with buildings vandalised and set on fire; streets covered with pieces of bricks, glass pebbles; burnt vehicles lying on the road; notebooks and books from nearby schools strewn on the roadside; people locked inside their homes and paramilitary personnel patrolling the area.Six months later, life is back on streets of Shiv Vihar as well as other riot-affected areas such as Bhagirathi Vihar, Brij Puri, Chand Bagh and Mustafabad. However, burnt shops and buildings still stand as a grim reminder of the violence. Almost every lane opening on Brijpuri road, which connects Shiv Vihar to these localities, has an iron gate installed or being installed.“This is for our safety. We had to erect temporary gates using tables and wooden sticks when rioters ran amok,” said Jeet Chaudhary, a resident of Bhagirathi Vihar.A team of Rapid Action Force personnel continue to patrol Bhagirathi Vihar — one of the worst riot-affected areas. “The situation is under control and there have been no incidents in the recent past. Our teams are deployed in the entire north-east Delhi,” said a RAF personnel, who didn’t wish to be named. Despite palpable tensions, several residents said they want to move on that the bond they shared with their neighbours is still intact. When Manoj Kumar, 40, a garment trader, had to get repair work done of his two-storeyed house in Mahalaxmi Vihar near Shiv Vihar crossing, he called Mohd Ayub, a resident of Chaman Park. “For us, nothing has changed. We trust him and this is why we called him to do the work,” said Kumar. Waiting for compensationBunny Kochar, 24, says that he saw rioters set his pastry shop, which he had opened two years back, on fire. “For two days, we kept the shutters down and tried to protect the shop. But then, we couldn’t do anything. Nothing was left in this shop,” said Kochar.On May 27, Kochar reopened his shop—Bunny Bakers. “Business is gradually picking up. But we haven’t got any compensation. I have made several rounds to the government offices, but I don’t know when we will get the money,” said Kochar.Mehtab Qamar, 45, who had built a house in Brij Puri using all his savings two years back, is also waiting for the government compensation. He used to sell acrylic sheets in a shop built under his house. “I had left with my family to a relative’s place in Uttar Pradesh 15 minutes before the rioters entered our area on February 24. They set my shop on fire and attacked my house with petrol bombs. It took us four months to gather the courage to return back to our home,” he said. “We have received Rs 25,000 as compensation from the government as of now. We have been out of work since February. Covid-19 has made the matters worse. We are left with no money to restart our business and government compensation is the only hope,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, Delhi government spokesperson didn’t report to HT’s query regarding disbursement of compensation. On July 21, the government had told the Delhi High Court that it has disbursed Rs 18.67 crore as compensation to the victims of the riots in north-east Delhi. In an affidavit filed through its additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose before a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan, the government said that it has received 3,041 applications for compensation of which 1,526 have been approved.Loss of LifeMany families, who lost their loved ones in the communal riots, said the damage is “irreparable”. Families of many such victims have vacated their houses in the riot-hit areas and shifted to other parts of the city. For instance, the family of a civil engineer Rahul Solanki, who died in clashes, has vacated their house near Shiv Vihar crossing and put it on sale. His father Hari Singh Solanki said it was very difficult for the family to stay in the area where their son was “brutally killed”. “Living in that locality was like reliving the same grief every day. We decided to vacate the house last month and shifted to some other part of the city. We want to sell that house now,” he said, adding that his family is still waiting for justice. Sheruddin, a resident of old Mustafabad, had lost his two brothers Amir (25) and Hashmi (19) in the violent clashes on February 25. Sheruddin said his brothers were returning from work when a mob attacked them near Gokulpuri. “After waiting for 24 hours, we visited the police station to file a missing complaint of my brothers. Within the next six hours we were told they were dead. It is still difficult to believe for the family that they both are gone. Amir has left behind two daughters -- 4 and 2-year-olds. They ask about their father every day and we have no answers to their queries,” he said.“It will take years to heal the wounds and ages to heal the hearts ravaged by hate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-months-later-north-east-delhi-riot-victims-pick-up-pieces-rebuild-lives/story-n5bze5Jp4uVdpGDgbENzuJ.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s banquet hall owners suggest measures for Covid-safe parties in meeting with CM||Longer buffet layouts with increased gap between dishes, skip-a-seat rule during parties to ensure social distancing, mandatory masks and staggered entry of guests are some of the suggestions offered by owners of banquet halls during a meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday to discuss standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed by all such facilities in the national Capital.With the wedding season a little more than month away, the Delhi government on Monday started drafting SOPs to be followed by all banquet halls.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe suggestions of banquet hall owners would be incorporated in the SOPs,which are likely to be issued by this week, senior government officials later said.Representatives of the banquet halls demanded a relaxation on gatherings, which is presently restricted to 50 persons for weddings and 20 for funerals.“We requested the CM to relax the number of guests at a function to 50% of the size of the banquet hall. So, if a banquet hall has a capacity of 500 people, then 250 should be allowed. The CM did not deny the request and said it will be considered,” said Ramesh Dang, president of Delhi banquet federation, who attended the meeting.A senior government official, however, said any relaxation on the number of people will depend on the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines.Dang said the SOP for banquet halls would include mandatory masks for all guests and staff and frequent sanitisation of all common areas, including the kitchen.“To manage the crowd better, parking at banquet halls will have to be streamlined. It may now take longer for a guest to park their vehicles since the entry of guests at a function may also be staggered, especially at the time when the groom arrives at the wedding,” he said.During the meeting, Kejriwal is learnt to have told all banquet hall owners that in case Covid-19 cases spike again, these facilities may be requisitioned so they can be converted into makeshift hospitals.The chief minister also suggested that the representatives should create a common online platform where people can get the entire list of banquet halls in Delhi and book according to their choices.“People should be able to access the whole list of banquet halls in Delhi. So, if they are put on a single website or a medium, people from other states will also be able to book banquet halls in Delhi and you all will get more business. The website will be promoted by the Delhi government. The market, industries and service sectors will be displayed on the website and the traders, industrialists and service sector professionals can easily take their businesses to the global level,” Kejriwal told the banquet hall associations.Delhi has around 300 banquet facilities and most of them with multiple halls within their premises, taking the total number of halls to over 1,000. “I agree that an SOP must be made and it will be done soon. I will hold another meeting with representatives of banquet halls in few days to discuss environmental and parking issues as well,” Kejriwal said during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/skip-a-seat-masks-for-all-delhi-banquet-hall-owners-suggest-measures-for-covid-safe-parties/story-tOYtUeJ00OWUl4pdt1BWOL.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi panel to start proceedings against Facebook for its alleged inaction on hate speech||The Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony will Tuesday initiate proceedings in connection with complaints about social media company Facebook’s alleged “deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content” in India, the panel said in a statement. The proceedings will begin at 11am Tuesday.The committee, headed by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Rajendra Nagar Raghav Chadha, said it has taken cognisance of “several complaints” received from the people after the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14 published a report titled ‘Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics’. The WSJ report stated that Facebook officials, especially its top public policy executive in India, Ankhi Das, allegedly cited business imperatives while choosing to not apply hate speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in India, despite them being internally flagged for promoting or participating in violence. “After careful deliberation on the allegations levelled in the complaints that we received, the committee has decided to take immediate cognisance of this issue. Summons have been sent seeking the appearance of certain expert witnesses, specifically Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and Nikhil Pahwa along with other witnesses for participating in the relevant proceedings,” Chadha said in a statement.He clarified that Das and other officials of the social media company have not been summoned as yet and that necessary action will be taken as the proceedings move forward and more evidence is gathered. Chadha said the committee aims to redress the issue at the earliest and therefore, the proceedings shall be expedited. “In order to discern the veracity of the complainants and allegations set out in the complaint, the committee has sent the notice for appearance to certain independent and expert witnesses as well as complainants. A few reporters who have been covering the issue and have been in touch with Facebook have also been called on Tuesday,” Chadha said. Facebook did not respond to the email sent by HT seeking its comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-panel-to-start-proceedings-against-facebook-for-its-alleged-inaction-on-hate-speech/story-5YatcCpj7u1JkndD5bRoqN.html
25-08-2020||City||Covid-19: Jamia considers merit-based admissions this year||Jamia Millia Islamia is considering merit-based admissions to its undergraduate and postgraduate courses this year in case it is unable to conduct entrance tests due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials familiar with the development said.The university hold entrance exams for admission to 56 undergraduate and 15 postgraduate courses in June every year. This year, the tests have not been held till now due to the prevailing situation.A senior official, requesting anonymity, said the university has asked all candidates to upload mark sheets of the qualifying exams in its portal. “We have asked them to upload mark sheets of the qualifying exams as in case the situation arises to take admission on the basis of merit, we should have all the data,” the official said.A circular issued by the university’s office of controller (examination) on August 20 asked candidates who have already applied to upload their mark sheets on the admission portal. “All aspiring candidates are required to upload mark sheets of qualifying examinations, including those who have already filled in online application forms using their login id and password,” the circular stated.The university’s admission portal displays a message, saying, “Please reconfirm that you have filled all academic details properly. Merit list would be prepared based on the data entered by you here. No further claims for changes will be entertained.”Jamia media coordinator Ahmad Azeem, however, said, “No decision has been taken yet. We have already extended the last date to September 14 for the submission of online application forms for admission to various programmes. We are waiting for directives from UGC.”Candidates expressed concern over the possible changes in the admission process at the last moment. Kaif Jilani, a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, who is seeking admission in an integrated course of BA-LLB, said, “Many students do not have enough marks in class 12 to compete in the merit-based admission process. I have scored 78% marks in class 12 and Jamia was my only hope since it does not consider marks of qualifying exams as the only criteria. I will have no chance to get admission in Jamia if the merit-based criteria is followed.” Suhail Ahmed from f Patna said many students from non-CBSE schools will suffer. “I completed my school from Bihar board and I have not scored 90% and above like CBSE students. I have no chance of getting admission in Delhi University. I was relying on Jamia. If the admission process changes, it will be very difficult for me to get admission in a college.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-jamia-considers-merit-based-admissions-this-year/story-h8WVvCTbusk3j5FYJ2NNuN.html
25-08-2020||Noida||DMRC gives its nod for underpass construction at Sector 71-52 intersection||The Noida authority on Monday said it has received the green signal from the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for the construction of an underpass at Noida’s Sector 71-52 intersection under the track of Blue Metro line.The authority had been waiting for the no-objection certificate from the DMRC for the past one year.“We have got the no-objection certificate from the DMRC. The NOC will help us in expediting the work for the underpass project that will provide relief to thousands of the commuters. Now, as we have the NOC, the work on the underpass will be completed within the stipulated time frame,” said Rajiv Tyagi general manager of the Noida authority.The DMRC allows any construction work under the Metro tracks only after due permission.“The execution of work shall be done in close coordination with the operation and maintenance department of DMRC. The work shall be done strictly as per the submitted method statement which shall be duly approved by the in-engineer in charge,” stated a letter from the DMRC to the Noida authority.The Noida authority plans to construct the 750 metres long six-lane underpass by March, 2021.The authority had conceived the project in July 2019 to manage vehicular movement at one of the major traffic intersections in Noida better. The Sector 71-52 intersection usually witnesses traffic snarls during peak hours in evening and morning.Once the underpass is ready, the commuters travelling from Noida’s City Centre to Greater Noida West will not cross any traffic signal if they use the underpass. Commuters travelling from Sector 62 towards Dadri Road will pass a signal-free stretch above the underpass.The underpass is projected to benefit residents of newly-built group housing societies in sectors 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79 in Noida and also those living in high-rises in Greater Noida West.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/dmrc-gives-its-nod-for-underpass-construction-at-sector-71-52-intersection/story-vFvltsMASO2ZIESJVzfA1L.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Yamuna moves towards warning mark as Haryana releases water||The water level in the Yamuna rose close to the warning level on Monday, after Haryana released nearly 30,000 cusecs of water into the Hathnikund barrage in five stages starting midnight, flood control officials said.The water level recorded at Delhi’s Old Railway Bridge was 204.38 metres, flowing close to the warning level of 204.50 metres. This was after 5,883 cusecs water was released from Haryana’s Hathinikund barrage at 8am, said officials of the Delhi government’s Irrigation and Flood Control (I&FC) department. By 4pm, however, the water level had receded slightly and was at 204.30 metres. The I&FC officials said the water level has not risen beyond 204.38 metres since 8am and, unless Haryana releases a high volume of water, the level is likely to remain below the warning mark. Although the release of water into the barrage every four hours is a regular exercise, during the monsoon, the volume is exponentially higher, owing to rainfall in the hilly regions and the accumulation in the barrage. According to flood control officials, at midnight Sunday, Haryana released 3,060 cusecs of water after which the level at the Old Railway Bridge touched 204.25 metres. At 4am, 3,060 cusecs more was released and the level became 204.36 metres. Then at 8am, 5,883 cusecs was released after which the level rose to 204.38 metres, the closest it went to the warning mark. At noon, 10,231 cusecs more was released into the barrage, but by then, the water level had started receding and was recorded 204.26 metres. At 4pm, 7,330 cusecs more was released and the water level was recorded at 204.30 metres. “Water is released into the barrage every four hours. On a regular basis, only 350 cusecs of water is released. During the monsoon, because of a higher volume of water in the barrage coupled with the rainfall in the hilly regions, more water is released, which leads to a surge in the Yamuna level. It takes about 36 to 72 hours for the released water to reach Delhi. We are continuously monitoring the water level,” Sanjeev Kumar, SDM (Preet Vihar) and officer-in-charge, Flood Control. Last year, Haryana had released more than eight lakh cusecs of water a day, after which the water level had breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The river had inundated low-lying areas and evacuation and relief operations had to be launched by the Delhi government. The government had pitched over 1,300 makeshift tents to temporarily house those who were shifted out of flooded areas. The water level had hit a high of 206.60 metres, before it started receding.Kumar said preparations are already underway in case a higher volume of water is released and evacuation operations are needed to be launched. “We have identified locations for pitching tents. But this time, since social distancing norms are prevalent on account of Covid-19, we have also identified schools where people can be housed while maintaining a physical distance of six feet from one another,” Kumar said.Delhi had witnessed major floods in 1978 when the water level in the Yamuna rose to the highest ever level recorded of 207.49 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/yamuna-inches-close-to-warning-mark-as-haryana-releases-30-000-cusecs-of-water-in-16-hours/story-ZaZcIdKeQneKH4Qh4kdmVM.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Court drops visa violation charges against Tablighi foreigners, books 36 others only for negligence||A Delhi court on Monday framed charges against 36 foreigners, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in south Delhi in March, for negligence and not maintaining social distancing norms.It, however, dropped the charges of visa violations while observing that there is not an iota of evidence to suggest that they had in any manner professed or propagated the principles and doctrines of the Tablighi Jamaat.In separate orders, the court also discharged eight foreigners, who were charge-sheeted for visa violations and other offences for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, while stating that the entire charge sheet and documents neither shows their presence or participation in the markaz during the relevant period.This is the first group of people who will walk free to their countries without any charges. Earlier, 911 foreigners were allowed by the trial court to be deported to their native countries under the provisions of plea bargaining, while another 44 foreigners had chosen to stand trial. One Malaysian was found to be juvenile and his case was transferred to Juvenile Justice Board .Two each from Indonesia and Thailand and one person each from Kyrgyzstan, Nigeria, Kazakhstan and Jordan were set free without standing trial.The city police had filed 53 charge sheets against 956 other foreign nationals belonging to 35 countries for visa violation, not maintaining social distancing norms and other sections of the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act.Chief metropolitan magistrate Gurmohina Kaur, while framing the charges, discharged the accused from the visa violation charges falling under the Foreigners Act. The judge said the statement of the police officers in which they had alleged that the Tablighi Jamaat people had professed and propagated the doctrines of Jamaat, are general ones and do not specifically allege the role of the accused.“They ( police statements) are not putting forth the case of the prosecution as it has not been asserted that the foreigners who had participated in the markaz from March 8 to March 10 had done so for the purpose of professing and propagating the principles and doctrines of the Jamaat.“In fact, there is not an iota of evidence to suggest that the accused had in any manner professed or propagating the doctrines of Jamaat or had indulged in Tablighi work as alleged,” the court said.Kaur also said the charge sheet is silent on this fact and the register taken from markaz merely marks the presence of the Jamaatis.The court, however, framed charges against them for negligence (269 IPC), disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (188 IPC) and relevant sections of Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-drops-visa-violation-charges-against-tablighi-foreigners-books-36-others-only-for-negligence/story-dApfg8uF69eSfNieZ0sp5L.html
25-08-2020||Noida||Noida: 30,000 flats in unfinished Amrapali projects to be delivered in 36 months, says NBCC||The state-owned NBCC on Monday said it will finish the remaining construction work and deliver all apartments due in realty firm Amrapali’s stuck housing projects in the next nine to 36 months.“We have deployed 6,000 workers at all Noida and Greater Noida projects. The number of workers will be doubled in the next two months to make sure unfinished units are delivered within nine-36 months,” said PK Gupta, chairman and managing director (CMD), NBCC.The NBCC’s assurance has come a year after the Supreme Court removed the Amrapali Group’s promoters from its board, handing over the control of the realty firm to the court receiver, paving the way for fast delivery of delayed units to thousands of homebuyers.On July 23, 2019, the Supreme Court had appointed senior lawyer R Venkatramani as court receiver to control Amrapali’s housing projects and carry out further activities, including registration of ready units, accepting money from buyers, selling unsold apartments and dealing with the state-owned NBCC that has been directed to complete the stuck projects.Venkatramani, NBCC officials and homebuyers on Monday performed ‘bhoomi pujan’ at the site of Amrapali Smart City Golf Homes, Kingswood and other housing projects in Greater Noida, following which the NBCC started the construction work at Smart City-Golf Homes, Kingswood, Leisure Park (Phase-1, Phase-2 & River view), Centurion Park - Terrace Homes, Tropical Garden, Leisure Valley, and Dream Valley projects. All of these projects have a total of about 16,308 units.Civil work on these two projects was already completed but the developer had failed to finish and deliver the same.“In total, as per NBCC, 30,000 units are yet to be finished and delivered. Work suffered due to the pandemic, but now it is on in full swing and we delivered 73 flats in August. Another 160 flats will be delivered in different projects in September,” said Gupta.In the first tranche, NBCC had, on November 29 last year, invited firms to compete for tenders to the following projects: Centurion Park in Greater Noida Sector Techzone-4; Silicon City-I and Silicon City-II in Noida Sector 76, Zodiac in Noida Sector 120, Sapphire-I and II in Noida Sector 45, and Princely Estate in Noida Sector 76. Since then, the NBCC has been starting work at all projects in Noida and Greater Noida.The NBCC has also requested that the homebuyers should start paying up the remaining dues for their apartments so that construction remains on track.“We have started the construction work at all housing projects in Noida and Greater Noida as per court orders. All homebuyers will get their apartments as soon as possible. Homebuyers need not worry as work is on in full swing,” said Venkatramani.Homebuyers are upbeat after the work was started at Greater Noida projects.“We have been suffering since past ten years. However, now we hope that the dream of a owning a home may be realised after NBCC started construction at our stuck building,” said TK Pathak, Amrapali Smart City Golf Homes buyers’ welfare society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-30-000-flats-in-unfinished-amrapali-projects-to-be-delivered-in-36-months-says-nbcc/story-TX5AmDrWetubgC269d9GrN.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||High court allows trial court to hear arguments in Anshu Prakash case||The Delhi High Court on Monday allowed a city court to hear arguments on the framing of charges through a regular public prosecutor (PP) in a case related to the alleged assault on former chief secretary Anshu Prakash in which Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and 11 other MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have been named as accused.Justice Vibhu Bakhru modified its earlier order of March 14, 2019, where it had directed the trial court to not conduct any proceedings in the matter till the lawyer’s issue was settled by the high court. The court, while removing the stalemate on the proceedings from the last one-and-a-half years, directed the trial court to hear the matter, following which it was listed for 4 pm on Monday.“As far as the March 14, 2019 order is concerned, the same is modified to the extent that the trial court can proceed and hear the matter at the stage of arguments on charge,” Justice Vibhu Bakhru said.The Delhi government declined to comment on the development.Prakash had moved the high court seeking early hearing in a case where he had alleged that he was assaulted during a meeting at the chief minister’s residence on February 19, 2018.The CM, the deputy CM, and other AAP MLAs had earlier denied any wrongdoing. The party’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj has accused Prakash of making false allegations at the behest of the Union government.In his plea, filed through advocate Stuti Gujral, Prakash had asked that the matter, which has been pending in the trial court in the arguments stage for framing of charges, be heard on the grounds that no substantive proceedings had happened in the last 18 months.In 2018, Kejriwal and Sisodia moved the high court, challenging a trial court order allowing Prakash to have the lawyers of his choice rather than a special public prosecutor.On Monday, senior advocate N Hari Haran and Dayan Krishnan, appearing for the CM and the Deputy CM, said they do not have any objection over the hearing to be conducted through the regular PP. He, however, sought some time from the trial court for them to prepare the case.Justice Bakhru agreed and directed the trial court to hear the matter at 4 pm. At the trial court, N Hari Haran sought time from the judge Vishal Pahuja, who listed the matter for further hearing on September 21.During the hearing, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, representing Prakash, told the court that an early hearing be given in the matter at the high court. However, the court said it would not be feasible and posted the matter for further hearing on November 2.The Delhi police had on February 20, 2018, filed a first information report (FIR) based on Prakash’s complaint, in which he had alleged that he was called by the Kejriwal’s advisor, VK Jain, for a midnight meeting to discuss the release of the party’s advertisements related to the government completing three years in Delhi.Prakash said he was manhandled and assaulted in the course of the meeting. Police filed the case after the chief secretary was examined by a team of doctors at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. Police later filed a 1300-page charge sheet against 13 AAP leaders for offences, including criminal conspiracy, assaulting a public servant, threatening to cause death or grievous injury, and wrongful confinement, among other sections.The maximum punishment in the case is seven years. On October 25, 2018, Kejriwal, Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs were granted bail by the trial court in the assault scase.The other two MLAs, Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal, who are also accused, were earlier arrested in the case and granted bail by the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-court-allows-trial-court-to-hear-arguments-in-anshu-prakash-case/story-xOP1Q72USdvcbra8SYEJBP.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Allow research scholars to return to campus, delay semester registrations, JNU students urge admin||From demanding that research scholars be allowed to return to the campus in a phased manner and that the monsoon semester registrations be delayed, students of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Monday submitted a memorandum to the administration, listing out a slew of issues faced by them in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) also held a protest outside the dean of students office on Monday, while maintaining social distancing norms, before handing over the memorandum at the office.The JNUSU urged the administration to consider allowing students to return to the campus in a phased manner. “All students, especially research scholars, are not able to do their work as they have no access to university libraries, online or offline. The situation of research scholars who are supposed to submit their thesis this December is quite grave and needs urgent attention. Many are hampered by internet issues and power cuts at home. For these students to be able to continue with their academics, it is imperative to design a plan to bring them back to the campus,” the student body said in its letter to the varsity administration.Other matters listed in the letter included issues faced by MPhil students, delayed disbursal of scholarships, demands for a proper protocol for Covid-19 screening, testing and isolation, and postponement of registration of process for the monsoon semester. The JNU administration had announced the provisional registration for the monsoon semester from August 21 to August 31.“The mess bills of all students are highly inflated. There have been reports of massive corruption in food procurement in some hostels. In these times of the pandemic, many students are facing massive financial distress, and are unable to pay their mess bills. The mess bills should be corrected. Submission of mess bills should be removed as a criterion for semester registration,” the letter further said. “The registration process must be postponed until all students return to the campus,” it said.“The JNU administration and the dean of students has only provided verbal assurance to take up the issues,” JNUSU said in a statement.Despite repeated attempts, vice-chancellor Mamidala Jagadesh Kumar, dean of students Sudheer Pratap Singh and registrar Pramod Kumar were unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/allow-research-scholars-to-return-to-campus-delay-semester-registrations-jnu-students-urge-admin/story-5eZFN6QQgSEOYyygDANgxL.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Gaps appear on Tilak Nagar flyover, PWD starts temporary filling work||A flyover in Tilak Nagar in West Delhi has developed gaps in its expansion joints placed between two girders, prompting the public works department (PWD) to start a “temporary repair” of the bridge to avoid any mishap. Traffic movement, however, has not been curtailed on the flyover for the repair work, PWD officials said.The gaps in the flyover were first noticed by regular commuters and residents around 10 days ago. They had then apprised their MLA Jarnail Singh about the issue, who in turn informed the PWD, which started the repair work on Monday. The development comes close on the heels of the collapse of an under-construction flyover in Gurugram on Saturday, injuring two persons. The nearly 1km long four-lane Tilak Nagar flyover runs parallel to the Blue Line of the Delhi Metro in Tilak Nagar and serves as a crucial link between the Rajouri Garden and Uttam Nagar areas in west Delhi. PWD officials said the flyover was built about 15 to 20 years ago, and an estimated 10,000 to 15,000 vehicles use it every day. According to PWD officials, expansion joints are placed between two concrete slabs or girders to hold them together and safely absorb temperature-induced expansions and contractions of the concrete slabs. There are around five expansion joints on the flyover on each carriageway and all of them have to be replaced eventually. Some of these expansion joints had developed a four to five inch gap, raising safety concerns. The asphalt layer of the flyover has also started eroding in a few places.Shahi Kant, PWD engineer-in-chief, said gaps between girders are normal and there was no need for panic. “As soon as I came to know about the problem, I issued orders to repair the gaps. The repair work has already started. This was a case of gaps in expansion joints and there are no cracks on the flyover as such,” Kant clarified.Another PWD official, on condition of anonymity, said the permanent solution to the problem would be to replace all expansion joints, which will take 15 days for each carriageway. “This work can be done after the monsoon is over and we would also need to stop the traffic movement. But for now, we have decided to repair expansion joints temporarily by filling the gaps. The repair work has started today (Monday),” the official said.When contacted, MLA Jarnail Singh said on receiving the complaint from residents, he informed the PWD authorities and conducted an inspection of the flyover himself last week. “There were three to five inch gaps between two girders on both carriageways. The matter was raised with the PWD authorities and they assured us the gaps would be repaired on a temporary basis on Monday, and all expansion joints will be replaced once the monsoon is over,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gaps-appear-on-tilak-nagar-flyover-pwd-starts-temporary-filling-work/story-1S26J3kWUwTbaZWdsw7dvM.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Minor sexually assaulted at Delhi park, attacker held||A 42-year-old man was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl and photographing her on his mobile phone at a public park in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden on Saturday afternoon, police said on Monday. The girl and her brother had gone to collect books from a government-run school and were waiting outside the park when the crime took place, said the police.A woman who was passing by saw the sister-brother duo crying, learnt about the alleged sexual assault and informed the police, which nabbed the man in the park itself.“We dispatched police personnel, including a woman officer. They surrounded the park to ensure the suspect did not escape. He was caught from the park. His mobile phone was seized and examined. Objectionable images of the girl were found on the phone,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said the man, identified as Neeraj Kohli, was arrested in a case of rape and criminal intimidation under Sections 376(2) (i) and 506 of Indian Penal Code and 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, registered on the minor girl’s statement.According to the officer, the sister-brother duo lives in a West Delhi neighbourhood and studies at a local government school. The girl is a Class 7 student while her brother studies in Class 5. Their mother is a help while the father works at a shop.On Saturday, around 12.30 pm, the two had gone to collect books from the school. Police said the school guard told them to wait after which they went to the park, which was nearby.In the meantime, a stranger, who was smoking in the park, came and on some pretext took them to a secluded part of the park where nobody else was present, another police officer said, quoting the girl’s statemen“The man threatened the children and forced the boy to leave the park. He sexually assaulted the girl and took her images on his cellphone,” said the officer cited above.The girl came out of the park and met her brother. They were crying when a woman spotted them. She informed the police after the girl narrated the incident.“Our team reached there and caught the suspect from the park. The girl’s medical examination was conducted and her statement was recorded,” the officer said. Kohli’s antecedents were verified but he was not found previously involved in any crime, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-sexually-assaulted-at-delhi-park-attacker-held/story-1C0r8bRhAZlixHYruj3UqK.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC tells north MCD to release pension of retired civic employees||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to release the pension of its retired employees due for April 2020, by the end of August 2020, and sought the response of the Delhi government and the civic body on a plea that sought directions to pay all arrears.A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked Delhi Government and North DMC to file a status report on a petition filed by Nagar Nigam Sewa Nivrit Karamchari Kalyan Samiti, a body of retired employees of the municipal corporation of Delhi, who are above the age of 75 and physically disabled to seek redressal of their grievances.The court asked the civic body to be prepared on the next date of hearing, September 21, with the timeline within which the pension arrears will be released to the retired employees.Appearing for the civic body, advocate Mini Pushkarna said the corporation had released the pension till March 2020 and steps will be taken to pay the amount for the month of April 2020 at the earliest. In its plea filed through advocate Ranjit Sharma, the association sought a direction to the respondents to release the pension on time every month and pay arrears of the benefits of seventh Pay Commission without delay.The plea sought a direction to provide cashless medical facilities to all retired employees who deposited subscription fee for the purpose in empanelled hospitals.The petitioner said the retired employees have been facing the problem of non-payment of pension since 2015.“The retired employees of North DMC are facing immense problems in meeting their daily expenses. Some of them have medical problems, which require urgent treatment and care. These retired employees do not have any other source of livelihood other than their pension. If the pension is released after a lapse of 2-3 months, it is imaginable what difficulties they would be facing,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-tells-north-mcd-to-release-pension-of-retired-civic-employees/story-1akJqxqxJ5ItjaZzzfn8mJ.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC seeks police response on plea alleging cops leaked info||The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the city police, YouTube and Facebook on a plea by Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha who had sought directions to get various media agencies to take down the sensitive and confidential information pertaining to him, which was leaked to them allegedly by the police. Tanha also alleged that he was coerced into signing blank papers during his police custody. Tanha, a third-year student of BA in Persian language, was arrested in May in connection with the north-east Delhi riots that took place in February and is currently lodged in judicial custody. He was earlier arrested in connection with the violence in Jamia area during a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in December last year.Justice Vibhu Bakhru issued notices to two media organisations after Tanha, through his counsel Sowjhanya Shankaran, told the court that police have been leaking his disclosure statement, which was recorded during his interrogation. The court, however, did not pass any ex parte order against the two media houses or the social media companies to remove the content while stating that it will pass orders after hearing all parties.“I agree it is not acceptable behaviour if some officer has done this and advocate Rajat Nair (representing Delhi Police) will agree with it,” the judge observed.Advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, appearing for Tanha, argued that his client’s bail plea was being considered by the trial court and the timing of the publication of the articles in the media was such that it was not only prejudicing the public mind, but also the trained mind that was hearing the bail application.Special public prosecutor Rajat Nair, representing the Delhi government and the Delhi Police, sought time to seek instructions on the issue following which the court posted the matter to September 17.In his plea, Tanha said he was aggrieved by various publications that had reported that he had confessed to orchestrating the north-east Delhi riots. He alleged that he was coerced into signing blank papers in police custody. He said the leaks of his forcefully taken statements have been leaked by the police with mala fide intent to cause prejudice to his case.“Tanha is a key member of the Jamia Coordination Committee and played an active role in organising protests and riots in Jamia in December 2019. He is a close associate of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar who were the key organisers of anti-CAA protests and subsequent riots,” the police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-hc-seeks-police-response-on-plea-alleging-cops-leaked-info/story-z1GvaUETeMeJtg85E5iwdL.html
25-08-2020||Pune||One arrested for attacking shopkeeper, robbing him of Rs 2,500 in Pune||PUNE Yerawada police have arrested a man for allegedly terrorising people in a locality of Yerawada on Sunday night. According to police, the arrested man and one other person attacked a shop owner in the area and robbed him of Rs 2,500.The incident happened at 7:30 pm on Sunday in Yashwantnagar, Yerawada.The arrested accused has been identified as Niesh alias Pinya Sajay Savle, while the shopkeeper has been identified as Pramaram Chaudhury (46), both residents of Yashwantnagar.Police are on a lookout for one other person involved in the incident.“They are habitual trouble-makers. When they tried to snatch money, the shopkeeper resisted and they attacked him,” said assistant police inspector Sameer Karpe of Yerawada police station who is investigating the case.The arrested man has a previous case under Sections 326 and 435 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against him. The man on the run has a previous case under Section 435 of IPC registered against him, according to the police.The two men arrived in the area with sickles and started creating a ruckus. The complainant told the police that he tried to pull the shutter down when the two entered the shop and attacked him.The complainant has sustained injuries on his hand. The men fled with Rs 2,500 from the shop.A case under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (common interest) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act, Section 37(1)135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Sections 3 and 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-arrested-for-attacking-shopkeeper-robbing-him-of-rs-2-500/story-WlBnmrF5tisrX7E3pvNpLP.html
25-08-2020||Pune||Govind Pansare murder: Kolhapur court rejects bail pleas of accused Andure, Kurane||PUNE The Kolhapur sessions court on Monday rejected the bail applications of accused Sachin Andure and Bharat Kurane in the Govind Pansare murder case. Pansare, a senior CPI(M) leader, was shot dead by unidentified persons on February 16, 2015, in Kolhapur.Besides, Kurane and Andure, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) had arrested 12 others in the murder case. The investigation team constituted by the government has filed five chargesheets in the case so far. Kurane has been named in the fourth chargesheet while Andure’s name figures in the fifth chargesheet in the case. Andure is also the main accused in the murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar, which is being probed by Central Bureau of Investigation and directly monitored by the Bombay High Court. Narendra Dabholkar was shot dead near Omkareshwar temple on August 20, 2013, in PuneBoth Kurane and Andure had moved their bail plea before the court of sessions judge BD Shelke through their legal counsel advocate Sameer Patwardhan. Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Harshad Nimbalkar opposed the bail plea and made his submission from Pune via video conferencing facility. Advocate Nimbalkar argued that the bail application of the two must be rejected as the SIT had sufficient evidence to prove their involvement in the murder. Following Nimbalkar’s submission, the judge passed an order rejecting their bail application. Andure is one of the accused who was present at the murder spot, according to prosecution. ENT Surgeon Dr Virendra Tawade, who is also an accused in the murder of Dr Dabholkar had handed over two pistols used in the murder of Comrade Pansare to Kurane and he had taken those firearms to Belgaum where he destroyed them along with their evidence. Kolhapur additional superintendent of police (SP) Tirupati Kakade is investigating the case. The SIT was constituted after the family members of Pansare and Dabholkar had moved the Bombay High Court demanding court monitoring of the assassination probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govind-pansare-murder-kolhapur-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-accused-andure-kurane/story-C5AHUwzOplWSDg0m12cqlL.html
25-08-2020||Pune||Metro on Pimpri-Range Hills stretch to go ‘live’ by December||Pune metro which is working in two phases is set to start commercial operations between Pimpri and Range Hills from December 2020, while passenger may be able to board Metro rail between Vanaz to Civil Court by March 2021, according to the schedule designed by Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro).Atul Gadgil, director, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd ( Maha-Metro), said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, metro work has been affected, but we have set new deadlines for starting operations.”“As per new schedule, the commercial operations on Reach-one stretch between Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) Bhavan to Range Hills on Nigdi-Swargate route will start by December this year. Reach-two on Vanaz-Ramwadi route is expected to start by March 2021,” he said.Earlier last week, Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister, held a review meeting with the top officials and instructed them to speed up the metro work along with land acquisition process for proposed international airport work located at Purandar. After Pawar’s instructions, Maha-Metro has rescheduled its time table.Gadgil said, “After Covid pandemic, most of the labourers working with the metro went back to their hometown. As there is not enough manpower, only essential works were carried out after acquiring permission from municipal corporation and district administration.”Maha-Metro, the agency responsible for executing the metro rail work, had earlier missed its deadline twice to start operations on priority stretch. It was to start operations by December 2019 and later by April 2020.Gadgil said that by September it is expected that the work will start at full capacity.Hemant Sonawane, public relation officer, Maha-Metro, said, “We require almost 5,500 labourers. Even today hardly fifty to sixty per cent labours have come back to the city. But we expect within a few days, work will start in full capacity.”According to Gadgil while the metro work has got affected due to unavailability of the labours, the work of the underground metro is progressing speedily as it requires less manpower. “It is mainly technology-driven work and very soon the tunnel between Range Hills and Civil court will be complete. Right now, underground tunnel work is completed till Range Hills to Shivajinagar MSRTC bus stop.”Manpower crunch hampers workPune Metro had already completed its trial run in January this year. It was expected that by May or June, the commercial operations would start on the corridor in between PCMC and Range Hill, but due to the pandemic and lockdown restrictions, most of the labourers had returned to their hometown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/metro-on-pimpri-range-hills-stretch-to-go-live-by-dec/story-G9ZzOpLhtTXxqE8PS0hFYJ.html
25-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid tally of progressive positives surges past 90,000||The state health department reported 1,107 fresh Covid-19 cases in Pune on Monday, taking the count of total progressive positives to 90,257. As per the state, 16 Covid-19 deaths were recorded in Pune, which puts the city’s toll at 2,345. On Monday, 5,129 samples were collected taking the final sample count to 4.07 lakh. As per the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) data released on Monday, Pune reported 45 deaths in 24 hours, taking the city’s Covid-19-related death toll to 2,033. A total of 1,101 fresh Covid-19 positives were reported on Monday, taking the count of progressive positives, as per PMC data, to 84,496. Currently, there are 14,686 active cases in Pune, of which 802 are critical; 487 are on ventilators and 315 are in ICU beds without ventilators. A total of 2,684 are undergoing oxygen treatment. The city also saw 1,188 people discharged after being declared as cured, taking the total count of recovered patients in the city to 67,777. Of the deceased, as per the PMC data, 13 are from Sassoon General Hospital, seven from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, and three from AICTS hospital. Two deaths each have been reported from Universal hospital, Naidu hospital, Sahyadri hospital, and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital; and one death each from KEM hospital, Kashibai Navale hospital, Jehangir hospital, Poona hospital, Dalvi hospital, Lokmanya hospital, Symbiosis hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani, and Noble hospital. Also, city hospitals reported 12 deaths of patients residing outside PMC limits; these include five from Deenanath Mangeshkar, two from Sassoon and one each from Poona hospital, Kashibai Navale hospital, Jehangir hospital, Shree Samarth hospital and Symbiosis hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-covid-tally-of-progressive-positives-surges-past-90-000/story-P2f2Q6ASrhvsZHJPb5vwYL.html
25-08-2020||Pune||Army hosp adds 400 beds to Pune’s Covid care network||Following the launch of the city’s first jumbo Covid care facility, the civic administration announced the addition of a 400-bed defence facility near Wanowrie on Monday. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, on Monday, said, “We have 400 beds at the Army Institute of Cardiothoracic Sciences (AICTS) hospital. It has 20 ventilators, 30 ICU beds and 350 beds without oxygen supply.”Rao said that the hospital has been added to the civic Covid dashboard, enabling citizens to know the status of beds at this hospital. Ramchandra Hankare, health chief at the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), said, “After the meeting with union minister Prakash Jawadekar, the district administration and Pune Municipal Corporation started the process to get the Army hospital for Covid patients. Now, the 80-bed jumbo hospital plus this 400-bed Army hospital has eased the city’s bed situation.”The PMC is also working on getting a 314-bed hospital at Baner ready. PMC city engineer Prashant Waghmare said, “The PMC is converting this multi-storey building into a hospital. Many corporations have come forward to give funds under CSR. The hospital is getting ready and will soon start functioning. “Once this hospital is online, a total 1,544 beds will have been added to the Covid care network. BoxPune city gets bed-readyStrap: 1,514 beds were added this week Jumbo care centre at COEP - 800 beds(600 oxygenated; 200 ICU with ventilator)Army Hospital, Wanowrie – 400 beds (30 ICU beds, 20 beds with ventilator and 350 isolated beds)PMC’s Baner hospital – 314 beds (270 oxygenated beds and 44 ICU bed)s||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-hosp-adds-400-beds-to-pune-s-covid-care-network/story-lnG61y9nCnwwTkU84LWZ5N.html
25-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s Hadapsar and Dhankawadi wards account for 17% of Pune’s total cases||Two of city’s wards account for about 17 per cent of the total progressive Covid-19 cases. As of August 22, a total of 83,152 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Pune, among them 7,598 are from Hadapsar-Mundhwa. In second spot is the Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar ward which reported 7,015 cases. The Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward has also topped the number of containment zones declared by the civic body as of August 17 with 11 containment zones, equal to the Kothrud-Bavdhan ward with 4,940 cases. The Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar ward has only two containment zones. Hadapsar has been a Covid-19 hotspot for quite some time now with most cases being reported from Mundhwa-Magarpatta, Hadapsar Gaon-Satavwadi, Fursungi and Mohammadwadi-Kausar Baug subwards. While Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar ward is at the second spot of reporting maximum progressive cases, the sub wards of Datta Nagar-Katraj Gaothan, Dhankawadi-Ambegaon Pathar and Sahakarnagar-Padmavati are the worst affected areas in the wards. Assistant municipal commissioner Bankar Somnath Haribhau of Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward who was earlier the ward officer for Bhavani peth and successfully controlled the spread of the virus in the ward has now been tasked with the Hadapsar-Mundwa ward.  Haribhau said, “Of course the demographics of both the wards are very different. Bhavani peth had more older houses, and narrow lanes but Hadapsar has newly added rural areas which are reporting more cases like Fursungi, Mundhwa and Sade Satranalli. We will use the same tactics that we used in Bhavani peth like aggressive testing may be tweaking guidelines a bit to increase our testing capacity. In addition to the testing centre at Bankar civic school we now also have three mobile testing vans and keeping a focus on those with comorbidities.”“Also in the case of Bhavani peth, that was the time when lockdown was being followed diligently which is not happening now as unlock has begun. Also, the Ganpati festival is ongoing and so our focus is to encourage Ganesh visarjan at home. Also we are surveying and looking for senior citizens, pregnant women and those with comorbidities and we will be in touch with them and request them to report even the slightest symptoms,” he added. In addition to these two wards, Kasba-Vishrambaugwada is at the third spot with 6,669 cases, followed by Sinhgad road with 5,533, Warje-Karvenagar with 5,528 cases and Ahmednagar road-Vadgaonsheri with 5,350 cases and Dhole Patil road with 5,150 cases. While the wards of Bhawani peth and Shivajinagar-Ghole road which were the worst affected in the initial period when the pandemic struck have now shown tremendous recovery with 4,229 and 3,618 cases respectively. The least number of progressive cases are reported from Aundh-Baner which have reported 3,206 cases as of August 22. In terms of containment zones too, Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri and Shivajinagar- Ghole road has 10 containment zones, while Kasba-Vishrambaugwada and Dhole Patil road has four containment zones. Box Header: Ward-wise Covid numbers Hadapsar-Mundhwa:7,598 Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar: 7,015 cases. Kothrud-Bavdhan: 4,940 cases. Kasba-Vishrambaugwada: 6,669 cases Sinhgad road: 5,533 Warje-Karvenagar: 5,528 cases Ahmednagar road-Vadgaonsheri: 5,350 cases Dhole Patil road: 5,150 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hadapsar-and-dhankawadi-wards-account-for-17-of-pune-s-total-cases/story-zS0SKaOWIIkW4og5u84XHP.html
25-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dairy trader killed, dumped in well by employee who wanted salary hike||A dairy trader (45) was murdered and dumped in a 50-foot deep well in West Delhi’s Najafgarh, Delhi Police said on Monday. The police have arrested the assistant of the slain dairy trader Om Prakash. The police said that the dairy trader was murdered, as the assistant was allegedly disgruntled with him for not raising his monthly salary. Prakash’s decomposed body was found in the well in an agricultural field on Saturday morning, about 10 days after he was killed and dumped. On Sunday, the suspect, Mohammad Tasleem, was nabbed by the Dwarka district police authorities from Jharoda Kalan in West Delhi, soon after he returned from Panipat in Haryana, where he was hiding at a relative’s house, said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Dwarka, Delhi Police. “He has revealed that he killed his employer following a heated argument over not raising his monthly salary,” said the DCP, adding that a stick and a knife was allegedly used in the murder. The murder weapons and Prakash’s motorcycle that Tasleem had used to decamp a day after allegedly committing the murder have been seized by the police, the DCP said. Prakash, a bachelor, lived in Najafgarh’s Dhichaon Kalan, which is notorious for its criminal antecedents. He ran a dairy business along with his nephew, Purushottam. “My uncle had decided to hire a help because we were overburdened with work. On June 23, we hired Tasleem, who had earlier worked at a restaurant,” said Purushottam. Tasleem was hired for a monthly salary of Rs 12,000, even though he had demanded Rs 15,000, he said. But the DCP quoted Tasleem as saying that he was hired for Rs 15,000, but was being paid Rs 12,000 by Prakash who cited losses due to the pandemic for not keeping his word. The monthly salary amount became a constant source of friction between the deceased and the arrested accused, he added. Another argument occurred between the duo on the night of August 11, said Purushottam, who had to intervene to end the quarrel. The following morning Prakash was found missing, said a police officer probing the case. “Tasleem misled the family by saying that Prakash had left town. But by evening, when he realised that the probe would lead the police to him, he rode away on Prakash’s motorcycle,” said the DCP. “We registered a kidnapping case and started looking for Tasleem and searching for Prakash,” he added.On Saturday morning, Prakash’s decomposed body was found in the 50-foot deep well in the agricultural field near the place, where ran his dairy business. “The owner of the field had visited the farmland following a stench emanating from the well. Later, Delhi Fire department authorities sent personnel to fish out the decomposed body that was half stuffed in a sack and tied with a rope,” the official said. Soon, the police tracked down Tasleem in Panipat. “Tasleem has confessed to his crime. He recounted that Prakash had slapped him during the quarrel. An enraged Tasleem, in turn, thrashed him with a stick and then slit his throat with a knife while he was sleeping,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-dairy-trader-killed-dumped-in-well-by-employee-who-wanted-salary-hike/story-rxYwQflwaCZLNCoGwY1RNP.html
