27-08-2020||City||Nine more Aravalli farmhouse face bulldozer action, Gurugram DC to submit report in SC||GurugramThe Gurugram district administration will submit a report in the matter of illegal construction of farmhouses in Bandhwari village of Aravallis to the Supreme Court after collecting action taken reports from the department of town and country planning, MCG, forest, mining and pollution department. The deputy commissioner will file a combined report as per the directions of Haryana chief secretary who took a review meeting in this regard on Thursday. Earlier on Thursday, a joint team of MCG Gurugram and DTCP had demolished nine farmhouses, boundary walls and internal roads that had been constructed without permission from the authorities. Vinay Pratap Singh, municipal commissioner, said that a joint team demolished the illegal structures and process has been initiated as per rules to register an FIR against those who developed farmhouses without authorisation. “A review meeting in this matter was taken by the chief secretary on Thursday in which it was decided that the deputy commissioner will file an action taken report in the supreme Court. The action taken report will be collected from the forest, mining, MCG, DTCP and other departments. A criminal complaint against the accused will be lodged by the department of town and country planning,” said Singh. He further said that action was initiated by MCG against violations under its rules for construction without permission while DTCP also took action as applicable under controlled areas. “A criminal complaint against the accused would also be lodged in this regard for violations pertaining to mining department, pollution department and others,” he said. Singh said that based on the recommendations of forest department, work will be carried out to restore the natural character of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-more-aravalli-farmhouse-face-bulldozer-action-gurugram-dc-to-submit-report-in-sc/story-dfUFIT9Xrpn4poRETFxLiL.html
27-08-2020||Gurugram||Parivar Pehchan Patra enrolment: Teachers struggle with technical snags, lack of training||Government school teachers in Gurugram, who have been roped in to create unique state identity cards— ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)’—for students and their parents, have been facing various hurdles ranging from technical snags to lack of training since the exercise commenced on Monday.Schools across the state have been directed to help in the creation of PPP cards— which will enable people to get benefits under various state welfare schemes at their doorsteps— from August 25 till September 5.Suman Sharma, principal of government model senior secondary school in Sector 4/7, said there were technical issues due to which the process of uploading details of families was getting disrupted and was taking place slowly. “The PPP portal is not able to handle the load due to which the data doesn’t get updated. While teachers are working, the output depends on sheer chance. Our operators have been facing these challenges for the last three days. Most of them are staying at work till late evening to ensure that work gets done,” said Sharma.Under the initiative, which was launched on August 4 this year, it is mandatory for each family to register themselves on the PPP portal to avail welfare benefits. School teachers collect, verify and upload data of students’ families on the portal for the generation of the identity cards.An English teacher at a government school, who did not wish to be named, said besides struggling with a lack of technological know-how, teachers were also facing the wrath of irked parents. “Most of us are of the view that some training should have been imparted before the initiation of a crucial exercise. All of a sudden, without any training, teachers were assigned various tasks under the initiative. Parents are getting irked due to the delay and hold us accountable thinking that we are not working. No identity cards could be made in the first two days and only some were made today (Wednesday),” she said.The Haryana School Teachers Union has also opposed the move of involvement of teachers in the entire process. Satyanarayan Yadav, deputy vice-president of the union, said that they were opposed to the move of enrolling the services of teachers without any training. “Teachers did not receive any demonstration or training that would have helped them in familiarising themselves with the process. All schools are not fully equipped with computers and other requisite devices. Due to these constraints, many teachers have been struggling with the execution of the exercise,” said Yadav.Sangeeta Chaudhary, district elementary education officer (DEEEO) who is also the district project coordinator , said teachers were facing issues since the online database for registering details was under stress because of high traffic. “School heads have flagged issues pertaining to the exercise. Most of them have informed us that the website is not working. In all likelihood, this is due to the increased traffic on the website. Snags are arising since this is a state-wide exercise where multiple people have logged in together at the same time,” said Chaudhary.On the subject of training teachers, Chaudhary said a training session through video conferencing would take place on Friday. “A training session for a set of teachers will be taking place tomorrow (Friday). They’ll further train the rest of the teachers. The issues that have been raised so far will be discussed and resolved,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/parivar-pehchan-patra-enrolment-teachers-struggle-with-technical-snags-lack-of-training/story-9pdPeDKrZk0sjvqPMX4jsK.html
27-08-2020||Gurugram||1.25 lakh tonnes of C&D waste collected in 2020, fines worth Rs 40 lakh levied for violation||The Municipal Corporation of Gururgam (MCG) has collected close to 1.25 lakh tonnes of construction and demolition (C&D) waste from across the city so far this year, to be processed at its treatment plant in Basai. The corporation has also collected Rs 40 lakh in fines for violations of the Centre’s Construction & Demolition Waste Management Rules this year, up from Rs 20 lakh collected in 2019. The MCG has also been purchasing recycled aggregates from its Basai plant and plans to start manufacturing its own paver blocks, for use in pavements and bicycle tracks, from October 2020. The plan was revealed by Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, at a recent webinar on C&D waste management in India, organised by Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) to mark the launch of a new report titled ‘Another Brick Off the Wall: Improving Construction and Demolition Waste Management in Indian Cities’,Singh also emphasized the role of C&D waste management in pushing up Gurugram’s score on the annual Swachh Survekashan survey, with the Basai plant having started operations in December last year. Gurugram this year ranked 62nd among 382 cities with a population of 100,000 to 1 million on India’s annual cleanliness survey. In 2019, Gurugram was placed 83 out of 425 cities. In 2018, it had a rank of 105 and in the year before that, it was 112. Despite these improvements, Singh added that the city is grappling with close to nine lakh tonnes of legacy waste that has accumulated over the years, with at least another 300 tonnes per day (TPD) which continue to be generated. “Steps are being taken to address this. MCG has assessed the amount of C&D waste generated. Non-disclosure of the estimation of the C&D waste generated attracts penalties, which have been increased five times this year,” said Singh, explaining the increase in fine collection. Experts, on the other hand, said that the efficient management of C&D waste in Gurugram — as with other cities — continues to be a challenge. The CSE report identifies at least 10 broad reasons for the poor implementation of the Centre’s 2016 rules, including slow progress in adopting required technology, lack of preparedness at a state level, constraints of finding available land, and affordable pricing of recycled aggregates. These points were based on investigations carried out in 16 Indian cities, including Gurugram. Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager, sustainable cities, at CSE, who authored the report, said, “We found Gurugram has mounted a better response, or at least has a better idea of what an appropriate response is, than most other cities we surveyed. Bombay, for example, still does not have a C&D waste plant, while the model deployed in neigbouring Delhi has not been successful. Gurugram is one of the few Indian cities which has both the infrastructure to treat demolition waste, and a model to collect and transport waste.” In terms of vigilance, too, Somvanshi added, the quantum of fines collected for C&D waste violations suggest that Gurugram has done a better job at trying to deter violations — though the CSE report does not provide comparative figures for fine collections in other cities. “Even so, Gurugram’s response needs to be scaled up, and it indicates mainly how poor the regulations are in other cities. Gurugram has a blueprint for a successful model, which has now commenced and whose real efficacy is yet to be seen.” Other steps taken by Gurugram — which Somvanshi added were largely absent in other cities — is inclusion of a C&D waste clause in building permits. As per the CSE report, this ensures that “generators deposit all the waste at their disposal points at the time of building permits. This basically removes the access of the informal sector to the waste.” Gurugram has also “notified segregation on premises in six different streams — namely brick and masonry; concrete and steel; soil, sand and gravel; wood and plastics; other metals; and miscellaneous.” “For comparison, Delhi has not spelled out its segregation criteria, while Ghaziabad has notified that every generator needs to segregate waste into four streams (concrete, soil, wood and plastics, and bricks and mortar) at premises,” according to the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/1-25-lakh-tonnes-of-c-d-waste-collected-in-2020-fines-worth-rs-40-lakh-levied-for-violation/story-fk8EsIBqF1DpBFGqoxf7yJ.html
27-08-2020||Gurugram||Woman molested, attacked with sickle in Farrukhnagar||A woman suffered serious injuries when an unidentified person allegedly attacked her with a sickle after attempting to molest her in Farrukhnagar on Thursday afternoon. The police said when the woman put up a fight, the suspect snatched the sickle from her hand, and hit her on her neck and head. She was rushed to a hospital in Farrukhnagar and later referred to the Civil Hospital, where she is reported to be stable. According to the police, the incident took place around 1pm when the woman, a resident of Farrukhnagar, had gone to a farm on Joniawas Road to get fodder for cattle. The police said as she was cutting the fodder with a sickle, an unidentified man pounced on her and tried to snatch her earrings. “The suspect molested her and as she resisted. He snatched the sickle from her hand and attacked her with it. She suffered at least five injuries on her neck, scalp and face. She managed to run away from him before some commuters came to her assistance. She was rushed to a hospital nearby, where she was provided with first aid. She was then referred to the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, where she is undergoing treatment. The suspect managed to escape,” said Savit Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Farrukhnagar police station. The police said the victim in her statement told the police that the suspect appeared to be ‘intoxicated and his intention was to molest her.’ After the incident, at least three men, locals from the area, blocked a road near the crime spot. The police said a team was sent to the area and the road was cleared for vehicular movement within a few minutes. A case was registered against the unidentified suspect under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Farrukhnagar police station on Thursday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-molested-attacked-with-sickle-in-farrukhnagar/story-t3eOq2J8SHMQWN5tSYgoqI.html
27-08-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 cases doubling at 81 days as cases continues to shoot up||Gurugram’s doubling rate — as per data available with the health department — has fallen to 81 days as compared to 104 days in the first week of August, in a sign that the spread of Covid-19 virus has become more rapid in the district. The doubling rate estimates the number of days that it will take for the total number of cases to double. An increasing doubling rate means fewer days until the total number of cases doubles.On Thursday, the total number of active cases jumped to 937, with the district adding 141 cases to its tally, taking the total number of people infected with SARS-CoV2 to 11,429. At least 132 people have succumbed to the disease so far, with one fresh death being recorded on Thursday.Records show that the number of active cases till the first week of August was under 650 and gradually declining. However, the number of new cases on a weekly basis have increased since then. Between August 13-20, the total new cases were 543,. Between August 21- 27, however, at least 793 new cases were confirmed. Confirming the rise in infection, the health department officials said that Gurugram’s daily growth of Covid-19 cases is also fluctuating between 0.87% (August 7) to 1.1 % (as on Thursday), indicating the Covid-19 cases are growing at a faster pace again. In July, the daily growth rate of cases was 1.4%. Health officials say that calculating doubling rate is a dynamic process, where average of cases reported in the last seven days are being taken. It can be calculated either every day or every three or five days. But as per ICMR guidelines, Haryana health department has been using a mathematical calculation called Cumulative Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) to decipher the doubling rate.In April, the doubling rate of cases fluctuated between 18 and 36 days, when the total number of active cases were almost 60. As the numbers started increasing in May first week, the doubling rate dropped to just seven days. Data shows there was a slight improvement in the doubling rate from May 15 till May 29. During these weeks, cases were multiplying after every 17 and 13 days. With over 675 cases reported from May 29 till June 3, cases again doubled rapidly in just four days. In July, the doubling rate improved to almost 51 days. Till August 13, the doubling rate was 108 days, while the case positivity rate was 7.23%. However, last week the doubling rate came down to 88 days. It has been a week since Gurugram is reporting more than 100 new cases per day, thereby affecting the doubling rate, health officials said, while pointing out that the numbers were rising across the country. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Since, active cases and testing numbers are rapidly changing, the doubling rate continues to vary. It has come into our notice that cases are increasing as all the members of a family are being tested positive in one go. Therefore, we are now holding more testing camps to isolate people quickly and prevent mortality. Cases are increasing across the country as people are freely moving out without ensuring social distancing norms.”Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, state nodal officer for Covid-19 at PGIMS, Rohtak, said, “Doubling rate is a parameter to indicate the rate at which infectivity is spreading. It is critical when the doubling rate is in a single digit. It is due to increased testing, cases are multiplying in 81 days in Gurugram. Now the focus should be on preventing the active cases from increasing so that elderly and those with co-morbid conditions are not exposed to the coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-cases-doubling-at-81-days-as-cases-continues-to-shoot-up/story-DGos5hMzKH4dTwC66qWwhM.html
27-08-2020||City||Road safety measures for six accident prone spots in Gurugram to be reviewed next week||Gurugram: Measures taken by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and Gurugram traffic police to reduce accidents and casualties at the city’s six most critical black spots — Shankar Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Khandsa, Bilaspur Chowk and Sidhrawali cut — will be reviewed by Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri in next week’s district road safety committee meeting, officials said Thursday.All six spots are located on National Highway 48. For each of these spots, recommendations were given by Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ)— a Haryana government program on road safety now defunct—in February this year, and Khatri has asked various departments, mainly NHAI and the Gurugram traffic police, to submit an action report where steps they have taken to reduce fatalities at these spots would be highlighted.A road stretch is termed as a black spot if more than five fatalities are recorded in a 500-metre stretch over a three-year period.Going by data from HVZ, the number of road fatalities recorded at Shankar Chowk between 2016 and 2019 was 12, 17 at Rajiv Chowk, 16 at Hero Honda Chowk, 22 at Khandsa, 17 at Bilaspur Chowk, and seven at Sidhrawali cut.“I have directed the agencies concerned to submit the action they have taken at each of the six stretches, in the next district road safety committee meeting. Our main objective is to reduce the number of accidents across the city and identify areas which are prone to them and subsequently undertake necessary steps to reduce them,” said Khatri.According to district administration officials, the meeting is scheduled for next week but a final date will be decided depending on the availability of the deputy commissioner and other officials. They further said the meeting will be conducted via video conference.Sarika Panda Bhatt, former programme coordinator with HVZ and a road safety expert, who is part of the district road safety meetings, said for each of these points, various recommendations for reducing accidents and fatalities were submitted by HVZ, however, most of them are yet to be implemented.Bhatt said some of the recommendations made by HVZ were to install traffic signals and mark pedestrian crossings at some of the black spots and to provide pedestrian amenities wherever possible.“For both Rajiv Chowk and Shankar Chowk, we had asked authorities to install a traffic signal below the flyover so that pedestrians can cross the junction without much difficulty and also to paint and mark crossings. With residential areas, located on both sides of Bilaspur Chowk, we had recommended installation of a foot over-bridge (FOB) as there is no pedestrian amenity there and people were crossing the main highway amid traffic,” said Bhatt.None of these recommendations have been implemented on-ground, said Sarika. HVZ was a program of the Haryana government compromising private and government road safety experts and engineers for reducing accidents across the state. The program was privately funded. Due to lack of funds, however, it ceased operations in April.She said although based on HVZ’s recommendations, at Hero Honda Chowk and IFFCO Chowk, traffic signals have been installed, both were often found to be not working. “At Khandsa, which has the highest number of fatalities in the city, NHAI has installed an FOB earlier this year, based on HVZ’s recommendation, but the structure still does not have a direct power connection. Hence, the escalators are not working and a large number of pedestrians are not able to avail of the facility,” said Bhatt. At both the Sidhrawali cut and Bilaspur Chowk, HVZ had stated that the stretches are not properly fenced which is not only enabling pedestrians to cross the main highway on foot but also resulting in two-wheelers criss-crossing from one side of the highway to other, which can lead to accidents. “At both Rajiv chowk and Hero Honda Chowk flyover, underpasses for non-motorised transport (NMT) are already complete. At Shankar Chowk, an elevated u-turn is under construction. After its completion, a large number of local traffic will shift to arterial stretches and there will be a major reduction in the volume of vehicles on service roads of the national highway. The service road and arterial roads will be both separated through permanent barriers which will result in a reduction of accidents,” said Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI.Despite repeated calls, DCP (traffic), Chander Mohan remained unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-safety-measures-for-six-accident-prone-spots-in-gurugram-to-be-reviewed-next-week/story-9naGEMCBFSlgHVGh2N6uiO.html
27-08-2020||Gurugram||Woman kills self in Gurugram; cops book husband, four others on charges of dowry death||A 27-year-old woman, who worked with a private company, allegedly killed herself at her house in Civil Lines on Wednesday evening. The police on Thursday booked her husband and four members of his family on charges of dowry death after her brother alleged that she was subjected to continued harassment over dowry-related matters since her marriage last year. According to the police, the incident was reported around 8pm, when the woman’s brother informed the police control room. In the police complaint, her brother stated,“My sister got married in May 2019. Ever since her marriage, her husband and her in-laws had been harassing her for insufficient dowry. They often rebuked her for the same. My sister often complained about their frequent demands for dowry during her visits to our house. Her husband did not allow her to talk to us freely over the phone. On Wednesday, at 7.46pm, I got a call from him informing me that my sister had hanged herself,” said the complainant, adding that they rushed to their house and found her dead. The police said the complainant alleged that the victim killed herself due to repeated harassment by her husband and in-laws for dowry. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “A case has been registered and we are verifying the allegations. No arrests have been made so far.” The victim’s body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem examination on Thursday. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 304 B (dowry death) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Civil Lines police station on Thursday, said police. Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-kills-self-in-gurugram-cops-book-husband-four-others-on-charges-of-dowry-death/story-1bwj0gqjK8V7VUzqjj81nN.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records steepest single-day surge of 188 days||Chandigarh on Thursday recorded the sharpest 24-hour spike in Covid-19 cases with 188 fresh infections, which was also the highest single-day count so far for any of the tricity towns.UT also confirmed two more deaths, taking the toll to 43.The city’s Covid tally now stands at 3,564, of which 1,544 are still active, while 1,977 patients have recovered.Chandigarh’s last highest surge of 174 cases was just two days ago on August 25.Mohali’s single-day sharpest jump was 147 cases on August 22 and Panchkula’s 172 cases on August 26.With Mohali’s 128 cases and 94 more from Panchkula on Thursday, tricity’s daily tally was above the 400 mark for the second day in a row. On Wednesday, the tricity had logged 425 cases.The two fatalities include a 75-year-old man from Sector 46 and a 54-year-old man from Sector 41.The elderly man was found positive on August 24 and died due to severe acute respiratory failure at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, on August 26.The Sector 41 resident, who was suffering from diabetes, had tested positive on August 21. He died due to complex lung injury, respiratory failure and cardiac arrest at the same hospital.The 188 fresh cases were reported from across the rural and urban pockets of the city. Of the total 3,564 confirmed cases in Chandigarh so far, 20% were detected through antigen testing and remaining through the RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method. Among the total fatalities, 39 patients had pre-existing diseases, while four were not diagnosed with any other ailment.BADNORE TESTS NEGATIVEUT administrator VP Singh Badnore was found negative for Covid-19 on Thursday. The administrator was tested through GeneXpert testing, which provides highly reliable and quick results. The administrator had chosen self-isolation after finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha and deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar tested positive recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-steepest-single-day-surge-of-188-days/story-366IyoooLpm0Bu9oYEVuSN.html
27-08-2020||City||Pune city reports 1,772 fresh Covid-19 positive case, 35 deaths||PUNE The state health department on Thursday reported 1,772 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 35 deaths in Pune city taking the progressive count to 94,897 and death toll to 2,453 .Meanwhile, as per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department data, the city reported 1,773 Covid-19 positive cases and 38 deaths. Also, 19 more deaths were reported from city hospitals of patients residing outside PMC limits.Currently, the city has a total of 14,995 active cases of which 818 are in critical condition and 496 are on the ventilator.PMC, on Thursday, collected 6,092 samples total through RT-PCR and rapid antigen test.The Pune Municipal Corporation has also undertaken a door-to-door survey and screening of co-morbid people and checking for the virus symptoms.Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner, said, “PMC and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) are conducting the screening of the co-morbid patients in their respective areas. It is helping in the early detection of positive virus cases.”“More than 5,000 co-morbid patients have been tested and among them 1,000 tested positive. If the virus is detected early in co-morbid patients, they can avail treatment on time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-city-reports-1-772-fresh-covid-19-positive-case-35-deaths/story-lHtmTMi7nLEJlPUfD69aIM.html
27-08-2020||Jaipur||1,345 fresh Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths reported in Rajasthan||The surge in coronavirus cases continued in Rajasthan with 1,345 fresh cases reported in the state on Thursday, taking the infection tally to 76,015.The state also witnessed 13 deaths due to the disease as the death toll mounted to 1,005, an official report said.The latest fatalities were reported from Bhartapur (1), Bhilwara (1), Bikaner (1), Churu (1), Jaipur (3), Jaisalmer (1), Jodhpur (2), Kota (2) and Udaipur (1).Out of the fresh 1,345 cases, the maximum was reported from Jodhpur where as many as 233 persons tested positive for Covid-19, the report said.The state capital Jaipur reported 225 cases, including 10 cases in the chief minister’s office and residence, it said.Other Covid-19 cases were reported from Ajmer (113), Alwar (121), Banswara (27), Baran (12), Barmer (16), Bharatpur (18), Bhilwara (55), Bikaner (26), Bundi (23), Chittorgarh (10), Churu (17), Dausa (19), Dholpur (8), Dungarpur (12), Ganganagar (13), Hanumangarh(6), Jaisalmer (6), Jalore (5), Jhalawar (25), Jhunjhunu (12), Karauli (9), Kota (129), Nagaur (17), Pali (30), Pratapgarh (25), Rajsamand (54), Sawai Madhopur (8), Sikar (30), Sirohi (13), Tonk (9) and Udaipur (19).As many as 60,585 patients have recovered and 59,860 of them have been discharged. A total of 14,425 active cases are there in the state at present, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/1-345-fresh-covid-19-cases-13-deaths-reported-in-rajasthan/story-NlNc1Q6dNydWd8lAOfVGgK.html
27-08-2020||Kolkata||Heavy rains lash Kolkata, coastal districts; 1 missing||Heavy rains lashed Kolkata and the coastal districts of West Bengal on Thursday, inundating low-lying areas, officials said.Several thoroughfares were waterlogged in different parts of Kolkata, including BT Road, Central Avenue, College Street, Amherst Street and EM Bypass, due to the showers that began on Wednesday evening, the weather office said.However, there were no traffic snarls in the metropolis as Covid-related restrictions were in place but those who went out on essential work or are associated with emergency services had a tough time reaching their destinations.Many low-lying areas in Ghatal in West Midnapore district and Khanakul in Hooghly, and some places in South 24 Parganas district were submerged owing to the heavy overnight rains.A person went missing in the Jhargram district after his motorcycle was swept away by strong currents of a river that submerged a bridge, officials said.Three men were on the motorcycle and crossing the bridge at Kuchiladari in Sankrail block of the district.Villagers from nearby Kukrakhupi rushed to their rescue and pulled two of them out of the water, while another could not be traced, officials said.Diamond Harbour recorded the highest rainfall in the state at 67 mm in the 24 hours till 8.30 am, followed by Dumdum at 56 mm and Salt Lake at 52 mm, the Met department said.Alipore in the southern part of Kolkata recorded 48 mm rainfall during the period, it said.The other places in south Bengal that recorded a significant downpour during the period are Canning (52 mm), Barrackpore (44 mm) and Haldia (39 mm).In north Bengal, Kalimpong recorded the highest rainfall at 64 mm, while Darjeeling received 19 mm rain, the MeT Department.The weather office has forecast light to moderate in all the districts of north Bengal during the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/heavy-rains-lash-kolkata-coastal-districts-1-missing/story-XkOG79rEylMwKQTeDSoO4M.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Livestock production one of the fastest growing sectors: Ludhiana vet varsity V-C||Livestock production is indeed one of the fastest-growing sectors in agriculture and it offers employment opportunities along numerous animal production value chains, said Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University at a webinar on Thursday.Vice-chancellors of agricultural universities, including deans of Agriculture Universities from across the country attended the webinar with Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Hundreds of scholars held extensive discussions. On this occasion, Tomar stressed on making agricultural education more employment-oriented and said that agriculture sector should be upgraded through new education policy. Tomar has asked the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to form a committee in this regard, which will give its recommendations. In the webinar, the minister said that the field of agriculture is important and full of diversities. It is also special from the economic point of view, because large population of the country gets employment in agriculture sector. It is also the largest sector in terms of production, so discussions can be held with academics as to how the new education policy can be incorporated to improve it. Tomar said that it has been the endeavour of the government that with the new era, we should also keep changing our policies and rules. It is in this context that the government took policy decisions in the last six years in the agricultural sector, which are laudable and important and necessary with a view to strengthening this sector, he added.Tomar said that the central government has also made provision for special package for animal husbandry, herbal farming, fisheries, bee keeping and other allied sectors including agriculture infrastructure fund of ₹1 lakh crore. These will fulfill the needs of the agriculture sector, create employment opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/livestock-production-one-of-the-fastest-growing-sectors-ludhiana-vet-varsity-v-c/story-dXcv8KyAJiXD3pw6kYiCEP.html
27-08-2020||Pune||3,703 new coronavirus cases in Pune district, 69 deaths||Pune district reported 3,703 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking its case count to 1,56,844, a health official said on Thursday.The death toll reached 3,873 with 69 patients succumbing to the viral infection in this period, he added.“1,773 new cases were found in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits which now has 89,090 patients. However, 1,680 patients were also discharged from city hospitals,” the official said.1,105 new cases were found in Pimpri-Chinchwad area where the case count now stands at 45,510.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/3-703-new-coronavirus-cases-in-pune-district-69-deaths/story-Bf3fE6H98gQVBYljl9Q1zI.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana BJP gen secy accuses Cong MLA of ration scam||General secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Ludhiana unit, Parveen Bansal, on Thrusday accused Congress MLA Rakesh Panday for selectively distributing and wasting ration sent by the central government for the poor. Members of the district BJP unit led by Bansal reached a school run by Congress worker Baljinder Singh Sandhu, husband of Congress councillor of ward no 91, Gurpinder Kaur, in Sandhu Nagar, where the ration is stored. Bansal said he checked the stock following complaints that the ration was only reaching select people close to MLA Panday or Sandhu, while the rest is rotting in the godown. “Today, some residents of the area lodged a complaint that a huge pile of ration was dumped, following which we decided to conduct an inspection. We were shocked to find a huge stockpile of ration kits and unaccounted ration dumped in the godown,” alleged Bansal. He said that over 1,500 rations kits were kept in the godown and some of the stock was rotten and infested with worms. The ration kit include 2-kg sugar, 2 pulses or gram and 10-kg flour meant for distribution among the poor. Terming it a scam, Banal has demanded high-level probe in the matter. Bansal said that even during the lockdown, migrants had protested against the Congress councillor’s husband for withholding the ration. Sandhu, on the other hand, said the allegation were baseless. He said that everything was accounted for and the ration was being equally distributed among the councillors who are distributing it to the poor. “The distribution work is being carried out in a transparent manner and that’s why we asked the opposition leader to verify the stock kept in the godown,” said Sandhu. On the other hand, MLA Panday hit out at the BJP for playing cheap politics to hog limelight. “BJP has a habit of creating an issue out of nothing. We are open to any kind of verification. Rather than visiting the godown, Banasal could have asked me about the status of ration. He could have visited district food supply office or lodged a complaint with the minister. But, he opted to visit the godown for photo opportunity,” Panday said. On the other hand Raju Thapar, husband of Reenu Thapar, Congress councillor from ward No 83, said that that he has not received any ration kit for the past month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-bjp-gen-secy-accuses-cong-mla-of-ration-scam/story-e9d2mcDN7D7TJNuyCzi13O.html
27-08-2020||City||Yamuna authority office shut down due to Covid 19 cases||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) shut its head office in sector Omega 1 on Thursday after eight employees were tested positive for the coronavirus disease. The district health department had tested around 200 members of the office for antigens on Thursday as part of a camp.“Eight staff members from different departments were found positive in the antigen tests. We closed the office immediately and took necessary action. Now the office will remain closed on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Those who want to visit the office for work should turn up on Monday,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of YEIDA. The office will be sanitised during the days it is shut. “We have decided to conduct sanitization of all departments such as industrial, commercial, group housing, land and institutional among others before the office resumes operations on Monday.” Those who tested negative will be tested again using the “gold standard” reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) soon, as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols.Earlier, 12 employees who tested positive for the disease had recovered, said officials.Yeida controls development of urban and industrial areas along 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. It is also developing land for the Noida International Greenfield airport project at Jewar along expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamuna-authority-office-shut-down-due-to-covid-19-cases/story-YCP1KKnlFj2CImswGPJEJN.html
27-08-2020||City||Poor response to online police-public meet||Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal interacted with residents through a mobile application, Webex and heard their grievances on Thursday. However, people in lesser numbers attended the meeting which lasted for 30 minutes.However, the police chief stated that he will organise such meetings in the future also.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the public dealing has been restricted at the CP’s office. The police chief decided to listen to grievances of residents on mobile application Webex. The police chief asked people to send their complaints on cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in before joining the meeting.Most people complained about no police action on their complaints. The police chief assured them of action.Police chief added that many police personnel have been infected following which they have restricted public dealing. He said that the police will interact with people using such applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poor-response-to-online-police-public-meet/story-55gef3axPBFYzhSRAMHPZL.html
27-08-2020||City||Masked man rapes 12-year-old girl in Greater Noida; arrested||A 20-year-old man allegedly raped a 12-year-old girl, who was out to relieve herself in the woods, on Tuesday in an area under the Ecotech 3 police jurisdiction. The suspect was arrested by the police on Wednesday following a brief encounter.According to the girl’s family, the incident took place on Tuesday afternoon around 1pm. “She had gone to the nearby woods to relieve herself. When she came back home a couple of hours later, she was bleeding and when we asked her about what had happened, she told us that an unidentified man wearing a mask had raped her,” the girl’s father said in a complaint to the police.Police officers said that after a complaint was lodged with them, the girl was immediately sent for a medical examination and was then taken to the district hospital for treatment.“The girl was very shaken and could not give tell us much about the incident except for the fact that the suspect was wearing a blue shirt and blue mask. She didn’t recognize him at all. However, on Wednesday morning when we interacted with her again, she said that the suspect had a slight limp. Teams were immediately formed and we started combing the nearby areas,” said Anita Chauhan, station house officer (SHO), Ecotech 3 police station.“We spoke to a family near the area where the incident had taken place. Then we came across a boy who said he remembered seeing a person with the description given by the girl near a CNG pump in the area. Then we met some scrap dealers who also recognised the suspect. They directed us to a factory from where he had been fired for allegedly stealing some iron parts. They had a video of him and told us about his house in Habibpur. We found him on Wednesday night while he was sleeping in a field nearby,” said the SHO.The suspect was identified as Rakesh Jatav, who is from Bulandshahr was currently living in Habibpur village.The police said that Rakesh had a country-made pistol on him and fired at the police team while resisting arrest. He was nabbed following an encounter and the weapon was seized, they added.“During questioning, the suspect told us that he had gone to the area looking for some marijuana and had come across the girl after which he subdued her and raped her. We have recovered his clothes with blood stains and other forensic evidence on them,” said SHO Chauhan. Rakesh had also been arrested a year ago for allegedly stealing scrap from an abandoned mall in Greater Noida, she added.The suspect was booked under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the protection of children from sexual offences (POCSO) act . He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said. Meanwhile, the girl is still recuperating at the district hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/masked-man-rapes-12-year-old-girl-in-greater-noida-arrested/story-Bb84ZSStxJBWVy39tY6JNI.html
27-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Two new roads opened to decongest Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera road||The Noida authority on Thursday said it has opened two new stretches – known as Badshahi road and Bhangel-Gejha road – to decongest the Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) thoroughfare that witnesses traffic congestion due to construction underway on it. The authority had been constructing a 5.5 km long elevated corridor above the DSC road, which is one of the city’s key routes, since March. The work of piling to build pillars is in full swing. As a result, the DSC road’s 5.5 km stretch sees heavy traffic daily, particularly during peak hours. To ease the traffic pangs the authority has built and opened two alternate routes. The two roads were inaugurated by Dr Mahesh Sharma, Member of Parliament from Gautam Budh Nagar, and Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, along with Noida authority general manager Rajiv Tyagi.“Commuters need not face traffic jams on Dadri road anymore as these stretches will provide relief. We have built these two routes because work on the Bhangel elevated above Dadri road is on in full swing. These two routes were earlier in a bad condition before we constructed them,” said Tyagi. The Badshahi road is 7.5meters wide and 1.250 km long, beginning from Sector 110 and ending at Sector 107. The authority has spent Rs 1.81 crore on this project. The four-lane 1.25 km long Bhangel to Gejha road connects these two villages. The authority spent Rs 3.4 crore on this project, said officials.“If you want to travel from and to sectors 107 to 110 or 108, where the police commissioner office is located, then you need not take Dadri road anymore. Now, one can directly take these two roads and travel from sectors 80, 108, 93 to sectors 107, 100 or 47 without facing congestion,” said Tyagi. Earlier, the Badshahi road was not in use as it was not in working condition due to it being a low lying area filled with water all the time, said authority officials. “We have also repaired the drains running along these two roads so that they remain clean without water logging issues,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-two-new-roads-opened-to-decongest-dadri-surajpur-chhalera-road/story-TIiUSmLWInUwu43wEUBbsO.html
27-08-2020||City||Retired UP Police sub-inspector shoots at son, kills self||A retired Uttar Pradesh police sub-inspector (SI) allegedly shot at his son twice on Wednesday night following a domestic dispute before turning his licenced revolver on himself and died at his home in Dadri.The son, who was shot at in the chest and leg, is undergoing treatment. His condition is stated to be critical, the police said.The retired SI, identified as Bachhan Singh (65), was posted in Bijnor district— from where he retired in 2015— and lived with two of his sons in Escorts colony under the jurisdiction of Dadri police station.The police said the family members were often involved in domestic disputes over money and property matters among themselves and his two sons would also object to Bachhan’s drinking habit.“We have found out that domestic disputes were common in the household. The incident took place at around 10:30 pm on Wednesday. It appears that following another round of altercation, Singh took out his licenced revolver and opened fire at his eldest son in the chest and leg. He then shot himself and died on the spot. The son, Yogender, was taken to a local hospital, where he is undergoing treatment,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Zone 3, Greater Noida.According to the police, Yogender,32, had returned from work at a private company in Surajpur around 9.30 pm. They added that the two were under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident. Yogender’s wife and younger brother, Virender, were also present in the house.Bacchan Singh’s body has been sent for an autopsy.“Taking cognisance of the 112 call (police helpline), the body has been sent for an autopsy. His family is yet to file a complaint. We will register a case immediately once we receive a complaint from them,” said the ADCP.The family was waiting for the body to be handed over to them after the autopsy.“Some of us are waiting here at the post mortem house and others are in the hospital with my nephew (Yogendra). We are unable to comprehend what happened. There were certain issues that had arose after Bachhan retired from work, but no one could have imagined that the situation would escalate so much,” said Gyan Singh, the deceased’s older brother.The police said Singh was estranged from his wife, who lived with their youngest son in Himachal Pradesh where he was working. The reason for the domestic dispute on Wednesday late evening is still not clear, the police said. “A probe in the matter is in progress,” ADCP Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-up-police-sub-inspector-shoots-at-son-kills-self/story-BvtO2NRaq3RWMZHjlZpEZL.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Anganwadi workers in Ludhiana await funds to pay rent for workspace||Workers from 1,700 anganwadi centers in Ludhiana district have not received funds for the last five months to pay rent for their workspace. Over 2,400 Anganwadi workers and helpers in the district have been contacting the child development project officers of their blocks daily to get an update on the status of funds. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, the workers have been struggling as owners have asked them to either pay or vacate the space. At every Anganwadi center, there are one or two rooms, taken up to accommodate children below six years and the women and child development department is providing Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,000 for rent. The funds are transferred to the accounts of workers of the Anganwadi center. Anganwadi centers are operational in 16 blocks of the district under the Government of India scheme, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS).Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union general secretary, Subhash Rani, said, “A large number of Anganwadi centers are running in rooms that have been taken on rent, and we are awaiting funds for the last five months to pay the owners. Due to Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown imposed in March, all anganwadi centers were closed and workers were asked to deliver dry ration to the homes of the children. I contacted officials of the Women and child development department today and they confirmed that funds to two blocks, Urban -3 and Rural 1, have been transferred and the other blocks will also get it within this week.” Gul Bahar Singh, district programme officer, Ludhiana, said, “Whenever we receive the demand from centers, the fund is released. Ministerial staff of the district treasury branch was on strike, and the funds may not have not been transferred, but there is no delay from our side.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anganwadi-workers-in-ludhiana-await-funds-to-pay-rent-for-workspace/story-cCmvpWvTuFSuKY228Gg5gM.html
27-08-2020||Noida||Illegal under-construction building sealed in Noida’s Mamura||The Noida authority on Tuesday sealed a building that was being constructed without proper permissions in Mamura, sector 67 during its drive to take action against those who have encroached upon notified land meant for planned development.The building that has been sealed was being built on 1500 square metres of land and is located on Khasra number 24 of Mamura area, near sector 67. The construction at the site was being carried out without getting its map approved from the Noida authority, which is illegal .“We will continue to act against illegal buildings, which are coming up across the city. We have appealed to the general public to not buy any flats or plots in projects that are being built without approval of the building map,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.Officials said, in the latest case, the building was being constructed to sell flats to buyers. As per rules, no developer can sell flats in a residential structure without getting its map approved by the Noida authority.The authority has filed FIRs against 9 persons, who were allegedly involved in constructing of the building. As per estimate of the Noida authority, the land on which the building was coming up is at least worth Rs 20 crore as per prevailing market value.Apart from this, the authority has also released an appeal to general public that they should not play into the hands of those who are involved in construction of the unauthorized buildings in the city. The authority will demolish all such illegal buildings, seal them and act against those involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/illegal-under-construction-building-sealed-in-noida-s-mamura/story-zmX5ZK3g8uuCRtdk5C2TdN.html
27-08-2020||City||State govt directs Ghaziabad to increase RT-PCR testing, surveillance in non-containment zones||On Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh government appointed nodal officer, Senthil Pandian C, an IAS officer, came to Ghaziabad and held a review meeting for efforts to control Covid-19 taken up in the district. The officer, during the meeting, directed district officials to take up surveillance activities in non-containment zones and also to enhance RT-PCR testing in comparison to rapid antigen kits. Apart from this, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister has directed the districts to take up case studies of recovered patients so that such analysis can be put to use for treating other patients and number of recoveries can be increased further. The officials in Ghaziabad said that they have started working in compliance of the directions and formed groups of doctors who have already started with the activity. “On directions of the CM, we have formed groups of doctors who are in touch with senior doctors from Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI), Lucknow. The case studies of patients are discussed and exchange of information has started taking place. The nodal officer has directed for increasing RT-PCR testing and also to enhance surveillance activities in non-containment zones,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. At present, the district is taking up about 800-1,000 RT-PCR tests per day and another set of about 2,000 tests through rapid antigen kits. Till August 26, the district achieved a total sampling of 1,83,687 samples out of which test results were received for 1,78,056 samples.Of total tests till August 26, the share of tests conducted through rapid antigen kits stood at 1,04,204 and 2,708 of these were found positive. Further, officials of the district health department also said that they will now be making extensive use of medicines like hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and Ivermectin which will be used as prophylactics. “We have stock of about 1.5 lakh of HCQ and over one lakh of Ivermectin tablets. We now plan to provide these to patients, their contacts and also to people in containment zones so that they get protection against the infection. This way we plan to contain the infection and a review will be made in a fortnight. The state government has recommended the use of the two prophylactics, through an order,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. Officials said the renewed measures have been directed so that the number of discharges is increased further in comparison to active cases.“Since a lot of efforts are being put up in co-ordinated activities, our fatality rate has come down and number of discharges has also increased in comparison to active cases,” Pandey added. According to official figures, the number of discharges surpassed the number of active cases since July 10. Then, the total patients discharged stood at 1,459 while active cases stood at 1,341. Since then, the gap between discharges and active cases has widened with figures of August 26 stating total discharges at 6,352, while the number of active cases at 1,237. This is about 5.13 times the active cases. At national level, according to the figures of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on August 26, the number of Covid recoveries across the country exceeded the active cases by 3.5 times. The figures by the Ministry indicated that 1,760,489 people have recovered which is more than the number of active cases which stood at 7,07,267 on August 26. With the figures, the country’s recovery rate amongst the Covid-19 patients crossed 76%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-govt-directs-ghaziabad-to-increase-rt-pcr-testing-surveillance-in-non-containment-zones/story-b4kOypHv8T3wsWyEueJkgO.html
27-08-2020||City||Random testing helped Ghaziabad discover most of its positive cases||Random testing and testing people with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (Sari) helped Ghaziabad find most of its Covid-19 positive cases since March, according to the state health department data till August 27. While each found four out of every 10 positive cases in the district, contact tracing of positive cases gave only eight percent of the district’s 7,863 cases. This, however, needs to be seen in the context of data collection process when those collating sources included cases from several sources such as contact tracing and international and domestic passengers as people with “ILI and Sari symptoms”, said health department officials.The figures of the realtime state Covid-19 portal revealed that about 44.14% of cases have resulted from tests conducted on ILI and SARI cases across the district from March to August 27 (data up to 4pm). Of these, ILI contributed about 2,234 positive cases while SARI resulted in 1,237 positive cases out of total of 7863 cases. “As expected, the ILI and Sari have been major contributors to our cases and this is why our surveillance teams have been specifically asked to track such patients. The idea is to detect such cases at the earliest so that they do not move to stage of complication. We have also enhanced the number of our surveillance teams and focussing on early detection, testing and immediate referrals,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “The district has been continuously taking up 3000-3500 tests per day and contact tracing activities have also been about 99% complete. Since we have improved our systems we have positive cases coming in but we are focussing on their quality treatment. This is why the number of discharges is high and there is considerable reduction in fatality rate which is below 1%.” Presently, surveillance teams and also teams of booth level officers are deployed to trace ILI and Sari cases in containment as well as non-containment zones. The next major contributor to the tally is of positive cases which resulted due to random sampling at the booths or from high incidence areas. Together, such sampling/testing resulted in 3421 cases which account for 43.51% of 7863 total cases. For the purpose, the district administration has been carrying out random sampling in high incidence areas with 20 different facilities comprising of mobile vans, mobile teams as well as static booths where anyone can walk-in and get themselves tested. The contact tracing, despite its seemingly low contribution, is the third largest source of infections with 630 positive cases. According to the officials of the district health department, they have traced the contacts of 99% of 7,744 patients till August 26 and identified 52,343 people who may have contracted the disease this way. “The average contact per patient is about 6.82 for overall cases from March to August 26. Of these, testing of 96% contacts was completed. In the month of August, we have traced 2409 contacts of 2544 patients with a rate of about 9.5 contacts per patient and 22782 contacts identified. Of the overall contacts identified in 26 days of August, testing of 98% contacts was completed,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The contact tracing exercise is vital for early identification of people who came in contact with positive cases and such persons need immediate identification, testing and speedier referral to appropriate Covid facilities if found positive. Of the total 7863 cases, 96 were those who were found positive during ante natal care or tests conducted before surgeries. Testing for healthcare workers was also taken up during the period and the activity resulted in about 138 positive cases during the period. During the initial months of March and April, several cases had emerged in which people were involved in foreign/domestic travel as well as those who attended religious congregations. The travellers according to the official statistics accounted for about 30 cases while 24 resulted due to their attending different religious congregations. “If we look into the figures of August, they indicate that most of the patients are found positive with ILI/SARI symptoms and also found positive at the walk-in booths. The number of people with history of foreign/domestic travel and also those attending religious congregations have reduced drastically. The contact tracing activities are also yielding positive cases,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. Dr VB Jindal, president of the Ghaziabad chapter of the Indian Medical Association said that the administration must increase random testing in high incidence areas and contact tracing. “These are three core areas where there is high possibility to detect positive cases. Apart from these, people should also be encouraged to come out and get tested. The testing should continue at the same level and immediate tracing of contacts is must. With these, we hope that more cases can be detected and treated timely,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/random-testing-helped-ghaziabad-discover-most-of-its-positive-cases/story-PqRZ57fc6do3Vl26WmNYxL.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Will protest if market curbs not retracted: Chandigarh traders to UT admn||Traders have threatened to hold protests if the weekend restrictions and odd-even formula imposed in some of the markets in the city are not removed.A delegation of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal conveyed this to UT adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday.Beopar Mandal president Anil Vohra said it was unfair to target only traders when the rest of the city remains open, while its chairman Charanjiv Singh revealed that sales had dropped down to nearly 25% for traders of non-essential items. Mandal general secretary Kamaljit Panchhi added that the odd-even restrictions were especially bad for the small traders in some of the congested markets as they didn’t have enough money to make ends meet.The traders have also reached out to municipal commissioner KK Yadav and BJP president Arun Sood regarding the issue.The mandal had held a virtual conference with heads of all markets of the city where it was decided that if weekend and odd-even restrictions were not removed, market-wise protests will be started throughout the city this weekend.Vohra, however, confirmed that the UT adviser was sympathetic to the problems faced by the traders and they were hopeful that the curbs would be revoked at the war room meeting on Friday.TRICITY SALON BODY MEETS UT ADVISERThe Tricity Salon Association also met with the UT adviser over the weekend restrictions issue. Veer Kaul of Headmasters Salon in Sector 8-C, who was present in the meeting, said weekends accounted for around 50% of their business and the administration’s decision to close non-essential shops had especially affected salon owners. They also discussed details of ‘Save the Barbers’ campaign that the association has started with the Rotary Club of Chandigarh.AAP FOR ENDING ODD-EVEN SYSTEMThe city unit of Aam Admi Party (AAP) has demanded relaxation in the weekend lockdown, besides the withdrawal of odd-even system for shops in congested markets.An APP delegation led by its convenor Prem Garg, along with organising secretary Vikram Pundir, met UT adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday and submitted a memorandum for not labelling a locality or area as containment zone where one or two persons test positive for Covid-19. “Declaration of an area as containment zone results in untold miseries on the residents and their lives get disturbed,” the delegation stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-protest-if-market-curbs-not-retracted-chandigarh-traders-to-ut-admn/story-WzOaR5mpSCqhpLWfjyZIOM.html
27-08-2020||Noida||National Fertilizers Limited promotes Warli painting on its walls||Noida-based National Fertilizers Limited (NFL), a central Public Sector Undertaking, and country’s leading fertilizers manufacturer, is promoting warli painting. The paintings, done by a few artists who were rendered jobless in the last few months, now adorn its outer wall of the Sector 24 Noida head office. Warli painting is a style of tribal art mostly created by the people from the North Sahyadri Range in Maharashtra. The Warli culture is centered on the concept of nature and its elements are often focal points depicted in the painting. These rudimentary wall paintings use a set of basic geometric shapes: a circle, a triangle, and a square for depiction. Virendra Nath Datt, NFL chairperson and managing director, said these paintings display the life of rural India, which the company primarily caters to. “NFL manufactures 38 lakh metric tonne urea annually in its plants located at Nangal & Bathinda in Punjab; Panipat in Haryana; and Vijaipur in Guna district of Madhya Pradesh. The company has been serving the farming community for the last four and half decade through its products. In continuation with the same intention, we decided to promote the painting at our office,” he said. He said that he had seen some wall paintings in Noida city and planned to use similar painting at the office. “We came to know that some artists had made paintings on the pillars of Noida elevated road. We contacted them and received information that they were jobless after the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown. Last week we engaged five artists who completed the work in four days,” he said. “We are getting good feedback from local people and visitors. We may also install such paintings at our manufacturing plants,” said Sanjeev Randeva, deputy general manager, corporate communication, NFL. NFL is serving the rural communities through different projects including rural electrification by installation of solar lights, construction of toilets in government schools, rejuvenation of village ponds, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/national-fertilizers-limited-promotes-warli-painting-on-its-walls/story-QS154Rt5jzAWbBgJVwsWkK.html
27-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Parents demand fee waiver, hold demonstration outside school||A group of parents on Thursday demonstrated outside the JSS Public School in Noida’s Sector 61 demanding tuition fee reduction. The parents said that most of them have faced salary cuts and job losses and hence are unable to pay the fee.Akhilesh Kumar Singh, one of the parents, said due to the pandemic, the incomes of most of the people have been adversely affected while some have even lost their jobs. “People are unable to pay the EMIs of their loans and meet other expenses. The parents requested the school management to waive 50% tuition fee till normalcy returns. We also wrote emails to the school management but they did not reply. We then decided to protest,” he said. He added that the school sought salary slips and other financial documents of parents when asked for fee waivers. Manoj Kumar Kataria, another parent, said the school has stopped classroom teachings since lockdown began. “Their expenses have reduced as the school is closed. They are organising online classes but this facility is no match to face-to-face classroom teaching. This is why we demand reduction of fee,” he said. “We want the school management to address this problem so that our children can continue to study in the same school uninterrupted,” he added.The school runs classes from nursery to class 12 and has a quarterly fee of Rs 15,000. Naina Singh, principal of JSS Public School, said a delegation of parents had met her over their demands. “The parents had raised concerns in the previous month as well and we had reduced the fee by 10%. We have not increased the tuition fee in this academic year. The parents are demanding a 50% reduction in tuition fee. We will discuss the issue with the school management to resolve the issue,” Singh said. Meanwhile, Alok Singh, a parent and resident of Sector Alpha 1, said parents are raising fee waiver demands in Greater Noida-based schools as well. “We know schools are closed and the managements of schools are not incurring expenses on water, power, maintenance, transportation, etc. On the other hand, some parents have faced salary trims and job loss. In such a situation, schools should understand parents’ grievances and reduce the fee,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-parents-demand-fee-waiver-hold-demonstration-outside-school/story-wm1ecgR1rOoE64qkHvG5cN.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||High security registration plates compulsory for all vehicles: Ambala SDM||: The Ambala transport department has made installation of high security registration plates (HSRP) compulsory for all vehicles, sub-divisional magistrate Sachin Gupta said on Thursday.He said the plates are available at booth number 194 at the city’s grain market and without the HSRP, registration certificates (RC) will not be issued.“There is also the provision to issue stickers according to fuel used for the vehicle. This includes blue stickers for petrol and CNG vehicles, gray stickers for electric vehicles and orange for diesel vehicles. The sticker has complete details of the vehicle like chassis number, engine number and the user ID of the plate,” the SDM said.To make the learner’s licence issuing service more transparent, the SDM’s office has also installed CCTV cameras to monitor the test conducted online by the transport ministry. The driving test is also being videographed, Gupta said, adding that complaints can be submitted on 8683044000 or the Twitter handle, ambalacity_sdm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-security-registration-plates-compulsory-for-all-vehicles-ambala-sdm/story-QmH55HOcZOyzzKbu9UBjrI.html
27-08-2020||City||DDA to start public consultation for Delhi’s master plan 2041 from Sept 2||New Delhi: The Delhi Development Authority will start public consultations for the preparation of Master Plan of Delhi-2041, a vision document for the city’s development in the next two decades, from September 2.The existing Master Plan of Delhi-2021, which came into effect on February 7, 2007, will be in force till the new plan is notified. To begin with, the land-owning agency will call resident welfare associations of unauthorised colonies. The Centre, last year, had started the process of giving ownership rights to residents of Delhi 1,731 unauthorised colonies -- which has become a core issue and a bone of contention between Delhi’s political parties.A senior DDA official said, “To begin this process, an online meeting will be held on September 2 with RWAs of unauthorised colonies of Delhi. This is to understand the issues in their localities and discuss possible solutions for improving the quality of life of residents in these areas.”The DDA has roped in the National Institute of Urban Afffairs, an advisory body under the Union minister of Housing and urban affairs, for the preparation of MPD-2041.The DDA had started the process to confer ownership rights to residents in unauthorised colonies in December 2019. Just days before the model code of conduct for the Delhi assembly elections was put in force, the Centre had handed over ownership rights documents to 20 property owners under the Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY). Close to 30% to 35% of the city’s population live in 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi.The DDA official said that for the consultation process, RWAs of these colonies can register by sending an e-mail at mpd2041@gmail.com. The land-owning agency has also launched an interactive microsite ‘Public Engagement Portal for MPD-2041’ for dissemination of information about the consultative process, the official said.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “We look forward to active participation from the people of Delhi and seek their support towards shaping a shared vision for Delhi.”The DDA official said that the land-owning agency plans to hold large-scale consultative meetings with various groups. But due to the Coronavirus pandemic, these meetings will be held online.After unauthorised colonies, DDA will hold meetings with various stakeholders and citizen groups such as RWAs, market and trader associations, industry associations, informal sector, women, children and youth, professional bodies and associations, etc., in the next two months.The NIUA has been asked to submit the draft MPD-2041by December this year, another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-to-start-public-consultation-for-delhi-s-master-plan-2041-from-sept-2/story-lLUlPGeCEtsFB2PkiC0gwM.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Consider giving subsidised tickets to DU students, HC tells railways ministry||The Delhi high court on Thursday directed the ministry of railways to consider issuing confirmed train tickets to specially abled Delhi University students who have to appear in person for their final-year exams that are to start from September 14.The court put forward the suggestion after it was informed that many students living in far-off cities were not in a condition to arrange travel and stay in Delhi for the duration of their exams from September 14 to October 1.HT had earlier reported that the second leg of the open book examination (OBE) for final-year students will be conducted in both online and offline modes so that students can choose the mode they prefer.A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad was hearing pleas by law student Prateek Sharma and the National Federation for Blind seeking to set up effective mechanisms for visually impaired and the specially abled students. Senior advocate Santosh Rungta, appearing for National Federation for Blind , told the court that 222 students with disabilities, who could not appear in the first leg of OBE, were apprehensive about appearing in person for the second leg because of several constraints.He said that while his organisation was ready to bear the expenses of the boarding and lodging of students, it was the responsibility of the government to ensure that students do not suffer.The court then directed the ministry of human resources development (now ministry of education) to approach the railways ministry and request it to arrange the travel of students with disabilities from states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh, among others, to Delhi.It asked the two ministries, and the ministry of social justice to file separate affidavits on the feasibility of providing subsidised tickets to students and to ensure that students reach the city at least five days prior to the examination.It also asked students with disabilities to specify the mode— online or offline — in which they would prefer to attempt the exam, while also directing them to mail their credentials to Delhi University if they want to come to the city to take the examination in person.Senior advocate Sachin Datta, appearing for the varsity, said students who are unable to appear in person for the exam, can take the examination in the online format.However, Rungta said that while it was easier for students to arrange scribes in Delhi, it would be difficult for them to do so in other states. Following this, the court asked the ministries to look into the issue and posted the matter for further hearing on September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/consider-giving-subsidised-tickets-to-du-students-hc-tells-railways-ministry/story-jIlIQOa1DFXVoc29v1ERqM.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi woman’s distress email to British PM sends police into a tizzy; she is rescued from Rohini in 2 hours||A “distress email” from a Delhi woman to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday night (Indian time), seeking his urgent help and threatening to kill herself if help did not reach her in two hours, send the Delhi Police into a tizzy, with officers acting swiftly to locate and rescue her.The sensitive nature of her email had Johnson’s office contacting the Indian High Commission in London, which in turn alerted the external affairs ministry (MEA) in Delhi. The ministry wasted no time in passing on the information to the Delhi Police, seeking their “immediate intervention” in saving the woman’s life, officers privy to the matter said. The Delhi Police launched a “door-to-door search operation” and within two hours, they managed to trace her location to a house in Rohini’s Sector 21 from where she was rescued, the police said. “The woman was found living in an unhygienic condition and it looked like her house had not been cleaned in years. The woman was of poor mental health possibly due to breakdown of her marriage and a huge financial burden from past loans,” deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra said. DCP Mishra said on Wednesday around 11pm -- it was around 6.30pm in London -- the 42-year-old woman sent the email to Johnson, seeking his urgent help and sounding to be in an extremely distressed state of mind. She further said that “if help is not met in the next two hours, she would commit suicide”. “The Indian high commission in London immediately contacted the MEA officials in India and sought their quick response as the woman’s life appeared to be at stake. Subsequently, the information reached Aman Vihar police station from where 10 personnel were sent to locate her,” Mishra said. The information sharing procedure from London to the Delhi Police involved multiple channels and took around 45 minutes. The 10-member Aman Vihar police team took around an hour to locate her, said a police officer, requesting anonymity. Asked how the woman got Johnson’s email address, DCP Mishra said, “She is being counselled. As and when we get this information, we will share it.”An officer, who was part of the rescue team, said the rescue was difficult as they only had her name and an incomplete address to go by. The team had to undertake a door-to-door search. All the while, police kept trying the phone number mentioned in the email, but there was no answer. “With the help of local security guards and residents, we reached the building where the woman lived alone on the third floor. However, despite our repeated persuasions, the woman did not open the door. So, we called in a team from the fire department and while they were about to break open the door, she opened it,” the officer said. DCP Mishra said the woman looked fraught with anxiety and fear.She requested the rescue team to leave and told them that “she was okay”. Obliging her, only a few officers stayed back while the others left. Thereafter, the officers counselled her and went inside the house to find some 16-18 cats roaming around, he said. During the course of counselling, the officer said, the woman told them that she used to teach at a municipal school but resigned because of personal reasons. The woman also spoke of her divorce, almost a decade ago, and her financial crisis. “It appears that the stress of the financial burden took a toll on her mental health. We called in two psychologists and a doctor to address her problems and advise us if we should obtain the requisite assent to shift her to the Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences for further treatment,” DCP Mishra said.A police officer said the woman is currently at her home and is being counselled. Her house has also been cleaned, the officer said.No other official comment was forthcoming on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-woman-s-distress-email-to-british-pm-sends-police-into-a-tizzy-she-is-rescued-from-rohini-in-2-hours/story-buy4yCoJjRBKOuFIo9rwTI.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Ruckus in North Delhi Municipal Corporation over purchase of anti-dengue spray||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors on Thursday created a ruckus in the house meeting of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and accused the civic body of purchasing anti-larvae chemicals at a higher rate of ₹3,256 per kilo, compared to the ₹2,500 a kilo paid by other municipal corporations for chemicals of similar quality. As soon as the house proceedings began, AAP councillors entered well of the house started shouting slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rules the civic body. Following the ruckus, the house was adjourned for the day.Vikas Goel, leader of opposition in the north corporation, alleged that purchase of anti-larvae chemical was a scam running into crores of rupees. “They (the BJP leaders in the civic body) appointed their favourite civic official to approve the drug procurement order. They bought the anti-larvae drug at ₹3,256.8 per kilo whereas the same quality drug was bought by Bhopal Municipal Corporation at ₹2,500 a kilo. This is a case of corruption,” Goel said.The AAP councillors demanded suspension of the official involved and also an inquiry into the matter.Jai Prakash, mayor, north corporation, refuted the allegations and said the AAP behaved in an “irresponsible manner” and did not let the house function and deliberate on important issues such as the financial crisis looming large on the civic body.“These are completely baseless allegations. They (the AAP) are rattled by our anti-dengue and malaria campaign. They have no achievements to tell so they are making such allegations,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ruckus-in-north-delhi-municipal-corporation-over-purchase-of-anti-dengue-spray/story-3y5mMZMAIiqsRgotBzuD4O.html
27-08-2020||City||Jamia demands action against Sudarshan News||New Delhi: Jamia Millia Islamia on Thursday wrote to the Ministry of Education, demanding action against a news channel for “tarnishing” the image of the varsity by using communal slurs.Earlier in the day, a video surfaced on social media platforms showing Sudarshan News anchor, using communal slurs against the Muslims and raising questions over how more Muslim candidates and students from Jamia Millia Islamia were clearing the civil services exams. “We have written to education ministry informing about the whole episode and requested them to take appropriate action. We told them that the Sudarshan News has not only tried to tarnish the image of Jamia Millia Islamia and a particular community but the image of Union Public Service Commission as well,” said media coordinator Ahmad Azeem.Jamia’s teachers’ association also condemned the incident earlier in the day and asked the administration to take action on the matter. “The tweet and language in the video is anti-national, it accuses the selection process by UPSC in highly objectionable words. It also targets recruitment of Muslims in the Indian Administrative Services and labels them with the word “Jihadi” and dares how any Muslim can become an Indian administrative officer,” JTA secretary Majid Jamil said, adding that the video puts Jamia’s Residential Coaching Academy in “bad light.”This year, 30 students from Jamia’s Residential Coaching Academy cleared UPSC civil services exams. Indian Police Service (Central) also condemned the video on twitter. “A news story targeting candidates in civil services on the basis of religion is being promoted by Sudarshan TV. We condemn the communal and irresponsible piece of journalism,” the service tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jamia-demands-action-against-sudarshan-news/story-fgyqDh9mO4Q8PuOjOoaC0L.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Frequent Covid infections among Chandigarh admn, MC staff derail public dealing works||With more and more officials and employees of the UT administration and municipal corporation testing positive for Covid-19, the work in public dealing offices has come to a grinding halt.The worst hit by the pandemic are the office of the deputy commissioner (including registrar office), estate office, RLA and the municipal corporation, where already piled up routine works have been delayed by months.One of the busiest public-dealing offices, RLA in Sector 17 was completely shut down on Wednesday after its four employees tested positive in the recent past. Reports of over 40 are awaited.“For transferring ownership of a car, which required one or two days, now the RLA office is giving appointment of two to three months. DC’s office and estate office have also prohibited public visits. Residents are at the receiving end of these shutdowns, as not everyone can easily get through to officials concerned over the phone,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED).RLA, MC LATEST TO GET IMPACTEDBefore the pandemic hit the city in March, at least 800 people visited the RLA office on an average per day. After the lockdown restrictions were lifted in June, RLA introduced online appointments for all its services. But, even then the office saw a daily footfall of nearly 400 people.“The public dealing has been suspended not just for protection of the RLA staff but also the visitors. For now, the office has been closed till August 31, but if more employees test positive, the shutdown may be extended,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity.On Thursday, parts of MC office in Sector 17, including the booking department, vendors’ registration office, fire department, etc., were sealed for 48 hours after a social development officer tested positive. He was into public dealing with street vendors among others.Earlier, other parts of the MC office were sealed after an official of the additional commissioner-level was found infected.“MC deals with the daily needs of residents, so it is difficult to shut down the entire office. Things are tough, but we have to manage somehow,” said an MC official, not wishing to be named.FREQUENT SHUTDOWNS AT DC AND ESTATE OFFICESince July, when the city started to witness sharp surge in Covid-19 cases, the DC office and estate office in Sector 17 have been frequently closed whenever their employees test positive. Even after the offices are reopened after disinfection, public access to offices remains limited to just an hour, that too with appointment, often restricted to two or three a day. A senior estate official said, “Though the diary desk is open, work in the public dealing departments has been affected. When an employee tests positive, we have to quarantine all their contacts, which is a sizable number and affects staffing. Then, other staffers also go on leave fearing risk of infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/frequent-covid-positive-cases-among-chandigarh-mc-staff-derail-public-dealing-works/story-vC8u8J39CQ1nEPzMEV8sbI.html
27-08-2020||City||Man booked for raping 12-year-old daughter in J&K’s Doda||A man has been booked for allegedly raping his 12-year-old daughter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda district, police said. “The accused Mohammad Yakoob, 35, of Bharti village in Gundoh tehsil, raped his daughter on August 22. The issue came to light on August 23 when the girl’s mother lodged a report with the women cell. The accused is absconding since August 23,” a police officer said. Sources said the incident took place when the victim’s mother had gone to visit her ailing father. “He forced himself onto the minor and later threatened her with a knife. However, the girl narrated the incident to her grandmother on phone and subsequently she was brought to the women cell by her mother,” the officer added. A case under Section 4/6 POCSO Act and section 376 of the IPC has been registered. Preliminary medical reports have confirmed that the minor was raped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-raping-12-year-old-daughter-in-j-k-s-doda/story-CbZVmFpFfaEmfvujBQnxzH.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh increases testing, but high positivity rate remains a concern||Under fire for the last few months over low testing rates, Chandigarh has, for the first time, managed to test 700 samples in a 24-hour cycle. The feat, however, has been marred by the high positivity rate of 12%, which is four percent more than the national average.A community health expert at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), not wishing to be named, said, “The high positivity rate indicates that authorities are testing sick patients and those reporting for testing which is as per the established protocol. However, if more random samples within the high-risk and low-risk groups are taken, the positivity rate will eventually go down.”When contacted, UT health secretary Arun Gupta said the city has now brought its testing rate to 700 a day and this number will be further be increased to keep up with the infection spread. “There is no target to be achieved here. We will go according to the virus spread. More people will come under the ambit of testing as the infection spreads,” he said. The city’s testing rate was 150 a day in July, which jumped to 500 in early August and has now touched 700. Gupta added that number has increased after antigen tests were also included for the detection of infection in the asymptomatic cases. UT’s test per million ratio currently stands at 23,381.7, which is less than the national average of 28,941.8.TRACKING UT’s POSITIVITY RATEChandigarh’s positivity rate (number of tests turning positive per 100 tests) has grown from 7% on August 1 to 12% in just 27 days. According to the World Health Organisation’s suggestions, a city’s positivity rate should remain below 5% for 14 days before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control.Director, health services, Chandigarh, Dr G Dewan said, “Chandigarh is carrying out high-quality testing of symptomatic cases reporting in flu clinics established by the UT health department. The positive person’s contacts, identified through rigorous contact tracing, are being tested within a stipulated period. All this is in accordance with the test protocol developed by Indian Council of Medical Research. Around 5,500 tests have also been done through antigen testing apart from RT PCR tests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-increases-testing-but-high-positivity-rate-remains-a-concern/story-tZD2FkXjE54Xs1711icJ0J.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||SSP APPOINTMENT: Officers named in panel have conveyed willingness to serve in Chandigarh: UT to MHA||The UT administration has reiterated to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) that the officers, whose names have been suggested for the post of senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic), have conveyed their willingness to serve in the city. The administration had sent the names of three Haryana-cadre officers: Surinder Pal Singh, 2010-batch, Virender Kumar, 2011-batch, and Manisha Chaudhary, 2011-batch, to the MHA, while recommending Chaudhary for the post.The MHA had, last week, asked the UT administration to seek the officers’ willingness to serve in UT. “We have already sent the ‘willingness’ of all the three officers, along with the recommendations to the MHA. Now, we have again reiterated the same to the MHA. In fact, we were surprised to get this request from the MHA,” said a senior UT officer requesting anonymity.Chaudhary will be the first woman SSP (traffic) if her name is approved by the MHA. She is presently serving as SP, Panipat.Shashank Anand, who was holding the post of DIG (security and traffic) was relieved from his duties on July 30 and transferred back to his parent cadre. He is a 2006-batch IPS officer. Currently, SP (headquarters) Manoj Meena, an IPS officer of AGMUT cadre, is holding the additional charge of SSP (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ssp-appointment-officers-named-in-panel-have-conveyed-willingness-to-serve-in-chandigarh-ut-to-mha/story-JJgYrgcCX8KZjnDFj9i56L.html
27-08-2020||City||Punjab government signs MoU with IIT Ropar to foster entrepreneurship||Punjab Biotechnology Incubator (PBTI), Mohali under the Punjab government’s department of science, technology and environment signed an MoU with Technology Business Incubator Foundation (TBIF), IIT Ropar to foster entrepreneurship in the state by jointly working towards facilitating young students, scientists of both institutes, early-stage start-ups, entrepreneurs and to provide them opportunity to further hone up their skills/ideas. Sharing the information, a spokesperson of Punjab Biotechnology Incubator said that PBTI Mohali and TBIF-IIT Ropar agreed to explore the possibility of engaging and collaborating in innovation and entrepreneurship driven opportunities and resources, promoting collaboration in the field of mutual interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-government-signs-mou-with-iit-ropar-to-foster-entrepreneurship/story-xJ2mUf7BMUj04PKjfjGsWO.html
27-08-2020||City||Ludhiana police chief extends ban on storage, sale, use of plastic kite flying thread||Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal on Thursday extended a ban on sale, storage and use of plastic thread for flying kites in the city till October 27. He said that these sharp edged threads not only hurt birds but also children. Numerous accidents due to plastic threads have been reported during the past few years. Many commuters have suffered injuries on their face and neck after getting entangled in the strings while riding two-wheelers. Many birds have reportedly died after getting entangled in the deadly string.The police chief also ordered the transfer and ownership of second-hand vehicles in the name of buyers within 30 days of purchase of vehicle. The police chief added that assailants buy second-hand vehicles and use them for criminal activities.Besides, a ban on ferrying people on vehicles meant for loading material has also been imposed in the city. Keep record of buyers of army print clothes: CPThe commissioner of police also issued orders to shopkeepers to keep record of buyers of army print clothes and uniforms under Section 144 of the CrPC. Anti-social elements can misuse and commit crime in the city by wearing army and paramilitary uniforms, he said.He asked shopkeepers to keep a picture, identification proof and phone numbers of buyers while selling army uniforms. The shopkeepers will also keep a record of the stock and will submit it at police stations concerned.Agrawal has banned the sale of sub-standard helmets in the city. He asked sellers to sell helmets with ISI marks only. Besides, a ban has been imposed on carrying sand in uncovered vehicles, as it could lead to road mishaps. Get tenant, domestic help verifiedAfter repeated incidents of robberies and burglaries by domestic helps, servants, Agrawal has ordered to get their police verification done. He also ordered police verification of tenants before renting out an accommodation. The police chief said that people who do not follow these orders will face legal action.Ban on writing police, army tags on vehiclesAgrawal has extended a ban on writing ‘police’, ‘army’ and other such VIP tags on vehicles without any authority. According to the police chief, anti-social elements and criminals could take advantage of such tags and it could disrupt law and order in the city.He has also extended the ban on the use of tinted glasses on the vehicles and drinking on roadside or outside liquor vends. In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the CP has extended the ban on sale of tobacco products to deter spitting in the open. The ban will remain in effect for two months.No person can use footpaths to install rehri, makeshift stalls of eatables, besides no shopkeeper can keep his goods outside the premises of his shop, he said in an order. All these orders would remain in force for the next two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-chief-extends-ban-on-storage-sale-use-of-plastic-kite-flying-thread/story-5fXQzZgo9gWAHnbXWPEPDP.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration to spend ₹10 lakh on urgent cleaning of Sukhna Lake||Keeping in mind the increase in the water level of the Sukhna Lake due to incessant rains, the UT administration has decided to spend ₹10 lakh on immediate cleaning of garbage and weeds from the water resource.The officials of the UT engineering department said that though cleaning is annual work, the present drive is an urgent matter because of flooding caused by the release of excess water from Sukhna flood gates.“The high court has also issued guidelines from time to time regarding the cleaning of Sukhna Lake. The heavy growth of weeds and garbage lower the water storage capacity of the lake. Last year, a private agency hired by the engineering department had begun cleaning in October, but had to suspend it with the lockdown in March this year,” said a senior department official wishing not to be named.The department has now floated a fresh tender, and after the work is allotted, it will take another six months to complete.On August 23, the flood gates had to be opened after the water level crossed the danger mark of 1163 feet. The resulting discharge wreaked havoc down the Sukhna choe in the low-lying areas of Baltana in Zirakpur, Mohali. There was widespread damage and several areas were submerged in 8-10 feet flood waters. In Chandigarh, too, several bridges constructed on the Sukhna choe had to be closed to traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-spend-10-lakh-on-urgent-cleaning-of-sukhna-lake/story-unYlHs8OWYB2y6TxO3rc1J.html
27-08-2020||City||Thieves break into house in Ludhiana, steal foreign currency, jewellery||A gang of thieves targeted a house in Gandhi street on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday and decamped with foreign currency, ₹46,000 in cash and jewellery.Division Number 8 police have lodged an FIR against unidentified persons and initiated investigation.Deepak Sharma of Gandhi Street said that on Thursday morning when his family members woke up they found that the house was ransacked.Upon checking, they found that US dollars, Canadian dollars, ₹46,000 in cash and some jewellery was missing from the house.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division Number 8 police station said that a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC has been registered. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thieves-break-into-house-in-ludhiana-steal-foreign-currency-jewellery/story-t7MsE9VBZN8mCogU8mhqlL.html
27-08-2020||Lucknow||SP removes backward classes cell chief after anti-Ram remarks||Samajwadi Party (SP) on Monday removed Lotanram Nishad as president of the party’s backwards classes cell (pichda varg prakoshth)reportedly over his recent remarks against Lord Ram.Nishad had called Lord Ram “fictitious” in Ayodhya on August 19.The party’s state president Naresh Uttam Patel on Monday issued a letter, stating that Lotanram Nishad was replaced by Rajpal Kashyap (a backward caste leader and member of the UP Legislative Council). The step was taken with the consent of the party’s national president, the letter added.Patel has asked Kashyap to form a new state executive of the cell within 15 days.When asked about the reason for the party’s decision, a senior party spokesperson said: “It’s the SP national president’s decision. Anyway, you are wise to guess.”Lotanram Nishad was not available for his comment.Nishad had been appointed to the post in March. The backwards classes cell is one of the most significant caste/community cells of the party, which has a support base of backward classes and Muslims. Nishad had expressed his views on Lord Ram before reporters during a visit to Ayodhya. The visit was part of the tours he had been undertaking since his appointment.Nishad’s utterance came as an embarrassment to the party that had given unwritten instructions to its members not to make statements against any deity, Ayodhya temple or mosque.Going against the party line, Nishad had said: “I am least bothered if a temple comes up for Ram or a temple comes up for Krishna. I have nothing to do with Ram, I have no faith in Ram...This is my personal view. My faith is in Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s Constitution, Karpoouri Thakur, Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj, Jyotiba Phule, Savitri Bai Phule who gave us the right to speak, get jobs, get an education, and political power. I know those who directly benefited me. If Ram ever was or not, I even put a question mark on his existence. He is a fictitious character, the way it is in the movies. He is part of a story. Even the Constitution said that there was no Ram.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sp-removes-backward-classes-cell-chief-after-anti-ram-remarks/story-zKYDI0zwDCVAt143RZfQhK.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh I-T dept holds webinar on faceless assessment scheme||A National e-Assessment Centre (NeAC) and network of such regional centres will soon be set up across the country to implement the faceless assessment scheme of the income tax (I-T) department.This was stated by Chandigarh principal income tax commissioner RK Choubey during a webinar titled Faceless Assessment Scheme and Taxpayers’ Charter held here on Thursday.“The system allows for dynamic jurisdiction, team-based working, and functional specialisation without human interface,” Choubey said.Making a comparison between the current and faceless assessment system, Choubey said there would be no physical meetings between taxpayers and officers.Along with Choubey, additional I-T commissioner Rajinder Kaur and deputy I-T commissioner Sonia Nain also addressed the participants and responded to their queries.The webinar, which was joined by 100 participants, was organised to promote awareness among the stakeholders about the new faceless assessment scheme. The department intends to hold more such outreach programmes in the coming days to educate tax payers about the new scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-i-t-dept-holds-webinar-on-faceless-assessment-scheme/story-EAJ0CV5RKj8BpIoUfa4fSL.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports biggest single-day jump of 1,746 Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 47,836||Punjab reported its sharpest single-day spike of 1,746 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 47,836, while 37 more fatalities pushed the toll to 1,256, a medical bulletin said.Of the latest deaths, seven were reported from Amritsar; five each from Ludhiana, Sangrur and Mohali; four from Patiala; two each from Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran; and one each from Barnala, Fazilka, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar and Rupnagar, it said.Ludhiana reported the maximum number of fresh cases at 350, followed by 210 in Gurdaspur, 188 in Patiala, 186 in Jalandhar, 178 in Mohali, 127 in Bathinda, 94 in Hoshiarpur, and 74 in Amritsar.A total of 741 coronavirus patients were discharged as they recovered from the infection. So far 30,972 people have been cured of the infection.Currently, there are 15,608 active Covid-19 cases in the state, according to the bulletin.Forty-nine critical patients are on ventilator support and 425 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.With 24,068 more samples being collected for Covid-19 testing, the total number of samples taken so far has reached 9,88,119, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-reports-biggest-single-day-jump-of-1-746-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-47-836/story-pr39wFfKbKNpOdjkgoQAXN.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Marathwada region receives more than normal rainfall this monsoon||Marathwada, typically a drought-prone region in State, has this season received above normal rainfall, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).“With one month still remaining till the monsoon gets over, Marathwada is expected to receive more rains in the coming days. This will make the total rain more than what was recorded in the past few years,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of Weather department at IMD, Pune.Aurangabad has received 1111mm as against a normal of 750 mm, this season. Osmanabad and Parbhani have recorded 633mm and 811mm, respectively, whereas normal rainfall quota of 830mm and 970mm, respectively.Nanded has received below normal rainfall as compared to other districts with 312mm rainfall recorded, this season.“Although Osmanabad and Parbhani are yet complete their annual quota, these figures are satisfactory as such figures have not been recorded over the last two years,” added Kashyapi.Jalna is yet another district in region which has received is 115 per cent surplus.Pune district, too, has received more than normal rainfall this season. Till now, Pune has recorded 580.9mm of rainfall while normal rainfall count stands at 428.9mm.Of the 36 districts in Maharashtra, only Yavatmal and Akola districts have received below normal rainfall this season.Maharashtra, overall, has received 999mm of rain between June 1 and August 27. The normal rainfall is 793.8mm.Marathwada regionName: RainfallOsmanabad: Normal Aurangabad: More than excessParbhani: NormalNanded: NormalBeed: ExcessJalna: ExcessHingoli: NormalLatur: Normal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/marathwada-region-receives-more-than-normal-rainfall-this-monsoon/story-1LxLEQKsU4G5T1fOlEHqfJ.html
27-08-2020||City||Five die, 26 health-care workers among 208 test positive in Ludhiana||Five persons died while 208 tested positive for the coronavirus, taking the total number of cases in Ludhiana to 9,427 on Thursday. The death toll now stands at 350.The active cases stand at 2,024, while 7,050 have recovered so far. Fatalities include an 82-year-old man from Krishna Nagar, Khanna; a 75-year-old man from Maharaj Nagar; a 65-year-old man from Shiv Colony, Dhandari, a 59-year-old from Mehar Singh Nagar; and a 50-year-old from Prem Nagar, Khanna.Others who tested positive include 76 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), 31 contacts of positive patients, 22 patients referred from the OPDs, 26 health-care workers and four domestic travellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-die-26-health-care-workers-among-208-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-48gjsZeHCGCTHfx6m6KDfO.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||PU extends fee submission date till Sept 5||Panjab University (PU) has extended the last date for depositing the fee of ongoing courses from August 31 to September 5. This has come after PU students held a series of protests on campus, seeking semester fee waiver amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Panjab University Campus Students Council president Chetan Chaudhary said the demand for the complete fee waiver stands and a joint front of student parties will take a call on further action. On Tuesday, the front had decided to temporarily suspend protests after authorities agreed to consider their demands regarding semester-fee waiver and extending the last date for fee submission. On the fee waiver issue, the university has promised to take a decision on case-to-case basis wherein a performa will be released by the university, through which needy students will be identified and a fee-waiver will be granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-extends-fee-submission-date-till-sept-5/story-tv2G1HOXBnzOiYxurXRA9K.html
27-08-2020||City||Three inmates attack Ludhiana jail warden to avoid checking||Three inmates attacked a jail warden and tore his uniform during special checking at the Ludhiana Central Jail on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Rishav Benipal, Nihal Sharma and Vijay Sharma.Assistant jail superintendent Harminder Singh told the police that when the jail staff entered the accused’s barrack, they attacked the jail warden, Harbhupinder Singh, and tore his uniform to conceal a sharp-edged weapon. The weapon was later recovered after the trio was nabbed.A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against themASI Hardial Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police will bring the accused on production warrant for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-inmates-attack-jail-warden-to-avoid-checking/story-vyIaT2QKDCgdRzHjbpApXI.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Told to go slow on Covid-19 tests, alleges Delhi minister. Centre responds||The Centre on Thursday dismissed the charge of putting pressure on the Delhi government to not increase Covid-19 testing as “false and baseless”, underlining that it was after the intervention of home minister Amit Shah that daily Covid-10 testing in the national capital, averaging around 4,000 per day till mid June, went up to around 18-20,000 per day in a calibrated manner.The allegation was made by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a letter to home ministry on August 27. “The allegation raised in the letter of the Health Minister of Delhi Govt dated August 27, 2020, which is addressed to Union Home Secretary, to the effect that MHA is putting pressure on Delhi Govt officers not to increase testing in Delhi is false and baseless,” the home ministry tweeted. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Delhi has been possible due to this enhanced testing and other containment measures, said the ministry. “An MHA note has only proposed that the views of an expert committee headed by Dr VK Paul may be taken on the proposed enhancement in testing in Delhi, for technical guidance on various issues such as mix of RT-PCR & Rapid Antigen, categories of geographical areas & demographics etc,” the home ministry said in another tweet.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage On Thursday, Delhi recorded a spike of 1,840 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike in August, taking tally to 1,67,604 while toll climbed to 4,369.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/told-to-go-slow-on-covid-19-tests-alleges-delhi-minister-centre-responds/story-VpkVier2B9Ii3m5BmDwTyO.html
27-08-2020||City||Ludhiana trader ends life, wife, in-laws booked||A day after a 42-year-old trader ended his life here, the Daresi police have booked his wife and in-laws for abetment to suicide on Thursday.As per information, the victim was depressed due to strained relations with his wife of 14 years.The FIR was lodged following the statement of victim’s nephew, who said that due to the friction between the couple, his aunt went to her parents’ house along with the children. His uncle made efforts to bring them back home, but to no avail, the nephew said. He alleged that the accused used to extort money from his uncle.The complainant added that his uncle was in depression and hanged himself on Wednesday.ASI Gurvinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under sections 306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at the Daresi police station. The police will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-trader-ends-life-wife-in-laws-booked/story-Kl6KB5pkgt7DUlpRQhn0dL.html
27-08-2020||City||Case against 54 for dumping debris on Pawana blueline||PUNE: A case has been registered against 54 people living near the blue line of Pawana river for dumping debris and waste.The booked people are mainly residents living near the blue line in Kasarwadi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad, according to the police.“They are small-time farmers living nearby. It is not a major encroachment as we see it. It is the job of municipal corporation, but since they have lodged a complaint, we have registered a case. A panchnama will be conducted and due process will be followed,” said senior inspector Shankar Awtade of Bhosari police station.The complaint was lodged by Rajendra Vasantrao Dumbre, deputy engineer in the building permission department at Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).“They had been served with notices in the past. As the PCMC noticed that the debris is still there, they lodged a complaint and a case was registered. After the notice served months ago, PCMC officials realised that they had not moved the debris,” said sub-inspector Bhimsen Shikhare of Bhosari police station who is investigating the case.There are several spots along the Pawana as well as the Mula-Mutha rivers that run through the city. The issue of debris dumping must be discussed in the light of flash floods and intense rainfall in the city in the past few years. Satellite images could be a solution to finding these spots in an efficient manner, according to Sarang Yadwadkar, architect and environment activist from Pune.“One can use Google Earth and go back on the timeline and then check for spots to find out where debris has been dumped and where new constructions have cropped up. It can be compared with images from different points in the timeline. The issue, however, with Google Earth is that it is two dimensional. I have presented such images before court as well (for Mula-Mutha river bed). In fact, the state government had come up with a notification to have high resolution satellite images taken in city as well as river bed. But no corporation has followed the notification,” said Yadwadkar.A case under Section 53 of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 along with Sections 260, 261, 267 and 472 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1949 was registered at Bhosari police station against the offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/case-against-54-for-dumping-debris-on-pawana-blueline/story-427ykDxE3jhaOXsb7Rz1oI.html
27-08-2020||City||Amid branding row, bid for GI tag for makhana hits hurdle||DARBHANGAThe application filed by Bihar Agriculture University (BAU), Sabour, on behalf of Purnia-based Mithilanchal Makhana Utpadak Sangh (MMUS) seeking geographical indication (GI) tag for makhana (fox nut) by the name of Bihar Makhana has hit a hurdle.Prashanth Kumar S Bhairappanavar, senior examiner at Geographical Indications Registry under the government of India, has written to the MMUS regarding deficiencies in the application in respect of GI tagging for Bihar Makhana and sought to know how the outfit qualified as an applicant claiming to represent interests of producers.“How does ‘Bihar Makhana’ qualify as Geographical Indications,” the letter also asks.Dean (agriculture), BAU, Dr R R Singh, had submitted the application early this month to the registrar, Geographical Indication Registry, on behalf of the MMUS, while saying the proposal for GI was meant for ‘welfare of makhana growers’ from Bihar. In the meantime, Vidyapati Sewa Sansthan (VSS), a literary and cultural organisation of Mithila region, has accused the state government of plotting to brand makhana of Mithila in the name of Bihar.“Mithila is known across the globe for its specific aquatic crop makhana, which is intimately associated with local culture and is often held synonymous with it,” said VSS general secretary Baidyanath Choudhary ‘Baiju’. He said Mithila region was the largest producer of makhana in the country. Hence, its branding must be in the form of Mithila Makhana, and not in name of Bihar Makhana.Former Darbhanga MP Kirti Azad said Thursday that makhana crop had been associated with Mithila since ancient times and the ongoing effort to obtain GI tag in the name of Bihar makhana had triggered widespread protests on different forums. Azad has also sent a letter addressed to BAU’s dean while suggesting that GI tagging should be in the name of Mithila Makhana.According to a Darbhanga based college principal Prof Vidyanath Jha, who is regarded as an eminent makhana researcher, “Makhana is one of the unique flora found in Mithila region, which accounts for 75 percent of makhana production in India. The aquatic crop is produced across over a dozen districts of north Bihar.”Former principal of MLSM College, Darbhanga, Anil Kumar Jha, said Madhubani, Darbhanga, Saharsa, Katihar, Purnia, Araria, Supaul, Sitamarhi and Katihar districts of Mithila region were main centres for makhana production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-branding-row-bid-for-gi-tag-for-makhana-hits-hurdle/story-WFN1D6adQxrF5ukzMelQoI.html
27-08-2020||City||3.5 crore seats will be added in higher education institutions by 2035: Union minister||The Centre will be adding 3.5 crore new seats in the higher education institutions of India by the year 2035, said Union education minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.He was speaking during Shiksha Samwaad, a national discussion on NEP-2020, jointly organised by Education Promotion Society of India (EPSI) and Joint Association of Colleges, Punjab.Renowned educationists, academicians, faculty and students from all over India engaged in the in-depth analysis of the topic ‘Vision of making India a Global Knowledge Superpower’.While addressing the participants through the virtual mode, Pokhriyal said, “NEP-2020 aims at improving the gross enrollment rate (GER) in higher education and Centre has set a target of achieving 50% GER by 2035. To accomplish this, 3.5 crore new seats will be added in the higher education institutions of India by 2035.”“The new policy, which is based on five pillars of access, equity, quality, affordability and accountability, is aimed at sustainable development. NEP-2020 has not only been widely accepted and acclaimed in the nation, but has been appreciated by other countries as well. In fact, India has already received requests for the policy framework from three countries so that they can also draft a similar policy for implementation in their respective nations,” the minister added.Echoing these views, minister of state for education Sanjay Shamarao Dhotre said, “NEP-2020 aims to provide world-class education to students, while instilling moral values and job-oriented skills among the youth. The policy also focuses on teachers’ training which is an important aspect of higher as well as school education.”Chandigarh University chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu said, “NEP-2020 is one of the biggest reforms in the education sector world over. This policy has carved a new roadmap for the development of education in India.”Other panellists who joined the national discussion included VIT (Vellore) chancellor and EPSI president G Viswanathan, BIMTECH director and EPSI alternate president H Chaturvedi, MREI president and EPSI treasurer Parshant Bhalla, LPU chancellor Ashok Mittal, Chitkara University pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara, JAC president Jagjit Singh, JAC co-chairman Anshu Kataria, PUTIA president Gurmeet Dhaliwal, and CGC president Rashpal Singh Dhaliwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/target-of-50-gross-enrollment-ratio-in-higher-education-by-2035-union-minister/story-KZm10se3zNhw9vqcOhqV5K.html
27-08-2020||City||47 consumers booked for power theft in Khanna||A team of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) raided different villages in Khanna circle on Thursday and lodged FIRs against 47 consumers for power theft.The early morning raids were conducted following the directions of PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Parshad, distribution director GPS Grewal and Ludhiana central zone chief engineer Varinder Pal Singh Saini.Khanna DS circle superintending engineer Himat Singh Dhillon informed that the team checked 2,713 connections. Of these, 47 cases of electricity theft, 95 unauthorised extension (UE) in load and three cases of unauthorised electricity use were detected.Apart from this, 21 suspected meters having their displays off were sealed. These will be checked at the ME lab. Readings/particulars of 2,127 meters were also checked and these are being compared with the record. Around ₹17 lakh penalty has been charged to these consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/47-consumers-booked-for-power-theft-in-khanna/story-gQu0RrqzN1WxmHjtp3sZ0I.html
27-08-2020||City||Government job fraud: Ambala man booked for duping youth of ₹8.5 lakh||An Ambala resident was booked for allegedly taking ₹8.5 lakh from a youth on the pretext of providing a job in the Haryana Police department, the police said on Thursday.In his complaint to the deputy commissioner of police (DCP, Panchkula), Mandeep of Bhalu Patti Rapria, Kaithal, Haryana, leveled allegations against Dharamvir, a resident of Kakru village, Ambala, of cheating, fraud, and criminal intimidation.Mandeep wrote that in 2018, after he had applied for the post of constable in Haryana Police, his family friend had told him about a person with high links in the Haryana government, who could get him the job.In December, 2018, Mandeep met the man, Dharamvir, along with his friend. “Dharamvir assured that he could arrange one post of male constable and demanded ₹16 lakh for it, to be given in two equal instalments; one before the written examination and the rest before the physical examination.”The first payment of ₹8 lakh was made before December 3, the date of written examination. Mandeep said that in January, Dharamvir demanded ₹50,000 as “necessary to clear the written examination as the signature of the complainant is mismatched in OMR sheet”.When Mandeep failed the written exam, he contacted Dharamvir who told him “not to worry” as he will clear it during re-checking. He also took Mandeep’s signatures on a blank paper.In February, 2019, the final list was published and Mandeep’s name was not on it. When he realised that he had been duped, he asked for his money back. “But Dharamvir threatened to kill me and my family if I asked for the money again. He also threatened to misuse my signatures,” Mandeep said in his complaint.A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-job-fraud-ambala-man-booked-for-duping-youth-of-8-5-lakh/story-cKgqtOinhF4varsJepIRSK.html
27-08-2020||City||Manjhi meets Nitish, says nothing ‘political’||PATNAHindustani Awami Morch (Secular) president Jitan Ram Manjhi on Thursday met Bihar chief minister and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar at the latter’s residence, setting off speculation that his party was set to join the NDA. On August 20, the HAM-S had quit the opposition’s Grand Alliance, after spending 30 months as a constituent. For the record, Manjhi, a former chief minister, denied having any political deliberations with Kumar and told reporters that the talks centred on local issues and problems. “Political talks have not yet taken place, they are likely to be held soon. Wait till August 30 about party’s decision. “Today’s talks with Kumar were on local issues,” Manjhi said as he emerged from the CM residence.Recently, Manjhi joined one of the virtual inauguration programmes of Nitish Kumar. The CM notice the HAM-S chief only at the end of his speech and welcomed him for supporting government programmes and policies. The HAM chief is the lone member of his party in the Legislative Assembly currently. According to NDA sources, HAM wants to contest 15-20 seats, mostly in the Magadh region, but JD(Uis willing to give his party 10-12 seats. Some of these seats are also considered BJP’s stronghold. “I will talk to you (media persons) on August 30,” he said, when asked about seats offered by JD (U). NDA in Bihar comprises BJP, JD(U) and LJP at present. JD (U) sources said Manjhi could be a Dalit face of the party after the exit of Shyam rajak, who joined the RJD.Manjhi, however, made it clear his party was not going to merge with any other political outfit, contrary to speculation.Manjhi, formerly with JD(U), quit the party in 2015 after he was forced to step down as the chief minister to make way for the return of Nitish Kumar to the post. He later formed the HAM(S) and joined the BJP-led NDA.With Kumar returning to the NDA in July 2017, Manjhi quit the alliance and joined the opposition alliance in Bihar. His party unsuccessfully contested three Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections. Mahadalits and Dalits form 16% of Bihar’s population of Bihar, as per the 2011 census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manjhi-meets-nitish-says-nothing-political/story-wQ2cMEuI9RgevC8PJJDUgI.html
27-08-2020||Lifestyle||Digital detox: Can’t go a minute without being online? Here are some tips to try...||How long can you go without checking the notifications on your phone or laptop? If you fall in the category of people who won’t last a minute, you have surely had an overdose of the digital world. The coronavirus pandemic has made our laptops and phones, our new best friends. The primary source of binge watching shows, paying games, and even seeking entertainment is the Internet. But, some individuals have found ways to detox from the constant barrage of social media and work apps.Exercise your body and mind“I have made it a point to put my phone on silent once I log out from work, which is often at 9pm. Post that, I don’t check my social media accounts. I recently also deactivated my Twitter account. It was getting too much to handle. The need to constantly have my phone on me was overwhelming,” says Delhi-based lawyer Aman Saxena. He also recommends going for a run in the evening to clear one’s head.Break up with your phone Priya Choudhary, a Noida based content writer, says she breaks up with her phone at least once every week. “I have a weekly target — to go an entire day without checking my social media accounts. Plus, I would play online video games for hours; thankfully some apps were banned and I can’t do that anymore. But if this work from home situation is to persist, I am working on incorporating regular exercise into my regime,” she adds.Rule of 8For Delhite Pooja Bhateley, staying connected with people holds immense value during the pandemic. “I’m surrounded by screens all day for work. Once I am done for the day, I talk to my family, and spend time with my partner instead of going back online. I follow the rule of 8s — eight hours for work, eight hours for sleep and eight hours for things I find interesting, whether it’s cooking, reading or gardening,” she says.Curb your internet addictionSaurabh Mehrotra, a Gurugram-based psychiatrist, opines internet addiction has risen during the pandemic. “This addiction is seen in various forms. Addiction to social media, pornography, gaming, shopping and even blogging. Internet addiction leads to problems in physical and psychological health, sleep disturbances, academic decline or poor productivity and problems in interpersonal relationships,” he says. “It’s essential to monitor your screen time,” he suggests and recommends engaging in positive addictions such as reading, sports, music and arts so that people don’t feel burnt out.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/digital-detox-can-t-go-a-minute-without-being-online-here-are-some-tips-to-try/story-tiUiyXFMl9vhRIflCcM1yN.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Youth Congress protests near MP Kirron Kher’s house, demands postponement of JEE, NEET exams||Demanding the postponement of National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE), the Chandigarh Youth Congress staged a protest on Thursday near MP Kirron Kher’s Sector-7 house.The party members led by state president Luv Kumar attempted to march towards Kher’s residence, but were stopped by the police on the Sector 7/8 dividing road. Some of the party members were arrested including state general secretary Ashish Gajnavi, Janu Malik, Sukhdev Singh, Vinayak Bangiya, Ravi Parashar, Dheeraj Gupta, Narinder Gandhi, and Ashu Chaudhary.Luv Kumar said, “The pandemic is spreading fast. We demand that the central government should postpone these exams in the best interest of the students. Putting the lives of millions of students at risk is not necessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-youth-congress-protests-demands-postponement-of-jee-neet-exams/story-aTLdjXkzQfUUSGYRnAmTEM.html
27-08-2020||City||Chandigarh-Manali highway blocked as rains trigger landslides in Himachal||The Chandigarh-Manali national highway was blocked for traffic due to landslides near the Aut tunnel as heavy rains lashed parts of Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, officials said.“Two machineries have been deployed to clear the road. However, debris is continuously falling on the road, leading to delay in road clearance,” Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said.The rains also led to flashfloods in Nihargadu village of Gadsa valley in Kullu district, causing damage to a temple of a local deity, he said.The SP said a cloudburst also triggered flashfloods in Palgi nullah in Bhalan panchayat and Pagal nullah in the district, blocking the Sainj-Larji road. The district administration has advised people to stay alert as heavy rainfall is very likely to continue in the state. More than 100 roads throughout the state have been blocked and many water supply schemes have been damaged due to heavy rains in the last 24 hours.Snowfall in higher reaches Higher reaches of Lahaul-Spiti district, including Keylong and Rohtang Pass in Kullu district witnessed light snowfall on Thursday. Heavy rains also lashed isolated places in Kangra district, Una and Mandi district while light to moderate rains occurred at many parts of the state.Yellow weather warning has been issued for middle and lower hills of the state for August 28.State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said heavy rainfall is very likely to continue throughout the state till September 2. Monsoon was active on Thursday and minimum temperatures dropped by one to two degrees while maximum temperatures were normal.Nurpur in Kangra district recorded 133mm rain which was the highest in the state followed by Bangana in Una district which received 110mm rain.Baijnath witnessed 95mm rain, Kangra received 88mm, Mandi received 77mm, Dharamshala 75.2 mm, Palampur 73mm, Jogindernagar 66mm, Nadaun 57mm, 52mm each in Dalhousie and Sujanpur Tira, 30mm in Kumarsain, district Shimla, 25 mm in Manali, Hamirpur 23mm, Bilaspur 14.5mm, 10mm in Keylong and 9.5mm in Shimla.Maximum temperature in Shimla was 26.3°C, while Kufri recorded 20.6°C. Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 25.8°C, 26.6°C. and 17.4°C maximum temperature respectively. Solan recorded 30°C, Bilaspur 31.5°C, Hamirpur 31.2°C, Nahan 29.3°C, Una 34.7°C, and Kalpa, 24.6°C maximum temperature.Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district was the hottest in the state at 36°C while Keylong was the coldest at 11.3°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-manali-highway-blocked-as-rains-trigger-landslides-in-himachal/story-FNn4Guoo2k36uzrp1axYFP.html
27-08-2020||City||Evicted from encroached land, family tries to burn Ludhiana horticulture dept team||Five members of a Majara Kalan family, including three women, have been booked for trying to burn alive a team of the horticulture department visiting a piece of land previously encroached by them.While most of the team members took shelter in a room on the land, their driver, Rakesh Kumar, suffered burns in the attack. The accused have been identified as Shamsher Singh, Lakwinder Singh and their sisters, Darshna, Sonia and Sarabjit Kaur. Dinesh Kumar, director of the Ludhiana horticulture department, told the police that the department took possession of 76 acres of encroached land at Majara Kalan village in Ladhowal on August 7. Out of this, 26 acres were encroached by Shamsher’s family. They had planted paddy, and poplar and guava trees on the land. One of his sisters had consumed some poisonous substance to protest against this action and had died at DMCH on August 7.On Thursday, when a team visited the village for plantation on the acquired land, Shamsher and his four siblings turned up there and tried to set them afire after dousing them with petrol. Though most of them ran to safety, their driver suffered burn injuries on his hands. He alleged the family also pelted them with stones and tried to assault them with sharp-edged weapons. As they managed to call the police, they fled from the spot. Later, police rescued them.ASI Sandeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said the five siblings had been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 447 (criminal trespass), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house, etc), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 511 (attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/evicted-from-encroached-land-family-tries-to-burn-ludhiana-horticulture-dept-team/story-zAcP0joAK7iSvokpHnhjtM.html
27-08-2020||City||State government deletes reservations proposed at Kothrud||PUNE: The urban development department (UDD) has deleted reservations on open spaces at Kothrud that was proposed for primary school, maternity home, fire brigade and playground by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).PMC in its development plan had proposed the facilities at Kothrud survey number 159, 160 and 167. The state government, in its letter issued to civic administration on July 23, 2020, deleted the reservations and marked the land for the rehabilitation of Panshet flood affected people. A civic official, on condition of anonymity, said, “The process is handled by the district collector and state government. The civic body had proposed the reservations in the development plan after carrying out detailed study. Making any comment now could turn it into a political issue.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sandeep Khardekar said, “Deleting any reservation is wrong. Reservations in the development plan are proposed only after detailed study. If the land is earmarked for rehabilitation of Panshet flood affected people then I welcome it, but will oppose the move if it benefits any builder.”Sham Deshpande, Shiv Sena leader from Kothrud, said, “We had written our objection to the proposal two years ago. I will comment only after reading the notification from the state government.”BJP’s state unit president Chandrakant Patil, who represents the Kothrud assembly constituency, was unavailable for comment despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-government-deletes-reservations-proposed-at-kothrud/story-Yyb939Xpti91zIyGjer72J.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Jilted lover, friend held for vandalising vehicles in Bibvewadi||Two people have been arrested for vandalising eight vehicles in Bibvewadi in the early hours of Wednesday.The incident happened around 2 am in Annabhau Sathenagar, Bibwewadi, according to the police.The two arrested have been identified as Sharad Tukaram Patole (20) and Kumar Gopal Rathod (19), according to the police. They were arrested and produced in court on Wednesday.“Sharad was involved with a girl for the past two years and wanted to marry her, but her mother refused his proposal. So, he and his friend vandalised these vehicles that were parked outside her house,” said senior police inspector Kumar Ghadage, Bibvewadi police station.The police have spoken to the girl as well as the two men who have confessed to the vandalism, according to the officer.The vandalised vehicles include four rickshaws, two two-wheelers, a Piaggio tempo and one other vehicle.A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bibwewadi police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/jilted-lover-friend-held-for-vandalising-vehicles-in-bibvewadi/story-Eugui8lBnQRnIB0ft2pb4K.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Two booked for allegedly forging bank documents to evade vehicle loan payment||Two men have been booked for allegedly duping a bank of at least Rs 17.5 lakh by submitting false documents to the regional transport office (RTO) and taking possession of vehicles.The police are on a lookout for the two.The accused have been identified as Pradeep Pandurang Salunke and Satyavan Nilkanth Masade, both residents of Rajgurunagar.The two had booked tipper trucks in December 2017 and had acquired a loan worth Rs 20 lakh from a private bank which has a branch in Shivajinagar, according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sukhdev Kaluram Limbhore (47) a resident of Indrayaninagar in Bhosari, Pimpri-Chinchwad. He works in the said bank.The two had paid Rs 2,76,800 to the bank and failed to pay following instalments, according to the complainant.“When they failed to clear their debt, the bank started procedure to confiscate their vehicles bought with the loan money. The bank employees went to the RTO for documents and found this NOC from the bank that states that the loan has been paid off,” said assistant police inspector Somnath Panchal of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) Bhosari police station who is investigating the case.The bank employee who lodged a complaint has submitted that the NOC is forged by making fake letterhead of the bank and fake stamps of the bank.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, and others.), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at MIDC Bhosari police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-booked-for-allegedly-forging-bank-documents-to-evade-vehicle-loan-payment/story-QAgPOvorc3ZyMH1wyaQOML.html
27-08-2020||City||Pet dog bites man in Zirakpur, owner booked||A woman was booked on Thursday after her pet dog bit a pedestrian on VIP Road.The complainant, Joginder Singh, a resident of VIP Road, told the police that he was going to his son’s shop on August 15 and on the way, a pet dog standing with a woman suddenly bit him on the thigh, causing serious injury. After receiving medical treatment, he lodged a complaint with the police on Thursday, following which the woman, Akshit Mishra, a resident of Surya Tower, VIP Road, was booked under Section 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal) of the Indian Penal Code at Zirakpur police station.Investigation officer Jaswinder Singh said they will arrest the dog owner soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pet-dog-bites-man-in-zirakpur-owner-booked/story-1bjWbSCPUUkvwQVgks181K.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||180 new Covid cases take Himachal Pradesh’s Covid count to 5,501||Himachal Pradesh recorded 180 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday, taking the total coronavirus count in the state to 5,501. Of the new cases, 51 were reported in Solan, 37 in Sirmaur, 25 in Kangra, 23 in Hamirpur, 11 in Una, 10 in Chamba , nine in Shimla, 8 in Bilaspur, three in Mandi and one in Lahaul-Spiti. There are 1,418 active cases in the state and highest single-day recoveries of 189 took the tally of cured people to 4,008 . ONE FATALITY, DEATH TOLL 31 A 75-year-old man succumbed to the virus in Una. With this the death toll has reached 31. The deceased, who hails from Hamirpur had gone to Una for some health checkup. His Covid-19 report came out positive after he was cremated at his native village. Authorities are now tracing his contacts. GYNAE WARD AT HAMIRPUR HOSPITAL SEALED Hamirpur chief medical officer Dr Archana Soni said that four women patients admitted in the gynaecology ward of the Dr Radhakrishnan Government Medical College (RGMC), Hamirpur, were among the 23 people found positive. They caught the infection from another patient, who tested positive on August 20. The doctors and staff of the gynaecology department have been quarantined and the ward has been sealed. The remaining cases were reported from Sujanpur, Nadaun, Barsar, Tauni Devi and Galod areas. Two staff nurses of the Regional Hospital in Una were among the 11 people who tested positive in the district. A doctor was found infected in the hospital on Wednesday. In Chamba, four cases were reported from the Pukhri health block and six from Samot. Solan is the worst-hit Covid district with 1,363 infections followed by Kangra and Sirmaur with 753 infections. Hamirpur has 491 cases, Una 416, Mandi 394, Chamba 384, Shimla 296, Bilaspur 293, Kullu 270, Kinnaur 77 and Lahaul and Spiti eight cases. NUMBER OF TESTS CROSSES 2 LAKH The number of Covid-19 tests conducted by the state authorities has crossed the 2 lakh mark. So far, a total of 2,06,126 tests have been conducted in Himahcal Pradesh. The state has more than 28,000 people per million population. The recovery rate in the state is 71.6%, which is less than the national average of 76.2%. The case fatality ratio is 0.6%, lower than the national average of 1.8%. The state has 728 confirmed cases per million population against 2,484 at the national level. The number of infections has grown by an average of 2.9% in the past week in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/44-new-covid-cases-take-himachal-pradesh-s-coronavirus-count-to-5-365/story-8Oq2dfhgyDvLmdTrTEnlIL.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Retired policeman attacked for resisting phone-snatching, two booked||A bike-borne duo has been charged with attempted murder of a retired police constable in a robbery case.The retired police assistant sub-inspector has been identified as Prakash Jaikumar Kurale (58), a resident of Swargate police lines. He retired from the police force in May. His phone worth Rs 10,000 was stolen in the attack.The retired policeman was walking along Shivaji road with his friend on Tuesday at 11 pm when the men on a motorbike tried to snatch his phone. As he resisted, the two attacked him with blades, according to his complaint.He sustained a deep gash on his left hand and underwent treatment at a local hospital for the injury.The two approached him on a white two-wheeler vehicle while he was walking along Shivaji road in the night, according to the police.The number plate of the vehicle was covered in dried mud and was not visible, he submitted in his complaint.As the two yanked his phone, the policeman and his friend tried to resist them when one of them pulled out a blade-like weapon from his waist belt and attacked him from the right, according to the complaint. In the effort to stop the blade, the retired ASI put his right hand ahead and was injured on the palm, he told the police.A case under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadak police station. Assistant police inspector Umaji Rathod is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/retired-policeman-attacked-for-resisting-phone-snatching-two-booked/story-W1RlPjgWvI7dLe75I1kEjJ.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Pune builders welcome Maha govt’s move to slash stamp duty||The Maharashtra government’s decision to slash stamp duty on property registration was welcomed by real estate developers from Pune. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India’s (CREDAI) Pune chapter president Suhas Merchant said that the builders’ body has welcomed the state government’s decision. “Reduction in stamp duty would not only prove to be beneficial for homebuyers, but will also help the state government in getting revenue from property sale. Now, we hope that the Centre also responds positively to our demand of reducing the interest rate on home loan and bringing the GST to 1% for homes below 1,000 square feet,” said Merchant. Sujay Kalele, founder, TRU Realty said, “This is a big booster for real estate industry as it lowers the cost of acquisition of property for customers. This coupled with lower interest rates should kick-start the sales cycle for the industry.” Rohit Gera, MD, Gera Builders said, “This will help the struggling real estate sector tremendously.” htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-builders-welcome-maha-govt-s-move-to-slash-stamp-duty/story-f2WmpjI37ftQRdNK1qcRDP.html
27-08-2020||Pune||DTE extends engg diploma admission last date till Sept 4||PUNE The Maharashtra State Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) has extended the deadline for the admission process of engineering diploma courses till September 4.DTE started its engineering diploma admission process from August 10 for various courses like pharmacy, surface coating technology, hotel management and catering technology and others. Earlier the deadline was till August 26 which is now extended as many students faced technical issues and could not complete the admission process.“Students who had applied for admission got their school leaving certificate and other documents late. So, it became an issue for the reserved seats in the admission process. Many students also did not have proper documents for admissions in open quota, so we decided to extend the deadline till September 4,” said Abhay Wagh, director, Directorate of Technical Education.While the final merit list for the admission as per the applications received from the students will be declared now on September 12. This year first time the entire admission process will be carried out on online.“According to the new updated admission schedule the provisional merit list will be declared on September 7, students can give their objections and corrections till September 10 and the final merit list will be declared on September 12,” he said.As per the revised admission circular issued by the state technical director of DTE, now students can send their admission application, documents verification and payment of fees will be carried till September 4. Once a student applies for taking the admission, he/she can do online verification of documents submitted. Any student who cannot upload the documents, so he/she can go to a nearby facilitation centre of DTE and get the documents verified. Students will have to take an appointment to visit the centre and follow all safety precautions.Engineering diploma courses admission updated scheduleAugust 10 to September 4 – Students can apply onlineTill September 4 – Documents verificationTemporary merit list will be declared – September 7Students can take objection on the merit list – September 7 to 10Final merit list to be declared – September 12||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dte-extends-engg-diploma-admission-last-date-till-sept-4/story-uZRRgHkvIYphbcCsuQaU9L.html
27-08-2020||Pune||PMC may sell its flats in open market to generate income||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to sell 1,250 flats in the open market to generate revenue. The flats owned by PMC are lying vacant. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “My efforts as head of the standing panel is to generate more revenue for the civic body. Instead of following the traditional ways to increase taxes, I am looking at other options. PMC owns more than 10,000 flats in the city that are lying vacant. These flats are built under slum rehabilitation schemes, housing for urban poor and other projects. After providing these flats to beneficiaries, many are left unoccupied and vacant.” Rasne said that selling these vacant flats in the open market would help PMC raise revenue as most of these dwellings fall in the category of affordable housing. He said, “The civic administration would soon present a proposal before the PMC standing committee.” PMC estate department head Rajendra Muthe said, “The elected members have sought a proposal. We are trying to include 1,250 flats under consideration. After the go-ahead from the municipal commissioner, the proposal will be presented before the standing committee for consideration.” Recently, PMC standing committee had appointed 500 more staff in property tax department for tax recovery. Rasne said, “The Covid situation has led us to look at various options to maximise income for the civic body to carry out various developmental works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-may-sell-its-flats-in-open-market-to-generate-income/story-ZblQNLs9aDIAIFAlNda41I.html
27-08-2020||City||Ambala MC suspends public dealing till Aug 31||Amid the rising cases of Covid-19 in Ambala, the municipal corporation has suspended public dealing at its office till August 31. A notice announcing this has been pasted on the main gate of the MC office near Jagadhari Gate. Officials have advised residents not to visit the office and submit their grievances or work requests on the email ID cfccity@mcambala.gov.in or official number 0171-244-3747. As per their request number, they’ll be called to visit the office if required, the notice says. Besides, residents can avail of the online services available on the website mcambala.gov.in or other doorstep delivery services through the WhatsApp numbers 708-233-5869 and 857-203-1425.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-mc-suspends-public-dealing-till-aug-31/story-TUQqf0NdUYnl0uDnsSRZ9J.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Release MLA funds with immediate effect: Mukesh Agnihotri||Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri on Thursday asked that state government to immediately release MLA local area development funds. In a statement issued by Agnihotri, he said that MLAs have given their salaries to help deal with the Covid crisis but MLA fund is used for developmental work, especially in rural areas of the state. The state government’s decision to withhold MLA funds amid the pandemic is politically motivated.He said and how can state government justify the deduction when state government is continuously appointing chairpersons and new appointments are being made on daily basis. The government even withdrew the instalment that was already allocated to MLAs.“How can state government stop MLA funds when the state government has constituted new panchayats as per their political convenience? Now crores will be spend on these new panchayats,” he said.Agnihotri said Congress MLAs had worked with great enthusiasm during the Covid-19 pandemic but had to face problems due to lack of funds . Recently, bureaucrats have also banned MLAs right to divert old sanctions, which will also be opposed, said Agnihotri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/release-mla-funds-with-immediate-effect-mukesh-agnihotri/story-ryUasFplawmGiuzX4Pl0CI.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Pune fails in cleanliness test, drops to 28th rank issued by Smart City Mission||PUNE In the latest smart city rankings, issued by the Smart City Mission under the ministry of housing and urban affairs on Wednesday, Pune has fallen from its second rank, achieved in 2019, to now, a lowly 28th. In the latest rankings, announced for smart cities across the country, Pimpri-Chinchwad is ranked at 61.Ahmedabad, Surat and Indore are ranked in the top three spots. In Maharashtra Nashik has been ranked 15th at the national-level and first in the state. Ahmedabad, Surat and Indore are ranked in the top three spots. In Maharashtra Nashik has been ranked 15th at the national-level and first in the state, while Nagpur is ranked 42nd, Sollapur 43rd, Thane 55th and Aurangabad 66th. Oppositions parties in the city, immediately sought to blame the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for failing to carry out planned schemes under the Pune smart city initiative.Pune Smart City Development Corporation chief executive officer (CEO) Rubal Agarwal confirmed the 28th ranking and said, “Some of the projects are going on as a public-private partnership. Pune smart city has not been able to give information of completed projects to the central team. Overall, our ranking has come down, but it will improve.”The Smart City mission is a project personally driven by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Pune’s missed the number one ranking in 2019 by a point margin of 0.5. Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) leader and former mayor Prashnat Jagtap said, “During my tenure as mayor, Pune ranked second after Bhubaneshwar. The Prime Minister himself launched the project from Pune in 2016. PMC did this on the basis of works carried out by NCP and Congress in its tenure. In 2017, BJP won an absolute majority, but local BJP leaders neglected the scheme. Now BJP will try to blame administration and will not accept their failure.”Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Due to the Covid situation, Smart City is not able to spend money. Even the administration is responsible for the degradation. It is the responsibility of the administration to execute the schemes.”Pune Smart city director Ravindra Dhangekar said, “All the top IAS officers are on the Smart City board. They should take care of the maintaining the position. It is the ruling BJP’s failure as they are not able to get work done from the administration.” Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “Only a few kilometres, already developed by the municipal corporation, falls under the Smart City. The ruling party did not have a vision and is not taking care of their own schemes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-fails-in-cleanliness-test-drops-to-28th-rank-issued-by-smart-city-mission/story-MiGlQdwkfmZPa2vaBne5GI.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Mahad building collapse death toll reaches 16; police arrest RCC consultant||The Raigad Police on Wednesday arrested one person in connection with the Tariq Garden, five-storied residential complex that collapsed in Kajalpura area of Mahad town, Raigad district, on Monday. A total of 16 lives were lost in the incident, as rescue operations concluded on Wednesday afternoon, 42 hours after the tragedy took place. According to police officials, reinforced cement concrete (RCC) consultant Bahubali Dhamane was arrested from his residence, while a search is on for Navi Mumbai- based developer Farooq Kazi. His house was found locked on Wednesday. Dhamane, as a the RCC consultant, was responsible for design and material used in the construction of the building, completed in 2013. Raigad superintendent of police (SP) Anil Paraskar said, “Our preliminary investigations through forensic examination of the debris show that the building material was not good and was sub-standard in nature. Even the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team involved in the rescue operation told us that the building collapsed due to use of inferior material, which they had seen for the first time.” Dhamane, who is among the five persons booked in the case, was remanded to police custody till August 30 by local court. All five persons are booked on various charges including culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Apart from Dhamane and Kazi, those booked by the police have been identified as Deepak Jhisand; former Mahad Municipal council chief and Shashikant Dighe, junior construction inspector at Mahad municipal council. District Collector Nidhi Chaudhari said, “Police are questioning the builder’s close associates as part of the probe. Also, the police team raided his office premises in Navi Mumbai for documents and other details.” On the search operation front, rescuers sifting through debris pulled out the last body on Wednesday morning. The rescuers found a woman and four-year-old boy alive on Tuesday, although the boy’s two sisters and mother were found dead beneath the debris, according to (NDRF) personnel working on the ground. Mohammad Bangi, the four-year-old, was rescued after 19 hours under rubble, while Mehrunissa Abdul Kazi (60), was pulled out after 27 hours. A total of nine persons were found alive while those who lost their lives include seven males, seven females and two children. Sachinand Gawade, PRO of the NDRF battalion, said that the team carried out a final search to ensure nobody was buried or missing even as administration has claimed that all persons residing in the building been traced. Gawade said that after a final search in the morning, rescue operations ended. Administration recovers cash, jewellery from debris; forms committee to return valuables to ownersTwo days after the five-storied Tariq Garden building collapsed in Mahad town of Raigad district, the district administration has formed a committee comprising of the residents of the collapsed building to search for ornaments, cash and valuables in the debris and accordingly return them to the rightful owners, according to collector Nidhi Choudhari.“We have formed the citizens’ committee of residents of the said building who know about the people residing in the building. They will check and verify the claims of the residents and their belongings and accordingly hand them over to the bonafide owners,” said Choudhari.“The debris has been kept in a compound which has now been placed under police protection. We have found a bagful of currency notes and some jewellery in the debris and same has been handed over to the police and will be returned to the owners,” she said.According to the collector, the committee will search and will be allowed to establish the identity and accordingly hand over the assets to the owners.“More things can be found out in the debris since every family must have lost their valuables like jewellery or cash and they will get their lost valuables after identification and verification by the committee,” she said.The committee will be under the direct supervision of the district collector and administrative officials will monitor them daily and update the collector about its work.The locals in the area lauded the efforts of the administration and said that it would lead to the bonafide owners getting their lost belongings and the protection by police at the accident site will keep unwanted persons away from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mahad-building-collapse-death-toll-reaches-16-rescue-operations-end-as-police-arrest-rcc-consultant/story-Ucnq9fszcMrrWaZxjNB6eP.html
27-08-2020||City||Gang of online fraudsters busted, 4 held from Delhi||Gurdaspur Police have busted an eight-member gang of online fraudsters with the arrest of four of its members from Delhi on Thursday. Gurdaspur SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said, “We received a complaint from Kiranpreet Khakh, of Ranjit Bagh locality of Dinanagar, on August 5. She claimed she was tricked into providing detailed information about herself, on the pretext of a job, leading to fraudulent withdrawal from her bank account.” He added that she had uploaded her biodata on an employment portal, after which she received phone calls from two different phone numbers. “The speakers told her they had checked her biodata and the process to recruit her is on. They sent her a link of an online form on WhatsApp, which she filled out giving her complete information. Then she received an One-Time Password (OTP) that she conveyed to those who called her, after they demanded it. Within minutes, her bank account was debited of Rs 5 lakh and transferred to other accounts,” he said.On her complaint, a case was registered under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 66 of the IT Act at the Dinangar police station. On the basis of the details of the bank accounts to which the money was transferred, police chalked out a plan. A team went to Delhi to execute the arrests. Those arrested are Pardeep Kumar, Jeetu, Neeraj Sharma and Jai Parkash. “Those arrested are part of a gang that has Asees Mittal and Manish Kumar as kingpins. Under the garb of running a money transfer firm, they were duping people. Manish forged documents such as Aadhaar cards, voter card, driving license etc. By zeroing in on mobile numbers, they collected their details on the pretext of fulfilling their requirement. After they had the bank account details etc, they transferred the money, in a very clever manner,” Sohal added. The items recovered from those arrested are a scanner, a camera, a DVR box, 37 swipe machines of banks and seven fake Aadhaar cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-online-fraudsters-busted-4-held-from-delhi/story-38lvLsUibxFp0Kg0BxROYI.html
27-08-2020||City||Jai Ram lays foundation stones of Agri Marketing Board projects worth ₹198 crore||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday laid foundation stones of projects worth ₹198 crore of Himachal Pradesh Agriculture Marketing Board that will come up in the state.The event was held through video conferencing from Vegetable Market Yard, Dhalli in Shimla.These projects include, fruits and vegetable sub-markets at Menhdali (Rohru) and Shilaroo; fruits and vegetable sub-market, Bandrol; upgradation project of modern fruits and vegetable markets Parala, Shat, Kangani, Poanta Sahib, Palampur and terminal market, Parwanoo among various other projects.The chief minister said the state government will spend ₹ 59.25 crore on strengthening cold chain infrastructure at Parala and pre-cooling chambers at Kharapatthar in Shimla district.He said these new projects will go a long way in strengthening the economy of farmers in the state as they will get better infrastructure facilities to sell their produce.“Covid-19 pandemic has once again vindicated the fact that the farmers in real sense are the backbone of our economy,” he added.The CM said the state government has ensured adequate arrangement of boxes, trays and other inputs so that horticulturists do not face any inconvenience in marketing of their produce. He said horticulturists got good price for cherry this season due to proper arrangements made by the state government.All projects foundation stones laid on Thursday will be completed within the next one and a half year, the CM said.He said the state government is also promoting natural farming as chemical free products were not only good for health, but also fetch better prices in the market. He also announced that the marketing board will be allowed to construct small link roads particularly to facilitate the transportation of farmers’ produce.Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured that the farmers of the country live respectable life and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna was a step in this direction. He said the Centre was committed to double the income of farmers by 2022.₹73 CRORE PROJECTS FOR GAGRETThe CM also inaugurated and laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth about ₹ 73.10 crore in Gagret Vidhan Sabha area of Una district through video conferencing from Shimla.The major projects inaugurated include bridge over Nakroh khad; vented causeway bridge near Banne Di Hatti; Science lab building at Government Senior Secondary School Mubarikpur and; additional building for Community Health Centre Gagret.The CM also laid foundation stones of water supply scheme for Gagret block worth 26.81 crore; various roads, ITI building and building of Daulatpur Degree College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-lays-foundation-stones-of-agri-marketing-board-projects-worth-198-crore/story-vKpJFxGqsL0J9RwXou6gQP.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University V-C Raj Kumar conferred rank of honorary colonel, colonel commandant of NCC||Panjab University (PU) vice-chancellor professor Raj Kumar was conferred the rank of honorary colonel and colonel commandant of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) on Thursday.The government of India honours distinguished persons who can contribute to NCC activities with the rank, which is announced through a gazette notification. Kumar is the only officer to hold the coveted rank in Chandigarh.The honorary rank and certificate was issued by NCC director general Lt Gen Rajeev Chopra, PVSM, AVSM. It was presented by major general Beji Mathews, ADG, NCC directorate, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh and brigadier Harsh Chhibber, group commander, NCC group headquarters. NCC’s second Chandigarh battalion is responsible for NCC activities in Panjab University and provides training and coordinates social service contribution by cadets..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-v-c-conferred-rank-of-honorary-colonel-colonel-commandant-of-ncc/story-8kFQWhGVbbxUWB6qIe4NjM.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Pune civic body blacklists contractor for using “old” tanks for immersion purposes||As Punekars gear up for the “fifth-day immersion” of Lord Ganesh, on Thursday, August 27, with Covid-19 restrictions in place, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) addressed allegations made by the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and other organisations, that garbage containers have been converted to artificial immersion tanks. Taking cognisance, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “It was found that two of the artificial tanks used by one of the contractors were old and not cleaned properly, but they were not dustbin containers. We have taken strict action against the contractor and he has been black listed for three years.” The fifth-day immersion, observed locally as the “grand immersion” day is very much part of the Ganesh festival in Pune, this year muted in its public observance, but still resonant in faith and devotion. PMC expects an average of five lakh idols to be immersed on Thursday and has already increased the number of artificial immersion tanks across the city. However, it has appealed to citizens to immerse the Ganpati idols at home as far as possible. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “There are an increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in Pune and during this crisis situation it will not be safe to come out for Ganpati visarjan. So we appeal to citizens to immerse their Ganpati idols at home. PMC is making ammonium bicarbonate available and by using it, idols can be immersed at home. If there is a problem, then citizens can immerse the idol in the ‘tanks on wheels’ or donate the idol at the donation centres.” Residents can get ammonium bicarbonate from the ward office or immersion centre in their area and can even donate the idols here. Also, ‘tanks on wheels’ will operate on various routes in the city and the routes are decided by the respective wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-blacklists-contractor-for-using-old-tanks-for-immersion-purposes/story-Sfl49HBCb4qriq3qcVyUOO.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Cannot discriminate against Shia Muslims: Bombay high court directs state to allow Muharram rituals||The Bombay high court (HC) has said that it would be discriminatory if the Shia Muslims, who are seeking permission to commemorate the martyrdom of Imam Hussain by observing rituals as per the norms laid down by the Maharashtra government’s disaster management department, are barred, as a similar approval was given to the Hindus to celebrate the annual 10-day Ganesh Utsav that started on August 22, despite the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The observations were made while hearing a petition filed by All India Idara Tahfaz-e-Hussainiyat, an organisation from south Mumbai, which had sought directions to the state government to allow a limited number of people be allowed to perform mehendi, alam and taziya rituals for the Muharram.HC has asked the state government and the disaster management department to hear the petitioner and submit their report by Friday (August 28) morning. A two-member HC division bench, comprising justices SJ Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition on Thursday, was informed that Shia Muslims in Mumbai and Maharashtra desired to observe a period of mourning for two hours on four days of the Islamic month of Muharram – from August 27 to 30 -- by performing rituals.Advocate Rajendra Shirodkar, who appeared for the petitioner along with advocate Shehzad Naqvi, submitted that the Shia Mulsims were seeking permission for a group of 20-50 of them to perform the rituals through a procession, which would start at Bhendi Bazar and end at Mazgaon Kabrastan in Mumbai. When the court sought to know about the mehendi, alam and taziya rituals, Shirodkar explained that a group of Shia Muslims would carry flags and replicas of the mausoleum of Imam Hussain and go from Bhendi Bazar to Mazgaon. However, HC was not convinced and sought an explainer that was submitted by Shirodkar later in the day. Shirodkar submitted that though the prayer was made for 20-50 Shia Muslims, the number of participants could be reduced as per the court’s order. State additional government pleader Geeta Shastri and government pleader Poornima Kantharia opposed the petition.They stated that the petition was seeking permission for a procession, where thousands of Shia Muslims take part in the annual procession and it should not be allowed because of the prevailing viral outbreak and it would impossible for the state authorities to enforce social distancing norms.Kantharia submitted since Ganesh Utsav processions were not permitted, similarly there should be a ban on the Muharram procession. Earlier, Shastri informed HC that the Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday had rejected a petition for carrying out Muharram processions throughout the country following which the court perused the summary of the apex court’s order. The court observed that there was no SC order barring Muharram processions across the country. The court stated that the petition in SC was only for taking out a procession in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, and other states were not involved in it. “If limited permissions are issued for Lord Ganesha, then refusing permissions for Muharram would be discriminatory. Hence, we direct the (state) authorities to give the petitioner a hearing and decide on it,” said Justice Kathawalla. The court directed Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (home), Maharashtra; and Kishor Raje Nimbalkar, secretary, disaster management department, Maharashtra, to give the petitioner a hearing. The court also directed Gupta and Nimbalkar to submit a report on the state government’s decision on Friday morning.HC will hear the case again in the first half on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cannot-discriminate-against-shia-muslims-bombay-high-court-directs-state-to-allow-muharram-rituals/story-va6Do07gdy8j55Sl9r3DrK.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University collaborates with Parexel Int’l for MSc programme||Chitkara University has launched a two-year MSc programme in pharmacovigilance and clinical research, in collaboration with Parexel International, a leading clinical research organisation. The programme aims to strengthen the research and development capacity of India. Parexel will provide industry and curriculum support from its Parexel Academy as a part of the collaboration. Parexel International India senior vice-president and country and clinical trial supplies and logistics head Sanjay Vyas said, “We have always focussed on developing India into a clinical operational hub, supporting both our local and global drug development. The clinical research industry has seen a tremendous boost in the recent years and this growth requires a strong skill set and talent to help bring new therapies to market.”Chitkara University pro-chancellor Dr Madhu Chitkara said, “The programme is an outcome of Chitkara University’s relentless focus on offering programmes designed and delivered in conjunction with the industry leaders and contribute to nation-building by developing indigenous talent. This collaboration will ensure that the curriculum is dynamic and tailored to the constantly evolving industry trends..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-collaborates-with-parexel-int-l-for-msc-programme/story-6LpIU0NnW9pNk3aF1PP38J.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Clinical trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine begins in Pune, 2 get first shot||Two volunteers from the city became the first in the country to be administered phase II of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine developed by Oxford University and being mass-produced by Pune based Serum Institute of India (SII). Of the five volunteers who came forward to get vaccinated, three were declined doses after they were detected with antibodies for Covid. Phase II will determine the safety of the vaccine to check if volunteers report any reactions. Two male volunteers aged 31 and 48 were found eligible and will now be followed up for any symptoms or reactions due to the vaccine. The trials were conducted at Pune’s Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital and research centre on Wednesday, where all the five volunteers were tested for infection and for comorbidities. The volunteers were explained possible reactions that they might experience in a short course of time or in the near future. Like all clinical trials, the participants were covered through an insurance, sponsored by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Serum Institute in this case. The sponsors also paid travel allowance for the participants. This was the first dose and participants were asked to stay for about 30 minutes to check for immediate reactions and then would be contacted through phone calls for the next seven days. On the 28th day, they would be called again for the second dose when they would be physically examined again and again, on the 56th day, and then, six months after the first dose. Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College, Hospital and research centre said, “This trial will determine the safety of the vaccine, like to check for any pain, fever, nausea or any other reactions. About 100 volunteers at 14 sites across the country will be selected for this trial, who will be checked for any reactions which will determine the safety of the vaccine. Since we have first started, we expect about 25 such volunteers.” According to Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at the hospital said, every fourth person is administered with a placebo to ensure that it is not a placebo effect. Once the vaccine is found safe then the others would be tested for efficacy. “There are many more questions that need to be answered like will the antibodies produced through this vaccine be neutralising antibodies or how long will the antibodies stay in the body. In the worst-case scenario, the vaccine would not work but even if it is able to avoid complications then it would be a great deal. This is a completely new virus and so if we have a vaccine which even prevents complications and brings down case fatality or deaths due to Covid19 then it is definitely a breakthrough. For now, we need to first check that it is safe,” he said. Maharashtra civil supplies and consumer protection minister, Dr Vishwajeet Kadam said that these volunteers were selected as per ICMR guidelines and those who are eligible will be vaccinated.  “Once the vaccine is found to be safe on these healthy volunteers, the vaccine will be given to Covid-19 patients too. The medical and research team at Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital will keep a watch on these volunteers who are vaccinated,” Kadam said. Dr Oswal also added that three of the five were asymptomatic Covid-19 positives at some point of time and were recovered from the virus without them realising about the infection. This does show a high prevalence in the city but is also good news that antibodies are being generated. Earlier, the ISSER Sero-survey had found that over 50 per cent of the 1,600 samples collected from highly affected areas tested positive for antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/clinical-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-begins-in-pune-2-get-first-shot/story-3pPfYpwHP6bJND9epHVYtL.html
27-08-2020||Patna||ED files charge sheet against man accused of abuse in Bihar shelter home||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet against Brajesh Thakur, who ran a shelter home in Muzaffarpur (Bihar) where girls were allegedly sexually abused over several years, and his family members for laundering grant-in-aid worth Rs 7.57 crore received from the government, the agency said on Thursday. In a press statement, the ED said that the charge sheet (also called Prosecution Complaint) under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) has been filed in Patna with a prayer for awarding punishment to the accused persons of money laundering. The agency has sought that his movable and immovable properties worth Rs 8.8 crore, which have already been attached, be confiscated. ED initiated the investigation under the provisions of PMLA based on two FIRs registered by Mahila Police Station, Muzaffarpur, and an FIR lodged by CBI Patna against Brajesh Thakur and others for misappropriating the funds/ grant-in-aid received from the government and other agencies in the name of the NGO Sewa Sankalp Ewam Vikas Samiti and its sister NGOs. It said that Brajesh Thakur was the de facto owner, who, in connivance with others, misappropriated the fund/grant-in-aid to the tune of Rs 7.57 crore.“Investigation under PMLA revealed that Brajesh Thakur and others diverted/siphoned off the funds/grant-in-aid received for the welfare of girl children and others and used the funds for his personal gain by acquiring huge movable and immovable properties in his name and in the name of his family members—Kumari Asha, Rahul Anand, Manorama Devi and others—for acquiring huge movable and immovable properties including payment of fees for his younger son Mehul Anand’s medical education [sic],” the ED statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ed-files-charge-sheet-against-man-accused-of-abuse-in-bihar-shelter-home/story-1hUjW4Xrd393rFXbk6S28H.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Supreme Court says its 2004 verdict on sub-classification of SC/STs needs to be reconsidered||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Thursday held that its 2004 verdict holding that states do not have the power to further sub-classify the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, for grant of quotas in jobs and admissions to educational institutions, needs to be revisited. A five-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said the 2004 verdict of a constitution bench in the EV Chinnaiah case needs to be reconsidered and, therefore, the matter be placed before the Chief Justice of India for appropriate direction. The bench, also comprising Justices Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, MR Shah and Aniruddha Bose, said in its view the 2004 verdict was not correctly decided and states can make laws to give preferential treatment by sub-classifying caste within SC/STs. The bench referred the case filed by the Punjab government against the high court order before CJI Justice SA Bobde for setting up of a larger bench to revisit the earlier verdict. The Punjab and Haryana high court had struck down a state law empowering the government to sub-classify SC/STs for grant of quotas. The high court had relied on the 2004 verdict of the apex court and held that the Punjab government was not empowered to undertake the exercise of sub classifying SC/STs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/supreme-court-says-its-2004-verdict-on-sub-classification-of-sc-sts-needs-to-be-reconsidered/story-QaVTniO0vIty89heHR4haM.html
27-08-2020||Dehradun||Nanda Devi festival begins sans devotees due to Covid; rituals live on social media||This year the devotees were not able to attend the famous three-day long Nanda Devi festival that started here in Kumaon on Wednesday due to the Covid 19 pandemic. Instead, for the first time, the organisers made arrangements for live-streaming of rituals on social media to overcome the restriction placed on the presence of more than five people inside the temple for the conduct of rituals at a time. The three-day Nanda Devi festival and accompanying fair is also called the Nanda Devi Mahotsav, which generally attracts over a lakh of devotees and is dedicated to Goddess Nanda Devi (Nanda means the joy-giving Goddess), the patron goddess of the residents of Uttarakhand Himalaya, where the Nanda Devi peak is located in Kumaon’s Chamoli district. Nanda Devi is a two-peaked massif, with its eastern summit known as Sunanda Devi. Normally a large number of devotees come to Naina Devi temple to seek blessings from Nanda Devi and her sister Sunanda, whose idols are enshrined in the temple premises in a banana trunk on day one and then taken in a religious procession in a ‘dola’ (palanquin ) on the third day (this year on Friday). Naina Devi is one of the 51 Shakti Peeths, where goddess Sati’s eyes are believed to have fallen after she burnt herself alive in a Yagna. Vinod Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Nanital, said this year due to the epidemic the district administration decided with the Ram Sewak Sabha and Naina Devi Temple Trust to not allow devotees to offer prayers in person before the idol of Nanda Devi. “This year we are not allowing anybody, except for temple and festival managers in limited numbers, to go physically before the idol to have darshans and offer prayers. We have appealed to people to offer their prayers from their homes and have darshan through live streaming,” he said. Jagdish Chandra Bawari, general secretary Ram Sewak Sabha that organises the festival in Nainital said the festival held in honour of the Nanda Devi and her sister Sunanda is one of the most important festivals in the lives of the people in the hill state. Also Read: NEET, JEE Mains 2020: Uttarakhand govt ready for exams, says it has held board exams for more students“This is for the first time since 1902, when the festival was started, that devotees won’t be able to offer their prayers in person before the idol. But for the first time, we are live streaming all the rituals and the worshipping of the Goddess through Facebook,” he said. Mukesh Joshi, executive member of Ram Sewak Sabha said there will be no procession of people accompanying the idols before their immersion in the Nanital lake waters on the third day (Friday).“Also, this year, there won’t be any fair, which normally attracts over a lakh people from across Uttarakhand and other states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/nanda-devi-festival-begins-sans-devotees-due-to-covid-rituals-live-on-social-media/story-XGaHNOntPIlCPzoGM6tU7H.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bar owners seek Himachal govt’s help to revive business||With hotels in Himachal Pradesh set to resume operations in October and the state government easing Covid-19 curbs to revive the tourism and hospitality sectors, owners have sought the removal of bars from the list of prohibited activities. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India, associated with the Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India, has urged the government to remove bars from the list of prohibited activities. “The government has allowed restaurants to open and serve food with soft beverages since June but serving of liquor with food has not been allowed. This when the retail sale of liquor was one of the first activities to be unlocked in all states,” says Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, the vice-president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India. He said that the association had put up its demand before Union home minister Amit Shah. “It makes no difference if guests at a table consume food during a dine-in along with a soft drink, coffee or an alcoholic beverage. The bar owners in Shimla have also made a representation to the government. The bar is a general term that should not be linked only with serving alcohol,” he said. “The government should normalise the opening of shops, restaurants, and eating joints just as it was before Covid-19 hit us,” says Sanjay Sood, the owner of Devicos bar and restaurant and president of the Shimla Hotel and Restaurateur Association. There are more than 2,300 hotels and restaurants registered in Himachal Pradesh. CURBS EASED FOR HOTELS The Himachal Pradesh government amended the standard operation procedure to facilitate the tourism industry that has borne heavy losses due to the lockdown. Hotels in Himachal will resume operations in October, almost six months since the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. The minimum stay for tourists has been reduced to two days from the earlier five days. Tourists can put up at different destinations. Tourists can visit the state with a Covid-negative report of 72 hours prior to entering the state instead of 96 hours. The information technology department has been asked to modify the electronic-pass software to generate a separate consolidated list of applications under the “tourist category”. The district administration shall scrutinise the uploaded documents within 24 hours of submission of the application. In case a guest at the hotel tests positive, the room will be sealed for 48 hours unlike earlier when it was mandatory to seal the entire unit. “The government’s decision to ease norms is appreciated. We have to see what impact it has on the inflow of tourists. If there is a need to relax the norms further, we will approach the government again,” says Mahinder Seth of the Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bar-owners-seek-himachal-govt-s-help-to-revive-business/story-Y0YBiDO9GgJ2WziuyIL1GL.html
27-08-2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC drops contempt proceedings after lawyer apologises||The Calcutta high court has let off a lawyer with a warning after dropping contempt proceedings against him after he apologised for sharing on a screenshot of a recent virtual hearing of the court on social media.The court initiated contempt proceedings against Shiv Ratan Kakrania, saying sharing the screenshot was like taking a photograph of a physical court hearing. The court also took exception to a comment Kakrania made in his social media post.In its order on Tuesday, a single judge bench of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha said, “...Kakrania has filed an affidavit dated 19th August, 2020, in answer to the Rule. He has tendered an unconditional apology and has accepted that the publication of the screenshot of Court proceedings without the leave of the Court was incorrect. He has also said that it was deleted immediately after it was notified to him by his Counsel. He has also explained that the statement made in the publication was wholly unintentional.”“The contempt proceedings are dropped with a warning, however, to Mr. Shiv Ratan Kakrania not to repeat such conduct in the future. The rule is discharged,” Justice Mantha said in his order.Calcutta high court lawyers said this was the first incident of its kind since virtual hearings started to ensure social distancing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/calcutta-hc-drops-contempt-proceedings-after-lawyer-apologises/story-Tq11APmcByHKA8ar0VelVK.html
27-08-2020||Lucknow||Agra bicycle trader shot dead for resisting criminals when returning home||A 35-year-old bicycle trader in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra was allegedly shot dead by three bike-borne miscreants when he resisted a loot bid by the trio near his house in Kamla Nagar locality of the city on Wednesday night, police said.The unidentified miscreants also snatched some cash from the trader, they added.“A case has been registered against the unidentified criminals who were not able to take away anything valuable. Teams are being constituted to nab them and ascertain the exact reason that led to the trader’s murder,” said Agra SP Rohan Pramod Botre.The deceased trader’s brother said that the criminals took them by surprise after hitting their two-wheeler from behind.Also Read: UP gangster turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s ‘illegal’ properties demolished in Lucknow“The criminals, too, were riding a motorcycle and they struck our bike with a stick, making us fall on the ground. They snatched our bag which had a tiffin box and some cash, but as we resisted, the criminals fired and a bullet struck my brother Lalit, who was rushed to hospital but was declared dead at the emergency ward of SN Medical College and Hospital,” said Lalit’s younger brother Dinesh. Also Read: Minor drugged, gang-raped, forced into prostitution in VaranasiThe incident took place at about 8pm when the two brothers, Lalit and Dinesh Kathpal alias Rinku, were returning home on their motorbike from their shop in Ghatia Azam Khan market in the city. Meanwhile, the trader’s family has denied any enmity with anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-bicycle-trader-shot-dead-for-resisting-criminals-when-returning-home/story-jQ2ugv4P4c5nF7RRBvxtLI.html
27-08-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru Metro services to be restarted soon: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said Metro services in the city will be restarted soon, as normalcy is being restored in public life step by step.“Despite Covid-19 pandemic normalcy in public life is being restored step by step. Taking all the necessary precautionary measures, Metro services will be restarted soon,” Yediyurappa said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSpeaking to reporters here after naming a flyover in the heart of the city after revolutionary freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna, he said his government is committed for the all-round development of the state including Bengaluru.Five months after its operations were halted due to Covid-19 lockdown, the Metro is yet to get clearance from the government for restarting operations.Officials have said that they are waiting for Unlock 4.0 guidelines (from September 1) from the Centre and hope to get approval for resuming operations in it.They have also drawn a standard operating procedure (SOP) for restarting the service.Yediyurappa said improving the basic infrastructure in Bengaluru is the government’s goal and in this direction all the necessary measures are being taken.Paying more attention to Bengaluru’s development is necessary for the state and country’s financial progress, he said, adding that to resolve the traffic congestion issue in the city this flyover named after Sangolli Rayanna is helpful.Sangolli Rayanna (1798-1831) was the army chief of the Kittur Kingdom ruled by Rani Chennamma and fought against the British who hanged him to death from a banyan tree near Nandagad in Belgaum district in 1831.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-metro-services-to-be-restarted-soon-yediyurappa/story-zASW4iEweEBvBmQBaWxp5L.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Decision on reopening gyms, places of worship likely in September first week: Sanjay Raut||Sanjay Raut, a Rajya Sabha (RS) member from the Shiv Sena, said that the Maharashtra government is expected to take a decision on reopening gymnasiums and religious places of worship in September.The demand to reopen gymnasiums and religious places of worship, despite the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has been gaining momentum in Maharashtra.Several leaders, including from the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, comprising the Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, have also demanded the reopening of gymnasiums and religious places of worship. Earlier in August, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had allowed gymnasiums and religious places of worship to be reopened amid the pandemic. However, the state government has been treading cautiously on this policy decision, as Maharashtra has emerged as the Covid-19 hotspot in the country.“I think the Chief Minister has already made statements regarding it. As per my understanding, a decision on reopening gymnasiums and religious places of worship would be taken in the first week of September,” Raut told media persons in Mumbai.Devendra Fadnavis, the leader of Opposition in Maharashtra; and Raj Thackeray, chief, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena; have also been demanding the reopening of gymnasiums and religious places worship in Maharashtra. Raj Thackeray had questioned the state government’s move, as the latter had allowed the reopening of shopping malls.Supriya Sula, a Member of Parliament (MP) from the NCP, too, had said last week that the state government should allow the reopening of gymnasiums and religious places of worship.State health minister Rajesh Tope is in agreement with these leaders. “There are several people, who want gymnasiums to be reopened. The move will help build herd immunity against Covid-19. However, the CM is concerned that social distancing norms may not be maintained. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) can be issued before gymnasiums are reopened,” Tope had said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decision-on-reopening-gyms-places-of-worship-likely-in-september-first-week-sanjay-raut/story-PonAVdGv1pMR2Jd33N6rTK.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Traffic in Capital spikes, chaos at borders||The volume of road traffic in the national capital has reported a spike of late, despite the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, and traffic snarls during rush hour have again become commonplace, much to the inconvenience of commuters. The burden on road traffic has also increased because Metro Rail services in the national capital region (NCR) have been suspended since end-March in a bid to prevent the spread of the contagion. Initially, the Delhi government, like other parts of the country, had enforced lockdown restrictions that were in place for over two months to tackle the viral outbreak. Delhi Traffic Police said the national capital’s borders with neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have been reporting massive traffic jams since the phased easing of lockdown restrictions.Delhi Traffic Police’s data showed that between June 1 and August 20, the Delhi-Noida entry points had seen up to a 12% surge in road traffic volume. Similarly, there was an 8% uptick in the road traffic between Delhi and Gurugram during the corresponding period.The police said the worst-affected state borders are Kalindi Kunj, DND flyway and Mayur Vihar phase-3 entry. Estimates show that in Kalindi Kunj, over the last one month, nearly three lakh daily traffic volume had been recorded during peak rush hours. Before the lockdown (before the route was closed for passenger movement because of the Shaheen Bagh protests), this figure stood at around 1.5 to 2lakh vehicles every day. The traffic officials attributed the increase in road traffic to private employees, who have started commuting to work.Besides, commuters have limited public transport options because of the suspended Delhi Metro services. Many office-goers are relying on their private vehicles.Prior to the lockdown, around 27.5 lakh passengers were availing of the Delhi Metro service daily. “Delhi Metro had eased traffic bottlenecks on both Delhi-Noida and Delhi-Gurugram borders,” said a Delhi Traffic Police official.Delhi Traffic Police’s data showed around 5.7 lakh vehicles used to enter the national capital daily from the neighbouring satellite towns such as Gurugram, Noida, Faridabad and Ghaziabad before the lockdown restrictions were imposed.Many commuters, who have been commuting between Delhi, Noida and Gurugram, have complained of massive traffic snarls, especially during the morning and evening rush hours . They also blamed the police for traffic mismanagement such as putting up unmanned barricades on arterial stretches in a bid to enforce Covid-19 guidelines that allegedly slowed down the movement of vehicles. Mridul Despandey, an information technology (IT) consultant, who works in Noida, singled out police barricades placed on the Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) Flyway as the most inconvenient for commuters.“At a time when traffic is crawling at a snail’s pace, I don’t understand the logic behind placing these barricades on unmanned roads. Earlier, I used to take the Delhi Metro to work. However, since the Delhi Metro service is yet to resume, it takes me over an hour to reach my workplace in Noida from my house in Moti Bagh in south Delhi,” said Despandey..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-in-capital-spikes-chaos-at-borders/story-vALqY8U6GQ83mm4I6cPwON.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation engineers threaten strike over unpaid salaries||A forum of engineers has threatened its members will go on a strike if their employer--North Delhi Municipal Corporation--did not pay their unpaid salaries for three months even as the civic body cited a financial crunch because of the Covid-19 pandemic for the delay and promised to address the issue soon.Forum of MCD Engineers president SD Tomar said the engineers will have no option but to go on strike or protest if their pending salaries are not cleared soon. He said engineers working with the East Delhi Municipal Corporation have not been paid their salaries for two months. Tomar added it has started taking a toll on their lives. “The livelihood of municipal engineers and their lives is badly suffering due to these inordinate delays in payment of salaries. We also raised the matter with the north corporation mayor on Monday. For how long should we work without pay? Our patience is now giving up,” Tomar said.The forum said the salaries have not been paid since May and that they have written to the corporation’s mayor, Jai Prakash, and commissioner seeking the payment.In a letter to the commissioner on August 21, the engineers’ body said there has been a persistent delay in disbursal of salaries and pensions of municipal engineers. “…a delay of 3-4 months is common in getting salaries. This has been causing unrest and resentment among municipal engineers and their motivation is getting killed gradually. In view of the above, kindly look into the matter and formulate a scheme or policy for timely disbursal of salaries.”According to civic authorities, there are nearly 1,200 engineers working with the three municipalities of North, East, and South Delhi. The north corporation employs around 600 engineers.AP Khan, the forum’s general secretary, said it is becoming hard for them to survive under such conditions.Prakash said the civic body was going through an “acute financial crisis” due to the pandemic and that is why salaries have been delayed. “I am aware of the issue and we are making arrangements to pay salaries on time to all of our employees--be it engineers, doctors, teachers or sanitation workers. Pending salaries will be cleared soon,” Prakash said.Teachers, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, and civil contractors working with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation have also complained that they have not been paid their salaries and other dues for the last three to four months.In June, doctors of Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals threatened mass resignations if their salaries were not paid, forcing the civic authorities to pay them. Teachers of north corporation schools in July also threatened to go on strike over pending salaries. The civic body later paid them a month’s salary. In June, civil contractors of the north corporation threatened to stop work and refused to take fresh projects over non-payment of bills amounting to approximately Rs 500 crore. They are yet to be paid and have stopped taking new projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-delhi-municipal-corporation-engineers-threaten-strike-over-unpaid-salaries/story-Vdw6OncwPMAK8jKGIqU9lI.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Retired Delhi Police sub inspector shoots son, kills self||A retired Delhi Police sub-inspector (SI) allegedly shot his son twice on Wednesday night following a domestic dispute before turning his licenced revolver on himself and died at his home in Dadri. The son, who was shot at in the chest and leg, is undergoing treatment. His condition is stated to be critical, the police said. The SI, identified as Bachhan Singh (65), lived in Escorts colony under the jurisdiction of Dadri police station. The police said the family members were often involved in domestic disputes over money and property matters among themselves and his two sons would also object to Singh’s drinking habit.“We have found out that domestic disputes were common in the household. The incident occurred at around 10:30 pm on Wednesday. It appears that following another round of altercation, Singh took out his licenced revolver and opened fire at one of his sons in the chest and leg. He then shot himself and died on the spot. The son was taken to a local hospital, where he is undergoing treatment,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police (APCP), Zone 3, Greater Noida.Singh’s body has been sent for an autopsy. “Taking cognisance of the 112 call (police helpline), the body has been sent for an autopsy. His family is yet to file a complaint,” said the ADCP. Police said Singh was estranged from his wife, who lived elsewhere with one of their sons. The reason for the domestic dispute on Wednesday late evening is still not clear, the police said. It is yet to be ascertained whether Singh took his own life and fired at his son under the influence of alcohol. The autopsy would confirm whether he had consumed alcohol before the incident occurred, the police said. “A probe is in progress,” ADCP Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/retired-delhi-police-sub-inspector-shoots-son-kills-self/story-TA66AZKNcVydRRcfNEpbzM.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||40 NEET centres in Haryana, all in worst-hit Covid cities of Gurugram, Faridabad||Rohtak: The National Testing Agency (NTA), which is conducting the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on September 13 for admission to medical colleges, has increased the number of centres in Haryana from 30 to 40 this time. However, all the centres are located in the two Covid-hit cities of Gurugram and Faridabad. As many as 16,298 candidates will appear for NEET this year in Haryana against last year’s 14, 686 aspirants. The number of centres for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) stands at 16 this time as against 15 last time. A total of 24,763 have registered for JEE Mains in September as against 22,350 candidates who took the exam in January. The JEE (Mains) will be conducted from September 1 to 6. Generally, the JEE (Mains) exams for engineering aspirants is conducted in April, while NEET is held on the first Sunday of May. These exams have been postponed twice this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to restrict the spread of the disease. DON’T WANT TO MISS THIS CHANCE: STUDENTS A day after chief ministers of opposition-ruled states held a video-conference with Congress president Sonia Gandhi raising concerns over the holding of the entrance exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic, students are divided on the issue. Tushar Gupta, a NEET aspirant from Hisar, said he has been working hard for the medical entrance exam for two years and he doesn’t want to miss a chance this year. “Instead of debating on this topic, everyone should understand the importance of one year for a student. We have studied for 12 to 14 hours a day and only we know the importance of this exam. I urge the stakeholders to arrange transport for us from various corners of Haryana to the exam centres in Gurugram and Faridabad,” he said. Vikranta, a student from Bhiwani, said she is only focusing on the upcoming NEET exam. “My mother and I have been staying in Rajasthan’s Sikar town for my coaching. The career is much more important than the pandemic. We have learnt to live with Covid-19, so I don’t see any problem in appearing in the exam,” she said. However, Prashant Nain, a JEE (mains) aspirant, said that the government should revoke its decision to conduct the exams at this stage. “Safety comes first. Covid-19 cases have been rising and the government is putting students at risk by conducting the exams in September,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-neet-centres-in-haryana-all-in-worst-hit-covid-cities-of-gurugram-faridabad/story-2L4pxeiXBDw5AHL8waegZO.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Army’s Delhi station gets Forest department notice for damaging trees||The Station Headquarters of the Army (Delhi Area) have run into a conflict with the public works department (PWD) and the Delhi forest department for damaging at least 45 trees along the Ring Road on the periphery of the Rajputana Rifles Regiment Centre and the Army Environmental Park and Training Area (AEPTA), Delhi Cantonment, by carrying out trenching activity in the tree line for construction of a boundary wall.Also read: Green concerns over Metro Phase-4 workForest department officials said the trenching work starts from the Sawai Man Singh Dwar and goes up to the AEPTA. The stretch along the Ring Road is under the PWD, which has served a ‘cease and desist’ notice to the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the station area, asking him to stop the trenching work. “Trenching activitiy within one metre radius of a tree trunk is a violation of National Green Tribunal’s 2015 order as well as of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. It was found that during the trenching work, a total of 45 trees were damaged. The GOC is therefore requested to stop the work in the tree line,” stated the notice issued by the PWD’s horticulture department to the GOC (Station Area) on August 20. The notice also details the variety of trees damaged, including full grown native trees, such as gular, semal, bargad, shehtut, neem and peepal. Besides, a report of violations prepared by the Delhi forest department based on its inspection of the stretch on August 7 stated that 27 trees have been “damaged/felled” during the construction activity by the Station HQ of the Army. The forest department’s report also elaborates on the kind of damage caused to a variety of old and full-grown trees. “The trees have been damaged in an area spread across 4389 square metres. In case of most trees, the roots have been exposed. While five trees have fallen, in some others, the upper and middle parts have been cut. In case of another, only the root stump was found. The trees are located in a line in front of Metro pillar number 45 to pillar number 79,” it said.According to forest departnemt officials, the construction work is going on despite several reminders intimating the Station (HQ) to stop the work, as the said patch is a ‘deemed’ forest land where no construction activity can be carried out without seeking prior permission for diverting the land from the union Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Carrying out any kind of construction activity in a ‘deemed’ forest amounts to violation of the FCA, 1980.When HT visited the spot on Tuesday, work was going on in full swing. Deep trenches of about 5-6 feet were dug up in the area while a portion of the green patch has been cleared of trees and has been levelled with earth using heavy machinery. Also, an earth moving machine was mounted on the said patch, damaging the thick growth on the ground. A forest guard had also reached the site and informed the police about the construction activity, however, work on the stretch continued.The report of violations in the said area prepared by the deputy conservator of forest (West) dated August 19 and sent to the chief conservator of forests (CCF), the nodal officer (for FCA, 1980) in the Delhi government, stated, “The investigation officer (IO) from this office had inspected the stretch on August 7 and reported felling/damaging 27 trees at Ring Road, New Delhi. The IO also informed that he was not allowed to enter the premises of the Delhi Cantt area and was threatened by the contractors at the site.”The report further said, “As per the records available in this office...it is informed that no such permission has been issued by this office for felling of trees at the area in question. The area is listed as a ‘deemed’ forest by a Supreme Court order. The violated area is under the possession of the PWD, but the working permission has been given by the Army HQ...After considering all facts, it is being reported that prima facie the offence under section (2) of FCA1980, may be committed by Army HQ in the said area by damaging and felling trees here without the permission of Government of India,” it said.In a response to HT’s query, Colonel Aman Anand, spokesperson, Indian Army, said that the work undertaken is primarily a matter of repairing the wall on certified A1 defence land and no trees have been damaged in the process. “The scope involves recasting of plinth in the existing wall along with raising of height of wall at identified places for augmenting security of army area. The work pertains to repair of an ‘Existing Asset’ and does not involves fresh construction. Further, it is clarified that neither any trees have been damaged in the process and nor any intent for such an act exists within this organization”. DCF (West) S K Muan Guite said that the Army HQ have been informed to stop the work, as it is a ‘deemed’ forest land and the work is prima facie in violation of the FCA, 1980. “We had issued a restraining order as well. Also, on Monday, the forest staff had reached the site, the local police was informed and directed the contractor to stop the ongoing work. In this case, I have already given a violations report to the Nodal officer of the state,” said Guite.He added that work was stopped on Tuesday evening. HT was at the site till 4.30 pm until when the work was still going on. Colonel Anand further said that the work has only been taken up to safeguard the existing assets and enhance security of army installations. “No damage to the environment is foreseen or planned. We as an organisation are fully seized with the concerns and responsible behaviour towards the environment needs,” he said.As per the Supreme Court order, in Delhi’s context, a deemed forest is one which is spread across an area of at least 1 hectare and the number of trees per hectare is 250 or above. If both conditions are fulfilled simultaneously, the area is considered a deemed forest.The forest department had first received a complaint regarding the construction work in the tree line on July 23 after which an inspection of the site was taken up by the forest officials on August 7. The written complaint had highlighted that the work besides being in violation of FCA, 1980 is also a violation of National Green Tribunal (NGT) 2015 order that does not allow any trenching activitiy within one metre radius of a tree trunk as well as of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994.C R Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems at Delhi University, said that roadside trees and vegetation must be preserved as they act as a filter against air pollution. “Firstly, no construction activities must be carried out in a tree line or in this case of a deemed forest land. Trees such as gular, bargad, semal and peepal have a high dust-trapping efficiency and play a crucial role in mitigating pollution, in particular, on stretches like the Ring Road, which gets heavy traffic on a daily basis. Trenching activity anyways destroys the root system of the trees, which disturbs the ecology of the area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/army-s-delhi-station-gets-forest-department-notice-for-damaging-trees/story-Rt3nTGECLrv7mWAGIm3HwN.html
27-08-2020||Kolkata||India’s second-most populous district emerges as a challenge to Bengal’s Covid-19 management||India’s second-most populous district – North 24 Parganas – has emerged as a major challenge for the West Bengal government in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic as it has reported 6,448 cases over the last 10 days. The district’s 20.6% positivity rate is almost double the national average. Its 2.2% case fatality rate is the third-highest among the state’s districts.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in the district at a meeting this week and asked officials to find a solution to the problem. She questioned why the number of Covid-19 cases in North 24 Parganas could not be controlled, officials aware of the matter said.“The positivity rate of North 24 Parganas is around 20.6%, which is almost double the national average. As a result, the district is registering the highest number of daily spikes among other districts. The district has a case fatality rate of 2.2%, which is the third-highest among other districts in the state after Kolkata and Howrah,” said a health official, who did not want to be named.Kolkata has reported 5,498 Covid-19 cases in the last 10 days, compared to North 24 Parganas’s 6,448.The state has registered 140,000 cases and 2,964 Covid-19-related fatalities till Wednesday.A state urban development department official said North 24 Parganas has many congested urban areas apart from factories, jute mills, and over 200 km international border with Bangladesh. “In some areas, factories and industries have been found to have become the hub of the virus,” said the official on condition of anonymity.As per the 2011 census, Thane in Maharashtra, with a population of 10.01 million, was the most populous district, followed by North 24 Parganas (10 million).The state government has directed the district administration to ensure that people wear masks, maintain social distance in markets, and to conduct a survey by making surprise visits to factories to check whether the norms are followed.“We are involving local clubs and self-help groups to spread awareness in the highly-congested areas so that people wear masks. Discussions have also been held with municipalities, police and market associations in this regard. We have set up 26 facilities where Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms or asymptomatic patients could be kept in isolation,” said a district official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/india-s-second-most-populous-district-emerges-as-a-challenge-to-bengal-s-covid-19-management/story-VhcrUpNDWBQ8KCy7xzOayJ.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Union minister Krishan Pal Gurjar tests positive for Covid-19; Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja in home quarantine||Chandigarh: Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Krishan Pal Gurjar, 63, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Gurjar, who is the BJP MP from Faridabad, tweeted in Hindi that he had been experiencing health problems and got his Covid-19 test done. “I have tested positive and am undergoing treatment. I urge all those who came in my contact over the past few days to take coronavirus seriously and get themselves tested,” he said. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja, 57, also took to Twitter to announce that she is in home quarantine as a precautionary measure after coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient. “I shall be in quarantine for a week. Please stay safe and alert,” she urged her followers on social media. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, 66, and Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, 72, are among 10 leaders from the state who are undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection. Khattar and Gupta are hospitalised in Gurugram and their condition is stated to be stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/union-minister-krishan-pal-gurjar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-haryana-congress-chief-kumari-selja-in-home-quarantine/story-i986yrM8WiTF3BWnm1OkcI.html
27-08-2020||Lucknow||Minor drugged, gang-raped, forced into prostitution in Varanasi||A 15-year-old girl from Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur district was allegedly drugged and forced into prostitution by a beauty parlour owner in Ramnagar area of Varanasi, police said, adding that the matter came to light on August 16 night when the girl managed to escape from the captivity and reached police outpost in Ramnagar and narrated her story.A police officer said that the victim belongs to a village in Mirzapur. She informed that a woman from her village in Chunar area of Mirzapur promised her a job in a beauty parlour in Ramnagar on June 15 and brought her there. She started working at the beauty parlour from the same day.The police officer said that the girl further added that everything went normally for about a fortnight. But thereafter, the beauty parlour started giving her sedative pills and drugs and forced her into prostitution. She claims to have been held hostage by the beauty parlour owner in a house in Gola Ghat area where a youth allegedly raped her. Thereafter, she was raped by around a dozen people.After listening to the girl, the police officer contacted Chunar police station to inform them about the matter. Chunar police said that a person had lodged a complaint on July 21 that her niece had gone missing. As the FIR about the missing girl was registered in Chunar, Ramnagar police handed over the girl to Chunar police.The police officer said that the girl gave out names of around a dozen persons including three females in her statement. All the accused are on the run even as the police are conducting raids to nab them.Chunar police station in-charge Inspector Manoj Kumar Singh said that the relevant sections have been added to the previous FIR registered on July 21. Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has also been imposed.Evidence is being collected and strict action would be taken against all the accused, he said and added that the girl’s statement could not be recorded before the magistrate as she has been ill. Her medical examination has also not been done so far.Also Read: Mayawati slams UP govt over law and order situation in stateOn August 25, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi tweeted, “UP CM speaks about the speed of the government and the crime meter starts running at twice the speed. Pratyaksham kim Pramanam (What is evident, needs no proof).”“This is the crime meter of only two days in UP. The UP government repeatedly cover-ups the incidents of crime, but crime is doing Tandav (fierce dance) on the streets of the state,” she further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-girl-drugged-gang-raped-forced-into-prostitution-in-varanasi/story-BLW9R3ll9H3Az6PxZLe4oM.html
27-08-2020||Patna||Muzaffarpur school teacher murder: Minor hatched conspiracy with friend to eliminate father||The police have cracked the mystery behind the murder of a private school teacher, Rajesh Kumar, in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district following the arrest of one of the victim’s old tenants.Also read: 62-yr-old man stabbed to death in FatehabadThe accused had allegedly stabbed Kumar 17 times for opposing his relationship with his minor daughter. The police said the murder conspiracy was hatched by Kumar’s minor daughter. Earlier, the victim’s wife was arrested for Kumar’s murder.Jayant Kant, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Muzaffarpur, said Kumar was stabbed to death on April 17 in his bed room at Nazirpur locality that falls under the jurisdiction of Ahiyapur police station.A case was lodged against Kumar’s three tenants _ Manish Kumar, Pankaj Kumar and Mohammad Anwarul Haque _ on the basis of the statement of Rita Devi, the wife of the slain teacher.Kumar’s daughter had alleged that her mother had an extramarital relationship with one of the tenants, which led to regular fights between her parents and a separation case was pending in a family court.The police conducted a probe in the murder case and arrested Devi, despite her pleading innocence. She told the police that Manish, one of their tenants, had vacated the house on April 5 -- 12 days prior to Kumar’s murder.The SSP said the police stumbled upon vital leads in the course of the investigation and Devi’s statement. Acting on a tip-off, the police conducted a raid on one of the premises on Akhara Road and arrested Manish on Monday.During interrogation, Manish revealed police that he had fallen in love with Kumar’s minor daughter, who had incited him to commit the crime. He alleged that the girl provoked him to kill her father, as he was opposed to the relationship.Manish hatched the plot to eliminate Kumar along with the other two tenants, Pankaj and Haque. He claimed that Pankaj agreed to be a party to the crime because he had fallen in love with Devi. The trio allegedly entered Kumar’s house around 2.30am on April 17 and stabbed him to death. Devi was also attacked when she had tried to protect her husband from them.Haque and Pankaj belong to Belsand in Sitamarhi district and the police have started a hunt for them. The SSP said the minor would be detained for interrogation as per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. “Rita Devi is still in jail and further investigation is on,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-school-teacher-murder-minor-hatched-conspiracy-with-friend-to-eliminate-father/story-NJm9u899WHpZJlkZOqTdjN.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Yamuna’s water level rising; but likely to stay below: Report||Officials said the water level of river Yamuna at Delhi rose slightly on Thursday morning and the river was flowing very close to the warning mark. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday issued an alert for ‘moderate to heavy’ rainfall in Delhi from Wednesday to Friday and warned of flooding in low-lying areas along with disruption in traffic. Delhi minister Satyendar Jain said that the state government was prepared to face any flood-like situationYamuna’s water level on Thursday was 203.77 metres at 10 am while it was 203.78 metres on Wednesday at 6pm at the Old Railway Bridge in Delhi, an official belonging to Delhi’s irrigation and flood control department said. He added that the flow rate on Wednesday afternoon was 24,994 cusec, the highest in the last 24 hours.The official although pointed out that the level is likely to remain below the warning mark of 204.50 metres unless a very large amount of water measuring at least 2 lakh cusec, is released into the river from the Hathnikund barrage in Haryana’s Yamunanagar district. Also read: Cloudy skies followed by rain predicted in DelhiHathnikund barrage acts as a source of drinking water in Delhi and water discharged from here usually takes between 36-48 hours to reach the national capital. The flow rate at the barrage is 352 cussec but the discharge is increased after torrential rainfall is witnessed in catchment areas. Last year, the flow rate reached 8.28 lakh cusec, and Yamuna’s water level hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The Delhi government carried out rescue and relief operations as several low-lying areas got submerged due to the overflow of the river. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/yamuna-s-water-level-rising-but-likely-to-stay-below-report/story-K1ENWNUTOqxdxjn451wLyI.html
27-08-2020||Lucknow||UP gangster turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s ‘illegal’ properties demolished in Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s gangster turned MLA Mukthar Ansari’s property in Dalibagh colony area of capital Lucknow has been demolished by the Lucknow Development Authority on Thursday amid presence of heavy police force.The Lucknow Development Authority carried out the demolition of two illegal residential towers of the building owned by Ansari, who is currently languishing in jail.An FIR has been registered in connection with the case and the administration has indicated that it intends to recover the expenses incurred in the demolition exercise from Ansari since the building was illegal.Big JCB machines were used to pull down the alleged illegal portions of the building while police were deployed outside the premises to prevent any potential law and order issue.“Gangster Mukhtar Ansari’s illegally owned property demolished near Dalibagh Colony. Expenses of demolition will be recovered from him. FIR will be registered. Responsibility of officials under whom this illegal construction took place will be fixed,” the Lucknow Administration was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mukhtar Ansari is in Ropar jail in Punjab jail since early 2019. He is an accused in the killing of BJP leader Krishnanand Rai in 2005. His henchman and sharpshooter Rakesh Pandey alias Hanuman Pandey was gunned down by the Special Task Force (STF) on the outskirts of Lucknow on August 9.Earlier in July, the state police had suspended arms licenses of Ansari’s four aides in a concerted action taken against mafia and top criminals. In January, Mau police had booked Ansari and five others in connection with obtaining four arms licences by furnishing fake addresses 19 years ago.Also Read: How the UP government is demolishing the mafiaEarlier this year properties worth over Rs 50 lakh of another aide of Ansari were also confiscated by the Varanasi police.Last year, Lucknow Police had seized 6 weapons and 4,431 cartridges from the residence of gangster Mukhtar Ansari’s son Abbas Ansari. Abbas had allegedly procured six weapons on a single license, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-gangster-turned-mla-mukhtar-ansari-s-illegal-properties-demolished-in-lucknow/story-TgohWyEHbsDidzmuABxCOM.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar, Speaker stable, responding well to Covid-19 treatment||Gurugram/Chandigarh: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, 66, who is admitted to a private hospital in Gurugram for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is stable and active, hospital authorities said on Thursday. A press statement issued by the hospital said: “CM Haryana continues to remain stable and active. His vitals are being maintained. He is kept under strict observation and monitoring in isolation under the treatment of Medanta Covid Care Ward Team.” Khattar was admitted Medanta - The Medicity in Gurugram in the wee hours of August 25 after he announced his test results on August 24 evening on Twitter. Khattar had developed fever and body ache. Considering his age and history of diabetes, he was shifted to the hospital for treatment. SPEAKER IN COVID ICU The officials said that Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, 72, is admitted in the hospital’s Covid intensive care unit but his condition is stable and he is responding well to treatment. A senior health official privy to the matter said, “Gupta is under close observation in the Covid ICU as further investigations are being conducted. His condition is stable and he has been maintaining vital parameters such as pulse, respiration and blood pressure.” Khattar and Gupta were found infected by coronavirus in a span of seven hours. Khattar announced his Covid-19 positive status via Twitter on Monday evening, while Gupta’s test report was made public early in the afternoon. Apart from the chief minister and Speaker, transport minister Mool Chand Sharma and agriculture minister JP Dalal tested positive for Covid-19 hours before the Haryana assembly session on Wednesday. SKIPPED MONSOON SESSION Though Khattar and Gupta missed the three-hour monsoon session of the assembly on Wednesday, the officials said the Speaker was taking calls to know about the assembly proceedings, presided over by deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa in his absence. “The Speaker was in the ICU but he was taking important calls last evening (Wednesday),” an official said on condition of anonymity. Minutes before the Vidhan Sabha session at least 10 watch and ward staff tested positive for Covid-19, official sources said, adding that they were not allowed to enter the assembly. So far, 10 legislators from Haryana, including the chief minister, Speaker and two ministers, have tested positive for Covid-19. The other MLAs infected are Aseem Goyal, Laxman Napa, Ram Kumar Kashyap and Harvinder Kalyan besides the BJP member of Parliament from Karnal, Sanjay Bhatia. On Monday, three employees, a sweeper, a cook and a room attendant, posted at the Haryana MLAs’ hostel in Chandigarh were found Covid-19 positive. On Sunday, six Vidhan Sabha employees, including Gupta’s political secretary, tested positive for coronavirus infection. HARYANA POLITICIANS WHO ARE COVID POSITIVE Manohar Lal Khattar, chief minister Gian Chand Gupta, Speaker JP Dalal, agriculture minister Mool Chand Sharma, transport minister Sanjay Bhatia, Karnal MP Krishan Pal Gurjar, Faridabad MPAseem Goyal, MLA Laxman Napa, MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap, MLA Harvinder Kalyan, MLA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cm-khattar-speaker-stable-responding-well-to-covid-19-treatment/story-aFMJnLKgrrQbl8wXMe13xI.html
27-08-2020||Patna||Bihar opposition alliance in talks with left to get poll arithmetic right||The Grand Alliance (GA) in Bihar is treading cautiously this time to firm up alliance in the face of growing dissension with the camp, aware that the electoral arithmetic would require it to fill the big void left by the JD-U after 2015 assembly elections. This time JD-U is in the National Democraric Alliance (NDA). Though Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM)-Secular of former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi has moved out of the GA, sources in the Opposition alliance said it was not too much of a concern, as talks were already underway with the left parties, which have their cadres in several constituencies of the state despite their depleting strength over the years.CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattachary had earlier also called for Opposition unity in Bihar, even if it required some compromises by all the constituents, to stop the NDA from returning to power in the forthcoming elections by checking fragmentation of votes.In that backdrop, RJD state president Jagtanand Singh’s separate talks with the CPI-ML leaders and a group of CPI-CPM leaders on Tuesday and Wednesday assumes significance.CPI-ML was the only left party in 2015 Assembly elections to have opened its account and won three seats against the formidable Grand Alliance (GA) comprising the JD-U, RJD and the Congress. All the six left parties had then fought jointly, independent of both the GA and NDA. Even during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, left parties were out of the GA over denial of ticket to CPI’s Kanhaiya Kumar and differences on seat-sharing formula.That the RJD and the CPI-ML could be coming closer was apparent during the one-day monsoon session of the Bihar Assembly, when the latter allowed the leader of Opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav to consume its time while speaking. CPM leader Sarvoday Sharma said there had been regular meetings of left parties and there is a general understanding in favour of a broader Opposition alliance, with the RJD, being the biggest party, at the centre of the formation. “An effective campaign for a viable alternative could make the difference as chief minister Nitish Kumar will have to face the anti-incumbency factor and also account for the government’s failure in addressing people’s basic concerns,” he added.After the whitewash in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when RJD could not even open its account and the Congress could manage just one seat, the 2020 Bihar Assembly elections scheduled in October-November is understandably not going to be easy for the faction-ridden Grand Alliance (GA) to turn the table. To pose another challenge, six of its sitting MLAs have already shifted to the JD-U, while party veteran Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is still sulking over the prospect of ‘bahubali’ Rama Singh’s induction.Also Read: Day after declaring ‘war’ on Nitish’s JD(U), RJD plays down mass defectionsThe electoral mathematics weighs heavily in favour of the existing National Democratic Alliance (NDA) comprising the BJP, JD-U and the LJP. The depleting strength of the RJD amidst speculations about more crossovers would only make it more difficult for the GA. Shyam Razak’s return to the RJD fold has been the only significant induction in the party.In 2015, BJP had emerged the party with the largest vote share of 24.5%, but still lost in seat count against the combined might of the GA, as JD-U tilted balance against it.Also Read: JD(U) snubs LJP says alliance in Bihar is with BJP, NDA rift widens “It is all about numbers in the end. Left parties have their pockets of influence. Though they may not have the strength to convert their strength to seats, they can certainly add to the GA numbers, which will require some catching up to do to get closer to the NDA numbers. It will help the left parties also,” said a senior RJD leader, adding RJD chief Lalu Prasad was also for it, as was the Congress.With the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) of former union minister Upendra Kushwaha and Vikashsheel Insaan Paery (VIP) of Mukesh Sahni also appearing to stay with the GA, the opposition hopes to take on the NDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-opposition-alliance-in-talks-with-left-to-get-poll-arithmetic-right/story-Bfc3DFdKhcDEx6CQGLPWLK.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Cloudy skies followed by rain predicted in Delhi||Cloudy skies are expected to keep the mercury in check in the national capital on Thursday while a fresh spell of rain is likely towards the evening, the weather department said.The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle around 33 degrees Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius, respectively. The India Meteorological Department had on Tuesday issued an alert for “moderate to heavy” rains in the national capital from Wednesday to Friday. The rain is likely to inundate low-lying areas and disrupt traffic on roads, it had warned.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the monsoon trough will remain close to Delhi-NCR till Friday.  Delhi has recorded 213.3 mm rainfall against the normal of 228.2 mm in August so far, a deficiency of 7 percent.Overall, it has gauged 531.9 mm precipitation against the normal of 504.3 mm since June 1, when monsoon season starts, the Met department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cloudy-skies-followed-by-rain-predicted-in-delhi/story-vCAQSY5led1YG6vXOGyx6L.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Mangroves hacked at Panje, environment violations pile as HC panel yet to meet after March||Mangrove destruction was reported from the Panje area at Uran in Navi Mumbai on Wednesday, as a patch of the salt-tolerant trees located in the middle of the wetland was spotted missing.A complaint was filed with the mangrove cell and Bombay high court (HC)-appointed state committee that was set up to protect mangroves and wetlands along the Konkan coast. Environmentalists said they felt frustrated, as the HC panel has not met since March, despite repeated reminders by its own members to expedite the hearing of the complaints. The committee’s member secretary said about 10 new complaints and close to a 100 previously heard complaints are still pending.On Wednesday, a closer inspection of Panje by local birders unearthed chopped off branches of about 15-18 mangrove trees buried in sections of the wetland. “We had visited the site last week and the mangrove trees were still there. Unidentified persons mercilessly chopped off the trees after rainwater receded. There have been attempts to block high-tide water in a bid to dry up the site,” said Parag Gharat, an Uran resident and a keen birder. He alleged that he was threatened by industry officials. “Since they have spotted me several times in the area, I have been told not to take pictures and stay away from the site, or I may be roughed up,” he alleged. Spread across 213 hectare (ha) core and 157 ha buffer area for migratory birds’ roosting, Panje is a natural habitat to up to 1,50,000 birds, including both migratory and resident, during winter. The west side of the wetland shares a border with a narrow patch of mangrove that is up to 500 metres (m) wide and 1.5-kilometre long, while the east side is surrounded by degraded mangroves, villages and roads. Sections of Panje towards the Arabian Sea have been declared by the Maharashtra authorities as Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) I, the highest ecological protection. Mangrove destruction and construction within 50 m of the vegetation was banned by the Bombay HC in September 2018.Environmentalists, the City Industrial Development Corporation Limited (CIDCO) and private companies have been in a tussle for over two years to protect Panje from proposed industrial and residential projects. States bodies claimed the area was not a wetland, despite the fact it was identified as one by the National Wetland Atlas, Maharashtra, in 2011.Hours after Gharat shared the images of the hacked mangroves, environmental groups such as Shree Ekvira Aai Pratishthan (SEAP) and NatConnect Foundation sent complaint letters to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and urged him to book the violators . They also requested for closed-circuit TV (CCTV) surveillance at the site in a bid to protect the remaining mangrove patches. “This kind of illegal activities are carried out at night with the help of local residents. Panje wetland is being reclaimed to be under the control and illegal possession of the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone. The project proponents are preventing local fishermen, birders and researchers from entering Panje,” said Nandkumar Pawar, head, SEAP.BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation, said, “Vested interests are active and damaging the biodiversity by chopping off mangroves in the absence of any official surveillance since the state authorities are busy with tackling the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The HC committee must hold an online meeting to take stock of the situation and instruct appropriate authorities to file contempt cases for dereliction of their duties.”Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forests (mangrove cell) and member secretary, HC panel, said, “Panje has been a matter of concern for a long time because it is not an identified wetland on paper. Mangrove destruction is a serious offence. Our range forest officer has been informed to verify the allegations. Further action will be initiated against the guilty.”In September 2018, a two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla, while banning mangrove destruction in Maharashtra had directed the state authorities to form the grievance redressal committee to identify the vulnerable mangrove forests and wetland patches along the Konkan coast and ensure restoration of these sites to their original condition. On Wednesday, the state published a list of transfers for top bureaucrats with former Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) commissioner Annasaheb Misal appointed as the Konkan commissioner. “I have just taken charge. We will do the needful,” said Misal on holding the next HC-committee meeting. On August 17, HC panel member Stalin D wrote to the additional commissioner Konkan to convene a meeting soon. “Previous directions passed by the committee have been ignored by various state bodies and the crisis has deepened. More reclamation is happening and also permissions are being given for constructions on khazan lands, wetlands, water bodies etc. It is crucial for the committee to look into these pressing issues at the earliest,” said Stalin.Somraj said 15 fresh complaints had been received across the Konkan coast since the last meeting was held in the first week of March. At least 10 complaints were related to Uran, including Panje, while the rest were from Versova, Dahanu and Alibag. A total of 97 complaints are still pending, where a first-information-report (FIR) was registered, but charge sheets are yet to be filed. “Besides the non-appointment of the Konkan commissioner, revenue officials from all districts had been busy with the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the mangrove cell has followed up on all the complaints, filed punchnamas and documented each matter to be presented before the committee. Now, we are waiting for the next meeting to be called,” said Somraj..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mangroves-hacked-at-panje-environment-violations-pile-as-hc-panel-yet-to-meet-after-march/story-lP9ATfaHIpyVY1y6SWx0BM.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi jewellers’ suicide: Police may summon moneylenders||The Delhi police are likely to summon for questioning moneylenders accused of harassing two jewellers from Chandni Chowk, who were found hanging at their shop on Wednesday.The two brothers, aged 47 and 42, left behind a note citing their poor financial condition but did not name any person for pushing them to suicide.Their family and employees told police and journalists the two were “thrashed” and “threatened” by the musclemen of a private financer from whom they had taken a loan of around Rs 60 lakh and were not able to repay it.“We are verifying if the allegations are true. We are in the process of identifying the moneylenders who had loaned the money to the two men and ascertain the family’s allegations. They will be questioned to find out the reason behind the deaths,” said an investigator, who did not wish to be named.The family of the jewellers told journalists the two were being “threatened by a local businessman and his associate” and they “hanged themselves because of the torture”.An employee of the jewellery store also told journalists moneylenders would come to their shop and harass the two brothers. They used to ask them to have poison if they did not have money to repay, he said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj, said, “We will record the statement of their father today [Thursday]. We will proceed with the investigation accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-jewellers-suicide-police-may-summon-moneylenders/story-ZNxB1quX0ldca7QTn1lZ9J.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Ola, Uber drivers threaten strike across NCR from September 1||Drivers working for app-based cab aggregators such as Uber and Ola have threatened to go on strike from September 1, across the National Capital Region (NCR). Also read: Mumbaiites may now book autos on UberThey have been demanding an extension to pay the EMIs of their vehicles, a hike in the per km fare, reduction in commission charged by the companies operating the services and e-challans’ rollback. With government buses accommodating fewer passengers and the Delhi Metro services yet to resume, the strike could affect travel for thousands of citizens across the NCR. Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi, a union of Ola-Uber drivers, which claimed to have around 200,000 cabs attached to them across the NCR, on Thursday said they will go on strike from September 1 unless their demands are met. The association said that most drivers attached to the union are those who have taken bank loans for purchasing the vehicle and have to pay monthly instalments of up to Rs 15,000. “After the lockdown, our condition had deteriorated. The number of clients has come down to just 10%, as most people are still working from home. The drivers are struggling to make ends meet. We have sent letters to the Prime Minister, the union finance and transport ministers to urge banks to extend the relaxation on paying EMIs till December 31 this year,” said Kamaljeet Gill, president, Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi. He added that they there has been one relaxation between March and August, but they need an extension, as work has not picked up. “Many drivers are borrowing from friends to run their houses. These days, a driver is earning about Rs 150-200 per day, after deducting 26% commission to the company, maintenance and fuel charges. This is much lower than what we made in pre-Covid days. Back then, if a driver worked for 14-15 hours a day, he would take home around Rs 800-900 after deducting all the charges. It is a huge difference and we request the government to save our livelihoods otherwise drivers will have to sell their cabs or the banks will take them away,” said Gill. He also said that so far, the cab aggregators have fixed the fares at Rs 6 per km, which is much less than the government rates fixed for taxis and go up to Rs 10-12 per km. “If the fare is hiked to at least Rs 10 per km, it will help us earn more and will only be fair to do so,” he said. On e-challans (camera-based traffic challans where drivers are not prosecuted on the spot), Gill alleged that drivers have got 10-20 challans in the past few months for driving above the speed of 40km/h. “Even for personal cars, the speed limit is 50km/h. There are no roads signs for commercial vehicles such as cabs to drive at 40km/h and many drivers have got a number of challans of Rs 2,000 each. How are we supposed to pay off these challans? We request the government to waive them off or roll back this policy,” said Gill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ola-uber-drivers-threaten-strike-in-ncr-from-september-1/story-HAX3eUsGue5RK07HeNrI3L.html
27-08-2020||Kolkata||Heavy rains lash Kolkata; house collapse leaves one dead||A septuagenarian woman was killed and her son, aged around 45, was injured when a portion of their dilapidated, one-storey house collapsed in eastern suburban Kolkata early on Thursday morning after heavy rains lashed the city. Police said that the duo got trapped under the debris when a portion of the house they lived in collapsed around 5.30 am on Thursday. Police managed to rescue them and rushed them to the hospital. It took almost three hours to rescue the woman from under the debris. She succumbed in the hospital. There was water logging on several arterial roads, lanes and bylanes in central and north Kolkata. Water logging was also reported from the port area in western part of the city. But as the state administration has enforced state-wide lockdown on Thursday, there were fewer vehicles on the roads and less of traffic congestion. The regional weather forecasting centre said that the rain was triggered by a low pressure that had developed a few days ago. Rain and thunderstorms have hit almost all districts in south Bengal. Many rivers were flowing above the danger level and water has entered several villages inundating large areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/heavy-rains-in-kolkata-house-collapse-leaves-two-injured/story-vien49GQsRmDpSKBhK1BAM.html
27-08-2020||Kolkata||Customs officials seize 25 antiques worth Rs 35.3 crore in north Bengal||In what is called the biggest seizure of antiques in recent times, customs officials seized 25 idols worth more than Rs 35 crore from a district along the Indo-Bangla border in north Bengal on August 23. Also read: Delhi businessman arrested by Mumbai customs for evading dutyThe antiques belong to the period between 9th century AD and 16th century AD and were being smuggled to Bangladesh in a truck. There were seven stone idols of goddess Parvati, Manasha Devi, Lord Vishnu and Lord Surya, seven metallic artefacts made of bronze and octo-alloy used for casting metallic idols in Hindu and Jain temples, besides 11 terracotta idols. The oldest of them is an idol of Hindu deity Surya measuring 23.5 inches. It belongs to 9th century and is worth Rs 5 crore in the international market. Acting on a tip-off, officials of the Commissionerate of Customs (preventive) in West Bengal intercepted a truck at South Dinjapur on Sunday night. The antiques were concealed in the paddy loaded in the truck. The antique were checked by experts from the Akshaya Kumar Maitreya Heritage Museum under the North Bengal University in Siliguri who evaluated them to be worth Rs 35.3 crore in the international market. It is not known from where the idols were stolen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/customs-officials-seize-25-antiques-worth-rs-35-3-crore-in-north-bengal/story-LMOiTwBLcBW1tyt4hnkAJM.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Light rain likely in Delhi today||According to a Regional Meteorological Centre alert Thursday morning, the Capital is likely to see only light rain during the day.“The forecast of rain has shifted to Thursday morning,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Also Read: Heavy rain warning for NW, central India; Rain over Delhi delayed but likely today, says IMDAuthorities in Delhi are also monitoring the water level in the Yamuna river. The water level has reached 203.7 metres, which is close to the warning mark of 204.5 metres. IMD has predicted intense spells of rain in many parts of northwest India between August 26 and August 28. Scientists explained that the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is active, south of its normal position and likely to remain active for the next two or three days. Apart from this, there is a convergence of lower level south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea over north-west India till August 28. In Delhi, the peak rainfall activity due to this will take place between August 27 and August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/moderate-to-heavy-rain-likely-in-delhi-today-and-tomorrow/story-V3pYiDkcpo1mhNnD2EJxCP.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Jadhav sends letter of resignation to Maharashtra CM||Shiv Sena MP from Maharashtra’s Parbhani, Sanjay Jadhav, tendered his resignation from membership of Lok Sabha on Wednesday saying he was unable to do justice with party workers of his area.Jadhav sent his resignation letter to Sena chief and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.“If I’m unable to do justice with Shiv Sena workers of my area. I have no right to be an MP of the party,” his letter read.The appointment of non-governmental administrator of Jintur Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Parbhani District has irked the MP.“I have been following the matter for the last 8-10 months. Now a person from NCP has been appointed as non-governmental administrator and this is an insult to Shiv Sena workers,” he said.Jadhav is also a member of the Consultative Committee for the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-jadhav-sends-letter-of-resignation-to-maharashtra-cm/story-1pVmKk1Y2c5u1sNqDlOK3L.html
27-08-2020||Jaipur||Covid: Religious places for devotees to re-open from September 7 in Rajasthan||All religious places in Rajasthan that were closed for devotees in wake of Covid-19 pandemic, will be re-opened from Septemeber 7, said state government on Wednesday.“All the religious places in the state, that were closed for common devotees in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, will re-open from September 7. All precautionary measures to ensure safety against the disease will have to be mandatorily followed,” the government order reads.Earlier, the centre had given relaxations in the nationwide coronavirus-induced lockdown and allowed the religious places across the country to reopen from June 8, however, Rajasthan government has not allowed the opening of the same in view of the surge in the number of coronavirus cases.A total of 1,345 new Covid-19 positive cases and 12 deaths reported in Rajasthan till 8.30 pm on Wednesday. The total number of cases now at 74,670 including 14,099 active cases and 992 deaths, said State health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-religious-places-for-devotees-to-re-open-from-september-7-in-rajasthan/story-Qaj6PwNFBw0O9PIFc3YMXI.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Pakistani team to meet Indian authorities at Dera Baba Nanak for building bridge in Kartarpur Corridor||Amritsar: A team of 10 Pakistani engineers will cross over to India at 11am on Thursday to meet officials of the Border Security Force (BSF), National Highway of India (NHAI) and Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) at Dera Baba Nanak town of Gurdaspur district and discuss the construction of a bridge in the Kartarpur Corridor. According to official sources, the engineers will discuss the construction of a bridge on a low-lying stretch near the border on the Pakistan side. They will also conduct a survey of the portion of the bridge built on the Indian side. “The standard operating procedure (SOP) on preventive measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus will be observed during the meeting,” a senior BSF official said. BRIDGE AND SHARE OF CONSTRUCTION The 420-metre bridge was to be constructed under the Kartarpur Corridor project last year. India built the 100-metre stretch of the bridge in its territory before the corridor’s inauguration last year. Pakistan had expressed its inability to construct the 320-metre portion in the stipulated time but promised to complete the construction in the coming days. The construction of bridge was necessitated as the low-lying area of the border gets inundated when the Ravi river is in spate every year. Pakistan had built a causeway on the low-lying stretch as a temporary measure. FIRST MEETING SINCE COVID OUTBREAK This is the first meeting between officials of India and Pakistan since the borders were closed due to the Covid-19 outbreak in March. India temporarily suspended the pilgrimage and registration for the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara in Pakistan on March 16 in view of the pandemic. Pakistan also closed the corridor after India’s decision. On June 29, Pakistan announced it has reopened the corridor for pilgrims from India. Amid rising Covid cases, the Indian government is yet to decide on the matter. On Wednesday, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) urged the Indian government to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor for Sikh devotees on the occasion of Guru Nanak’s Joti Jot Diwas, the day of immersion in eternal light, on September 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistani-team-to-meet-indian-authorities-at-dera-baba-nanak-for-building-bridge-in-kartarpur-corridor/story-KVsh4oKStywFm2A1AiPtRK.html
27-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand fixes fee for private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients||With reports of arbitrary charges taken by private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, Jharkhand Health Department has fixed fees for these hospitals for treating coronavirus patients. “Several incidents of exploitation by private hospitals were being reported so the government has decided to fix rates of Covid-19 treatment across the state. Our effort is to ensure that patients do not have to face financial burden if they are infected with the virus. If hospitals are found to be in violation of these rules, legal action will be taken,” Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta said. According to State Health Department, all districts have been divided into three categories, A, B, and C, and hospitals in the districts are further divided into two categories - NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers) and non-NABH. The prices have been fixed according to these categories. Pricing in the Group A district (NABH) ranges from Rs 6000 for a patient without symptoms, Rs 10,000 for isolation bed (with oxygen), to Rs 18,000 for an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and ventilator. For the non-NABH group, the pricing ranges from 5,500 for patients without symptoms, Rs 8,000 for isolation bed (with oxygen) to Rs 15,000 for ICU with the ventilator. For Group B (NABH) prices range from Rs 5,500 for a patient without symptoms, Rs 8,000 for isolation bed (with oxygen), to Rs 14,400 for an ICU ventilator. For the non-NABH group, prices range from Rs 5,000 for asymptomatic patients, Rs 6,400 for isolation beds to Rs 10,800 for ICU ventilator. For Group C (NABH), prices range from Rs 5000 for the patient without symptoms, Rs 6,000 for isolation beds, and Rs 10,800 with ICU ventilator. For the non-NABH group, prices range from Rs 4000 for patients without symptoms, 4800 for isolation beds and Rs 9000 for ICU with ventilator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-fixes-fee-for-private-hospitals-for-treating-covid-19-patients/story-m53TPFF0zPnIWTNiUo2BwL.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Over 180K fined Rs9.18 crore for not wearing masks in Delhi||At a time when experts, both in India and abroad, have stressed on strict safety norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Delhi Police have fined at least 188,578 people for not wearing masks in public, collecting a total of Rs 9.42 crore from people guilty of the violation since June 14, according to data accessed by HT.Addressing a press conference on the marginal rise of Covid cases in the city, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday urged people to continue wearing masks and not mind if authorities were issuing fines because they were doing it for a greater good. “Confidence is good but it should not lead to complacence at any cost...... In case one if fined, one must understand that it is for a greater good,” he said adding that he has directed authorities to strengthen enforcement of rules.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe penalty for not wearing a mask is a Rs 500 on-the-spot fine under a rule passed by the Delhi government under the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, (Management of Covid-19) Regulations, 2020, approved by the Delhi L-G in June. The drive to penalise those moving about in public spaces without a mask was launched on June 14.A senior Delhi police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that a majority of people fined were those who could afford a mask but still stepped out in public without one. “Most of these people have no reason whatsoever not to wear masks. Issuing fines is not the solution but it serves as a deterrent. We do not fine the underprivileged persons. Instead of issuing fines, we distribute masks among them. Till Tuesday, we have distributed 221,735 masks. Our teams are visiting areas in the Capital where underprivileged citizens live,” the officer said.Dr VK Paul, member(health) at Niti Aayog, had on Sunday said that while Delhi has done well in terms of testing, surveillance, containment measures, contact tracing, and scaling up health infrastructure, leading to a drop in overall cases, the lack of caution among residents has emerged as impediment in preventing a further reduction in number of cases. “There’s laxity in people’s behaviour as far as adopting preventive measures is concerned, which is extremely important along with surveillance and other epidemiological measures, to bring down the rate of infection,” Paul told HT. Also read| Delhi at an inflection point in Covid battleAccording to the police data, least number of fines were imposed in the New Delhi district, which includes the Lutyens’ zone. Till 23 August, 6,482 people were found without mask in New Delhi. The maximum number of violations, 22,136, were reported from Outer Delhi district -- which includes places like Mangolpuri, Aman Vihar, Sultanpuri and Kanjhawala, followed by West Delhi where 16,772 people without mask were fined. Data suggests that more people in South Delhi are complying with the mask rule now since on July 20, the district which has areas such as Defence Colony, Hauz Khas, Lodhi Colony and Mehrauli, had the maximum violations at 5,539. The district has reported total 15,331 violations till August 23. Second maximum violations had been reported from Southwest district at 4,564. This includes RK Puram,Vasant Vihar, Delhi Cantonment and Vasant Kunj.Police officers in outer district said while many people have gamchhas (a cotton cloth), they do not cover their faces. They said a lot of people are not aware that not wearing a mask can attract a penalty. “In many cases, when we ask people that they could be fined for not wearing a mask or covering their faces properly, people don’t believe us. Some even smile and apologise. If the violator is a factory worker or labourer, we usually counsel them, make them cover their face and let them go with a warning,” a patrolling officer, who has been involved in the drive, said requesting anonymity. Other officers said fines are proving a deterrence. “In places such as south Delhi or New Delhi, we could see a change within days of people learning that police had started issuing fines. The word spread quickly so those districts managed to reduce the number. It will take time, but violations will decrease in other districts too,” a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said.HT reached out to at least three people who were fined for not wearing a mask but all of them refused to speak to the media. The police clarified on Tuesday through their Twitter account that wearing a face mask is mandatory even for those who are driving alone in their car. Police officials pointed out instances in which people driving cars argued with them that they couldn’t be penalised since they were alone in the vehicle. Experts stressed that wearing masks and hand hygiene were essential to contain the spread of the disease.“I strongly advise citizens to wear masks and wash hands.This is basic and the first level of protection, which should not be ignored. There are many reasons why people are now moving around without a mask. Maybe they think there is no risk. Many perceive that the threat from the virus is to others and not to them. Some may also be fed up of the virus. A minor reason could also be fake news from irresponsible social media companies, which say that wearing masks is harmful. Until the day, we find a cure, or the virus mutates to a weaker strain or we develop herd immunity, it is important to wear masks, wash hands frequently and maintain social distancing,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine, AIIMS.Delhi added 1,693 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17 fatalities on Wednesday, according to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin. The total number of infections in the capital now stands at 165,764 and the toll at 4,347.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-180k-fined-9-18-crore-not-wearing-masks-in-delhi/story-1euXRQ51i4HpBcqJNtQROJ.html
27-08-2020||City||Whitefly attacks cotton crop in Haryana’s Hisar, Fatehabad, Jind and Bhiwani||Cotton growers in many villages of Hisar, Jind, Fatehabad and Bhiwani districts were left worried after whitefly attacked several fields in their areas.After a good spell of rain in the beginning of August, especially in some villages of Hisar’s Barwala, Fatehabad’s Bhuna and Bhiwani’s Tosham and Siwani blocks, coupled with hot and humid weather conditions have now led to pest infestation.Dayanand Dhaka, a farmer from Hisar’s Kirtan village, said his cotton crop on three acres was damaged due to whitefly attack. “This time, we had no rain for the past few weeks and now, the weather has turned hot and humid, leading to damage to cotton crop. Only rain can take away the threat of whitefly. Over 50% of the cotton crop in our neighbouring 15 to 20 villages was damaged,” he added. Ajit Jaglan, a farmer from Bhiwani’s Kalali village, said pests have been detected in nearly 10 villages in Siwani block alone.“The whitefly attack is in its initial stage. Agriculture officials should visit the affected fields and guide the growers about proper chemicals and spray methods to kill the pest. The colour of the crop is turning black and its leaves have started shrinking. The next 10 to 12 days are very crucial for this crop. If it rains, the crop would be saved, otherwise the pest will damage up to 50% of cotton,” he added.Jashpal Singh, a farmer from Fatehabad’s Bhuna block, said scanty rainfall has led to infestation on his seven acres of cotton fields. “Our crop was good and we were expecting a good yield this time. But for the last two weeks, our crop is being damaged due to pest attack. Due to use of insecticides, our input cost will go up. The government should provide us some compensation,” he added. Hisar deputy director (agriculture) Balwant Saharan said they are giving demonstrations to farmers about what kind of insecticides to be used on cotton field to save it.“Due to showers received in the starting of this month, plants were washed and chances of damage to the crop were minimised in the district. We are receiving complaints about the crop damage and we are in process of accessing the losses,” he added.However, the deputy directors of other districts could not be reached for their comments as they were busy in a videoconference with senior state officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/whitefly-attacks-cotton-crop-in-haryana-s-hisar-fatehabad-jind-and-bhiwani/story-rq47jDklwTnrPb2KixLl1O.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly’s monsoon session lasts barely three hours||CHANDIGARH: Haryana lawmakers of the opposition political parties not only let the ruling BJP-JJP government push through the important legislative business, but also went on the offensive, demanding debate on ‘scams’ even as the assembly session held in the shadow of Covid-19 was wrapped up in barely three hours on Wednesday. The House was adjourned sine die after the 170-minute proceedings during which the Congress staged two walkouts, while the lone INLD MLA Abhay Chautala made his presence felt by indirectly attacking his nephew and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and raising what he called liquor and land registration scams. In all, 12 bills were passed despite the Congress raising objections and making suggestions and Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda reminding the treasury benches that during the business advisory committee (BAC) meeting, it was decided to introduce only urgent bills and not all. Given the extraordinary circumstances in which the House assembled and in the absence of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, speaker Gian Chand Gupta, two ministers and some MLAs who tested positive for the Covid-19, the Congress didn’t go hammer and tongs after the government. Instead, the principal opposition party just kept the government on the defensive. The question hour was waived and instead, answers of the questions and written replies of two calling attention motions were tabled on the floor of the House. As the session began at 2pm and deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa apprised the House of BAC decisions, a section of the Congress MLAs opposed the move. Congress MLAs like BB Batra and Geeta Bhukkal, Narnaund MLA Ram Kumar Gautam (JJP) and Balraj Kundu (Independent) kept generating heat on the treasury benches. And, the deputy speaker deflated every opposition attack by allowing the MLAs to air their views. However, at this, home minister Anil Vij and parliamentary affairs minister Kanwar Pal reminded the Congress MLAs to respect the BAC decisions in which CLP leader Hooda represented them. As the deputy speaker reminded the opposition members that House proceedings were being held under extraordinary circumstances to transact important business, Hooda reiterated that only important bills and supplementary estimates should be laid in the House and the remaining business, including adjournment and calling attention motions, should be kept pending for the next sitting of the assembly, whenever it is convened. Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal interrupted the proceedings, demanding that higher education examinations should be put off in public interest, a point Hooda backed, saying the issue raised by her was valid. The House saw a sharp verbal duel between Bhukkal and Kanwar Pal over the BAC decisions. Kanwar Pal took digs at Bhukkal, saying: “You are not speaking against the government, but against your own leader. The way Congress leaders are opposing BAC decisions, it shows their lack of confidence in Hooda.” Kanwar Pal, who is also education minister, said the Khattar-led BJP government will make appropriate arrangements to ensure exams are held smoothly. “We don’t want these students to get labelled as corona degree holders,” the minister said after Bhukkal asked to defer the examination. INLD MLA Abhay Chautala was also unimpressed with the BAC decisions. He said the government did not invite him or any independent legislator to the BAC meeting. “Are you the only ones running the assembly? What about lone MLAs like me?” he asked. “No one is dying of coronavirus here. Why can’t we have a discussion on corruption issues? Why did you call us from so far when all you wanted was a shortened session?” questioned Abhay.The House observed two-minute silence in the memory of soldiers killed in action and the prominent personalities such as classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj, who had died in recent past. Deputy speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, home minister Anil Vij, and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda read out the obituary resolutions. Among the prominent personalities remembered were former Karnataka governor Hansraj Bhardwaj; former governor of Madhya Pradesh Lalji Tandon; former Haryana minister Mange Ram Gupta, MLA Sri Krishan Hooda and former MLA Mani Ram. Among others remembered were freedom fighter Dhara Singh of Jhajjar’s Kulasi village and 25 soldiers of the state killed in action in past about six months. The House also paid tributes to those 20 bravehearts who sacrificed their lives in the Galwan Valley on June 16. The House placed on record its deep sense of sorrow on the sad and untimely demise of those ‘Corona Warriors’ and other people who have lost their lives due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-s-monsoon-session-lasts-barely-three-hours/story-LsHub9ls7eqU6ulwAamW8K.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 11 deaths, 1,397 new Covid cases||Haryana reported 1,397 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, while the virus claimed lives of 11 people, pushing the death toll to 634, the health bulletin said. Panchkula logged maximum 172 new infections as the state’s tally of cumulative positive cases mounted to 58,005. The infection claimed the lives of two people each in Faridabad, Panipat and Fatehabad, while in Ambala, Jhajjar, Karnal, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra, one patient each died. After Panchkula, Hisar recorded the second highest 139 new cases in the state, followed by 126 cases in Gurugram and 111 in Faridabad. Sonepat recorded 91 cases, Rewari 26, Ambala and Rohtak 60 each, Panipat 92, Karnal 99, Palwal 6, Mahendergarh 51, Jhajjar and Bhiwani 14 each, Kurukshetra 61, Nuh 12, Sirsa 61, Yamunanagar 51, Fatehabad 58, Kaithal 78, and Jind 15. On Wednesday, there were 9,758 active cases and 1,117 patients had recovered in last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-11-deaths-1-397-new-covid-cases/story-pJmuNrXGndi2WhyAXRUxeO.html
27-08-2020||City||Two held with fake currency in Sirsa||The crime investigation agency (CIA) wing of Sirsa police on Wednesday seized counterfeit currency with a face value of ₹3 lakh from two persons, including a woman, police said.The accused have been identified as Gagandeep alias Gagan, a resident of Jalandhar in Punjab and Harpal Kaur of Sirsa.Sirsa CIA in-charge Sudhir Kumar said they were patrolling on Sirsa-Barnala road in the district when they spotted the accused coming towards Sirsa on a bike.“After seeing us, Gagandeep took a U-turn and tried to flee. We chased the bike and arrested the duo with fake currency,” the cop added.The police have registered a case against the duo under sections 489-A (counterfeiting currency notes), 489-B and 489-C of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-with-fake-currency-in-sirsa/story-DCom8eJvGdd0YTHfhUKX8H.html
27-08-2020||City||Radaur MLA receives threat call, FIR registered||Yamunanagar police have booked a local for allegedly threatening Congress MLA from Radaur, Bishan Lal Saini, over call on Monday night.The FIR in this regard was registered at Radaur police station on the complaint of Saini’s personal assistant Ajay Kumar on Tuesday.“On Monday around 10pm, I received a call on MLA’s personal number by Dalbir Singh of Sadhura village. It got disconnected and after few minutes, I again received a call from the same number. This time, he started abusing the MLA. He said he would kill Saini whenever he meets him,” the complainant told the police.He said, “After receiving the threat call, we informed the police, but we don’t have any call recording.” The police said that the FIR was registered under sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act and sections 285, 504 and 506 of the IPC against Dalbir Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/radaur-mla-receives-threat-call-fir-registered/story-nEcQsbp2Pt2gTDUuL4ovhP.html
27-08-2020||City||62-year-old man stabbed to death in Fatehabad||A 62-year-old man was stabbed to death by unidentified persons when he was asleep outside his shop in Fatehabad’s Lehrian village on Tuesday night, police said on Wednesday.The man was identified as Jagdish Chander of the same village. He had been running his grocery shop near the village bus stand for the last 10 years.Praveen Kumari, former chairperson of Bhuna panchayat samiti, said the incident took place when her father in-law was sleeping outside his shop on Tuesday night.“ A passerby spotted him and informed us. He was dead by the time we reached there. His body bore injury marks,” she added. Fatehabad deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ajayab Singh said prima facie, it appeared that the miscreants had visited the victim’s shop with an aim to loot money.“We suspect that the victim had raised an alarm for which they killed him and fled the spot,” he added.The police have registered a case against unknown persons under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/62-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-in-fatehabad/story-BTv1AK1uavGpXDxmV1cF9I.html
27-08-2020||City||Faridabad man booked for raping minor, decamping with cash, jewellery||A Faridabad man has been booked for allegedly raping a minor girl before decamping with cash, gold and silver ornaments from a village falling under Sonepat district on August 19 night, police said on Wednesday.The matter came to light when the girl, along with her mother, approached Kundli police station and lodged a first information report (FIR) against the accused.In her complaint to the police, the girl said that the man, a relative of their neighbour, had barged into their house on August 19 when she and her mother were asleep.“He drugged me and then raped me at my house before decamping with ₹3 lakh cash, gold and silver ornaments. The accused also clicked some obscene pictures in his phone and threatened me of circulating those on social media if I told anyone about the incident. Initially, I was scared of sharing my ordeal, but on Tuesday evening, I confided in her,” she told the police.The Kundli police have registered a case against the accused under sections 378 (theft) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridabad-man-booked-for-raping-minor-decamping-with-cash-jewellery/story-fkm6PxJAyv6XnG5U2PAyiJ.html
27-08-2020||City||16-year-old boy drowns in canal in Karnal village||A 16-year-old boy drowned in the Western Yamuna Canal in Karnal district on Wednesday. The boy was a resident of Samora village.Police said the incident took place on Wednesday morning when the boy, Shivam, went to relieve himself near the canal and slipped into the water.Though villagers launched a search operation, they could not recover his body.Investigating officer Dayanand said they had received a call about the drowning of a boy and efforts were on to retrieve his body with the help of divers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-year-old-boy-drowns-in-canal-in-karnal-village/story-15l1Gx2o4xGctU89oQS2eJ.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||CR installs foot-operated handwash vending machines at CSMT||Passengers travelling from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) will now be able to use a foot-operated handwash vending machine at platform number 14. The Central Railway (CR), under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), has placed one vending machine at the station where four passengers can simultaneously wash their hands. “This machine dispenses liquid handwash and water separately to passengers in a zero contact manner in view of the coronavirus pandemic,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.The machines will also be introduced in other suburban railway stations on CR. In addition, the zonal railway has also manufactured a medical robot named Jivika that will be used to monitor temperature, blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation of patients undergoing treatment at the railway hospital. Earlier, the Western Railway manufactured a similar medical robot that is being used to treat coronavirus patients at railway operated Jagjivan Ram Hospital. Further, CR has also started health screening camps at Dadar, Kurla, Thane, Dombivli, and Ghatkopar railway stations where passengers will be able to check their pulse rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure. The reports will be analysed by doctors and will then be provided to the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-installs-foot-operated-handwash-vending-machines-at-csmt/story-JdKbTPmN3HsASV0dk5rlhM.html
27-08-2020||City||Man stabs wife over money||A 36-year-old man has been booked for stabbing his wife with a pair of scissors as she allegedly did not give him money to buy a bike on Ganeshotsav. The woman is undergoing treatment at Central Hospital while the accused is absconding. Ulhasnagar police is investigating the matter. According to police, the incident took place on Monday night when the accused, Mahinder Chandani was asking his wife Manju, 36, to give him money buy a two-wheeler. Chandani is unemployed while Manju is a tailor and manages household expenses.A police officer said, “Chandani has allegedly been asking for ₹20,000 from her since the past one month but Manju refused. Later he started asking for money citing different reasons. On Monday, they had a huge fight and while she was sleeping, the accused took a scissor and stabbed her twice on the stomach and back. Neighbours took Manju to the hospital. She is stable. We have registered a case of attempt to murder against the accused under sections of the Indian Penal Code and are looking for him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-stabs-wife-over-money/story-5zp1MhUv1AoHrpn8dW6rCI.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbaiites may now book auto rentals on Uber||Users of mobile application based cab aggregator Uber will now be able to book autorickshaws for up to eight hours in the city. Uber has now launched autorickshaw rentals services in Mumbai, Pune, Bangalore, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad and Chennai.A rider will be able to book the auto for up to eight hours with different price ranges according to time and distance, such as for the first 10 kilometre (km) the user will be charged ₹169, for 20 km the price will be ₹288 and so on. “This is an India-first innovation and a prime example of how we leverage technology to benefit both riders and drivers. All rides will conform to health guidelines along with providing the highest possible safety standards,” said Nitish Bhushan, head of marketplace and categories, Uber India and South Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbaiites-may-now-book-auto-rentals-on-uber/story-tRvBvmamuoLZ5l1d5a1IYO.html
27-08-2020||City||Badlapur residents complain of frequent power cuts since two days||Residents have complained about frequent power cuts in Badlapur town since the past few days. The residents have taken to social media to highlight the issue as their work and school schedules are being affected.They complained that power outages have increased since Monday with no electricity for more than three hours at a go. Many have tweeted to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) demanding an explanation. Aparna Mahadik, a resident of Belavli in Badlapur (West), said “It has been very difficult to work from home as the power supply is cut frequently. In fact, it lasted for three hours on Tuesday night from 10.30pm to 1.30am.” Residents also blamed MSEDCL for poor communication as there was no prior intimation regarding the cuts. Mahadik, who works in a private firm in Dadar, added, “On Wednesday afternoon there was no light for three hours. When I called up MSEDCL, they said there is some technical issue and work is under progress. They did not mention when it will be resolved. I had to cancel my meetings due to this.” Kiran Krishnan, 32, another resident from Badlapur (West), said, “We have no problem with power cuts for maintenance purposes and it might also happen due to some unforeseen circumstances. However, even after regular maintenance, there are power cuts which sometimes last for hours. As a lot of us are working from home in view of the pandemic, if power cuts take place frequently without any prior intimation, it leads to a lot of troubles.” He added, “We are already facing the recent rise of per unit charges since April and the subsequent rise in electricity bills. In such a situation, we expect good service without too much interruption.” An officer from Badlapur (West) division of MSEDCL said, “Power supply to Belavli in Badlapur (West) was off on Tuesday due to high tension conductor snapping at Vadavli. We restored partial supply by diverting load around midnight, while the remaining supply was restored around 1.15am on Wednesday. However, another conductor at Shanti Nagar snapped around 1pm on Wednesday which was restored by 3.40pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/badlapur-residents-complain-of-frequent-power-cuts-since-two-days/story-hz1oojeqRsuakpGU67XKcP.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Separate authority for slum redevelopment in other cities, towns in MMR||To facilitate redevelopment of slums in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to form a separate slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) for eight cities and seven towns in the region. The authority is expected to help in effective implementation of slums rehabilitation schemes in Navi Mumbai, Thane, Panvel, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Vasai-Virar and Ulhasnagar municipal corporations and Ambarnath, Badlapur, Alibaug, Pen, Khopoli, Matheran and Karjat municipal councils. A provision of ₹200 crore has also been approved for the new authority. The state has also formed a study group headed by the housing secretary to recommend measures for implementing slum rehabilitation schemes in other major cities of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/separate-authority-for-slum-redevelopment-in-other-cities-towns-in-mmr/story-7E1Fx2cNG5USrJGpAUXIvI.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Education department reverses circular on social quota in minority colleges||The state education department on Wednesday reversed its Tuesday’s circular wherein it had asked minority junior colleges to offer social reservations in non-quota seats.In a circular issued late on Wednesday, Dinkar Patil, director of secondary education, clarified that minority colleges need not implement social reservations — seats reserved for students belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes — on non-minority seats. However, the department has upheld its decision asking colleges to offer vacant minority seats to other minority students before they are surrendered for open category admissions. For instance, a religious minority college will have to offer its vacant minority seats to a linguistic minority student before the seats can be surrendered for the centralised admission process for open category.Thereafter, the vacant seats can be filled up “as per centralised admission process,” said the circular. On Tuesday, Patil’s office had issued a circular asking minority colleges to implement social reservations on its non-minority seats, which constitutes 45% of its total seat share. This upset many minority colleges in the city. Maharashtra Association of Minority Educational Institutions wrote to Patil stating that social reservations were not applicable to minority colleges. In November 2017, the Bombay high court (HC) upheld that minority institutions cannot be asked to apply social reservations after it set aside a circular by the University of Mumbai as ‘unconstitutional’. Thereafter, in July 2018, the Supreme Court refused to overturn the Bombay HC decision to exempt minority degree colleges in Maharashtra from reserving seats for students belonging to socially weaker sections.In minority colleges, up to 50% of the seats are reserved for students belonging to linguistic or minority communities. Patil told HT that the department had received a letter from the minority colleges association. “We have reviewed the matter and issued a fresh decision,” he said.Principals said that the education department’s earlier directive to implement social reservations for students hailing from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes, would interfere with the admission process of such institutes. “Social reservations do not apply to minority colleges. The judiciary has said that it is the constitutional right of a minority institute,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra, which is a Catholic religious minority college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/education-department-reverses-circular-on-social-quota-in-minority-colleges/story-9v210dxcvYKWpDn6DuZc5H.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||At Sonia meet, Thackeray urges non-BJP CMs to unite||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to CMs of all non-BJP governments to join hands to push their demands before the Central government and safeguard the federal structure accorded in the Constitution. Thackeray, who along with six other CMs participated in a meeting with Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday, also pressed for the reconsideration of GST regime. Apart from Thackeray, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren and Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy also participated in the video conference which lasted for around two hours. The meeting was convened to discuss the pendency of GST compensation and the stand to be taken on Joint Entrance Examination and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test. Thackeray said it is the time to revisit the implementation of GST regime by comparing it with the older one. “The compensation to be given to states under GST regime is piling up day by day, making it difficult to meet the expenditure. It is time to reconsider if the older regime was better or there should be via media between the two regimes. If there are any lacunae in the new system, they should be rectified (by the Centre),” he said. He further said that they should come together and fight in the interest of the people from their respective states. Thackeray said that if the prime minister has been elected by the people, they too are the elected representatives of the people and that the mandate should be respected (by the Centre). “(Former prime minister) Rajiv Gandhi brought Panchayat Raj with the intention of decentralising the power. If somebody wants it to be centralised again, there would be no meaning to the existence of the state governments. We will not allow anybody to hijack our right which was been given to us by the federal structure accorded in the Constitution by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. It is our right in democracy and we should safeguard it,” he said. Thackeray reiterated that conducting final-year exams was not possible when Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak in the state. He added that the state government has decided to pass the students by giving them aggregate marks on the basis of the average from earlier semesters and if students want to appear for exams, they will be given an opportunity. Appealing other CMs who attended the meeting to decide whether to fight back (to safeguard the rights of the states), Thackeray said they need to firmly stand together. “We have been fighting for the rights of the people who have elected us. The people electing us are the same voters who elect the prime minister, and it is our duty to safeguard their interest. We can fight the attempt to suppress us if we stand together unitedly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-sonia-meet-thackeray-urges-non-bjp-cms-to-unite/story-NZ1OpLgYit0rFHM7tpFKLP.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: NCB files FIR against Rhea, 4 others||After the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) will now join the investigation into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The NCB on Wednesday registered a first information report (FIR) against actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty, talent manager Jaya Saha, Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi and one Gaurav Arya under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the Narcotics Drugs and Pyschotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.The NCB action came after the ED wrote to the agency, asking it to probe if drugs were supplied to Rajput and Chakraborty, who has been questioned multiple times by the latter. NCB director Rakesh Asthana confirmed that a FIR has been filed. “We received a letter from ED on Tuesday evening, stating that during their probe into the financial aspects, they found that drugs were supplied to Rhea and Sushant. An NCB team will now conduct an inquiry and people involved will be questioned,” Asthana said. ED sources said during their questioning of Saha, Chakraborty’s talent manager, they found some conversation between the two about some drug. However, none of the three central agencies provided any details into the form of drug or if it was consumed by any of the persons involved in the case. Satish Maneshinde, senior counsel and Chakraborty’s lawyer, said, “Rhea has never consumed drugs in her life. She’s ready for a blood test any time.” The ED, however, has called Saha to its South Mumbai office for questioning once again. Meanwhile, the CBI on Wednesday continued to question the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh, roommate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani at the DRDO guest house in Santacruz (East). Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. The probe was handed over to CBI by the Supreme Court, after it upheld the validity of a first information report (FIR) lodged by Bihar Police in response to a complaint filed by Rajput’s father, KK Singh, who has accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money.SECTIONS OF NDPS ACT UNDER WHICH FIR HAS BEEN FILEDSection 20 of the NDPS Act prescribes punishment for anyone who cultivates, produces, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-state, exports inter-state or uses cannabis. The section 20 (ii) (a) states that a person found with small quantity can be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term up to six months, or with fine, which may extend to Rs10,000 or with both. Section 20 (ii) (b) prescribes rigorous imprisonment which may extend to 10 years and with a fine which may extend to Rs1 lakh when a person is found with cannabis which is lesser in quantity than commercial quantity but greater than small quantity. Section 20 (ii) (C) prescribes a punishment for commercial quantity where a person can be sentenced to rigorous imprisonment which shall not be less than 10 years and may extend to 20 years and shall be liable for a fine not less than Rs1 lakh which may extend to Rs2 lakh. Section 22 of the NDPS Act states that whoever, in contravention of any provision of this Act or any rule or order made or condition of licence granted thereunder, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-State, exports inter-State or uses any psychotropic substance shall be punishable, (a) Where the contravention involves small quantity, with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to Rs10,000, or with both (b) Where the contravention involves quantity lesser than commercial quantity but greater than small quantity, with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to 10 years and with fine which may extend to Rs1 lakh (c) Where the contravention involves commercial quantity, with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than 10 years but which may extend to 20 years and shall also be liable to fine which shall not be less than Rs1 lakh but which may extend to Rs2 lakh: Provided that the court may, for reasons to be recorded in the judgment, impose a fine exceeding Rs2 lakh Section 27 of the NDPS Act states that whoever, consumes any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance shall be punishable, (a) Where the narcotic drug or psychotropic substance consumed is cocaine, morphine, diacetyl-morphine or any other narcotic drug or any psychotropic substance as may be specified in this behalf by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette, with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to Rs20,000; or with both (b) Where the narcotic drug or psychotropic substance consumed is other than those specified in or under clause (a), with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to Rs10,000, or with both. Section 29 of the NDPS Act prescribes punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy 1. Whoever abets, or is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable under this Chapter, shall, whether such offence be or be not committed in consequence of such abetment or in pursuance of such criminal conspiracy, and notwithstanding anything contained in section 116 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), be punishable with the punishment provided for the offence. 2. A person abets, or is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit, an offence, within the meaning of this section, who, in India abets or is a party to the criminal conspiracy to the commission of any act in a place without and beyond India which— 1. Would constitute an offence if committed within India; or 2. Under the laws of such place, is an offence relating to narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances having all the legal conditions required to constitute it such an offence the same as or analogous to the legal conditions required to constitute it an offence punishable under this Chapter, if committed within India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-narcotics-bureau-files-fir-against-rhea-four-others/story-dgXGsYaODHwVA5I1hwz8ZP.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai varsity approves 36 new colleges for 2021-22||The members of University of Mumbai (MU) senate on Wednesday approved 36 new colleges for the academic year 2021-22. Maximum proposals of new institutes placed were for traditional arts, science and commerce colleges followed by law and hotel management.MU at present has more than 823 affiliated colleges spread across Mumbai city and the state.“The new colleges are spread across Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. Two new college proposals, one each for physical education and sports, have also been approved,” said a spokesperson for the university.The annual senate meeting for approval of the new perspective plan was conducted virtually this year on August 25, however, the meeting went on till the early morning of August 26, and the proposal for new colleges was tabled at 3am, said officials.The annual plan lays out locations for the proposed new affiliated colleges, under the university’s five-year perspective plan. According to information shared by MU, the 36 new colleges include 16 traditional colleges, six law colleges, three hotel management, night and social work colleges each, two hospitality colleges and one college each for integrated education, physical education and sports.To fill the slots for new colleges, the government invites proposals from education trusts every year. Letters of intent (LoIs) are issued to the trusts that apply to set up new education institutes in time, to start classes in the next academic year. The trusts are then required to meet norms related to infrastructure and faculty, based on which, the final approval to run the institute comes through.“The university is keen on trusts setting up colleges in areas that really need them, instead of crowding in areas that are already overflowing with existing higher education institutes. We have carefully selected only those applications that have proposed colleges in such areas,” said a member from the university senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-varsity-approves-36-new-colleges-for-2021-22/story-F7YONnAXEQrZeXbAF3Sl4I.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Anti-CAA stir: Court junks Brinda Karat’s plea seeking FIR against BJP MPs||A Delhi court on Wednesday dismissed a plea by CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat seeking registration of FIRs against BJP leaders Anurag Thakur and Pravesh Verma for allegedly inflammatory speeches made during the anti-CAA protests, stating that prior sanction from the Centre would be required before their prosecution.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Vishal Pahuja rejected the plea by Karat seeking a direction to the Parliament Street police station to register an FIR against Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma for offences of promoting enmity, deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs and criminal intimidation.However, the court said the complaint was not sustainable without the prior sanction.“Admittedly, there is no previous sanction obtained by the complainants from the competent authority to prosecute the respondents for the offences alleged in the complaint. Hence... the complaint deserves to be dismissed being not tenable in the eyes of law..,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/anti-caa-stir-court-junks-brinda-karat-s-plea-seeking-fir-against-bjp-mps/story-KlOWBOB3zcWzEx9MA37uRJ.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly passes bill to validate land de-licensing||With an aim to grant legitimacy to past actions of town and country planning department since 1975, including de-licensing of land, the Haryana assembly on Wednesday passed a bill to amend and validate the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act. The amendment and validation bill, if assented to by the governor, would come as a relief to the developers of the Gurugram-based Ambience Mall besides several similar cases involving de-licensing of land.The Punjab and Haryana high court had in July quashed the TCP department’s October 18, 2001 and September 1, 2010 orders to de-license two chunks of land (eight acres and 3.9 acres) out of 18.98 acres approved for constructing Ambience Lagoon Island residential complex. The de-licensed land was then permitted by the department for raising a commercial complex, the Ambience Mall. De-licensing here meant that a part of the land for which a residential licence was issued was taken out of the purview of the residential licence. On HC’s orders, the CBI had also registered a criminal case in the matter. Officials said over 54 similar cases of de-licensing were detected by the department after the HC ruling, which needed to be validated. ‘De-licensing a misnomer’ The HC, however, had termed the term de-licensing a misnomer in the context of the Act and the case at hand. The HC bench said that state counsel had candidly admitted that there was no such provision in the Act. “He tried to justify this Act by referring to clause 21 of the General Clauses Act that power to grant a licence also contains implied power to de-license as well. We, however, find the argument bereft of any merit or logic,” the HC said. “Ignoring all statutory provisions and throwing caution to wind, the authorities acted more promptly than expected. The order granting permission on eight acres to build a commercial complex was passed on October 16, 2001, two days before the order to de-license the same area was passed (October 18). This showed a preconceived plan for a commercial complex to be raised within the area licensed for residential complex,” the bench said while ordering CBI probe. Twin steps to validate actions The validation clause passed by the assembly said that notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court or tribunal or any authority, any action taken or orders issued, things done or purporting to have been taken or done by the director, before the commencement of the HDRUA (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2020, will be deemed to be valid and effective as if such action, approval, orders were issued or action taken in accordance with its provisions. The assembly on Wednesday also approved insertion of a new clause section 3 (a) in the Act which would give power to add to, amend, vary, suspend, withdraw or rescind, licence or notification, order, rule or direction or to de-license. The statement of objects and reasons of the amendment and validation bill said it has been proposed primarily to make express statutory provisions to clarify certain provisions of the HDRUA by drawing upon the laid-down law in section 21 of the General Clauses Act and section 20 of Punjab General Clauses Act and to validate various actions taken and being taken by the department as a consequence of which would have the effect of reconciling the conflicting judicial pronouncements on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-passes-bill-to-validate-land-de-licensing/story-L6CsvanviDwuDcbMrGaoxM.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Nagpur civic chief transferred, his 16th transfer in a 15-yr career||Nagpur municipal commissioner and IAS officer Tukaram Mundhe has been transferred to Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran as a member secretary by Maharashtra government on Wednesday. Ramaswami N, chief executive officer of Maharashtra Maritime Board will now replace Mundhe.Mundhe was appointed Nagpur civic chief in January 26 this year. He is currently under home isolation after testing Covid-19 positive.  Mundhe has faced his sixteenth transfer in less than 15 years of his service. Of the 15 posts he has held so far in his career, in most, he was transferred in less than a year of appointment. He has served the highest period of 26 months as joint commissioner, sales tax, followed by 17 months as a collector in Solapur. He had short tenures as civic chiefs of Nashik, Navi Mumbai and now Nagpur.Mundhe has often had a face-off with politicians due to his style of functioning.Representatives across the party line had complained against him. Corporators from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress in Nagpur had announced to bring the no-confidence motion against Munde, protesting his ‘high-handed style of working’. Congress leaders Nana Patole and Vikas Thakre had demanded his transfer.“A major complaint against him is that he ill-treats fellow politicians including legislators and ministers. In a democratic setup, the stature of the elected represented cannot be underestimated. Even though the chief minister had backed him openly during his interview a few weeks ago, Mundhe could not have retained the post in the wake of the rising complaints against him,” said an official from the general administration department.The leaders had also clashed over the handling of Covid-19 situation and the curbs imposed in the city. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari too had reportedly complained against the officer recently.However, citizens in most cities where he worked have always supported Mundhe.Meanwhile, 14 other IAS officers were also transferred. Avinash Dhakne, who was Jalgaon collector till his recent transfer, has now been posted as transport commissioner. Dhakne will replace SM Channe, who has been appointed as vice-chairman and managing director of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation. Lokesh Chandra has been appointed as principal secretary in the water resources department.Sitaram Kunte, 1985-batch IAS officer, has been appointed as additional chief secretary, home department, the post he was additionally holding for around two months. Sujata Saunik, additional chief secretary, skill development, has been appointed in the general administration department and will take over from Kunte.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nagpur-civic-chief-transferred-his-16th-transfer-in-a-15-yr-career/story-XTkX6LSMJs78pxBglBVcFP.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees sharpest 1-day spike of 14,888 infections||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 14,888 new infections, taking the state’s tally of confirmed cases to 718,711. The record high comes after the state clocked a relatively lower number of cases daily for the previous three days. The previous single-day high was recorded on August 22 at 14,492 cases.The active cases in the state stood at 172,873. On Wednesday, 7,637 discharges were recorded, taking the tally of recovered patients to 522,427.The state reported 295 fatalities due to the disease, taking the toll to 23,089. Of the fatalities on Wednesday, 211 were from the previous 48 hours and 58 were from last week. The remaining 26 deaths were from the period before last week.Maharashtra tested 69,116 samples, as per the data of the health department. The positivity rate on Wednesday was at 21.54%,Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded a higher number of cases with 1,854 new infections. However, the increase in numbers was attributed to data adjustment. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 587 new cases, owing to a technical issue on the website of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The backlog of Tuesday’s cases was added on Wednesday, owing to the technical issue on Tuesday.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a statement said, “Due to ICMR portal update, yesterday’s [Tuesday’s] remaining case figures are added in today’s [Wednesday’s] reports.” The city civic body has not provided any breakup of the adjusted data. Mumbai reported 28 deaths, taking the city’s death toll to 7,505Mumbai’s highest single-day jump in cases was recorded on June 27 with 2,077 cases, followed by 1,751 cases on May 22 and 1,725 cases on May 24. So far, 1,12,743 patients have recovered and been discharged post Covid-19 treatment in Mumbai.The city’s recovery rate is 80.79%. There are 18,979 active cases in Mumbai, while the fatality rate stood at 5.37%. One of the hotspots that have shown signs of improvement is Dharavi, which recorded 12 new cases on Wednesday, bringing the area’s case count to 2,737, of which 2,380 have been discharged.In August so far, Maharashtra has recorded 296,523 Covid-19 cases, which is 41.25% of the total cases recorded in the state so far. However, officials attribute it to an increased number of testing done across the state. Though the state has added nearly three lakh cases in August so far, the positivity rate has not shown an increase. In the month so far, 16,63,929 tests were carried out and over 2.96 lakh samples were found positive, which is a positivity rate of 17.82% --marginally lower than the state’s overall positivity rate of 18.94%.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has repeatedly cautioned the state administration to remain alert to prevent a second wave of coronavirus in the state. A state bureaucrat said, “The CM in all review meetings recently has spoken on preventing another wave. There are no new measures to be adopted to prevent it. Rather, whatever is being done now has to be done rigourously and diligently. The state government is also mindful that once more relaxations are provided, the cases would increase.”Thackeray said that the ‘chase the virus’ campaign will be implemented in the state to break the chain of infection. Under the campaign, 15 people who come in close contact with patient will be strictly put in institutional quarantine. The campaign has yielded good results in Mumbai, Malegaon and few other locations.Thackeray, while commissioning a jumbo Covid facility with 816 beds in Pimpri said, “Testing should increase in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural part of the district and those found positive must be treated in time. Along with that, more attention should be given to senior citizens and those with co-morbidities. The health machinery should reach people with infections under the ‘chase the virus’ campaign; this will help us break the chain of infection. A similar campaign will be implemented across the state and everybody should ensure that the coronavirus infections do not spread.”Thackeray, on Wednesday, indicated that the state government is treading cautiously in allowing further relaxations. The CM, who participated in a conference of opposition party chief ministers, convened by Congress party president Sonia Gandhi, cited the hare and tortoise parable and said, “We have opened up industries and businesses in May itself. We are giving relaxations gradually in the densely populated belt in of Mumbai and Pune. Some people might think that we are going very slow. But we do not want to open up in a haste and then be forced to go back to a lockdown,” he said while speaking.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) recorded 30% or 4,585 new cases reported in the state on Wednesday. Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli reported 519 and 517 new infections, respectively. Kalyan-Dombivli breached 30,000-mark on Wednesday. Raigad district reported 388 new infections, while Panvel city clocked 205 cases. Thane city and Thane rural areas reported 268 and 257 new infections, respectively.Meanwhile, Pune city reported 1,640 new infections, while Pimpri-Chinchwad clocked 1,008. Pune rural reported 582 new infections. The district collectively reported 3,230 new cases and 44 fatalities. Nagpur city reported 1,012 new cases, taking the city’s tally to 16,770, while the rural part of the district clocked 253 new cases. Nagpur city recorded 32 fatalities, taking death toll over 500 in the city.The spread of the virus in rural areas is a concern for the state government. Officials said that the increased movement of people during festivals could push the pace of the spread in these areas. Satara district reported 505 new cases, taking its tally to 10995, while Kolhapur district reported 386 new Covid cases. Sangli district reported 442 new cases, and Aurangabad district reported 338 new cases. Yavatmal and Buldhana reported 105 and 108 new cases, while Beed reported 83 and Latur district reported 183 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-sharpest-1-day-spike-of-14-888-infections/story-oqRwWFz6akDWlq6DekMHBL.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amendment to water down urban area law modified by Haryana assembly||The Haryana assembly on Wednesday passed a bill to undo a 2017 amendment in the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act which had watered down section 7-A of the Act. The stipulations under section 7-A pertained to grant of a no objection certificate (NOC) by the town and country planning department before registration of land in notified urban areas to prevent ill planned and haphazard construction. The move to undo the amendment comes in the wake of massive violations in registrations of sale deeds without obtaining the NOCs in notified urban areas in Gurugram district. The state government had in July booked six serving and one retired Gurugram revenue official for executing registration of sale deeds of properties in notified urban areas without obtaining NOCs. Later, the ambit of inquiry into the malpractices in registration of sale deeds was widened and registrations carried out from April 3, 2017 to December 31, 2019 were also probed for section 7-A violation. The fresh inquiry started from April 3, 2017, the day an amendment in section 7-A was notified by the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government to water down the law. The 2017 amendmentThe 2017 amendment in section 7-A, steered by previous BJP government, led to two modifications in the provision. First, it decreased the size of notified urban area land holding for which NCC is required from less than one hectare (2.5 acres) to less than two kanals. Secondly, the definition of land for which the NOC was required was changed from vacant land to agricultural land. The agricultural land was defined was nehri (canal irrigated), chahi (irrigated from well), barani (dependent on rainfall) or any other term in revenue records. “The 2017 amendment ensured that real-estate developers were able to circumvent the requirement of NOC by converting an agricultural land into uncultivable (gair mumkin) in revenue records. The reduction in land size from less than hectares to two kanals also worked to the advantage of realtors,” officials said. The new amendment bill The amendment bill passed by the state assembly on Wednesday will change the definition of notified urban area land and size of the holding for which the NOC was required. Now, the land holding for which NOC is required is proposed to be less than one acre instead of less than two kanals and the notified urban area land definition has been changed from agricultural to vacant again. Vacant land has been defined as land wherein either no construction of any nature exists or such construction is in existence which is either uninhabited or not fit for human habitation and stands constructed without following the due course of law. Also, now NOC will be required for transfer of land through gift deed Congress MLA from Rohtak Bharat Bhushan Batra said that new stipulations brought in by this amendment bill pertaining to Section 7-A needed a re-look. “Please review the definition of vacant land under Section 7-A before you pass the amendment bill. It should be referred to an assembly committee for deliberations before it is passed by the assembly,” Batra said. Leader of the opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, also supported Batra. JJP MLA from Narnaund MLA Ram Kumar Gautam said that there should be no ban on the registration of sale deeds. Some Congress MLAs walked out over the tabling the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Amendment) Bill as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amendment-to-water-down-urban-area-law-modified-by-haryana-assembly/story-B7ZW7AuPg9UOo3s119tLYL.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reduces stamp duty to 2% from Sept 1 to Dec 31||The state government on Wednesday said it will reduce stamp duties levied on sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 to December 31 and then hike it slightly to 3% from January 1 to March 31, 2021, among relief measures for various sectors such as real estate, commercial transport and agriculture, fisheries sector, which were hit by the Covid-19 lockdown over the past five months. Currently, stamp duty in the state is 5% and 4% in urban and rural areas respectively. This is apart from 1% surcharge in urban areas and 1% zilla parishad cess in rural areas. The state government levies stamp duty on sale, gift and usufructuary — refers to temporary right to derive income from someone else’s property — mortgage of immovable properties. “We have decided to reduce stamp duty from September 1. It will be applicable till December 31. In this period, people will be charged 2% stamp duty on property transactions. But from January 1, stamp duty will be 3% on all property transactions till March-end 2021,” said a senior official from the state revenue department. “The move is to boost the real estate sector, considering the ongoing slump following the lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19 spread. It will also bring relief to the common people who wanted to buy their own house,” he added. CREDAI-MCHI (Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry), a leading builders association, said the decision will offer respite to the real estate sector, which is going through a rough phase. “The reduced cost of the stamp duty is bound to encourage first-time homebuyers, fence-sitters as well as resale flat buyers to invest in real estate,” said Nayan Shah, President, CREDAI-MCHI. Similar is the view of Farshid Cooper, MD, Spenta Corporation, who said this move, which comes ahead of the upcoming festive season, will definitely help the sector improve their sales volume.To give a boost to the transport sector, which has sustained losses owing to the lockdown, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to waive off road vehicle tax levied on commercial vehicles for six months. This will benefit about 11.40 lakh commercial vehicles with the annual burden of Rs 700 crore on the state exchequer. “The waiver will be applicable for the period of April to September 30, 2020,,as a bid to offer them relief in the wake of business losses. The commercial vehicles paying annual vehicle taxes can now pay 50% of it,” said transport minister Anil Parab. Commercial vehicles, including goods carriers, tourism vehicles, vanity vans, private services vehicles, will benefit from the step. Cabinet also decided to give ex-gratia to fishermen to give them relief from the losses they sustained owing to the cyclones a few months ago. More than 54,000 fishermen are expected to get Rs65.17 crore from the scheme. The ex-gratia ranges between Rs10,000 and Rs3,000 depending on the scale of fishing they are involved in. The amount will be directly credited into the bank accounts of the fisherfolk, said fisheries minister Aslam Shaikh. State cabinet also decided to extend the ongoing milk-purchasing scheme, under which the excessive milk is purchased from farmers to convert it into skimmed milk powder. State government produced 4,421 metric tonnes powder and 2,320 metric tonnes butter from 5.99 lakh litres of milk it procured between April 6 and July 31. More than 20 lakh litres of milk remain unsold in the state owing to closure of hotels, restaurants, sweet shops and drop in sales of ice creams and other milk products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-reduces-stamp-duty-to-2-from-sept-1-to-dec-31/story-sie7xuvxWdJUjM8bkkSHyI.html
27-08-2020||City||Covid-19: Only 4 Punjab districts have level-3 beds in govt-run hospitals||Even as the Punjab government has called for a war-like preparedness to deal with the rising Covid-19 cases, only four districts have proper facilities in the state-run hospitals to treat critical patients. Currently, the state’s three government medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot and the Jalandhar civil hospital have 350 level-3 beds for treating those with severe infection. A total of 800 level-3 beds, including those in private hospitals, are available in the state. Even the Ludhiana district, which has the highest number of positive cases and death rate, does not have level-3 beds and the patients have to avail the treatment at private hospitals or to go to Patiala. Data shows that Punjab has the worst recovery rate at 63%, followed by Kerala and Karnataka at 65%. Also, it figures among states with the worst fatality rate at 2.5%, followed by Madhya Pradesh 2.4%. All government hospitals in the state, except the three government medical colleges and the Jalandhar civil hospital, refer the critical patients elsewhere as they only have level-1 and level-2 beds. The government hospitals have nearly 13, 000 level-1 beds for asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients and around 6,000 level-2 beds for mild to moderately symptomatic cases. “We are planning to get level-3 beds in Ludhiana soon considering the rise in cases in the district. Now, almost every district has an advanced life support ambulance equipped with the latest equipment to transport patients during an emergency,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. In the absence of critical care in local government hospitals, many patients are spending large amount of money in private hospitals for availing treatment in critical cases. A senior doctor said most of the patients come to government hospitals in a serious condition and it affects the recovery rate and contributes to the fatality rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-only-4-punjab-districts-have-level-3-beds-in-govt-run-hospitals/story-ze0v87gXedxKBnMF4hJViL.html
27-08-2020||City||Open Kartarpur corridor on Guru Nanak’s Joti Jot Diwas: Pak gurdwara body to India||The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) on Wednesday urged the Indian government to reopen the Kartarpur corridor for Sikh devotees on the occasion of Guru Nanak’s Joti Jot Diwas (day of immersion in eternal light) on September 20. PSGPC president Satwant Singh said this while presiding over a meeting at the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB)’s head office in Lahore to make arrangements for observing Joti Jot Diwas at Kartarpur. Later, talking to HT over phone, the PSGPC chief said, “We are marking the occasion for the first time after the opening of the corridor at Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib. We want the corridor to be opened from today itself. But if that is not possible, it should be opened on the day. We request the Indian government to allow the passage of Sikh sangat through the corridor to take part in the function being organised from September 20 to 22.” They also want the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which manages the affairs of gurdwaras in Punjab and other states of India, to send special jathas of ragis (hymn singers) on the occasion, he said. “We also invite SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to be part of the function,” he said.The PSGPC chief said they will also follow the Covid-19 guidelines of the health agencies during the visit of the Sikh sangat through the corridor. Special arrangements will be made for maintaining social distancing, he added. India temporarily suspended the pilgrimage to the Kartarpur gurdwara on March 16 in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Pakistan had also closed the corridor soon after. On June 29, Pakistan had announced that they have reopened the corridor for the pilgrims from India. The Indian government, however, is yet to take a decision on the matter.BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION: PAKISTAN TEAM TO VISIT DERA BABA NANAKA team of engineers from Pakistan will meet the officials of Indian officials at Dera Baba Nanak town of Gurdaspur district on Thursday on the construction of a bridge over a low-lying area at the border as part of the corridor project.A senior Border Security Force (BSF) official said, “The Pakistan team will survey the Indian side of the bridge before starting construction.” Officials of the National Highway Authority of India, BSF and Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) will be present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/open-kartarpur-corridor-on-guru-nanak-s-joti-jot-diwas-pak-gurdwara-body-to-india/story-BBSr6pWVf9DYM6cxWB1CYO.html
27-08-2020||City||Illegal constructions: Punjab local bodies dept asks Ludhiana MC for report on building plans||The Punjab local bodies department has directed the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (MC) to submit a report regarding the number of building plans approved by it from April 1, 2019 to May 31, 2020, as soon as possible. This comes after the state vigilance department in July had asked the additional chief secretary (ACS) of the local bodies department to conduct an inquiry into the alleged illegal constructions by comparing the number of new electricity connections issued by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) with the number of building plans approved. In June, RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had written to the vigilance department, seeking action against the officials involved in the matter. Sabharwal had alleged that around 25,000 connections were approved by PSPCL within MC limits, but only around 8,000 building plans were approved by MC in this period. Sabharwal had alleged that the building branch officials failed to take action against illegal buildings due to “gratification or protection money” given by the owners, thereby causing a loss of crores to the public exchequer. MC had also commenced a similar exercise in February this year, when it was reportedly found that PSPCL had issued around 1 lakh power connections in the last three years, while MC had approved just around 5,000 building plans. But, the exercise remained on paper, with no action against the officials concerned. Recently, two municipal town planners (MTP) were also asked to assist MC additional commissioner Rishipal Singh in this inquiry. Singh said an inquiry was already underway and he had sought the details regarding building plans approved by the building branch in the respective period, but the details were awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-constructions-punjab-local-bodies-dept-asks-ludhiana-mc-for-report-on-building-plans/story-s0vVOTntKNkKJQbU1hnXqN.html
27-08-2020||City||41 more Covid-19 deaths, 1,513 new cases in Punjab||Forty-one fresh novel coronavirus deaths in Punjab took the toll to 1,219 on Wednesday, while the tally rose to 46,090 with 1,516 new cases, the health department’s daily bulletin said. Ludhiana district again took the lead in the fatalities with 12 patients succumbing to the virus, followed by Patiala 5, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala four each, Gurdaspur 3, Barnala, Mansa, Muktsar and Sangrur 2 each, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Moga, Mohali and Pathankot one each. Ludhiana added 472 fresh cases to the state’s kitty, Jalandhar 147, Patiala, 237, Amritsar 73, Mohali, 54, Sangrur 10, Bathinda 21, Gurdaspur 131, Ferozepur 15, Moga 24, Hoshiarpur 83, Pathankot 44, Barnala 29, Fatehgarh Sahib 17, Kapurthala 69, Faridkor 1, Tarn Taran 28, Ropar 4, Fazilka 1, SBS Nagar 20, Muktsar 14, and Mansa 19, according to the bulletin. A total of 1,086 novel coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. The state has so far seen 30,231 recoveries from Covid-19.There are 14,640 active Covid-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/41-more-covid-19-deaths-1-513-new-cases-in-punjab/story-cAHQopm4D2Le6YAH52sz0M.html
27-08-2020||Noida||Noida authority restarts drive to check plastic bag usage in city||The Noida authority on Wednesday said it has reinitiated its campaign against plastic bags. It had started the campaign in September last year but as the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease broke out, priorities changed and people slowly started using plastic bags again, defeating the goal of making Noida a ‘plastic free city’, said officials.The authority re-started the drive from August 24 the use of plastic bags choke drains.“The campaign against use of plastic bags will continue until the city becomes completely plastic waste free. We worked intensively in 2019 after starting our campaign to make Noida a plastic free city. But due to Covid-19, we focused on other jobs related to the pandemic. Since Monday, we are taking action against those who use plastic bags regularly since Monday,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority, who is heading the health department that has the onus of enforcing the ban on plastic bags.On Monday, the authority carried out a drive against violators in sectors 44, 45 and Harola village, wherein it imposed a penalty of Rs 5,000 against ten vendors who were allegedly found using plastic bags. On Tuesday, the authority imposed Rs 5,000 penalty each against 10 vendors in sectors 11, 12, 22, 66 and 121.The authority has imposed a total of Rs26,200 in penalties against those found using plastic bags since January 2020.On Wednesday, however, the authority did not carry out the drive. “The authority will conduct random drives so that the use of the plastic bags can be discouraged,” said Mishra.The Uttar Pradesh cabinet in December 2015 had approved a complete ban on distribution, manufacture and sale of polythene carry bags of a thickness of 40 microns and below in the state, following an Allahabad High Court order in November 2015, directing it to ensure that the order is complied with by December 31.Noida Non-degradable Garbage/Polythene (control) Bylaws, 2015, were drafted in line with the UP Plastic and Non-Biodegradable (Regulation of use and disposal) Act, 2000. As per the law, the authority staff can levy a penalty of R5,000 on those found using a plastic bag thinner than 40 microns. If a person is found violating the ban a second time, the authority can charge a penalty of R500 per day. A third-time violation would lead to imprisonment of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-restarts-drive-to-check-plastic-bag-usage-in-city/story-jReaWKtudpj5wUhFQgeg2L.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||77% treated with Remdesivir, Tocilizumab survived: Data||A total of 77% of Covid-19 patients treated with Tocilizumab and Remdesivir – the two drugs under trial which are an essential part of the treatment protocol – have survived, according to data procured from a major tertiary-care civic-run hospital. However, doctors have recommended further studies to establish the effectiveness of the drugs. Remdesivir is an antiviral drug used for treatment of Ebola which costs ₹5,000 per vial. It is manufactured by Hyderabad-based Hetero Healthcare and Cipla. Tocilizumab, also known as Atlizumab, was originally designed as an immunosuppressive drug to treat arthritis, and imported by Roche pharma and marketed by Mumbai-based Cipla. Data shared by the health department of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed that till August 23, 642 patients suffering from Covid-19 were treated with Tocilizumab and Remdesivir at the hospital. Of these, 493 survived, while 149 (23%) succumbed to the infection.At the civic-run hospital, 477 Covid-19 patients were treated with Remdesivir. On the first day, 200mg of dosage was given. In the next four days, 100mg of dosage was provided to the patients. Following which, 385 of them recovered, which makes the recovery rate 80.7%. Ninety-two of them died. At the same hospital, of the 165 patients who were given Tocilizumab, 108 survived (65.5%), while the remaining 57 (34.5%) died. The data also shows there were more deaths among people who were given two doses of Tocilizumab. In the first set of patients, 141 of them were given 400mg of Tocilizumab dosage. Of these, 100 recovered, taking the recovery rate to 71% and 41 (29%) died. In the second set, where 24 patients were given two dosages of Tocilizumab, only 8 (33.3%) survived, while 16 (66.7%) died. “Mostly, critical patients with comorbidities are given two doses of Tocilizumab, but as the result shows, it doesn’t prove to be fruitful. We have instructed civic-run hospitals to provide only one dose of Tocilizumab to patients,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. A state Covid-19 task force member Dr Rahul Pandit also recommended a single dose of Tocilizumab be given. In July, Roche said their trial didn’t find Tocilizumab to be effective when used on Covid-19 patients. “Several international studies have shown that Tocilizumab is ineffective in the treatment of novel coronavirus. In my experience, steroids have proved to be more helpful. The survival and mortality rate of patients on Tocilizumab don’t hold much importance until it is supported by scientific studies,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital.“Research has shown that both the drugs (Tocilizumab and Remdesivir) may not be effective in saving lives, but do contribute to faster recovery. It reduces the recovery rate of patients by 2-3 days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/77-treated-with-remdesivir-tocilizumab-survived-data/story-AUgSpycXKBkklE0zaftbUP.html
27-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Illegal farmhouses in Aravallis bulldozed, eight more on radar||A joint team from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) and the municipal corporation Gurugram (MCG) on Wednesday carried out a demolition drive in which at least eight farmhouses and adjoining structures, such as like plinths and boundary walls, which were allegedly being constructed in Bandhwari village in Aravallis hills without any permission, were razed. The team was supported by around seventy personnel of the city police deployed to prevent any untoward incident, officials said.RS Bhath, district town planner, who also has the charge of enforcement, said the corporation had already given notices to the eight farmhouses. “As notices and other formalities for the eight farmhouses were complete, their walls, major structures and sheds were demolished. There are eight more unauthorised farmhouses which have been carved out there and these would be demolished on Thursday,” said Bhath, who was also the duty magistrate.The MCG, meanwhile, said these farmhouses were allegedly being developed on 30 acres of land without any permission. He said their team, led by Hari Om Atri, the MCG joint commissioner, worked in tandem with DTCP officials to raze the structures. “A team of officials led by joint commissioner Hari Om Atri and those from engineering cell, including Rajiv Yadav, Ajay Sharma, Hari Om Rohit and Ashish, reached the site in morning. They jointly worked with DTCP team and carried out demolition of farmhouses with assistance from police,” said an MCG spokesperson. Officials also said that efforts are being made to identify the developer of these unauthorised farmhouses, who is believed to be a resident of Delhi. “We will take action against violators and a police case would be registered in this matter,” Bhath said.The enforcement wing of town and planning department, which mostly deals with private licensed colonies and unauthorized colonies in controlled areas, is likely to expand its operations against the unauthorised development of farmhouses in the district as this issue has started to assume serious proportion, said DTCP officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-illegal-farmhouses-in-aravallis-bulldozed-eight-more-on-radar/story-gYkB2shKOrFpz3Q0QpIlQN.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||‘Harassed by moneylender’: Brothers kill selves at Chandni Chowk showroom||Two brothers, both jewellers who suffered financial losses due to the Covid pandemic and the lockdown , allegedly hanged themselves at their shop in the Walled City’s Chandni Chowk on Wednesday afternoon, police said. The brothers, aged 47 and 42, left behind a “suicide note”, in which they blamed their “poor financial condition” for their step but did not “name” any person. Family members and employees, however, alleged the brothers were “thrashed” and “threatened” by the musclemen of a private financer from whom they had taken a loan but were not able to repay it or pay the monthly interest because of losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said a police officer, who did not want to be named.“The family verbally made the allegations. Their statements are being recorded in writing. The allegations will be verified and further action will be taken accordingly,” deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said.The DCP said police received a call about the hanging of the brothers on the third floor of their shop. “An employee saw the two brothers hanging and raised an alarm. Their father was on the first floor at that time,” Bhardwaj said.Police said the elder brother was married and is survived by his wife and two children. The younger one is unmarried. The family lives in north Delhi.Speaking to media persons, the father and another brother of the two jewellers alleged they were being “threatened by a local businessman and his associate” and the two “hanged themselves because of the torture”.“We want police to call those people. They should not be harassing someone so much so that the person kills himself. Today, my brothers died. We don’t want anyone else to take a similar step,” the brother said.He alleged that his two brothers were being “harassed” daily since the lockdown. “When business was shut during the lockdown, how could have they paid the money,” he alleged.Another police officer associated with the incident said on the condition of anonymity that the two brothers had allegedly borrowed around Rs 60 lakh on interest from private financiers. As they were unable to return the money or pay the interest amount, the financers used to send their “bouncers” to their showroom to collect the money.“Many moneylenders used to come to the showroom and torture them (the two brothers). They used to ask them to consume poison if they did not have money to pay,” an employee of the showroom told the media persons, saying he had been working there for nearly 15 years.Yogesh Singhal, president of the bullion and jewellers’ association of Kucha Mahajani, Chandni Chowk, released a video statement regarding the incident. “The death of the two brothers is disturbing news for the jeweller fraternity. The jewellery business is affected because of the Covid-19 pandemic and jewellers have become debt-ridden. The moneylenders harass them for getting back their money,” he said.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandni-chowk-brothers-hang-themselves-at-jewellery-showroom-family-says-harassed-by-moneylender/story-2dBr5jIjHVtiyCyJEpnRdP.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||South civic body says Delhi govt creating financial crisis; AAP hits back||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Wednesday accused the Delhi government of “deliberately creating a financial crisis” in the civic body by not releasing its due amount of Rs 1,100 crore in this financial year and warned of a protest to press for their demand. South Delhi mayor Anamika Mithilesh said the civic body’s councillors and employees would stage a sit-in outside the Delhi secretariat with a “begging bowl” from September 10 and demand release of their funds.In response, Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in a statement said that if the BJP can’t run the municipal corporations, then they should resign immediately rather than “cry and make excuses” for every issue. “They are so steeped in corruption that they can’t even pay the salaries of MCD employees. AAP will run MCD efficiently in the present budget only,” AAP said.During the pandemic, the civic authorities said, SDMC has spent Rs 4.35 crore on Covid-19 related measures but no monetary help was provided by the Delhi government.“According to the 5th Delhi Finance Commission recommendations, the Delhi government has to give us our dues of Rs 1,100 crore for two quarters of the current financial year. We are yet to get this money from the government despite several communications. Not releasing money is an attempt to create a financial crunch in the civic body. We are now compelled to stage a sit-in protest at Delhi secretariat with begging bowls in our hands from September 10 to demand the release of our funds,” mayor Mithilesh said.The government, she said, was not allowing the civic body to increase revenue by hiking one-time parking charges. “We had sent a proposal in 2018 to the government to allow us to increase one-time parking charges, which a new car buyer pays while purchasing a vehicle. The government, after keeping the file with them for a year, declined our request. They neither give us money nor do they allow us to increase taxes. So how should we survive?” she asked.Under 5th Delhi Finance Commission, the Delhi government has to give 12.5% of its net tax collection to urban local bodies every year.Narendra Chawla, leader of the house in the SDMC, said the Delhi government had decreased grants in sanitation, health and dengue control schemes. “Even this 12.5% share is not being given to the civic body by the government. For dengue control, SDMC spends Rs 100 crore every year but the government gives Rs 36 crore only. In 2019-20, Rs 80 crore was given for sanitation purposes but no fund has been released for sanitation for 2020-21. Due to reduction in allotment of funds, sterilisation of dogs and management of stray cattle was also affected,” Chawla said.Chawla said the government was not releasing even the allocated funds. In 2018-19, the government allocated Rs 1,081 crore but the civic body got only Rs 810 crore. In 2019-20, it approved Rs 450 crore for SDMC but released only Rs 145.52 crore, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/south-civic-body-says-delhi-govt-creating-financial-crisis-aap-hits-back/story-uXYRUOGglUrDNfZ8tNLnDO.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Met revises forecast, Delhi now likely to get heavy rain from Thursday||Delhi and parts of neighbouring towns are expected to receive moderate to heavy rainfall starting Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Showers are likely to continue through Friday, as per the Met’s fresh forecast, which revised its earlier prediction that the city would receive heavy rain starting Wednesday evening.The department has now said that some parts of the city will see light rainfall on Wednesday night. The city is expected to get moderate to heavy showers from Thursday morning. “The forecast rain has shifted to Thursday morning. In Delhi, in most parts we will witness moderate rain, but in some parts of the National Capital Region (NCR), there is a possibility of heavy rainfall,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. IMD has predicted intense spells of rain in many parts of northwest India between August 26 and August 28. Scientists explained that the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is active, lying south of its normal position and is likely to remain active for the next two or three days. Apart from this, there is a convergence of lower level south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea over north-west India till August 28. In Delhi, the peak rainfall activity due to this will be between August 27 and August 28. “The monsoon trough is shifting northwards and will stay very close to Delhi-NCR between August 25 and August 28. Under its influence, the convergence of lower-level easterlies from the Bay of Bengal and south-westerlies from the Arabian Sea will take place over north-west India,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/met-revises-forecast-delhi-now-likely-to-get-heavy-rain-from-thursday/story-wKJNK7UyDfduea2VJHP0MI.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||DU’s second round of exams from Sept 14 will be in both in offline and online modes||The Delhi University on Wednesday informed the Delhi high court that the second leg of the open book examination (OBE) for the final-year students, slated to begin from September 14, will be conducted in both online and offline modes so that students can choose the mode they prefer.In an affidavit filed before the bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad, the varsity said the examination, which is being conducted for students who did not appear in the first leg of OBE, held from August 10-31, will be conducted in both modes, even though the format, which is OBE, remains the same. It said the exams would start from September 14 and end on October 1. Earlier, the high court, while hearing pleas by law student Prateek Sharma and the National Federation for Blind, seeking to set up effective mechanisms for visually impaired and the specially abled students, had asked the varsity to hold offline examinations from September 14. It said students can take the exams by coming to the examination centres in the city. However, students who cannot reach the city due to the pandemic and other issues would have the option of appearing in the second leg of the OBE remotely. The varsity also said the specially abled students, who want to better their scores, can also appear in the examination and they would be given five hours to complete the test.The varsity told the court that the arrangement has been made in light of the revised guidelines on the academic calendar and examinations issued by University Grants Commission (UGC) on July 6 which has laid down provisions for the universities to conduct examinations in a blended (a mix of online and offline) mode for final-year students as a one-time measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.DU also said the undergraduate results of the first leg of OBE shall be notified from the last week of September through the last week of October.“Since the undergraduate courses are based on credit system and the results are prepared through relative grading, the processing of results can’t be started until all answer scripts have been evaluated and their marks/awards have been entered into the results portal,” the affidavit read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-s-second-round-of-exams-from-sept-14-will-be-in-both-in-offline-and-online-modes/story-KFeSF7eaqGncZ80GxCQpcP.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi BJP requests Centre to restart Metro, AAP says ‘nothing but drama’||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi unit has requested the Centre to restart Metro service in the national capital. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, met housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri in this regard on Wednesday. Later, the party leaders slammed the Aam Aadmi Party government in the Capital for doing little to provide adequate public transport to the people. The AAP hit back, saying despite the fact that the decision to reopen Metro rests with the L-G and the Centre, the BJP is fooling people. Gupta said, “We have requested the minister to start Metro, which is Delhi’s transport lifeline, at the earliest and issue guidelines for the same.”The BJP said that ever since the unlock process has begun, people are facing a lot of difficulty in commuting due to lack of public transport. It hit out at the AAP government for doing little to provide adequate public transport to people of Delhi.“If the Delhi government was concerned about the transport system, it could have bought buses, used school buses, hired private operator buses to ensure people don’t face any difficulty. But they did not, as the reality is that they do not want to work,” said Gupta.After the meeting with Puri, Bidhuri said, “In Delhi, weekly markets have been allowed to operate. Then why can’t Metro operations resume? People of Delhi are facing a lot of problems and if the Metro starts it will be a big relief to them.”In a statement, the AAP said, “The BJP is doing nothing but drama. The BJP is at the Centre, the L-G reports to the Centre and yet the party enacts a drama every day, sending requests to their own government. The party demands reopening of gyms but the L-G disapproves. What is this if not a drama. People understand everything.” New BJP team Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta appointed 250 new mandal –the lowest level in the party’s state unit hierarchy—presidents to start the work for the municipal elections, scheduled in 2022. For the first time, the BJP has appointed 20 women party workers as presidents of a mandal (ward).Gupta, who took charge of Delhi BJP in June, had earlier told HT that more women party workers will be given key responsibilities. The new state team will be announced in the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-bjp-requests-centre-to-restart-delhi-metro/story-KHrGG0eaNwwcVc482j5iBP.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Man in custody for murder during Delhi riots wants bail to write exams||A 19-year-old man, facing murder charges in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, has moved a Delhi court seeking interim bail to appear for his CBSE class X compartment examination in mathematics and science.In his plea, filed through advocate Mehmood Pracha, Suhaib Saifi said he was arrested on March 10 before which he was appearing for his CBSE Class 10 exams. The plea said Saifi had to write the mathematics and social science exams in custody. He passed social science but could not clear math. Saifi said while his regular bail in the matter is pending adjudication, he should be granted interim bail for a month to enable him to prepare for the exams.Pracha told the court that the admit card would be issued on September 5 and the dates of the examination would be mentioned on it. Following this, the court adjourned the matter till September 7.Saifi was arrested in connection with the murder of one Mahroof Ali and his neighbour Shamshad during the north-east Delhi riots. The FIR was registered on a complaint by Ali’s brother, who alleged that the violent mob shot at the two people with the intention to kill them..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-in-custody-for-murder-during-delhi-riots-wants-bail-to-write-exams/story-W3uVgnO7ViDagi3I19CY7M.html
27-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: High court asks police to submit case diary on FIR against Natasha Narwal, others||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the city police to file the case diary pertaining to the FIR against several people, including Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, who have been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for their alleged involvement in the north-east Delhi riots. Justice Vibhu Bakhru, while hearing Narwal’s bail application, said the case diary should be submitted by Saturday in a sealed cover, so that the matter could be heard on Monday, August 31. The court also agreed to the request made by solicitor general SV Raju that the petitioners’ counsel not be allowed to attend that hearing as the case diary has sensitive information.A case diary is a record of the daily investigation into a case. Any police officer conducting any inquiry is required to maintain a record of the investigation done on each day in a particular case. It is an important document to understand the investigation carried out in a case and the court can ask for it during trial proceedings. Narwal, through her counsel Adit S Pujari, had sought bail in the case. Narwal and another member of Pinjra Tod, Devangana Kalita, were arrested in May by the crime branch of the Delhi Police and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder.They have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” leading to the riots.On Wednesday, Raju told the court that he would require the examination of case diary to oppose Narwal’s bail plea and that he wanted limited participants as the contents of the case diary were sensitive and cannot be put in the public domain before the charge sheet is filed.To this, Bakhru proposed that he could adjourn the matter to September -- when in-person hearing is slated to start -- and the matter could be heard in the presence of limited persons. However, advocate Pujari said he does not have any problem to the sealed cover report or from being excluded from the hearing. He said if the matter is further pushed to September, by which time the charge sheet would also be filed, it would prejudice Narwal’s case.He also informed Bakhru that the trial court could not pronounce the order on the bail application of co-accused Kalita on Tuesday, because the case diary was brought to the high court.Following this, Bakhru directed the police to send the case diary to the trial court while also ordering that the same be submitted in a sealed cover by Saturday at his residence, as the matter is currently being heard over video conferencing.The next hearing is on August 31||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-high-court-asks-police-to-submit-case-diary-on-fir-against-narwal-others/story-6bd2BKfDN9cZphqgLVX1jL.html
27-08-2020||Mumbai||21-year-old who sold flowers at signal secures a white-collar job||Four years after the Signal School was set up to educate those from an underprivileged background, 21-year-old Mohan Kale, a student who sold flowers, has now bagged a job as an electrical engineer in a well-known consumer goods firm.Kale is studying in his final year of Diploma in Electrical Engineering course from a private institute and was selected for the job through a campus placement.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) along with NGO Samarth Bharat Vyaspeth initiated Signal School in 2016, for children who take to begging or hawking at the signal. Kale is the first student from the school to pass out and secure a job.“Education has helped me move ahead in life. Now I have a job in hand, and won’t have sell flowers on the streets,” said Kale.The school not only focusses on imparting education but also trains them in other areas, such as health, hygiene and good behaviour.“I have seen my family starve after my father lost one leg in an accident many years ago. My family was into agriculture. We had three-acre land in Osmanabad, however, the drought for three consecutive years impacted us a lot. We were under debts, after which we moved to Thane in search of livelihood. It was difficult for us to survive in this big city, so we resorted to selling flowers. I had studied till Class 7 in the village, but left school mid-way as we did not have enough money,” said Kale.His family includes his parents and two elder brothers, all of them sell flowers or eatables at various signals in the city.When the Signal School was launched, Kale was 18 years old, but he resumed his studies from class 8 onwards. “In the very first-year, he secured above 80%. He was very dedicated towards studies and managed to score 77% marks in SSC exams. He used to diligently study for ten hours a day. He put in equal efforts in his engineering exams as well,” said Aarti Parab, a teacher, Signal School. Despite joining a new institute, Kale continues to be mentored by his teachers at the Signal School.“This is a huge achievement for us. Our job was to impart education, however, their hard work and determination led them to such heights. This will be a great motivation for other students as well,” said, Bhatu Sawant, chief executive officer, Samarth Bharat Vyaspeeth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-who-sold-flowers-at-signal-secures-a-white-collar-job/story-PXCu7Rs3AzN1HVNyhPVRyO.html
27-08-2020||Pune||Comorbidity survey sees 70% testing positive for Covid-19 in Pune district||The district administration conducted a Covid-19 survey among the most vulnerable groups, including those suffering from comorbidities- mainly diabetes and hypertension- and people above the age of 50. At least 1,379 people were tested for the Covid-19 infection and 962 or close to 70% were found positive. These people had not reported any history of coming in contact with a positive person. The survey had been conducted in Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune rural area. A total of 6.66 lakh people were found to have comorbidities or were from the vulnerable age group from the entire district who were screened for temperature and oxygen saturation. Of these 2,185 were suspected and found to have symptoms. From these cases, the swab samples were taken of 1,379 people of which a total of 962 were found to be positive.Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner, said, “These people who had no known contact history of being in touch with any Covid-19 positive person were found positive during the door-to-door survey. Such timely action helped take care of these patients and early intervention and medical help could save many lives, especially from the vulnerable group.” Dr Sanjay Dabhade, member of Jan Aarogya Manch, said, “The survey indicates that there is high prevalence of the infection here, which has been supported earlier through the sero surveillance done by the government. However, I must appreciate the government’s efforts to conduct this survey and their timely intervention did help treat these patients immediately. For those who are comorbid and from the vulnerable age group, I believe, the government can look beyond the ICMR guidelines because today no one realises that they are infected or are infecting others. So, contact tracing has gone for a toss. However, this random survey will definitely help bring down the case fatality rate which should be the prime objective now.”Results of surveyArea-Total screened- Suspected- Swab taken- Tested positivePune city- 2,64,860- 538- 538- 502PCMC- 3,534- 827- 472- 420Pune rural- 3,97,867- 1,358- 369- 40Total- 6,66,261- 2,185- 1,379- 962||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/comorbidity-survey-sees-70-testing-positive-for-covid-19-in-pune-district/story-AOzbgM7EWjNJZ3tqPfPDsM.html
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Truck hits canter ferrying migrants in Doraha, three dead||Three people, including two women, were killed after a truck rear-ended a canter illegally ferrying migrants on National Highway-44 in Doraha, 20km from Ludhiana, on Wednesday morning. Two of the deceased – Bala, 45, and Kajal, 20, hailing from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh (UP) – were riding in the canter, while the third victim – Shakil, 22, native of Saharanpur, UP, was travelling with his brother, who was driving the other truck. The mishap also left four people injured – Sham Lal, 45, Rajinder Singh, 30, Sanjogta, 19 and Anju, 13, all migrants hailing from Muzaffarnagar, UP.ASI Harvinder Singh Ghuman of Doraha police station said the migrants were travelling from Muzaffarnagar to Moga when the accident took place around 6am. Shakil’s brother Farman told the police that as the two trucks reached near Rajwant Hospital in Doraha, the canter driver missed the slip road leading towards Southern Bypass and braked suddenly in the middle of the road. Moving right behind, he lost control of his vehicle and rammed into the canter, causing both vehicles to overturn. The impact of the collision killed two migrant women and his brother on the spot.The trucks toppling in the middle of the highway caused serpentine queues of vehicles in no time. After a police team rushed the victims to medical aid, the trucks were removed with the help of a JCB machine.Two of the injured persons are stated to be in a critical condition at Christian Medical College and Hospital in Ludhiana. The other victims are admitted at ESI Hospital, Ludhiana. The canter driver fled the scene after abandoning the vehicle.He has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code on the statement of Farman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-killed-as-truck-rams-into-canter-at-doraha-near-punjab-s-ludhiana-town/story-bw3LBFMifzuJHS73pMz68K.html
