29-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Congress, BJP in war of words over filmmaker Sandeep Ssingh||The Maharashtra unit of Congress on Saturday levelled more allegations against film producer Sandeep Ssingh and raised questions about his proximity to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has rubbished the claims and said the truth will come out in the ongoing Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.When HT called Ssingh for a comment, his phone was switched off, and he had not responded to messages till the time of going to press.In a series of tweets, Maharashtra Congress general secretary and party spokesperson Sachin Sawant said Ssingh had called the office of BJP’s Maharashtra unit 53 times between September 1 and December 23 last year. Sawant alleged that Ssingh, producer of the biopic on PM Narendra Modi, was also the only filmmaker to have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) worth ₹177 crore with the Gujarat government for the Vibrant Gujarat Summit in 2019.The BJP, however, termed the allegations “baseless”. Party leader Madhu Chavan said Sawant’s allegations are out of his “perverse political mindset”. “He [Ssingh] was allowed to produce a film on Modiji because he was an able filmmaker. How is BJP linked with his wrongdoings in his personal life? We would not back him if he is guilty and would want CBI to probe all angles. Even the Congress and its state government are free to probe all these allegations. Sawant is known for false, baseless allegations against BJP and its leaders,” Chavan said.Sawant had on Friday, too, demanded a probe into the alleged nexus between the Ssingh and BJP in connection with Rajput’s death. Sawant had written to CM Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking a probe into the drug dealing in Bollywood. He claimed Ssingh has links with BJP leaders from the state. Sawant had said it needs to be investigated if leaders had been shielding people involved in narcotics dealings. Responding to Sawant’s allegations, BJP leader and former CM Devendra Fadnavis had questioned why the state did not probe the Ssingh angle. “The state police kept maintaining it [Rajput’s death] was a suicide. They should have probed Ssingh too. Now a news has come about how Sssingh was co-producing a biopic on the life of honourable Bal Thackeray a few years ago. What will Congress now say about that link,” he said.Deshmukh on Saturday said they are sending complaints about Ssingh to CBI. “I have received many requests and complaints to investigate the relationship between Ssingh and BJP and also regarding his connection with Bollywood and drug dealing. We are sending them to CBI for investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-congress-bjp-in-war-of-words-over-filmmaker-sandeep-ssingh/story-BNMWWfy8H3LYgAu7h7EOmN.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||34-year-old arrested for sexually assaulting sister-in-law in Mumbai||Shivaji Nagar police on Friday arrested a 34-year-old man for sexually assaulting his 21-year-old sister-in-law.The survivor told police in her statement that last year in June she and her brother-in-law, a resident of Govandi, were alone at home when he took advantage of the situation and sexually assaulted her.Later, the accused molested her and threaten to throw her out of the house, if she revealed the episode to anyone.However, he continued to harass her. The accused then decided to approach the police.Following her complaint, on August 27 police registered first information report (FIR) under section 376 (punishment for rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code against the woman’s brother-in-law and arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/34-year-old-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-sister-in-law-in-mumbai/story-3g9AeUTKtVJ2R8habxDKFK.html
29-08-2020||City||Bhiwandi civic body reviews dangerous structures after Mahad building collapse||In the wake of the recent Mahad building collapse incident, the Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) conducted a review meeting on the status of dangerous buildings in its jurisdiction on Saturday. On August 24, a five-storey residential building collapsed in a residential area of Mahad in Raigad district, killing 16 people and injuring nine others.“Following the Mahad building collapse, the civic body has decided to make sure all the extremely-dangerous buildings in Bhiwandi limits are vacated, and no residents are occupying them. A review meeting was held to check on such unsafe buildings, and needful action will be taken,” said Pankaj Ashiya, commissioner, BNCMC. “It is our request to residents to not occupy extremely-dangerous structures and to move out quickly if they are living in one. Also, we have warned people not to buy properties in illegal constructions,” said Ashiya. In the C1 category, which comprises extremely dangerous buildings that the civic body has listed, 25 structures have been identified, of which six have been demolished. Work to vacate the remaining structures and raze them is underway. Water and power supply to these structures have already been cut off. The civic body has identified 82 structures in the C2 category (dangerous buildings), of which 77 have been vacated while three structures are under litigation. The remaining two will be reviewed soon, and residents will be vacated. “Some properties should be repaired immediately. Notices have been issued to around 222 structures in the municipal area,” said Ashiya. These 222 structures come under C2B and C3 categories, which means they can be repaired while residents occupy the structures. As per the civic body, it is necessary to submit a structural stability certificate which states that the property is suitable for use and fit for habitation by making structural joint changes and repairs as suggested by experts. The civic body has found that many property owners have not followed this procedure. “Therefore, the corporation will not be responsible if any property falls and there is a loss of life and property. Also, the corporation will take action against unauthorised buildings that are being erected in the city. Water and power supply to unauthorised buildings will not be provided. This must be noted by all citizens,” added Ashiya. “We have also put up banners at all extremely dangerous structures so that people are aware of it. We have managed to take action against all those structures that have been identified this year. In the coming days, buildings which are older than 30 years will also be identified. We will ask to check their structural stability through an architecture panel. The tender process for appointing the architecture panel will be carried out in September,” said Deepak Sawant, deputy commissioner, BNCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-civic-body-reviews-dangerous-structures-after-mahad-building-collapse/story-AkgaoXvGwjmjxdkVez2IzL.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra forest department confirms mangroves were hacked at Navi Mumbai’s Panje; owner, Cidco to respond||After a series of complaints alleging that mangrove trees were hacked at Panje in Uran, Navi Mumbai, between Wednesday and Friday, an inspection undertaken by the Maharashtra forest department confirmed that mangroves had been destroyed at the site. On Saturday morning, the Uran range forest officer and his team visited areas where mangrove hacking was reported. It was identified that the land belonged to the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco) – the planning agency for Navi Mumbai – which had leased it to a private company. “The RFO’s (range forest officer) inspection revealed 11-14 trees were damaged,” said Ashish Thakre, deputy conservator of forest (Alibag) adding, “Two separate letters have been issued. The first one is being sent to the Uran tehsildar (revenue officer) to initiate action in the matter as an offence under the Environment Protection Act, 1986, and the other to Cidco asking them to explain whether they are aware of the environmental violation.” The revenue department said they will conduct their own site visit on Monday after receiving details from the forest department. Destruction of mangroves or any activity including reclamation, debris dumping or construction within 50m was banned by the Bombay high court in September 2018. “Destruction of mangroves offended the fundamental rights of the citizens and hence it was a mandatory duty of the state and its agencies and instrumentalities to protect and preserve the mangroves. There shall be a total freeze on the destruction and cutting of mangroves in the entire state,” the order passed by the division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla said. At Panje, local resident and birder Parag Gharat on Wednesday and Friday found mangrove trees chopped at the site. He had alleged at least 40 trees had been cut. This was followed by a series of complaints by environment groups Conservation Action Trust, NatConnect Foundation, Shree Ekvira Aai Pratishthan and Paramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti, requesting action against culprits. Cidco officials said they were aware about the issue and had already drafted their response. “We have spoken to the private company and will be asking the Uran tahsildar to book unidentified persons for hacking mangroves at the site. Though a security guard has been appointed by the private company, there are multiple entry points to this area,” said Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco adding, “Similar cases have happened before too where mangroves were hacked by a group of people intending on using the tree barks for supporting nets for aquaculture purposes in this area. This seems to be the case here as well.” Located to the west of Dongri and Panje villages, this wetland is enclosed by an eight to 10-feet-high concrete wall and therefore, almost isolated from tidal influence. The western end of the site is bordered with a narrow patch of mangrove (300–500m wide and 1.5 km long), where destruction was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forest-department-confirms-mangroves-were-hacked-at-navi-mumbai-s-panje-owner-cidco-to-respond/story-tLkUs7GIIbHDc4zP1Rz7pN.html
29-08-2020||City||Two arrested for stealing seven silver idols from temple in Navi Mumbai||The NRI Coastal police have arrested two men for allegedly stealing silver idols and a donation box from a temple in Seawoods on Tuesday. The accused were arrested the following night after they were identified in the CCTV footage. The two allegedly stole seven silver idols and money from donation box to pay for their drug addiction. According to the NRI Coastal police, the accused have been identified as Vipul Jadhav, 20, and Salman Khan, 19, both residents of Karave village. The accused duo broke the lock of Laxmi Nayaran temple in Sector 36 at Karave village in Seawoods in the early hours of Tuesday. “Both the accused have criminal antecedents of committing thefts to pay for their drug usage. Taking advantage of shut temples, the men broke into the temple by breaking the lock at the gate,” said an officer from NRI Coastal police station. The men decamped with seven silver idols of several deities from the temple weighing about 1 kg collectively, along with puja instrument and donation box containing ₹10,000. They were captured in the CCTV camera near the temple, based on which they were identified. The police managed to trace the suspects in the same village while they were trying to sell the idols to a jeweller. Before the men could make the transaction, officials nabbed them. At the time of their arrest, police were only able to recover six idols from their possession. Officers said they suspect that the accused spent the cash, while an investigation is ongoing to recover the remaining idol and another puja instrument. Officers said Jadhav has five other cases of theft against him at NRI Coastal police station while Khan has only one case of theft against him at Sanpada police station. The duo planned to steal the idols from the temples as no devotees are frequenting temples during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-stealing-seven-silver-idols-from-temple-in-navi-mumbai/story-LUkbf4IBcYkUpMYZjoRNDO.html
29-08-2020||City||Thane group collects floral waste from Ulhas river||To clean Ulhas river, the members of Ulhas Nadi Bachao Kruti Samiti collected around 15 tons of Nirmalaya or floral waste from Pachva Mail in Kamba village, Panjrpol in Rayate village and Century Rayon Club Road in Ulhasnagar-1.The group comprising environmentalist and residents have been collecting floral waste since a year, which otherwise ends into the river. Ravindra Lingayat, a member of the organisation said, “We started an awareness campaign against the floral waste being dumped into the river last year. We created awareness on social media and appealed to the people to bring only the idol to the water body and not the nirmalaya. Most people followed this, so we collected merely 15 tons as opposed to 50 tons the previous year.” A team of around 80 volunteers prevented people from throwing nirmalaya and plastic into the river. The nirmalaya was segregated from thermacol, food items, puja items or paper decorations and was dumped into pits to turn it into compost by the volunteers. The plastic found will be recycled while the food item and whole coconut were distributed to the tribals in nearby villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-group-collects-floral-waste-from-ulhas-river/story-3eA8HKrjIifwd4C3zttGpN.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||MCOCA court starts process of recalling its bail order to 3 Ravi Pujari gang members||About a fortnight after granting bail to three alleged members of Ravi Pujari gang booked in two separate cases, the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court has started the process for recalling its order after realising that it had not taken into consideration the provisions of MCOCA. The special MCOCA judge RR Bhosale had granted bail to three alleged members of Ravi Pujari gang –Bipin Patil, Asif Abdul Sattar Khan and Sufiyan Dilshad Shaikh, who have been booked in separate cases.Khan and Shaikh are booked in connection with firing at filmmaker Karim Morani and were granted bail on August 3 and August 17 respectively. Patil, charged for conspiring to attack a Dombivli based builder, was granted bail on August 18. The three were granted bail primarily on the ground that they had already spent half of the maximum sentence prescribed for the offences for which they were booked. The court has now issued notices to defence and prosecution for recalling the order of granting bail to the trio and to take them in custody.“It was later brought to the notice of the court that the accused are also booked under the stringent provisions of MCOCA and if found guilty for the charges, they can be sentenced to life imprisonment,” said Pradeep Gharat, a special public prosecutor in case of firing at Karim Morani. The court had granted bail as per the provisions of section 436 –A of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). However, Gharat said as offences for which the accused are booked provides for punishment up to imprisonment of life, provisions of CrPC would not apply. “The court has now issued notice to all parties to initiate the process to take the accused in custody,” Gharat said. The court while issuing the notice to both prosecution and defence, observed that the accused were granted bail on the ground that they each have undergone detention for half of the maximum imprisonment specified for the offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code only. “However, while passing that order, the statutory provisions of imprisonment for offences punishable under MCOCA were not dealt with,” said the notice issued by the court on Thursday, asking all parties to appear before it on next date of hearing.The following day on Friday, the prosecution filed say in both the cases. Chief public prosecutor Jaisingh Desai, who appeared in Patil’s case and Gharat appeared in the second case. They argued that the court has the power to take accused in custody under CrPC. The defence, however, objected to this and said the court cannot cancel the bail granted by it and recall its own order. The defence, however, sought time to file a detailed reply. The court has now scheduled the matter for further hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mcoca-court-starts-process-of-recalling-its-bail-order-to-3-ravi-pujari-gang-members/story-VD1LKpjlbMx3TOInFAwiFI.html
29-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: Petrol pump worker attacked, robbed for refusing to give fuel in bottle||A petrol pump employee was robbed of Rs 15,000 in cash and attacked with sharp-edged weapons after he refused to give two men petrol in a bottle.The victim, identified as Gurwinder Singh, 30, is a resident of Guru Nanak Colony-B, and works at a filling station located opposite Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College.In his complaint to the police, Gurwinder said on Friday night, he and three other employees were working at the petrol pump when two men arrived there on a scooter and asked for petrol in a bottle.However, he turned them down as it was not allowed. This led to an argument and the duo also punched and kicked him before leaving.Around 15 minutes later, he saw the same men with their accomplices passing by the filling station from canal side towards Gill village.Soon after, around 10 men arrived on motorcycles and suddenly attacked him with sharp-edged weapons, before fleeing with Rs 15,000 in cash.“The entire incident has been captured in the CCTV camera installed at the filling station. The victim managed to note down the registration number of the men’s scooter. We have detained two suspects and initiated further investigation after registering a case,” said inspector Sukhdev Singh, SHO at the Dehlon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-petrol-pump-worker-attacked-robbed-for-refusing-to-give-fuel-in-bottle/story-Xs7iz4nDWTm5aiFODMoSBK.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Ride within Bandra Kurla Complex with new e-bike facility from August 31||At a time when public transport options are minimal in the city, commuters will be able to travel in and around Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) using a newly launched electric bike facility. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) along with app-based e-bike sharing platform Yulu, will start providing the service from today (August 31).Around 100 bikes will be available at nine different zones (like docking stations) at BKC, including two zones near the Bandra and Kurla suburban railway stations. Commuters will have to download the app, pay ₹5 to unlock the bike, post which they will be charged ₹1.5 per minute for the ride. Around nine additional zones will be added subsequently, with more bikes, officials said, adding that the bikes will be ideal for short-distance commutes. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “The chief minister had inaugurated the bikes in January, but there were some delays owing to the pandemic. The service will start on August 31.” Yulu was one among the top nine teams selected by MMRDA in November 2019, when the authority conducted a challenge for smart mobility solutions in the city.With the authority developing a 337-km Metro network in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), it has decided to also invest in last-mile mobility solutions. MMRDA recently invited bids for planning a transit system in BKC as it is cumbersome to reach the commercial hub from the two suburban railway stations. It also recently approved a plan to establish a multi-modal integration at 30 stations of Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro 7 (Dahisar East-Andheri East) corridors, expected to be operational by May 2021.Commuters can download the Yulu app from the Google Playstore and locate the nearest Yulu zone. They can then scan the QR code or enter the vehicle number to unlock the bike for ₹5. Users can later end the ride on the app and will be charged accordingly. Commuters have to also pay a refundable security deposit of ₹199 for the service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ride-within-bandra-kurla-complex-with-new-e-bike-facility-from-august-31/story-8QHErsor26yX14Q9WvOYQN.html
29-08-2020||City||Ludhiana man held for extorting money from vendors, molesting woman||The Jamalpur police on Saturday arrested a man for extorting money from roadside vendors for allowing them to sell their articles.Arjun Kumar, 28, of Jai Guru Dev Nagar of Mundian, has also been accused of molesting the wife of a vendor when he refused to pay him.Sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh, in-charge at Mundian Kalan police post, said a woman approached the police stating that her husband and brother-in-law sold vegetables.She alleged that Arjun stopped them on the way on August 17 and demanded Rs 1,000 to allow them to sell the vegetables. When they refused, he thrashed them and molested her.On her complaint, a case under Sections 323, 341, 294, 385, 354, 354-B and 506 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Jamalpur police station on August 19 and he was arrested on Saturday.The sub-inspector said the accused had thrashed the family twice in the past as well, and had been extorting money from other vendors too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-held-for-extorting-money-from-vendors-molesting-woman/story-jCjgC8HzK9Jc1c7ITVbQEO.html
29-08-2020||City||8.6mm rain leaves city roads inundated, commuters harried in Ludhiana||Just 8.6mm of rainfall was received by the city on Saturday morning but it left many areas inundated and the commuters a harried lot.Chronic waterlogging was witnessed at the railway station road (near Clock Tower), civil lines, Transport Nagar, Chaura Bazar, Haibowal among other areas, and though a hue and cry was raised by residents, the municipal corporation failed to find a solution. The accumulated rain water entered the shops near the Clock Tower with waves wafting into the shops due to movement of vehicles.One of the shopkeepers on railway station road, Chander Kant Chadda, said, “It has been a decade facing the problem of waterlogging, but the civic body has failed to find a solution. Water enters the shops. Many vehicles get damaged, but no one pays heed to the problem.” A transporter, Amandeep Singh, said, “Several requests have been submitted with the MC in the past to improve the condition of roads in Transport Nagar, but to no avail. Deep potholes damage the trucks. Waterlogged roads further add to our woes as it becomes difficult to move through a pothole.”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Water accumulation also results due to dumping of plastic carry bags by residents in the open. The drain lines get choked due to these. The MC is working to install a storm sewer line to deal with water accumulation on the railway station road. Also, the employees have been deputed to drain out accumulated water from low-lying areas. We are also working to construct roads in Transport Nagar but that will be done in phases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-6mm-rain-leaves-city-roads-inundated-commuters-harried-in-ludhiana/story-V9HK0ayhKJJiDCiMKVgUVM.html
29-08-2020||City||Ludhiana records highest single-day death toll, case tally inches towards 10,000||In no let-up in the Covid-19 pandemic, the district recorded the highest single-day fatalities on Saturday with 17 patients losing the battle to the virus. With this, Ludhiana’s toll has reached 378 – a fatality rate of 3.8%, far higher than the national average of 1.8% and Punjab’s 2.6%.The last steepest surge in deaths was on August 22 with 15 patients succumbing to the disease.Of the total Covid fatalities reported since March, August alone accounts for 76.7% (290). Already the highest in Punjab, the district’s Covid tally is also inching towards 10,000 cases, with 280 people testing positive on Saturday. The positive cases include 27 healthcare workers, three pregnant women and three undertrials. The 17 fatalities from Ludhiana include 10 male and seven female patients.The male patients are a 96-year-old from Heavenly Palace, a 73-year-old from BRS Nagar, a 72-year-old from Chander Nagar, a 66-year-old from Maharaj Nagar, a 58-year-old, a 55-year-old from Dholewal, a 47-year-old male from Giaspura, a 45-year-old male from Kundanpur, a 45-year-old male from Aluna Miana village and a 44-year-old from Mundiyan Kalan. Among the female fatalities are a 79-year-old from Model Town, a 75-year-old from Atam Nagar, Jagraon, a 72-year-old from Deep Nagar, a 67-year-old from Dugri, a 65-year-old from New Tagore Nagar, a 56-year-old from Rajguru Nagar and a 45-year-old from New Subhash Nagar.As per the district health department, 316 fresh cases were reported on Saturday, but 36 patients belong to other districts or states. Similarly, three people from Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur and Bathinda also died in Ludhiana. Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said, “The administration has intensified testing. On Saturday, 3,713 samples were collected by the health department.”“We are moving through the peak of the pandemic, so residents need to exercise more precautions and cooperate with the administration and health department to control the spread of the virus,” he added.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga urged residents to get tested if they feel any symptoms or have come in contact with any positive patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-records-highest-single-day-death-toll-case-tally-inches-towards-10-000/story-151Y7p4e7GvqAynr4LTUNI.html
29-08-2020||City||SDM reaches Raikot police station to probe illegal construction||The Raikot police was caught on the wrong foot for carrying out illegal construction inside the police station here on Saturday after sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, Raikot) and the de facto head of nagar council Dr Himanshu Gupta reached at the spot.The police personnel at the Raikot station told the SDM that they had raised funds among themselves for construction of a room. The SDM asked them to produce documents regarding the construction and ordered them to stop the goings on.The Raikot police had started constructing a room beside the sentry post 10 days ago with funds raised by the local market associations. The local activists had clicked pictures and complained to the nagar council about the illegal nature of it.When council officials reached there for inquiry, the police sent them back stating that all construction work of the police fell under the Punjab Police Housing Corporation, adding that they didn’t need separate permission from the local council.After council officials reported the matter to the SDM, he himself reached the police station for investigation and found the construction going on in full swing.Station house officer, inspector Ajaib Singh, said that they had space constraints while trying to accommodate the staff, so they had started constructing rooms on their own and gathered funds themselves.When contacted, Ranjodh Singh, chief engineer, Punjab Police Housing Corporation, said that no amendment could be made without permission of the corporation and the Raikot police had not taken any for constructing extra rooms.The SDM said that he would be able to say something [on the matter] after the investigation was complete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdm-reaches-raikot-police-station-to-probe-illegal-construction/story-VLljTtVCsKYrwTwvtfQ4rO.html
29-08-2020||City||Shopkeepers in Mohali defy weekend lockdown guidelines, hold protest demanding exemption||Even though the government had ordered to close all shops on weekends, except those selling essential items, many shopkeepers in complete defiance of the city’s lockdown orders opened shops even after the police made a few unsuccessful attempts to shut them. Shops in Phase 7, 3b2 and 5, Sohana were open and police could be seen asking the shop owners to close them down. Loss of earnings has forced many shop owners to wind up businesses thus leading to laying off their staff. Shop owners held a protest in Phase 7, demanding exemption of weekend lockdown in Mohali on the lines of Chandigarh and Panchkula. The Punjab government had imposed a weekend lockdown in all cities and towns in the state, as part of a strict response to the worrying surge in Covid-19 cases. All shops except those dealing in essential commodities were asked to remain closed while eateries were allowed to open only for home delivery. The district authorities had shared the concern of the traders with the government but so far no exemption has been provided. The police department has been directed to ensure that the shops do not open on weekends. “Weekend lockdown is unacceptable and Mohali should be exempted as it is an integral part of the tricity. There is a drastic dip in the earnings of traders. With Chandigarh and Panchkula open on weekends, it is further going to kill businesses in Mohali,” said Sarbjeet Singh, general secretary Mohali Beopar Mandal. He added, “The government is forcing traders to come on streets to protest by taking decisions that are against the interest of the people.” Businesses shutting down as survival becoming difficult Three months of lockdown has led to a drastic decrease in the earnings of traders. “We had co-operated with the government but now it is a matter of survival. In Mohali, five showrooms each in Phase 5 and 7 have closed down owing to losses while seven more in Phase 7 are on the verge of closure,” said Sarbjeet. “People are losing jobs. If there is no business how are we going to give salaries to our staff? Already shops have reduced the staff strength and only working with 50% of staff,” said Rajpal Chaudhury, who runs a shop in Phase 5 Mohali. “Shopkeepers are struggling to meet monthly expenses. The government has failed to provide us any kind of relief. Though the decision was taken to combat the spread of the virus, this is also leading to loss of livelihood,” said Gurmeet Singh Walia, a shopkeeper in Phase 10, Mohali. “The government has failed the business community and by imposing the weekend curfew they are depriving shopkeepers of livelihood,” said Vineet Verma president Mohali Bepoar Mandal, “The market associations are asking for an exemption for Mohali but so far no relaxation has been announced. The weekend curfew would be imposed in Mohali as per the orders of the state government,” said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopkeepers-in-mohali-defy-weekend-lockdown-guidelines-hold-protest-demanding-exemption/story-tTnHuy5Ofs3ST5X2RvX9yN.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid monitors to ensure adherence to safety protocols in Mohali||Covid monitors will be deputed in Mohali to ensure adherence to the safety precautions recommended by the health department to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district. Girish Dayalan, district magistrate, Mohali, under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code has issued orders under which “Heads of all government departments in the district will nominate department-wise nodal officers (Covid monitors), who will ensure social distancing, wearing masks and adherence to advisory of the health department in their offices.” The order clarified that in case a wedding or other event is held in marriage palaces, hotels, restaurants or community centres, their owners / managers must ensure that not more than 30 people attend the event.The managers / shopkeepers of the shopping malls located in the district have to ask customers to follow the safety precautions strictly. Similarly, presidents of markets have to ensure shopkeepers follow precautionary measures. The order will remain in force till October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-monitors-to-ensure-adherence-to-safety-protocols-in-mohali/story-UK6al1uucnbHpaS9OPgrZP.html
29-08-2020||City||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Ludhiana MC to conduct cleanliness competitions in city||To improve the ranking of the city in Swachh Survekshan 2021 and for directing the officials to work on different parameters of the competitions, municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the health branch officials at Zone D office of MC on Saturday.Zonal commissioners, chief sanitary inspectors (CSI), and sanitary inspectors among others attended the meeting.Apart from issuing directions to the officials, Sabharwal stated that similar to last year, competitions would be conducted between hotels, educational institutes, resident welfare associations among others and swachhta rankings will be given to motivate them to keep their premises and surroundings clean.Sabharwal said, “The officials have been directed to work on the door to door collection of garbage, source segregation of waste and other parameters listed by the government. Directions have also been issued that there should be no delay in the lifting of garbage from the secondary dumping points.”“The MC is also observing the working of A2Z company in running the refuse-derived fuel plant and we are working to find a solution for legacy waste. Apart from the chief sanitation inspectors and sanitary inspectors, zonal commissioners have also been asked to move in the field to inspect the working,” he added.The MC had received the ‘Best big city in innovation and best practices’ award under Survekshan 2020 and was ranked 34th out of 47 big cities.With the MC failing to conduct proper solid waste management in the city, the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has recently directed the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to impose bank guarantees on MC.As per the information, a bank guarantee of Rs 5 lakh has been imposed for failure to complete door to door collection of waste, Rs 5 lakh for the failure of the construction of boundary wall and establishing green belt around Tajpur Road main dumpsite, Rs 5 lakh bank guarantee for failing to commence treatment of over 20 lakh tonnes of legacy waste at the main dumpsite, etc. A bank guarantee of Rs 7 lakh has also been imposed for failure in upgrading the sewer treatment plants, which is required to deal with the Buddha Nullah pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swachh-survekshan-2021-mc-to-conduct-cleanliness-competitions-in-city/story-HwJqVKGiUb9uhu2KIj9TTN.html
29-08-2020||Pune||City reports 46 deaths, 1,968 fresh positive cases on Saturday||The city on Saturday reported the single-day highest spike of 46 deaths taking the death toll to 2,232. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recorded 1,968 fresh cases taking the progressive positives to 92,839. The state health department, meanwhile, reported 1,972 fresh cases in Pune on Saturday, taking the progressive positive count to 98,573 and 32 new deaths took the death toll to 2,507.The city also saw 1,657 discharges taking the total count of those discharged to 75,184. At least 7,047 samples were collected in 24 hours and a total of 4.40 lakh samples have been collected till date in the city. Currently, there are 15,423 active cases in the city of which 834 are in critical condition, including 506 on ventilator and 328 in ICU. Also 2,901 patients are undergoing oxygen treatment.Details of the deaths reported from the city includes eleven from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), ten from Bharati hospital, eight from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), two each from Symbiosis hospital, Jeevanjyoti hospital, Sanjeevan hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani and one each from DH Aundh, Jehangir hospital, Poona hospital, Global hospital , Kashibai Navale, YCM hospital, Sahyadri hospital, KEM hospital, Naidu hospital, Parmar hospital, Ruby Hall Clinic, Devyani hospital, Global hospital and Patil hospital.Also, 14 deaths were reported of people living outside PMC limits, but from city hospitals including five from SGH, two from Bharati hospital, KEM hospital and one each from Noble hospital, Symbiosis hospital, DMH, Surya Sahyadri hospital, Poona hospital and Morya hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-reports-46-deaths-1-968-fresh-positive-cases-on-saturday/story-04diQfM3w1CaLQGHxeWD5K.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Following complaints of bed mismanagement, PMC administration appoints officers at hospitals||In view of the Covid-19 rising cases, district administration has decided to appoint dedicated officers at major hospitals offering critical care, who will be available 24x7 at the hospital, to ensure smooth bed management, shifting of patients and functioning of the centre. The officials have been appointed at dedicated Covid care centre and dedicated Covid hospitals where prompt critical care is required. The administration in its order has also stated that the officers must be physically present or else face action under the Epidemic Diseases Management Act.Pune collector Rajesh Dekshmukh said, “We have issued these orders following complaints of lack of coordination and bed unavailability. Pune has enough beds now with jumbo facilities functioning and adding thousand beds for critical care. We are increasing our testing capacities in rural areas too. As of this week, testing has gone up two times of what it was in the second week of August. We have also increased contact tracing which was 11 as of July 30 and has gone up to 12.55 as of Saturday. So, we expect more cases to arise and we are preparing for the same.”The appointed officers will be responsible to ensure bed availability for patients as per their requirements for critical care. Often these hospitals are under various government agencies which can cause hindrance in communication and so these officials have been given the power and responsibility to ensure smooth communication. Each officer has been assigned a dedicated hospital and also dedicated time slots.The officers have to update the district administration’s Covid management dashboard centre about the availability of beds. Now, fines for not wearing masks or spitting: Pune collectorDeshmukh said that the Pune police is empowered to fine people who do not wear masks or spit on the road. He said, “During my rounds across various talukas we saw that 30-40% of the people do not wear masks and roam around the area freely. Earlier, there were designated people to penalise such miscreants, but now the Pune police will also be empowered to fine such people. A fine of Rs 500 will be imposed on people who violate the norms and endanger the lives of others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/following-complaints-of-bed-mismanagement-pmc-administration-appoints-officers-at-hospitals/story-KHx9H6wO8Yhiv3Lw8CyaHJ.html
29-08-2020||City||Wushu coach Kuldeep Handoo receives Dronacharya Award||Indian Wushu team coach Kuldeep Handoo on Saturday became the first Dronacharya awardee from Jammu and Kashmir upon being conferred the honour by President Ramnath Kovind during a virtual ceremony in Chandigarh.Elated over the feat, Handoo said it was a dream come true for him and his family.Handoo was an adolescent Kashmiri Pandit when he had to flee Kashmir with his family due to Pak-sponsored militancy. He came to Jammu and took up Wushu to overcome the pain and agony of leaving his home and hearth.In his initial days, he learnt taekwondo from his coach Vishal Sharma and practiced on uneven ground by the side of the boxing rink at the MA Stadium here.Due to the Covid pandemic, the award ceremony was held at different venues. Handoo attended the one in Chandigarh.“I’m delighted and excited. I waited very long for this moment. It is a dream come true for me,” said Handoo, attributing the achievement to his mother Phoola Handoo and father Jawahar Lal Handoo.“They did a lot for me and never left my side. Though I was good in studies, my mother always supported me in pursuing my passion in sports. My parents went through difficult times after we had to flee Kashmir due to militancy,” he said.Handoo has decided to take the sport to new heights in India and at the international forum.Currently serving as an inspector in JK Police, Handoo also thanked his wife Bhavneet for taking special care of his parents and son Bhavkul in his absence.In 1995, he won his first gold medal at the 6th National Wushu Championship in Mizoram and never looked back. In his long drawn out career of over 25 years, Handoo has won 11 gold medals in national championships and six international medals.“An inspiration and role model to the youngsters, Handoo has come a long way and richly deserved this award,” said sports analyst Sanjeev Sharma.Under Handoo, India had won two gold medals in world championships and one in World Cup, 28 silver medals and 57 bronze medals in various other tourneys.He has already been honoured with the prestigious Sher-i-Kashmir Award and Parshuram Award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wushu-coach-kuldeep-handoo-receives-dronacharya-award/story-b6Y88Gu9jt7auaUCiiZSVN.html
29-08-2020||City||Capt asks chief secy to probe alleged scholarship scam||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to conduct a thorough probe into the alleged multi-crore post-matric scholarship scam. His statement comes amid the opposition’s demand for social welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot’s resignation over his alleged role in the case. Amarinder said anyone found complicit to the alleged wrongdoings, irrespective of his position within or outside the government, will be punished in accordance with the legal provisions. The issue came to the fore on the basis of a report submitted by additional chief secretary Kirpa Shankar Saroj to the chief secretary, pointing out embezzlement of at least ₹63 crore in the distribution of post-matric scholarship meant for students belonging to Scheduled Castes. The report also questioned the role of Dharamsot in allegedly shielding those involved in the scam. The issue also rocked the assembly on Friday with opposition demanding resignation of Dharamsot. The chief minister said nobody could be put on the mat without a fair probe and proper inquiry. “There is rule of law, which needs to be followed,” said the CM, adding that he will not succumb to Opposition’s trial in the case. “However, there was no question of protecting or shielding anyone, and action will be taken against the guilty as per law,” he added. Amarinder also lashed out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for behaving like a “rogue party” by baying for Dharamsot’s blood without a proper inquiry. “Are we living in a state of anarchy, with no rule of law?” Amarinder said, reacting strongly to the demand of AAP and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLAs in the Vidhan Sabha on Friday. “Do you really expect me to take action without a proper inquiry against my own minister when I have not done so even against many Opposition leaders,” said the CM, pointing out that Dharamsot has already said he is ready to face any inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-asks-chief-secy-to-probe-alleged-scholarship-scam/story-rSyrX8l7z5laVzXO8hbIUL.html
29-08-2020||Noida||Unlock 4: Noida Metro services to resume from September 7||Services of the Noida-Greater Noida Metro rail, which were shut down five months ago amid the Covid-19 outbreak, will resume from September 7, officials said Saturday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe decision comes after the Union Home Ministry issued guidelines for “Unlock 4” this evening and allowed metro rail operations in a graded manner.“Aqua Line services will resume as per norms issued by the central government,” Ritu Maheshwari, Managing Director of the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC), which operated the rail network, told PTI.The services of the Noida-Greater Noida metro were suspended on March 22 due to the coronavirus outbreak.The Aqua Line, which connects the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida in Gautam Buddh Nagar, has an average daily ridership of around 25,000 passengers, according to Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/unlock-4-noida-metro-services-to-resume-from-september-7/story-KJcqXQIgwcCnT9dZRC3rQO.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh, tricity see biggest surge in Covid-19 cases||Witnessing yet another record surge, Chandigarh reported 261 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest 24-hour spike across the tricity, which comprises of Mohali and Panchkula as well. The last biggest surge of 188 was on August 27.Even the tricity recorded its steepest single-day spike with 467 cases, of which 110 were reported from Mohali and 96 from Panchkula. This is third time in four days that the daily tally has crossed the 400 mark, after it did so for the first time on August 26. Meanwhile, Chandigarh’s tally is fast moving towards the 4,000 mark. As many as 3,985 people have tested positive in the Union Territory so far, of whom 1,692 are yet to be cured. As no death was reported on Saturday, the toll remains at 45. As many as 41 of these patients had pre-existing diseases, such as diabetes, hypertension and heart ailment.In the past six months of the pandemic in Chandigarh, 73% of the infections have surfaced in August. Since March 18, when the first case was reported, the tally stood at 1,051 till July 31. This month alone, 2,934 people have tested positive. The fresh cases have been reported from across rural and urban pockets of the city. As many as 20% of the cases so far have been confirmed through rapid antigen testing. GRIM INDICATORSThough 141 patients were discharged on Saturday, the recovery rate stands at 56.8% as compared to the national average of 76.5%. The daily growth of seven days is averaged at 5.2% for the city, which is among the highest in the country only after Chhattisgarh, while the national average is 2.3%Similarly, positivity rate, which shows how many people are testing positive in relation to the tests conducted, is 13.6% while the national average is 8.6%. This comes even after testing has been ramped up and on an average 650 tests are being conducted daily. On Saturday, 781 people were tested, the highest so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-see-biggest-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-L0zR4oT37tqXZuwRVcf1RM.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Divorce case: Punjab and Haryana HC dismisses plea seeking waiver of six-month ‘cooling-off’ period||The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that an estranged couple can apply for waiver of ‘cooling-off’ period in mutual consent divorce cases under the Hindu Marriage Act, where it has come on court record that they have been living separately for more than a year. The high court bench of justice SN Satyanarayana and justice Archna Puri refused to interfere with an order passed by a Mohali court in which a couple had asked for a divorce with mutual consent and also sought waiving off the six-month period. They got married in December 2017 at a gurdwara in Kharar and lived together till January 2019. But as certain issues cropped up between them, they decided to proceed independently and signed a settlement deed in the presence of elders from both sides on June 18, 2020. Following this, a joint petition for divorce was filed before a family court in July. The family court in Mohali dismissed the plea for waiving off the cooling-off period, observing that nothing was brought on record to show that there is a long litigation pending between the parties. There is nothing to suggest that the parties to the petition ever made any effort through court for getting their matter settled or through mediation/conciliation before the filing of the present petition, the family court had said. In high court, the appeal was filed by the woman, stating that she is proceeding to Malaysia by the end of this month and due to the pandemic situation, it would be difficult for her to come back after six months. The HC refused to waive off the cooling-off period and upheld family court decision, observing that she can submit her statement for divorce or withdrawal of petition through video conference or through any other media without personally coming to India after six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/divorce-case-punjab-and-haryana-hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-waiver-of-six-month-cooling-off-period/story-55XXMRdfcUIHYBvT33C7DI.html
29-08-2020||City||Jagraon Bridge revamp: Two SEs put on notice over rise in cost after design change||After mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu marked an inquiry into the proposal to increase the Jagraon Bridge project cost by Rs 44 lakh for a change in the retaining wall’s design, additional municipal commissioner Rishipal Singh on Saturday issued show-cause notices to two superintending engineers, a sub-divisional officer (SDO) and a junior engineer.Singh said during inspection, an MC team has found deviation from design, which led to increase in cost. Further, MC will get the site inspected again by experts from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College and submit a final report with the high authorities.The show-cause notices have been issued to former superintending engineer (SE) Harpal Singh Bhullar, who has since been transferred, and current SE Rahul Gagneja, besides the SDO and junior engineer. They have been asked to explain why the design was changed, which led to increase in the project’s cost.A few weeks ago, the mayor had raised objections over alleged Rs 77-lakh discrepancies in the Jagraon Bridge’s retaining wall project, which is being carried out at a cost of around Rs 2.5 crore. Finding that the officials had sought permission to increase the project cost by Rs 44 lakh on the false pretext of design change, he had marked an inquiry.An MC official, requesting anonymity, claimed there was no discrepancy and the design was changed as there was a chance of a road cave-in during construction of the bridge, if the retaining wall and approach road would have been constructed with the old design, and “the mayor was aware of the problem.” Additional commissioner Rishipal Singh said, “The show-cause notices have been served. From preliminary observations, it seems there were deviations in design in comparison to what was proposed initially. However, we will get the site inspected from experts of an engineering college before submitting the report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagraon-bridge-revamp-two-ses-put-on-notice-over-rise-in-cost-after-design-change/story-BD9tkpFKy2WeuuO89Q0fjI.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro to resume services from Sept 7 in calibrated manner: DMRC||After being closed since March 22 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Metro has received the nod from authorities to resume services from September 7 in a “calibrated manner”, officials said on Saturday.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that he was “glad” the mertro services will resume operations in a phased manner.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“As per the latest guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs under Unlock-4, the Delhi Metro will be resuming its services for public from September 7 onwards in a calibrated manner,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a statement.Further details on the metro’s functioning and its usage by the general public will be shared once a detailed SOP is issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs in the next few days, the officials said.The DMRC had last week said that the DMRC shall be prepared to resume operations whenever directed by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-resume-services-from-sept-7-in-calibrated-manner-dmrc/story-Jjjb5lgbecBw72KrhkopuK.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Civic chief submits proposal to appoint members from all parties to PMC’s medical college trust||Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Saturday submitted a proposal to the standing committee for the appointment of all party leaders to a trust, which will run the proposed medical college being set up by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).PMC plans to operate a medical college, named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, for which the civic body is in the process of registering a trust with the charity commissioner. The trust, according to initial proposal, would have been mainly dominated by PMC office-bearers and municipal officials (mayor, standing committee chairman and leader of the house), however, opposition party leaders in the city raised objections to it. They demanded that leaders from all parties should be members of the trust. Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “They should appoint leaders from all major parties in the municipal corporation as it will help maintain balance. Today, the BJP is ruling PMC, but in the future other parties may run the PMC. Hence, looking at the long-term plans, the ruling party must accept the proposal.”Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The state government had given its nod to start a medical college here. I instructed the administration to speed up the administrative process as the PMC can start the college and this will help us get more medical practitioners for PMC-run hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/civic-chief-submits-proposal-to-appoint-members-from-all-parties-to-pmc-s-medical-college-trust/story-GhZCJ1KopRheprX5JiVRgK.html
29-08-2020||City||3 more succumb to Covid, 110 test positive in Mohali||Three men died and 110 tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali district on Saturday. While 3,424 cases have been confirmed so far, the death toll has climbed to 71. Those who lost their life to the virus include a 70-year-old heart patient from Radiala village in Mohali. He was undergoing treatment at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh. The other two are a 49-year-old man from Phase 7 and a 68-year-old man from Sector 71, who were admitted to private hospitals in the tricityAmong the fresh cases, 48 are from Mohali city, 22 from Gharuan, 20 from Kharar, 13 from Dhakoli and the remaining seven from Kurali, Dera Bassi and Lalru. While 1,862 patients have been cured and discharged so far, 1,491 cases remain active.“Extensive sampling and strict home quarantine has saved Mohali from community spread,” said civil surgeon Manjit Singh, while attributing the rise in cases to people arriving here from outside.He also appealed to the patients to inculcate the spirit of “chardi kala” (high morale) in order to fight the infection.“In order to boost immunity level to recover from the disease, which would ultimately reduce mortality rate, it is very important for patients to have high morale as some deaths are due to fear, anxiety and nervousness,” he said while visiting a micro-containment zone in Sohana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-more-succumb-to-covid-110-test-positive-in-mohali/story-dTCtTnO1YW2svi5E9gbJhJ.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Every 4th person admitted to PGI Covid-19 ICU succumbed to infection, comorbidities||Every fourth person who was admitted to the Covid-19 Intensive Care Unit at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has succumbed, majorly due to aggravation of a pre-existing disease.The dedicated hospital at Nehru Hospital Extension caters to moderate and severe cases from Chandigarh and the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.Data accessed by Hindustan Times reveals that the hospital has admitted a total of 844 Covid-19 patients, of which 196 required intensive care support and during the course of treatment, 53 died. As per the figures, 113 have recovered and been discharged while 30 are under treatment.This suggests that the death rate in ICU is around 27% while the recovery rate stands at around 58%. PGIMER director Professor Jagat Ram said, “Doctors put in their best efforts to save the patients and 58% recovery in ICUs is nothing less than an achievement.” He explained, “Technically, it’s hard to revive a critical patient. Still the recovery rate of around 58% in the ICU is good. We are working hard to bring up the numbers and save more patients. Around 30 patients in ICU are still under treatment and we hope they recover soon.”“The message here is to practice hand hygiene, wear masks and maintain distance so that lives can be saved,” he added. Worryingly, 37% of those who died were in the age group of 31 to 50, while 45% were in the most vulnerable age group-- 50 years and above.Professor GD Puri, dean (academics) and head of the department of anesthesia and intensive care, said, “The Covid-19 centre at the institute receives very sick patients. Majority of the patients who are admitted for critical care in ICUs have other underlying conditions. All our patients in ICUs have severe comorbid conditions such as renal failure, hepatic failure, cardiac failure or terminal cancers in addition to diabetes or hypertension.”Dr Vipin Kaushal, additional medical superintendent of the Covid-19 hospital, said that many patients are initially admitted in the emergency ward for some other condition and after tests are performed here, they turn out to be positive. “In PGIMER emergencies, patients of accident cases, renal failure and other cases are reported from many states. Many of them are already in a serious condition. After the tests are performed, they turn out to be positive and are shifted to the Covid-19 block for treatment and management. They require round-the-clock care. So in most cases, patients’ survival chances are low despite best care,” said Dr Kaushal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/every-4th-person-admitted-to-pgi-covid-19-icu-succumbed-to-infection-comorbidities/story-b27icQ3lx9iKIaTu5YKt5N.html
29-08-2020||City||Attack on BJP leader’s son: Mahendergarh SP transferred after minister accuses her of backing ‘criminals’||A day after a local BJP leader’s son Amit Yadav was shot at by two unidentified assailants outside his house in Mahendergarh’s Narnaul, superintendent of police Sulochana Gajraj was transferred on Saturday as Commandant, 4th IRB, Manesar. The Haryana government has transferred 8 IPS officers, including Gajraj. Amit Yadav is local BJP leader Dayanand Yadav’s son. In his complaint to police, Amit said the incident took place at around 8.30pm on Friday when two unidentified assailants rang the bell of his house.“When I came out of my house, one of them fired at my leg and they left a threat letter before fleeing the spot. They demanded Rs 50 lakh ransom and threatened me of dire consequences if I did not pay them,” he said.Police have registered a case against two unidentified assailants under Section 307(attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act, 1959.Om Prakash Yadav, minister of state (MoS) for social justice and empowerment, who visited Amit at the hospital, said Sulochana Gajraj is a corrupt officer and has joined hands with criminals. He said she is responsible for the rise in crime in Mahendergarh district.“ People have complained to me about her involvement in corruption. Three incidents of firing took place in the last couple of days and the assailants are demanding ransom from traders and businessmen. She has failed to arrest the criminals. On Saturday, she was transferred from the post of Mahendergarh SP but I will brief Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar about her involvement with criminals and involvement in corruption activities,” the minister added.He said it was their right to raise voice against such officers, who are working against the public.Reacting to the minister’s allegations, Gajraj said the public knows everything about her efforts to control crime in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/attack-on-bjp-leader-s-son-mahendergarh-sp-transferred-after-minister-accuses-her-of-backing-criminals/story-vABXtIRJrZXMnSY4A5bvBO.html
29-08-2020||City||HC orders Himachal to set up anti-suicide helpline||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Saturday ordered the state government to set up an anti-suicide helpline within three weeks.The court also directed for publication of the said helpline number in all English and Hindi newspapers through advertisement and through official communication platforms.A division bench of justices Sureshwar Thakur and CB Barowalia passed the orders while hearing a petition seeking to take necessary and effective steps to prevent the increasing number of suicide cases during the Covid-19 lockdown.Law student Tushar, who studies at Bharatiya Vidyapeeth Pune, told the court through a petition that a lot of people were committing suicide during the Covid-19 pandemic and it seemed that the government failed to take effective steps to prevent the same.The petitioner requested that the Mental Health Services Act, 2017, be implemented in the state in letter and spirit. There are various provisions related to mental health and suicide prevention under this law. Section 18 of the Act deals with the right to mental healthcare, Section 45 provides for the establishment of a state mental authority, and Section 29 deals with the duties of the appropriate government, contended the petitioner.Section 29 (2) specifically speaks about the duty of the appropriate government to plan, design and implement public health programmes to reduce suicides and its attempts in the country, the petition stated.The petitioner said if provisions of the Mental Health Act are implemented, the number of suicides can be curbed. The court ordered the government to respond to the petition within six weeks. The next hearing in the case will be on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-orders-himachal-to-set-up-anti-suicide-helpline/story-FBVaYLtnrXlbHvsFhuy8mM.html
29-08-2020||City||Panchkula’s Covid count goes past 2,000||Two elderly men died of Covid-19 in Panchkula district on Saturday, taking the toll to 19. Also, 96 new infections were reported, which took the number of infections past 2,000. As many as 2,075 people have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 790 are yet to be cured.Those who died have been identified as an 82-year-old man from Sector 4 and a 71-year-old man from Sector 12A.Among the fresh cases, 26 are from Kalka, 20 from Pinjore and the remaining from Panchkula city and other peripheral areas. While 1,266 patients have recovered so far, reports of 469 suspected cases are awaited.72% cases surfaced in AugustThe pandemic spread has picked up pace at an alarming rate in August. The total count stood at 561 on July 31. As many as 1,514 cases (72%) have been reported this month alone.The latest 500 cases have been added in just a week, as compared to 132 days taken to reach the first 500 after the infection surfaced in the district on March 20.Looking at the spike, the health authorities have decided to convert D-block of the civil hospital into a covid care centre. “We have 113 beds in the civil hospital for Covid patients, and now we are readying D-block, which will have additional 48-bed capacity. We have also alerted private hospitals to make more arrangements,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-covid-count-goes-past-2-000/story-95Dkd71CjJpomjSrbzZp1O.html
29-08-2020||City||Two booked for raping 26-year-old woman in Panipat||Two people have been booked for raping a 26-year-old woman at a locality in Panipat district, police said on Saturday. In her complaint to the police, the woman, who is a widow, said one of the accused was her friend on Facebook and had allegedly started chatting with her about six months ago. On August 25, the accused Sonu allegedly took her to celebrate his birthday at a dairy farm near Pehalwan Chowk where his friend Vikas was present.The victim alleged that they gave her a cold-drinking laced with sedatives and raped her after she fell unconscious. Deputy superintendent of police Satish Kumar said a case has been registered under Section 376D of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-booked-for-raping-26-year-old-woman-in-panipat/story-9tITaSap35o334Ao10KAGK.html
29-08-2020||City||HPU students can choose nearby centres for PG exams||To avoid any inconvenience to students amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Himachal Pradesh University here has given them an opportunity to appear in nearby centres for the postgraduate examinations scheduled to take place from September 15 onwards.For this, the university administration has selected 38 examination centres and students have been asked to choose those close to their homes.Controller of examination JS Nehi said for change of centre, the eligible students are required to go to the website pgexams.hpushimla.in under the notification page, click on the change exam centre tab for fresh and re-appear from the list provided in the dropdown box.“This is only a one-time facility. Hereafter, the fee for change of examination centre shall be charged as per the university rules,” he added.VARSITY ISSUES NEW DATESHEETThe university has issued a new datesheet for undergraduate exams which were earlier scheduled to take place on August 18, but were cancelled due to the orders of Himachal Pradesh high court. A notification regarding this has been uploaded on university’s official website.BSc (physics and zoology) and BCom fourth semester examinations will take place on September 4 from 2pm to 5pm, while BA (political science) fourth semester examination will now take place on September 15. BSc (botany) sixth semester exams are scheduled to take place on September 3 and BA examination will now take place on September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hpu-students-can-choose-nearby-centres-for-pg-exams/story-5xaNteIBKpNWbvGAVtDVxI.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three district SPs among 8 IPS officers transferred in Haryana||The Haryana government on Saturday transferred eight IPS officers including police chiefs of three districts. As per the orders, superintendent of police (SP), Mahendergarh, Sulochana Gajraj was shifted as Commandant, Fourth Battalion, IRB, Manesar. DCP (East), Gurugram, Chandermohan replaced her as SP, Mahendergarh. Rewari SP Naazneen Bhasin was shifted as SP, RTC, Bhondsi. Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal replaced Bhasin as SP Rewari. Additional director general of police (ADGP), modernization and welfare, Alok Roy, was given the additional charge of ADGP, Prisons. A 1994 batch IPS officer, Kala Ramachandran, awaiting posting orders on return from central deputation, was posted as ADGP, headquarters and crime against women. ADGP, crime against women, Charu Bali was posted as ADGP, IRB, Bhondsi and state crime branch, Gurugram. Shashank Anand was posted as DIG, CID and HPS officer, Rajesh Kalia, was transferred as Ambala SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-district-sps-among-8-ips-officers-transferred-in-haryana/story-nQjZWbjFqsX7ZpbEtSr8wM.html
29-08-2020||City||CGC Jhanjeri launches scholarships worth ₹2 crores to support needy students||The management of Chandigarh Group of Colleges, Jhanjeri (CGC) has come out with a novel scheme of helping the needy and meritorious students to pursue various courses offered by the college. Scholarships worth ₹2 crores will be given to the children of Covid-19 warriors and defence personnel, meritorious students, family members of CGC staff among other categories.The scholarships will be given at the time of taking admissions in various courses being offered in CGC Jhanjeri for the session 2020 – 21. These courses include BTech (mechanical, civil, CSE, ECE), MBA, BBA, BCA, BCom. (Hons), MCom., BSc (fashion designing), BSc (Hons) agriculture, BSc (computer science), BSc (Hons) nutrition and dietetics.Speaking about the scheme, Rashpal Singh Dhaliwal, president of CGC said the aim is to help Covid-19 warriors, meritorious students, children of defence personnel, exceptional sportspersons, only girl child, differently-abled students, sibling concessions, and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cgc-jhanjeri-launches-scholarships-worth-2-crores-to-support-needy-students/story-9Dp8f7fq81FMRYiwd4ZYxH.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Woman constable attacked with axe by brother-in-law||PUNE A woman constable, attached to the railway police was attacked on her head with a sharp axe by her elder sister’s husband as he was angry over her intervention in the family dispute.The incident took place at the victim’s residence in Chikali, on Thursday.The injured has been identified as Sindhu Mohite and she has been admitted to a private hospital in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) where her condition is stated to stable.Doctors at the hospital said that she was responding positively to the treatment and her life is out of danger.According to the police, the victim works with the railway police and had intervened in the domestic dispute of her elder sister who was allegedly constantly harassed by her husband. The constable intervened and ensured that her elder sister returned to their parents’ house which angered her husband. The accused, on Thursday night, entered the constable’s house and attacked her with a sharp axe, investigating officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-constable-attacked-with-axe-by-brother-in-law/story-MQJhaBxg2qFg6KoBmJ6vTL.html
29-08-2020||City||Karnal administration withdraws controversial orders seeking details of drug addicts||The Karnal administration has withdrawn the controversial orders issued by the district education officer (DEO) asking all block education officers (BEO) to collect details of drug addicts in their respective areas.The orders were withdrawn soon after the letter issued by the DEO was circulated on social media and the administration faced criticism for giving such tasks to the BEOs.As per the order, the DEO wrote that all block education officers in Karnal district are directed to submit a list of 40 drug addicts/drunken persons/ students and staff members of each block within a week with the help of school principals and headmasters. The letter was followed by a performa under which they were asked to fill the details including name, father’s name, age, occupation, address and contact number of the addict.DEO Ravinder Chaudhary has refused to comment on the reasons for issuing such orders saying that he has been quarantined and is not well. Officiating DEO Sushil Kumar said the order was issued after a meeting in which it was decided that a list of 250 such people should be furnished for counselling. “However, there was some communication gap and the order will be withdrawn,” he added. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the district education officer has been directed to withdraw the letter immediately. He said the letter was wrongly interpreted as the district administration had asked him to seek the details of school students, who have become drug addicts so that their counseling could be done and bring them back under the Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan.He said a fresh letter in this regard will be issued soon. The letter has received criticism on social media and by teachers. “How could a teacher get the details of drug addicts in his or her locality. This controversial order may instigate quarrels in villages,” said a teacher, pleading anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-administration-withdraws-controversial-orders-seeking-details-of-drug-addicts/story-zKj4uaybBolKwj7NC8C7xL.html
29-08-2020||City||Two Ludhiana cops trying to pacify marital dispute assaulted||Two police personnel were assaulted while trying to defuse a marital dispute in Vardhman Enclave, Jamalpur, on Friday.The woman, who is living separately from her husband due to strained relationships, had called the police for help, where her husband, his mother and brother attacked the cops.The Jamalpur police have arrested the trio for assaulting ASI Swarn Chand and constable Rakesh Kumar and tearing their uniforms. They have been identified as Gurjit Kaur and her two sons Karamjit Singh and Jora Singh of Khamano, Fatehgarh Sahib.In his complaint to police, Chand, who is deputed in the police control room motorcycle squad, said a woman, Kuldeep Kaur, called the police alleging that her husband, Karamjit, and in-laws were threatening her.She said they had been living apart for long and her husband had arrived at her house with her family to harm her and her children. When he and constable Rakesh Kumar reached the spot and asked her husband and his family to leave, they started hurling abuses at them and assaulted them, tearing their uniforms in the melee.On Chand’s complaint, Jamalpur police have registered a case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience to the orders duly promulgated by public servant) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code against three accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-ludhiana-cops-trying-to-pacify-marital-dispute-assaulted/story-hlAyyetjPqvaeAicJIaRLI.html
29-08-2020||City||Murder bid on Ludhiana scribe: Two history-sheeters held||Two history-sheeters, who had allegedly attempted to murder a scribe on August 16, landed in the police net on Friday. The accused have been identified as Arvinder Singh, alias Aman Tattoo, of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Shimlapuri, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Price, of Manakwal. Their accomplices, Shanky Verma, Love, Chirkut and five others, who have yet to be identified, are at large.The police have recovered a .32-bore pistol, a bullet and 54gm narcotic powder from their possession.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the accused were arrested from near Basant Park following a tip-off. The accused were crossing the area on a scooter. When stopped for checking, illegal weapons and drugs were recovered from them.The ADCP said on August 16, the accused had fired shots outside the house of a scribe, Pawan Kumar of Preet Nagar, Shimlapuri. Though Kumar managed to escape unhurt as he locked himself inside, the accused damaged the gate of his house using sharp-edged weapons and fled on failing to break it open.The Shimlapuri police had lodged an FIR under Sections 307, 336, 148, 149 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act in this regard.The official said the accused were already facing trial in six cases.A fresh case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at the Shimlapuri police station. A hunt is on for the arrest of remaining accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murder-bid-on-ludhiana-scribe-two-history-sheeters-held/story-Da26jrEdZwVT5CaK2pYmFL.html
29-08-2020||City||Now, boards to carry each road project’s contractor, in-charge name in Ludhiana||In view of complaints regarding inferior material being used in road construction, municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has ordered that a board depicting specifications of work and details of contractor and officials in charge be installed at every construction site. As many road samples collected in the past have failed the quality test, the superintending engineers (SE) have been directed to inspect the ongoing work and conduct videography of the project from its commencement to completion. “The protocol was not being followed by MC staff. With the help of contact numbers of the contractor and the official in charge, residents can contact them for concerns regarding the projects. The boards will also specify the project’s deadline and other specifications. SEs will personally move in the field and keep a check on the construction work. Regular sampling is also being conducted to maintain a check on the quality of work,” said Sabharwal. Earlier, seven samples collected from Amantran Colony, Guru Vihar, Chander Nagar, Bal Singh Nagar Road, Ashok Nagar, Daba Road and a road near GNE College (towards Dugri) had failed the quality test. Samples collected from a stretch near RK Road, Circular Road, near Daresi Ground, and Baba Mukand Singh Nagar had also given poor results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-boards-to-carry-each-road-project-s-contractor-in-charge-name-in-ludhiana/story-jwPnSUBKJngmRoRMthV7YJ.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Boy sleeps in auto to avoid scolding, frantic family lodges kidnapping case||Worried that he would be scolded for returning home late, an 11-year-old boy spent the night in an auto rickshaw, leading his worried family to lodge a kidnapping complaint. The boy had left home on Friday evening to play with his friends but when he did not return till late evening, the family checked with his friends. On finding that all other children had returned home, the boy’s father, who is a labourer, lodged a police complaint. However, the next morning, the boy walked back home. When asked, he told the cops that he feared that his father would reprimand him for being late so he decided to sleep in the auto rickshaw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/boy-sleeps-in-auto-to-avoid-scolding-frantic-family-lodges-kidnapping-case/story-Vvx8jY817nZZKp6M8sq8rM.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Eight cases of robberies, thefts reported in PCMC on Thursday||Eight cases of robberies and thefts were lodged in Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate on Thursday where unidentified thieves stole cash, two-wheeler and jewellery.In the first case, the Bhosari MIDC police have arrested three persons on charges of robbing Rs 3,120 from a hotel on Thursday.The first information report was lodged by Mahendra Laxman Sarvade (32), a resident of Bhosari.In the second incident, Mayawati Ramrao Bharade ( 28), a resident of Sambhajinagar in Chinchwad has lodged a complaint with the Nigdi police station stated that two persons robbed her of cash and gold ornaments estimated to be worth Rs 40,050 while she was walking on the road towards her residence on Thursday.The police have identified two accused in the case and are on their lookout.In the third incident, Sindhu Hanumant Ghadge ( 60), has lodged a complaint with the Dehu road police stating that two criminals entered her house on Thursday. Both were armed and gained entry without permission and inquired her son. One of them identified as Sagar Shinde who is out on parole from the jail was armed with a chopper and robbed her of cash estimated to be worth Rs 15,000.In the fourth incident, Sunny alias Rachit Rajendra Keswani ( 22), a resident of Yamunanagar has lodged a complaint with the Dehu road police stating that two persons came to his shop and demanded him to pay Rs 10,000 and beat them up when he refused. A case has been registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including extortion.In the fifth case, Mohan Premchand Sharma ( 39), a resident of Wakad has lodged a complaint with the Wakad police that his two-wheeler was stolen from his parking lot on Thursday.In the sixth case, Rajkumar Sukumal Sutar ( 45) has lodged a complaint with the Dehu road police against unidentified thieves who stole two Exide batteries from his shop on Thursday.In the seventh case, Sharada Suresh Jagtap ( 50) has lodged a complaint with Pimpri police against two unidentified motorcycle-borne thieves for snatching her ‘mangalsutra’ estimated to be worth Rs 90,000 while she was on a morning walk.In the eighth case, Chetan Ramesh Kabbur ( 28), a resident of Chimbali had lodged a complaint with Bhosari police station stating that his two-wheeler was stolen from Tukainagar on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/eight-cases-of-robberies-thefts-reported-in-pcmc-on-thursday/story-yrrqdmLa9UEUFeFvTp2jEM.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Now, get prashad from Vaishno Devi via speed post||Devotees across the country will now be able to get ‘prashad’ from the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine through speed post. The board signed an agreement to this effect with the department of posts at the Spiritual Growth Centre in Katra on Saturday. The agreement was signed by Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board CEO Ramesh Kumar and J&K postal service director (headquarters) Gaurav Srivastava. The official spokesperson of the shrine board said, “To facilitate devotees, especially during the pandemic, the board has introduced the facility of delivering prashad.”Three-categories of prashad have been launched, on a no profit no loss basis. A delivery can be booked either through the official website of the shrine board www.maavaishnodevi.org or by calling 99060-19475. In the wake of the pandemic, the board has already offered the facility of allowing devotees to perform prayer rituals in absentia at the Bhawan’s Yagya Shala. The yatra that resumed on August 16 is picking up momentum with each passing day. The supplementary facilities such as helicopters, battery-operated vehicles and passenger ropeways between the Bhawan and Bhairon Ghati have been pressed into service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-get-prashad-from-vaishno-devi-via-speed-post/story-kAdmQtoqu1qMzEjpZE3rVP.html
29-08-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||When it rains, it pours in Chandigarh After complaining that City Beautiful hasn’t seen much rain in July, residents stopped complaining about a deficit monsoon in August. Floodgates of Sukhna Lake had to be opened last weekend after heavy overnight rain. Now residents are heard complaining that there has been too much rain this season. With over 900mm of rainfall this monsoon, the city has crossed the average amount of rain it gets between June and September much before August ends. There’s more rain in the offing in the first two weeks of September! Dirty politics over cleanliness survey rankings The poor performance of Chandigarh in the recent Swachh Survekshan rankings yet again will see municipal corporation officials cornered at the general house meeting on August 31. The civic body will be under attack for submitting data with the Swachh Bharat Mission, claiming 100% waste segregation at source when door-to-door segregation in sectors hasn’t taken off. While ruling BJP councillors will zero in on officials, the Congress is expected to target the mayor and his party for the poor performance. Mohali MC’s enforcement team in relax mode The Covid-19 pandemic has given a good excuse to the enforcement team of the municipal corporation of Mohali to stay put in office. For the past few months, 12 officials of the enforcement team are relaxing in office. They have neither carried out any drive nor challaned any rehri or phariwallà. No wonder they are making their presence felt on roads across the town, obstructing traffic. The worst-affected areas are Phases 9, 10, 11, 3B1, 3B2 and Sector 68. SDMs not taking calls, complain UT councillors The Chandigarh administration asked the city’s councillors to share inputs on measures that could be taken to control the Covid-19 pandemic, but UT officials have not been as forthcoming. One of the councillors shared how sub divisional magistrates (SDMs) don’t even take their calls. “Residents turn to their councillors whenever they face an issue and it is our duty to help them. But it is unfortunate when the administration’s officials don’t even take our calls,” the councillor said, requesting anonymity. PGI comes out with flying colours on holding exams Politicians may be divided on holding medical and engineering entrance exams such as NEET and IIT-JEE but Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has successfully conducted entrance exams for nearly 24,000 candidates amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Dean, academics, GD Puri says: “It required extraordinary effort to complete the examination process. Due to the Covid-19 parameters, the number of centres was increased which involved higher expenses. Since air travel not available, staff from PGI could not be deputed to distant centres such as Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram and Mumbai. These centres were manned with the staff working at sister institutions in different cities.” Switch off lights to dodge the deadline With the Chandigarh administration strictly implementing night curfew to contain the spread of coronavirus, eatery owners have devised a novel way to dodge the timings. As the siren is sounded, declaring the time to shut shop, eatery owners in many areas switch off the lights but continue to prepare orders even till 10pm. According to the directive, eateries are allowed to operate till 9pm but switching off lights allows them an additional hour. Parking at a premium at civil hospital in Panchkula Parking a car at the Civil Hospital in Panchkula costs Rs 20, which is double the rate for parking a vehicle at most commercial places in the tricity. For instance, the car parking charge is Rs 10 in Sector 17, Chandigarh. The high rate of parking at a public institution, that too a hospital, seems unjust to many. However, who has the time to argue with the man issuing parking slips as all are in a rush to enter the hospital, either for their own check-up or for their loved ones. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-zCW6N1PbmmSMMv2gBRvhuM.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||BSF detects trans-border tunnel in J&K’s Samba sector||The Border Security Force (BSF) has detected a trans-border tunnel originating in Pakistan and entering India through Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba sector, said a senior police officer on Saturday. “A trans-border tunnel has been detected on the international border in Samba district. The tunnel extends 50 metres into the Indian territory. The BSF is investigating the matter. The spot will be dug up to ascertain the tunnel’s origin and direction but it appeared to be another attempt by Pakistan to push terrorists into India along the lines of Hamas fighters (Palestinian Sunni-Islamic fundamentalist militant organisation),” said the officer. Around 10 plastic sandbags that have ‘Karachi and Shakargarh’ written on them have been recovered from the opening of the tunnel. The bags have a manufacturing and expiry date printed on them.“On Friday, BSF troops detected an approximately 20-feet long and three-to-four-feet wide tunnel in the Indian territory near the International Border in the Basantar area. Pakistan-made sand bags with Shakargarh, Karachi, inscribed on them were used to hide the mouth of the tunnel . The tunnel’s opening is around 170m from the international border. It opens into a local farmers’ field,” the BSF posted on its Twitter handle.  The nearest Pakistani border post is about 400 meters from the tunnel. The BSF has launched a major search operation to trace if more such tunnels were being attempted by Pakistan. “Digging tunnels in a bid to push terrorists into J&K is an old tactic of Pakistan. It seems Pakistan has started imitating Hamas fighters, who dig underground tunnels to enter Israel,” said an officer in the counter-insurgency wing of the state police, who did not wish to be named. In September last year, the BSF had launched a massive operation along the International Border (IB) with Pakistan to detect underground cross-border tunnels The BSF also uses ground penetrating radars to detect tunnels. In the past, Infiltrators have attempted digging underground tunnels in Hiranagar, Samba, RS Pura, Pallanwala and Munawar Tawi .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bsf-detects-trans-border-tunnel-in-j-k-s-samba-sector/story-Gd3A0ZBFasWdNr3EcmBvaM.html
29-08-2020||Pune||1,781 fresh Covid cases, 40 deaths on Friday in Pune||The state health department, on Friday, reported 1,795 new Covid-19 positive cases in Pune, and 22 deaths related to the infection caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus. As per the state’s data, the progressive positive count for Pune is now 96,692, with the death toll at 2,475. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its report released on Friday, reported 1,781 Covid-19 positives in the city, which takes the progressive positive count to 90,871 as per the PMC data. The PMC also reported 40 Covid-19-related deaths on Friday, putting the death toll, as per the PMC’s figures, at 2,168 in the city. Currently there are 15,158 active cases in the city, of which 827 are in critical condition. This includes 498 on ventilators and 329 in ICUs. Also, 2,414 patients are undergoing oxygen treatment. The civic body has, till date, taken 4.32 lakh swab samples, including the 6,449 samples collected on Friday. Also, 1,578 people were discharged on Friday which puts the count of total discharged at 73,527. Pune district reported 3,611 new cases on Friday, taking the progressive positive count for the district to 1,60,455. Sixty-four deaths were reported in 24 hours in the district putting the death toll at 3,937. Also, district-wise, 2,193 were discharged on Friday, taking the of total number of discharged patients to 1,23,595. The district has tested 6.69 lakh samples till date. Deaths reported from the city on Friday include six from Sassoon General Hospital and six from the Pulse hospital; five from the Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, four from Sahyadri hospital; three from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and three from the Kashibai Navale hospital; two each from Inlaks and Budhrani, Noble hospital, Command hospital and Naidu hospital; and one each from Villoo Poonawala hospital, Parmar hospital, Ratna hospital and YCM hospital. Also, 14 deaths were reported of people living outside PMC limits, but being treated in city hospitals. This includes two from the Cantonment areas and 12 from rural Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-781-fresh-covid-cases-40-deaths-on-friday-in-pune/story-23mV1QsGNAyD1SyV4nb6lM.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar demands ₹1,000 fine for not wearing masks||Pune Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has urged the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to increase the fine for not wearing masks. “Many people are still not wearing masks, which is a wrong practice. We will now increase the fine to Rs 1,000. I will have a meeting today in the afternoon and we will decide,” said Pawar who was in the city to inaugurate Covid care centres at Auto Cluster, Chinchwad (216 beds) and in Baner (314 beds). Pawar was unhappy over people not following the Covid norms of mandatory masks at public places. Currently, the PMC and PCMC have levied Rs 500 fine from people not wearing masks. “If people continue to not wear masks then cases will keep on increasing. All doctors, police, and politicians are trying their best to control the virus and currently what we need is support from people. All should wear a mask and maintain social distance, only then can we defeat the virus,” added Pawar. Earlier, the PCMC levied a Rs 200 fine, but later on, increased it to Rs 500. “A decision will be taken soon. As people are not following rules we need to take harsh decisions. If the public does not take it seriously then we all have to bear the consequences,” said Anna Bodade, assistant municipal commissioner, PCMC. In most areas of PCMC, people were seen not following norms especially vendors who are selling vegetables and fruits. “I have noticed, along with vendors, that even buyers are not wearing masks. This is completely wrong, one should avoid wrong practices for a safe future,” added Bodade. Casual approach An HT reporter observed on Friday that social distancing rules were completely flouted at tea stalls and snack shops. “Earlier people used to follow rules strictly, now they don’t stand in a queue while maintaining social distance even after telling them many times,” said Mai Wadewale, a shop owner at Dange chowk. “People have even continued spitting on roads. PCMC should take strict action for not wearing masks, and not maintaining social distance and spitting in public,” said Pratham Godbole, a customer at Mai Wadewale’s shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ajit-pawar-demands-1-000-fine-for-not-wearing-masks/story-GNP4qQYZSTTPlikVl2oeIL.html
29-08-2020||Patna||Two Jharkhand men die inside locked, air-contintioned SUVs within three days||A software engineer in his late thirties was found dead in his locked SUV—with the AC switched on—in Birsanagar, Jamshedpur, around 11 pm Friday, the police said.This is the second such incident in Jharkhand. The Chaibasa Muffasil police had recovered the body of a driver in another SUV—with the doors locked and the AC on—in west Singhbhum district on August 26.“Around 10.30 pm on Friday, some locals informed us about a stationary vehicle with its doors closed, engine and AC on. I immediately sent a patrol team to the spot which found an unconscious man inside the locked vehicle. We first took him to MGM Medical College and Hospital and then to Tata Main Hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival,” Rajesh Kumar Jha, Birsanagar PS officer-in-charge (OC), said Saturday morning.He said they recovered an inhaler from the vehicle and the preliminary investigation indicated that the deceased man Dipak Sinha was an asthma patient. “He appeared to have suffocated to death. Locals said the vehicle was parked around 4.30-5pm Friday and they spotted it at the same place at night, with its doors closed and the engine and AC on. The Covid-19 test autopsy reports of the deceased man will make the matter clearer,” added Jha.Experts said a faulty AC vent could have led to the release of carbon monoxide in the SUV. For a man to die within an hour, the concentration of carbon monoxide would have to be at least 3,200 ppm (parts per million).In another such incident just three days ago, the Chaibasa Muffasil police had recovered body of a driver Shyam Sirka from a parked SUV on Chaibasa-Chakradharpur road on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/two-jharkhand-men-die-inside-locked-air-contintioned-suvs-within-three-days/story-fCSlpiaZXD15jEEjgjBOPO.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Subedar Manish Kaushik of Pune’s Army Sports Institute punches his way to Arjuna award||PUNE When one visits the Army Sports Institute building, what catches the eyes first is the line written in big and bold ‘the aim is to win an Olympic medal’ – these lines motivate every athlete who is trained at the institute.“I came to the Institute in 2016 and since then it is my second home. I prefer to stay here more than my home as my training is not sacrificed here. Winning a prestigious award is a proud moment for me and my family,” said Subedar Manish Kaushik, boxer, who won the Arjuna Award in the recently announced National Sports Awards 2020.The joy doubled for the Institute as they have also been conferred with the Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puraskar 2020. It is the first time Army Sports Institute has received this award.The 24-year-old Kaushik who boxes in the 63kg category has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics. Some of his recent major performances are bronze medal in World Championship 2019, silver medal in India Open International Tournament 2019, silver in Commonwealth Games 2018, gold in Asian Game Test Event 2018 and qualification for Tokyo Olympics.Kaushik is from Devsar village, Bhiwani, Haryana. His father Somdutt Sharma is a farmer and his mother is a homemaker. He followed the footsteps of his village boxer Jitender Kumar who participated in Olympics 2008.Since raising the Army Sports Institute in July 2001 it has enabled the participation of 20 sportspersons in the Olympics. Twelve have already qualified for the Tokyo 2021 Olympics. The institute has won six (6) Youth Olympic medals, nineteen (19) medals in Asian Games and eighteen medals (18) in Commonwealth Games.“Those who come here are very clear in their mind to win medals for their country,” added Kaushik.The National Sports Awards will be conferred on August 29 which is also the birth anniversary of hockey magician Major Dhyan Chand. The awards will be conferred in a virtual ceremony, in the wake of the Coronavirus outbreak.Lakshya bags Rashtriya Khel Protsahan PuraskarCity-based ‘athlete-first’ organisation Lakshya has been honoured with the prestigious Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puraskar at the 2020 National Sports Awards.A not-for-profit organisation, Lakshya, which was started over a coffee meeting in the city by a bunch of sports fanatics in 2010 to provide much-needed support for Indian athletes to win medals for the country at big international events, has so far extended holistic support to more than 100 sportspersons across eight disciplines, including the Olympians such as Rahi Sarnobat, Sharath Kamal, Manika Batra and Ashwini Ponappa.Two sportsmen from Bombay Sappers bag awardsTwo sportspersons from Bombay Sappers have also been named in the National Sports Awards 2020.Naib Subedar Dattu Baban Bhokanal has been honoured with the Arjuna Award for outstanding achievements in Rowing and Naib Subedar Lakha Singh (retired) has been conferred with Dhyanchand Award for lifetime achievements in boxing.Bombay Sappers is a regiment of the Corps of Engineers of the Indian Army located at Khadki in the city.In the Rio Olympics, Bhokanal secured 13th spot. He won a gold medal in Quadruple Sculls at Asian Games Jakarta- Palembang 2018. Bhokanal is presently in the Army Rowing Node to participate in the qualification trials for the Tokyo Olympics scheduled next year.Naib Subedar Lakha Singh who won the bronze medal in 1994 Hiroshima Asian Games has also represented the country in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. Currently, he is retired and is staying in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-sports-institute-s-subedar-manish-kaushik-punches-his-way-to-arjuna-award/story-6xEWlAa9nvUga1fAVBH25L.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Nirmalaya collection drive moves from ghats to doorsteps in Pune||The seventh day of 10-day Ganpati festival on Friday saw a lot of immersions on a rainy day. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) volunteers and waste pickers at several spots across the city collected nirmalaya (flowers, puja accompaniments and garlands) from devotees who immersed idols at the mobile tanks arranged by the civic administration. In the light of Covid situation and public appeal for performing immersions at homes and tanks, PMC has not placed collection pots near riversides. The civic authority made arrangements for home collection of nirmalaya by volunteers and waste pickers. “Last year, we had collected 900 metric tonnes of nirmalaya during the festival. Till the sixth day of festival this year, we have collected 18,635 kg of nirmalaya across 191 collection centres in the city,” said Dynaneshwar Molak, head, solid waste management (SWM) department, PMC. PMC has tied up with SWaCH and Cummins India to collect nirmalaya from doorsteps. SWaCH waste pickers will handle it and send for organic composting separately. The collection drive will be continued till September 2. “We have appealed to over 30 lakh devotees to handover nirmalaya separately as it will help in organic waste processing,” said Saru Waghmare, SWaCH waste picker and board member. Every year, waste pickers of SWaCH in partnership with PMC, Cummins India, Emcure and Sudarshan Chemicals divert more than 100 tonnes of nirmalaya from rivers towards composting. In keeping with the safety guidelines, Suchismita Pai, SWaCH representative said, “Over the years, we have been interacting with residents and have brought about a behavioural change whereby devotees handover nirmalaya to our waste pickers at the ghats, which is then composted and distributed to local farmers. This year, with support from PMC and Cummins India, we have distributed 11,000 special bags to our network of 3,500 waste pickers just for nirmalaya collection and we request citizens to hand over nirmalaya offerings to their doorstep SWaCH waste picker. The material will be transported in separate PMC vehicles and sent for organic composting.” Shobha Bansode, a waste picker who has been at the ghats every year during immersion, says, “We have adapted to working with PPE kits over the past four months and have been at work every day. This is yet another change that we must adapt to. We draw comfort from the fact that we are still facilitating the work of the Ganesh festival. We do it out of a sense of devotion and duty.” Some of the residents took to recycling puja offerings within their homes like Devendra Mali, resident of Ravet. “This year has been different and we immersed the idol in the bucket and used nirmalaya to create compost for our plants.” Another devotee Vrishasen Dabholkar used no flowers or any other decorations except for cotton necklace and beads which can be recycled on Ganpati made of mud. “We immersed the mud idol in a bucket and used the soil to plant new seeds in a plantation box. This year, we did not spend on buying or bringing flowers and garlands. Instead used glass beads and paper garlands as accessories for the lord,” said Dabholkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nirmalaya-collection-drive-moves-from-ghats-to-doorsteps-in-pune/story-CDN7PCgonDhLnOtyiC4GvN.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala tests positive for Covid-19||Haryana power and jails minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, 74, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The minister took to Twitter to announce his health status and said: “On the doctor’s advice, I will remain in home quarantine. I urge all those who met me recently to undergo the Covid test. My health is fine.” Chautala had taken part in the one-day monsoon session of the Haryana assembly on Wednesday and met ministers and legislators. While the administration and police have been imposing fines on the common man roaming outside their houses without a face mask, politicians have not been adhering to safety guidelines and even campaigning in these Covid times. Besides Ranjit Chautala, state agriculture minister JP Dalal and Karnal BJP MP Sanjay Bhatia addressed gatherings in villages of poll-bound Baroda assembly constituency, defying social distancing norms before testing positive for coronavirus infection. Wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt of the BJP, Independent Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan and Ellenabad INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala have also been campaigning in Baroda constituency by organising gatherings and not adhering to safety guidelines. Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda and Haryana BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar have also interacted with villagers in Baroda assembly, ignoring safety guidelines. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and his jailed father Ajay Singh Chautala were also seen interacting with people without masks. Dushyant did not wear a mask even while speaking in the assembly on August 26. The health department is yet to collect door-to-door samples in villages of Baroda. The assembly seat in Sonepat district fell vacant in April following the death of Congress legislator Sri Krishan Hooda. No date has been announced for the byelection yet but politicians are in campaign mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-power-minister-ranjit-singh-chautala-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-zwXHrscH7OFcveR1Si5jyN.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||In big haul, DRI recovers gold bars worth Rs 43 crore in Delhi; 8 held||The Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) seized a consignment of 504 smuggled gold bars of foreign origin worth Rs 43 crore and arrested eight persons from New Delhi railway station on Friday. DRI officials, who didn’t wish to be named, described it as the largest consignment of gold the agency ever seized. The eight persons had arrived at New Delhi by the Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani Express on Friday. Officers said they had concealed the gold bars in specially tailored cloth vests and were using fake identity cards (Aadhaar cards) to travel to Delhi. Intelligence inputs indicate that the gold bars had foreign markings and had been smuggled into India from Myanmar through the international land border at Moreh in Manipur. A smuggling syndicate in Guwahati was attempting to dispose of the contraband in several cities—Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai—which have thriving markets for the yellow metal, said one of the officers cited above. “The smuggling syndicate sourced and recruited needy individuals from various parts of the country, to act as carriers of the smuggled gold, by luring them with the prospect of quick and easy money. The smugglers used air, land and rail routes to locally transport the smuggled gold,” he added. The seized gold bars are 99.9% pure and collectively weigh 83.621 kg. Their market value is close to Rs 43 crore, said another officer. The eight arrested persons are currently being questioned about the organised gang which sent them to Delhi. The DRI suspects that the gang has links to other countries as Myanmar does not produce gold at a large scale, said the officer. The arrested persons have been booked under the Customs Act, 1962, and have been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-largest-seizure-ever-dri-recovers-gold-bars-worth-rs-43-crore-in-delhi-arrests-eight-persons/story-cOQNJfX46FYKWT8FX4Fx0I.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC judge disagrees with CAA comments in judgment quashing FIR against Tablighi Jamaat members||A Bombay high court judge, who was a part of a two-member division bench that quashed cases registered against 28 foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat and six trustees of local mosques in a strongly worded order, has said he disagrees with certain remarks in the August 21 judgment.The order said the foreigners were virtually persecuted and also added that a “political government tries to find scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity”. The bench of Justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar cited the material related to the case and added it shows “that the propaganda against the so-called religious activity [of the members of the Jamaat] was unwarranted”.Justice Sewlikar passed a separate order on Thursday, saying he especially disagreed with a paragraph regarding protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).In the August 21 order, the bench observed the action against the Jamaat members created fear among those Muslims, who protested against CAA and NRC. “This action (against Tablighi members) indirectly gave warning to Indian Muslims that action in any form and for anything can be taken against Muslims. It was indicated that even for keeping contact with Muslims of other countries action will be taken against them. Thus, there is the smell of malice to the action taken against these foreigners and Muslims for their alleged activities,” the division bench said.Justice Sewlikar said he finds it difficult to concur with these observations as allegations in this respect were not made in the petitions of the Jamaat members nor is there is any evidence in this regard. “Therefore, in my opinion, these observations are outside the scope of the petitions,” he said. Justice Sewlikar maintained the cases against the foreigners and their hosts in Ahmednagar were liable to be quashed for the want of evidentary material.The division bench struck down criminal proceedings against the 28 foreigners and six locals, observing that they were “virtually persecuted.” It cited the latest figures of Covid-19 infection and said they show the action against the foreigners should not have been taken.The Jamaat hit the headlines in March when authorities blamed a congregation at its headquarters in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area for a jump in Covid-19 infections. The headquarters was sealed and hundreds of attendees, including foreigners from countries like Indonesia, Malaysia, and the US, were quarantined. Police initially filed a case against Jamaat chief Maulana Saad for violating a ban on big gatherings. He was later booked for culpable homicide, which carries a maximum punishment of 10-year imprisonment.The Jamaat, which has followers in over 80 countries, maintained many visitors at its headquarters were stranded after the government declared a lockdown to check the pandemic spread. The Centre blacklisted around 1,500 foreign Tablighi members for violating their visa norms and multiple cases were registered against them across the country, including in Maharashtra.The high court said foreigners having valid visas to enter India cannot be prevented from visiting mosques if they go there to observe religious practices.All the foreigners, who petitioned the high court, had participated in the Nizamuddin congregation and thereafter gave religious lectures at mosques in Ahmednagar district allegedly in violation of lockdown norms in the last week of March. Initially, cases were registered against the trustees of mosques where the foreigners had stayed.All the 34 accused, including the foreigners, moved the high court seeking quashing of the criminal cases registered against them. The foreigners contended they came to India on valid visas and argued they were here mainly to experience the Indian culture. They said on their arrival at airports, they were screened for Covid-19.The foreigners argued they were struck in Ahmednagar after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown because of the suspension of the transportation services. They said that is why they stayed at mosques.Ahmednagar police maintained the Jamaat members were found preaching and so cases were registered against them. They added the foreigners were arrested after institutional quarantine and subsequently five of them were found to be infected. The police insisted there was sufficient material to indicate the accused had breached lockdown norms and visa conditions.The court cited guidelines and added foreigners visiting India on tourist visas are prevented from engaging in preaching activity. But it noted under the recently updated visa manual, there is no restriction on foreigners for visiting religious places and attending normal religious activities like attending discourses although tourist visas limit the purposes of a visit to recreation and site seeing.“Social and religious tolerance is a practical necessity for unity and integrity in India and that is also made compulsory by our Constitution. By hard work over the past years after independence, we have reconciled religion and modernity to a great extent. This approach helps participation of most in a developing process. We have been respecting both religious and secular sensibilities since independence and by this approach, we have kept India as united,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-judge-disagrees-with-caa-comments-in-judgment-quashing-fir-against-tablighi-jamaat-members/story-MwtvmiZPFook18CboiqDFM.html
29-08-2020||City||Football match dispute triggers caste violence in western Odisha||A dispute over a football match triggered caste violence in western Odisha’s Subarnapur district and left three people critically injured after members of a local Other Backward Class (OBC) community allegedly attacked a group of Dalit villagers. The clashes first began with disagreement over the football match on August 23 between the Dalit and OBC village teams and led to a social boycott of Dalits and violence four days later, alleged Sanjib Suna, a resident of Kharjura village where the incident took place. “After the dispute, whenever we would go to buy food, they would call us untouchable and ask us to not come to the village market. This happened because we protested that they changed the format of the tournament from round-robin to knockout when the Dalit team lost one match,” said Suna. On August 27, the simmering tension snowballed into violence and several members of the Dalit community were allegedly injured. “I had gone to buy some oil when I was attacked with sticks, rods and stones. I suffered a fracture in my hand and my head,” said Prasadi, a local villager. The police confirmed the clashes and said an FIR was registered. “The investigation is on and we are talking to all parties,” said Lokeshwar Sahoo, the inspector in-charge of Sonpur police station. Members of the OBC community rejected the charges and said they will file a police complaint. The village chief, Dilip Seth, said he organised a meeting of the two communities and hoped that peace would return to the area soon. “I have spoken to all leaders and hope to end the dispute soon,” he added. Asked how a football tournament was organised at a time coronavirus-induced restrictions are in place across the state, he said the sport was held as part of a local festival and it would be investigated. Experts said the caste divisions in western Odisha were old and deep. “There have been several cases of caste atrocities in the region and we can see assertion by Dalits has led to more violence,” said Jadumani Mahanand, a lecturer at OP Jindal Global University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/football-match-dispute-triggers-caste-violence-in-western-odisha/story-ToE7vfokcFAoyfn6liBaUL.html
29-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand minor girl beheaded, dumped in forest drain, rape suspected||A beheaded body of a 15-year-old girl, recovered from a drain in a forest area in Jharkhand, has stoked suspicion of it being a case of murder after rape, said police. The body has been sent for post-mortem for confirmation of the suspicion.The body was spotted by local villagers on Friday from Kanki Nala in Manikir forest on Kharsawan-Kuchai road under Dalbhanga police out post (OP) in Seraikela-Kharsawan district, police said on Saturday.“We suspect the girl was raped before murder and beheaded later to hide her identity. We have sent the body to Seraikela Sadar Hospital for post-mortem and anything conclusively can be said only after we get the report,” Om Prakash Rajak, Dalbhanga OP in-charge, said Saturday morning.Also Read: Jharkhand allows public transport, reopens hotels, lodges in view of JEE, NEET examsRajak said they were searching the jungles even today for the head of the victim but could not trace it so far, making it difficult to establish her identity.“We have interrogated local villagers but they could not identify the dead body. It’s only after we are able to establish the identity of the victim girl that we may be able to trace her address and family members and can unearth the motive behind the gruesome murder,” said Rajak.Also Read: Hotel owner, manager booked for allegedly offering room to Lalu Prasad Yadav’s son Tej PratapAs per the available information, the beheaded minor was spotted by local villagers when they had gone into the Manikir jungles to cut woods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-minor-girl-beheaded-dumped-in-forest-drain-rape-suspected/story-9ZJZgUQpL4DLBiyfvlIJlI.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||Water level of Delhi’s Yamuna river recorded at 204.26 m||The water level of Yamuna River recorded at Delhi’s Old Yamuna Bridge was 204.26 metres on Saturday, District Disaster Management Authority informed. “At 08:00 am today, the water level of Yamuna River recorded at Delhi’s Old Yamuna Bridge was 204.26 metres,” said an official. The water level of the river had risen reportedly due to heavy rainfall in the region for the past several days. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted light intensity rain over and adjoining areas of Aligarh, Hathras, and Agra during the next 2 hours. “IMD DELHI; 29.08.2020: 1255 IST: Light intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Aligarh, Hathras, Agra during next 2 hours,” it said in a tweet. Rain/Thundershowers were observed at most places of Delhi on Friday, said the India Meteorological Department in the ‘All India weather summary and forecast’ bulletin today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/water-level-of-delhi-s-yamuna-river-recorded-at-204-26-m/story-V3uZl8k1KS5iU88qvbvlPL.html
29-08-2020||Lucknow||Introducing fleather: Kanpur startup turns floral waste to vegan leather||Floral waste has found new purpose, courtesy Phool.co, an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur-backed biomaterial startup which has developed ‘fleather’—bio-degradable vegan leather made from discarded temple flowers.“Fleather is a viable alternative to animal leather,” claimed Ankit Agarwal, the co-founder of Phool.co, who was among the 17 young leaders from across the globe selected by the United Nations for its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) initiative in 2018. In India, leather is used in several industries, from fashion apparels to saddlery. India produces 12.9% of the world’s hides, which is greater that 3 billion sq foot per year. “We convert floral waste into charcoal-free incense products. But last year, we decided to explore the development of animal-free leather. Intrigued by the formation of a leather-like white layer on unused piles of flowers, our R&D team discovered the growth of a micro-organism which used flower petals as a nutritional source,” he said. “Leather contains collagen which provides it strength and durability, whereas fleather has chitin, a kind of protein, that gives it the same properties. Collagen and chitin are natural analogues, making fleather a perfect substitute for leather,” he said. Professor Amitabha Bandyopadhyay of the biological sciences and bioengineering department in IIT Kanpur said, “Fleather will be a game changer. The fashion industry will surely use this vegan leather. I am happy that such a technology was developed at Startup Incubation and Innovation Centre, IIT Kanpur. Fleather was recently awarded by PETA.” Professor Abhay Karandikar, the director of IIT Kanpur said, “For a young entrepreneur, this is remarkable commitment towards nation-building.” IIT Kanpur has been Phool.co’s backbone for technical research. The R&D team comprises Sandeep Kumar, MTech (biotechnology) from IIT Kanpur and Saumya Srivastava, MTech (biotechnology) from IIT-Guwahati. The team is led by Nachiket Kuntla, BTech (chemical engineering) from IIT Bombay and MTech (chemical engineering) from IIT Kanpur. Talking about the research, Ankit said, “We identified the biological species and grew strains of similar species in the lab and isolated the best species in terms of strength and growth rate for further research. We developed a technique to extract the maximum nutritional content from the flowers and introduced certain additives to make a final medium that would trigger the growth of the micro-organism as well as enhance the properties of the fleather sheet.” “We adapted the micro-organism to increase the thickness and strength of the fleather and better its texture. The tensile strength, elasticity and sheer resistance of fleather is matching or is rather superior to that of traditional leather,” he said. Phool.co was founded by Ankit Agarwal and Prateek Kumar in July 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/introducing-fleather-kanpur-startup-turns-floral-waste-to-vegan-leather/story-z2gufpKO3KCy0kGnH3PRdM.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for repeatedly sexually assaulting sister-in-law||A 34-year-old man from Mumbai’s Govandi has been arrested for sexually assaulting his 21-year-old sister-in-law. City’s Shivaji Nagar police arrested him on Friday from Baiganwadi locality.The survivor told police in her statement that she and her brother-in-law were alone at home last year in the month of June, when he took advantage of the situation and sexually assaulted her.According to the police, the woman’s ordeal did not stop at that. He again molested her and used to threaten to drive her out of the house by asking his brother to divorce her if she ever revealed the episodes to anyone.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: CBI questions Rhea, brother; ED issues summons to Goa hotelierPolice said that while the victim didn’t reveal her ordeal out of fear, her suffering continued unabated, giving her the courage to report the accused.Following her complaint, on August 27, police registered a first information report (FIR) under section 376 (Punishment for rape), 354 (Assault or use of criminal force against woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code against the woman’s brother-in-law and arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-repeatedly-sexually-assaulting-sister-in-law/story-9xVBEIaVci83UQOoutUujJ.html
29-08-2020||Kolkata||Two Kolkata brothers murder third in 2014; surrender six years later||Two younger brothers, who allegedly murdered their elder brother six years ago, surrendered to the police and confessed to their crime out of repentance in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas on Friday.The two, Apu Sil and Tapu Sil, in their late 20s and early 30s, allegedly admitted to killing their elder brother, Nipu Sil, in December 2014. “We have arrested two persons who claimed that they have murdered their brother six years ago. One of the brothers told the police that he was feeling repentant and that is why they surrendered and confessed [to the crime]. A skeleton has been exhumed from the backyard of their house. Further investigation is on,” said a police officer.According to the preliminary police investigation, the three brothers lived in their ancestral house at Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas. Nipu, the eldest of them, was a civil engineer, the other two were unemployed.“Even though Nipu was the sole earning member in the family, the trio used to fight regularly over the ancestral property. One day we saw they had left the house. Apu had come once to clean the house and told the neighbours that they had all settled in Delhi, Pune and Goa,” said Manik Deb, a local resident.On Friday, Apu told police that he and Tapu killed Nipu in December 2014 and buried him in the backyard of their house.Neighbours said that initially, police thought that Apu was mentally deranged and why else would he confess to a crime he had committed six years ago. But when police inquired with the neighbours, they came to know that the neighbours have not seen Nipu for many years. It was then that police took Apu to the spot and exhumed the body.“We will get to know more after we take the brothers into our custody and interrogate them. They would be produced in the court today [Saturday],” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/two-kolkata-brothers-murder-third-in-2014-surrender-six-years-later/story-4uXc76wtvOGe5lTzJgUItL.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||Man tied to tree, beaten to death in Delhi over mobile phone theft||Four persons were arrested for allegedly beating a 32-year-old man to death on charges that he stole a mobile phone in west Delhi’s Naraina on Friday, the police said.The police control room received a call about the incident at a municipal park in Loha Mandi on Friday morning, deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said. He added that a team from the Naraina police station reached there and found a man lying under a tree with injuries. Shesh Kumar, an eyewitness and a washerman, told police that he saw his four neighbours assaulting the man and taking him to the park early morning, Purohit said. Kumar told officials that the four men tied the victim to a tree and beat him up with sticks and iron rods, according to Purohit.“Kumar tried to intervene and requested them to release the injured person. But they did not pay heed to his request and said the man and his associates had stolen a mobile phone from a truck. Since his associates ran away with the mobile phone, they said they would not spare him,” Purohit said, quoting Kumar’s statement.The four men --- identified as Mushtaq Ahmed, his brother Shiraj Ahmed, Anish and Ishtihar (all residents of Loha Mandi) --- fled the crime scene after the condition of the victim deteriorated.The victim was later identified as Rahul, alias Dhancha, a 32-year-old resident of Jawahar Camp in Kirti Nagar.The police took him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead. The suspects were soon arrested. They said Rahul and his associates had stolen Shiraj’s cellphone from his truck. While they caught hold of Rahul, his associates escaped with the stolen phone. “We are verifying the allegations of the arrested men,” said an official associated with the probe, requesting anonymity..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-tied-to-tree-beaten-to-death-in-delhi-over-mobile-phone-theft/story-2llNnce05GKAE1aS6yR8rL.html
29-08-2020||Kolkata||Flight services from Covid-19 hotspot states to Kolkata will resume in Unlock 4.0||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has announced a series of relaxations by allowing to resume flights operations from six Covid hotspot states, but extended the closure of educational institutes till September 20.Announcing complete Lockdown across West Bengal on September 7, 11 and 12, Banerjee said Metro Railway can resume services by observing social distancing and other precautionary norms.“We have received several requests to resume flight operations from six Covid hotspot states. So from September 1, flight services from these six states can resume thrice a week,” she said after a Cabinet meeting.To combat the spread of coronavirus, the state government had imposed a ban till August 31 on passenger flights to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad.“Schools, colleges and other educational institutes would remain closed in the state till September 20. The other existing restrictions would be in place. There would be complete Lockdown in the state on September 7, 11 and 12,” she said.Banerjee also demanded that the Centre distribute money from PM CARES fund to states to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. P||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/flight-services-from-hotspot-states-to-kolkata-will-resume-in-unlock-4-0/story-DQqe5tANbcmsChuFFT7rKL.html
29-08-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reaches highest Covid-19 infection rate at 5.34 %||The Covid 19 infection rate in Uttarakhand has increased to 5.34 %, the highest since March 16, a day after the first Covid 19 case was detected in the state on March 15. The infection rate has risen, especially in the last one month, with a steady increase in positive cases. On August 12, nearly a fortnight ago, the infection rate in the state was 5.0 % while nearly a month ago, on July 27, it was 4.62 %. The plain districts of Nainital, US Nagar, Haridwar and Dehradun have reported the highest infection rate in the state in the range of 6 % to 8.7 %, with Nainital’s infection rate being the highest, at over 8.7 %.Haridwar district, however, has reported the maximum 4,293 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Dehradun (3,637), US Nagar (3,382) and Nainital (2,513). Uttarakhand government has conducted over 3.61 lakh tests till now and has a tally of 17,865 positive cases including 239 fatalities. 12,124 patients have recovered from the disease, taking the recovery rate to 67.86 %. In comparison, the neighbouring Himachal Pradesh has reported just 5,501 cases and 33 deaths due to Covid 19. Anoop Nautiyal, whose Social Development for Communities Foundation, has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the state said that hills are performing better in terms of the infection rate compared to the areas in the plains. Also Read: Uttarakhand BJP president tests Covid-19 positive days after hosting party event “5.34 % is the highest infection rate in the state so far if you leave the day one on March 15, when the first case was detected. After that it is the highest. With infection rate increasing steadily during the last one month, we should expect 30,000 to 35,000 cases by next month and nearly 9,000 to 10,000 active cases. Given this scenario, people and authorities in the state have to be very cautious and pull up their socks for better management of active cases”, he said. Watch: Heavy rain damages houses in Uttarakhand, Badrinath National Highway shutAbhishek Tripathi, chief operations officer for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, said that the infection rate can only be controlled by increasing the sample size for testing, which is a continuous process.“Daily testing has been increased to 10,000 samples a day, which will further be increased. All possible facilities are being given to the Covid-19 positive patients in the state and efforts are being made at many levels to bring down the overall infection rate,” said Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-reaches-highest-covid-19-infection-rate-at-5-34/story-tXEnT1wNku3eqdAUA2c5nN.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Post-matric scholarship scam: Punjab Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa seeks minister Dharamsot’s resignation||Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa has demanded an inquiry by a high court judge into the post-matric scholarship scam and the resignation of social justice and empowerment minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot.Bajwa said on Friday that the disbursal of funds under the post-matric SC scholarship scheme must be investigated in a time-bound manner by a judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court. “Dharamsot should resign for the duration of the investigation into the functioning of his ministry. Anything less would be a miscarriage of justice,” he said in a statement. Dharamsot’s role in the disbursal of funds totalling Rs 248 crore has been questioned in a report submitted by additional chief secretary Kirpa Shankar Saroj to the chief secretary.The Congress MP said he will write to Congress president Sonia Gandhi apprising her of the sensitivity of this matter and requesting her to take suitable action. He said it was worrying that money meant to be spent for ensuring better access to education for Scheduled Caste students was being misused by the department. The scheme was launched in November 2006 by the UPA-1 government at the Centre as a signature policy of the Congress and seeing it ruined through embezzlement and fraud by the party’s government was unacceptable, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/post-matric-scholarship-scam-punjab-congress-mp-partap-singh-bajwa-seeks-minister-dharamsot-s-resignation/story-xxU3SFKWYduzavtwEKFe8I.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 3,000 mm mark with heavy rains, there’s more coming||Mumbai city and its suburbs witnessed heavy rain between Friday and Saturday with light to moderate showers continuing on Saturday morning.Between 8.30 am Friday and 8.30 am Saturday, the Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 108 mm rain while the Santacruz observatory, representative of the suburbs, recorded 85.4 mm rain.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) classifies 15.6-64.4mm rain as moderate and 64.5-115.5mm rain as heavy. The weather bureau has issued a yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) for Saturday.“Due to the well-marked low pressure system over Madhya Pradesh and the lower-level wind convergence over the northwest region, north Konkan, including Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad is very likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places till Sunday morning. Thereafter the intensity is likely to reduce,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Also Read: Moderate rain in Mumbai, yellow alert issued for SaturdayLocation wise rain figures over the past 24 hours (8.30 am Friday to 8.30 am Saturday) showed 156 mm rain in Chembur, 129 mm rain in Bandra, 142 mm rain in Navi Mumbai, 122.4 mm rain in Panvel, and 84 mm rain in Thane.Mumbai crossed the 3,000 mm-rain mark on Friday. The city has currently recorded 3,038.5 mm rain throughout the season. Both the suburbs and south Mumbai have recorded 61% excess rain.Also Read: As water levels rise in lakes, BMC says ‘no water cut in Mumbai from Saturday’The city and suburbs can expect cloudy conditions with moderate to heavy rain throughout Saturday and light to moderate rain on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-3-000-mm-mark-with-heavy-rains-there-s-more-coming/story-RdarO1x8ww1NZ7WJIoMcCK.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||After four days, traffic on Jammu-Srinagar highway restored partially||Jammu: After remaining blocked for four days, traffic on the 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway was partially restored from Ramban to Kashmir Valley on Saturday morning. Senior superintendent on police, national highway, JS Johar said, “Traffic has been partially restored to the valley. However, the stretch at Dalwas is yet to be cleared.” A portion of the road was washed away in a mudslide at Dalwas in Ramban district on Wednesday. A resident of Batote said, “Only Kashmir-bound vehicles stranded between Ramban and the valley are being allowed to proceed to their destinations. Traffic is moving slowly due to the slippery road.” Landslides have been cleared from Marog, Digdol, Monkey Morh, Cafeteria Morh, Mompassi and Panthial. The weather has also opened up in Ramban, which is situated at the highest altitude on the Kashmir highway. “It is bright and sunny today,” he said and added that daily commuters know that landslides are triggered when the weather turns dry soon after the rains as loose rocks and soil come off the hills. “The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has pressed its men and machinery to completely restore the highway. We are working to restore the stretch at Dalwas,” an NHAI official said. After moderate to heavy rainfall in Jammu and Kashmir since Tuesday, rains stopped on Friday afternoon. Since Tuesday, more than 2,000 vehicles were stranded at various places in Chenani, Udhampur and Nagrota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-four-days-traffic-on-jammu-srinagar-highway-restored-partially/story-JlWuY66Q5U0K1d9c3WuKyJ.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||Little to no rain in Delhi for the next few days||After receiving a good amount of rain on Friday, Delhi-NCR will be back to receiving little to no rain for the next few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast read Saturday.Scientists at IMD said that till Tuesday, only some parts of the national Capital are likely to receive “light to very light rain”.“Delhi received moderate rainfall on Friday, as the monsoon trough was passing over the city. Over the next two days, ‘light’ to ‘very light’ rain may take place, as the trough will be moving southwards. On September 1 and 2, another spell of moderate rain is expected in Delhi, as the trough is expected to move towards the north then,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He added that there was a forecast of light rain over the past week, but the monsoon trough had moved towards the Himalayan foothills, because of which there was no rain in Delhi. On August 20 and 21, Delhi had received ‘heavy’ to ‘very heavy’ rainfall.IMD had issued an orange alert on Friday morning for Delhi-NCR, warning of ‘light to moderate’ rain accompanied by thundershowers. At several places across the city, there were reports of water logging. In places such as Greater Kailash 2 and Vikaspuri, the water logging led to massive traffic jams. The Safdarjung observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, recorded 23.2mm of rain in the ‘moderate’ category on Friday, while the Delhi Ridge weather station recorded 44mm rain and Palam and Lodhi Road stations recorded 35.8 mm and 23.6 mm rainfall, respectively. The Aya Nagar station, however, recorded only ‘traces’ of rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/little-to-no-rain-in-delhi-for-the-next-few-days/story-jwjds88iflGMCLwa9Ri29L.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Thane: Noise-free Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations this year||Thane city saw noise-free Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations this year amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.No musical instrument was played during the immersion; there were no elaborate processions and fire crackers either.The civic body authorities ensured crowd management with Thane Police.“I have been observing decibel levels in Thane since the last few years during festivals. This year was the quietest celebration, as compared to previous years. Small immersion processions during the fifth day of the annual festival were taken out. This was a welcome change. Though the key celebrations were low-key due to the pandemic, this trend will go a long way in the near future to curb the level of noise pollution,” said Dr Mahesh Bedekar, a Thane-based activist.Usually, Panchpakhadi and Ram Maruti Road get overcrowded, congested and contribute to noise pollution on the first five days of Ganesh Chaturthi and two days of immersion. But this year was an aberration from the norm.Last year, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) authorities had feted Ganesh pandals that had celebrated a noise-free festival, where no microphone and loudspeaker was used.The pandemic led to muted celebrations at immersion sites as well. “We had released a circular on social media that highlighted various ways of immersion at home. Arrangements were made for idol donation centres, online bookings and mobile immersion tanks. Many devotees availed these facilities. An explainer was also put out about how a devotee can conduct immersion at home for an idol made of clay, or plaster of Paris. Most people were confined indoors, which made crowd management easy at immersion sites,” said Manisha Pradhan, pollution officer, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-noise-free-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-this-year/story-1XfnMUjaNgc0VyHfPkJ6XI.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi traffic cop run over by car 11 days ago dies||A 51-year-old traffic policeman who was run over by the driver of an i20 car in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar 11 days ago, succumbed to his injuries on Friday night, the police said. This is the second death of a Delhi traffic police officer on duty in the last month.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit confirmed the death of assistant sub-inspector Mahavir Singh and said the police will add murder charges under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code against the errant driver, one Amandeep, who was arrested on Sunday, six days after the mishap. Earlier, the police had registered a case of attempt to murder, because the driver had run over ASI Singh twice in an attempt to flee when the officer signalled him to halt for vehicle checking on August 17. The ASI was admitted to a nearby hospital, where he had been in a coma since then. “We will now book Amandeep under the section for murder,” said DCP Purohit, adding that ASI Singh and three-four traffic police personnel were checking vehicles near the Raghubir Nagar police booth when the mishap took place around 5.30pm on August 17. Singh signalled a white i20 car to stop, but its driver tried to escape. When he tried to halt the car, the driver hit him with the vehicle. He rammed the policeman a second time, this time crushing him under the wheels. Singh’s colleagues could only note that it was an i20 car registered in Haryana and the last four digits were 1664, the DCP said. The police registered a case and the investigating team went to Haryana and collected details of all i20 cars whose numbers ended with 1664. The team identified the vehicles and went about tracing their owners; they found out that the car in question had been sold at least half a dozen times in the last couple of years. The police then traced Amandeep, the current owner, who was visiting his in-laws in Noida. They also found that his phone’s location details put him near the mishap spot around the time of the incident. He was finally nabbed along with the car, the DCP said after Amandeep’s arrest Monday. None of the car’s owners, except the original person, registered the car in their name, the DCP said, adding this was why Amandeep allegedly attempted to get away from the police and refused to halt when signalled. On July 26, a 54-year-old assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of the Delhi traffic police died after being hit and dragged for nearly 50 metres by a mini-truck near the Rajokri flyover, where he was clearing a traffic jam. ACP Sanket Kaushik was declared dead on arrival at the AIIMS Trauma Centre. The truck driver was caught in Mahipalpur, four days after the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-cop-run-over-by-car-11-days-ago-dies/story-3UzMv5vaLL8ssffsoHGUeI.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 curve flattening in Dharavi, rising in neighbouring Dadar and Mahim||While the Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in Dharavi, India’s largest slum cluster, the number of Covid-19 cases have doubled in neighbouring Mahim and Dadar areas in the last 40 to 60 days. Out of the total 4,680 positive cases in Dadar and Mahim area, more than 70 per cent have been reported after relaxations in lockdown, starting June 03, 2020. Owing to this, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) says it is tracing and testing “maximum people behind every case from Dadar and Mahim area, on the lines of Dharavi.”For the past few days, Covid-19 cases in Dharavi are being reported in single digits daily, with a few exceptions. The BMC has maintained that while the cases are coming down, four most densely populated pockets inside Dharavi - the Matunga Labour Camp, Kumbharwada, Kala Killa, and Koliwada continue to be on the corporation’s watch-list. The BMC, starting September 01, is also going to scale down Covid-19 containment facilities in Dharavi owing to the flattening of the curve. However, its neighbouring areas like Dadar and Mahim, now, remain a concern for the BMC.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G North Ward said, “There are many factors behind cases increasing in Dadar and Mahim, and we are following the Dharavi model of testing and tracing maximum residents from Dadar and Mahim. We have also set up free testing camps, due to which we are detecting maximum cases. We have to understand that Dadar traditionally has been a commercial hub too, and post June 3, we have witnessed an increase in reporting of cases.”Dighavkar added, “After relaxations were given in lockdown measures, more and more cases are being reported. Maximum cases that we are detecting are of those who are asymptomatic and most are from high-rises. We have to wait and watch for now and continue testing and tracing the maximum number of people for the cases to come under control. At the same time, citizens have to be responsible.”Also Read: Treated 14,800 Covid-19 patients in home isolation since July 9, claims Mumbai civic corporation Dadar also came into focus last week when a large number of residents had gathered in the local market ahead of Ganeshotsav by flouting all social distancing norms.In terms of numbers, on June 3, 2020, the first day of relaxations given by the state government under Mission Begin Again, Dharavi had 1,889 cases that have increased to 2,745 as of Friday. In the case of Dadar, the cases went up from 374 to 2,489 in the same period and in Mahim, Covid cases have reached 2,192 from 606 on June 3.The number of cases have doubled in Dadar in the last around 45 days from 1,130 on July 11 to 2,489 now. Similarly, in Mahim, cases have reached 2,192 from 1,092 on June 28. The G North Ward, under which Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim fall, has a total of 7,426 cases as of Friday, of which, 6,208 cases have recovered and 787 cases are active. Maximum active cases are from Dadar (400) and Mahim (294) while Dharavi (93) has the lowest number of active cases. Also Read: Mumbai civic body asks private hospitals to refer critical patients to its Covid-19 facilitiesShiv Sena corporator from Dadar, Vishakha Raut said, “We controlled cases in slums and chawls by having stricter containment measures, but the same is not the case in Dadar. We have an educated and literate population here and it is expected that they will act more responsibly. However, it is a fact that after relaxations in the lockdown norms, the cases have increased due to an increase in mingling of residents socially, but the administration is also trying to trace maximum cases.”Raut claimed that mandatory testing for travel led to detection of several cases among those who wanted to go to their homes in Konkan during Ganeshotsav. He also put the onus on citizens for responsible behavior.“In the end, citizens have to be more responsible when they are out. I see people not following social distancing norms, not wearing masks even in areas like Shivaji Park. This all needs to stop, and we will need to act with more responsibility,” Raut added.Mortality rate for the GN Ward has gone down in the last 50 days. According to BMC’s data, there were 379 deaths in the ward on July 04, a mortality rate of 10.61%, which has gone down to 7.33% with 492 deaths, as of Friday. The GN Ward also has around 13 containment zones and 355 sealed buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-curve-flattening-in-dharavi-rising-in-neighbouring-dadar-and-mahim/story-bK8kPBQhjoQ6vvRfVSHiAL.html
29-08-2020||NA||Karnataka govt briefs governor about the action taken to implement NEP 2020||Deputy chief minister of Karnataka Dr CN Aswathanarayana, who is also the minister for higher education met governor Vajubhai Wala and briefed him about the actions taken regarding implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, on Friday.According to an official release, Aswathanarayana said that Karnataka wanted to become the first state in the country to implement this policy and also made aware the governor of the suggestions expressed by the sub-committees of the task force.“The implementation would start as soon as the task force submits the final draft, which is expected to happen very soon,” he said.The minister also briefed the Governor about the import and changes that are expected after the implementation of the policy.The Governor expressed his happiness about the steps being taken by the government with regard to the implementation of the policy and also gave him some suggestions.Last month, the Union Cabinet approved National Education Policy 2020 bringing major reforms in higher education including a target of 50 per cent Gross Enrollment Ratio by 2035 and provision for multiple entry and exits.Deputy chief minister and Higher Education Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan had on August 26 announced that all college classes will start in October and students are expected to attend classes in person.Also read: Amid Covid-19 crisis, Karnataka to re-open colleges from October 1He announced that the academic year for various degree courses will commence from September 1 with online classes, while the offline classes will be start in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/karnataka-govt-briefs-governor-about-the-action-taken-to-implement-nep-2020/story-LcbzE0dMnarrxBcrMXQ4WP.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A home away from ‘des’||A family of labourers, their true home, they say, is their village, which they call des (country). But while they are in the Capital, for practical reasons, they have to make it a home too in the form of a pavement shelter where they cook, rest, sleep and spend free hours together.The middle-aged Nand Ram lives with his wife, Beni, and teenage son, Bablu, in Green Park, a genteel neighbourhood in South Delhi. Mr Ram’s house is not far from the area’s market, full of elegant cafes and sophisticated gentry. His accommodation consists of one room. The roof and walls are made of yellow, blue, black and white plastic sheets. “We bought these at wholesale rates from Gautam Nagar market,” explains young Bablu. The plastic was originally used as packaging for consumer goods—the white plastic at the entrance, for instance, is printed with red letters saying, FRAGILE.The structure of the house rests on a scaffolding of twigs that the family gathered from the nearby Deer Park, a popular destination for the neighbourhood’s morning walkers.Owning no agricultural land in Begha, their village in the Tikamgarh district of Madhya Pradesh, Mr Ram and his family decided to try their luck in a place far from the “des” and arrived in Delhi a few years ago. They got work promptly. One of the first assignments they got, along with other labourers, was building the pavement between Aurobindo Market and Hauz Khas Village with brown-and-red bricks. “We got the kaam (work) through a thekedar (contractor),” says Mr Ram. During the brief chat, his son remains quiet, looking shy, but his wife, Benu, makes a remark about the steep food prices and their consequent difficulty in saving money. They often take brief breaks from work assignments to go back to their village, which they again insist is their real home.Once you step inside the house, you cannot stand upright. The roof is too low. The mattress is spread out on a stretcher-like thing made of wooden rods. A ply board is used as a table on which is resting a bowl of leftover curry, a jar of milk and a cake of soap. The family takes their bath outside, next to the kitchen, which consists of a mud stove on the pavement. A can of Diet Coke is used as mug.The man, woman and son wake up every morning at six. The wife prepares the meal, which they eat before eight — this is when they leave for work. At 6pm, they return and four hours later they fall asleep. But it is early morning and the three of them are ready to get out for work—the son is in grey pants and white long-sleeved shirt, as if heading to school.During the monsoon, Mr Ram says, the rain water drips through the gaps in the plastic sheets. When the rain comes at night, the family inevitably wakes up and waits for it to stop before going back to sleep. Sometimes the shower continues for hours, they say.One of the advantages of such a makeshift accommodation, the family feels, is that they can easily move from one location to another depending on their work site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-home-away-from-des/story-ZNQ78AnvhOYRx4dnay0G0H.html
29-08-2020||City||State positive on reopening gyms, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray tells owners||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with representatives of gymnasium owners from Mumbai on Friday at his official residence Varsha and directed them to formulate guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19 through gyms. As per a statement from the chief minister’ office (CMO), Thackeray said that the government is “positive” about allowing the reopening of gyms, but a final call would be taken based on the guidelines prepared. “For this [to prevent the Covid-19 spread], gym owners must come together and prepare guidelines for the safety of the citizens. Once these guidelines are prepared by owners from across the state, the state will take a call on it [the reopening] at the earliest,” a statement from CMO read. The demand to open up gyms has been growing from within the ruling coalition government as well as from the Opposition as well. Several leaders such as Nationalist Congress Party parliamentarian Supriya Sule and state health minister Rajesh Tope, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray have also demanded has asked for the reopening of gyms. Earlier this month, the Centre allowed gyms and places of worship to reopen in the country. However, the state government was treading cautiously on this issue owing to the surge in Covid-19 in Maharashtra. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday had indicated that a decision on the reopening of gyms and places of worship will likely be taken in the first week of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-positive-on-reopening-gyms-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-tells-owners/story-tjAoOznm3T6WnYJGN5qmiJ.html
29-08-2020||City||Passengers’ body demands halts at stations beyond Maharashtra’s Kalyan city for essential workers to commute||The railway passengers’ association for commuters from Kalyan, Kasara and Karjat areas has raised objections over the levying of fines on 12 employees of the central post office in Kardi who travelled to Kalyan and Thane on Thursday on special trains meant for railway staff. In the complaint to the officials of Central Railway (CR) on Friday, the association raised concerns over the inadequate transportation for essential services employees travelling from Khardi, Vasind and stations beyond Titwala. As per the association, 12 employees who worked from the post office belong to essential services. They were caught by the ticket checker and stopped for two hours at Kalyan station before being fined ₹400 each for the journey. Shyam Ubale, general secretary, of the association, said, “The railways started the trains for those in the essential services from June 15. Some trains halt along the Kasara and Karjat routes. There are no halts at Khardi and Vasind stations. Many essential services employees from the rural parts, who work as Class 3 and 4 employees, are struggling each day to reach their workplaces. We had requested the authorities to start some trains before too, but the demand was not met.” The association expressed that it is unfair to impose a fine on these employees as they too are corona warriors. “They boarded the railway staff special train because they wanted to reach their workplace. But they were made to pay the fine, which is not acceptable,” said Ubale. The association has put forward the demand to halt the trains for essential services to all the stations between the Kalyan-Kasara-Karjat stations and also to increase the frequency of the trains. Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of CR, said, “On the request of the state government, we operate sufficient suburban trains for essential services staff, as identified by the state. Boarding emergency railway vehicles, which are strictly for railway staffs is not permitted for others to travel and is also punishable under railway act.” As per the railway records, from June to August, 46 commuters were caught for ticketless travelling on the Kalyan- Kasara-Karjat route and fined Rs15,370 collectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/passengers-body-demands-for-additional-halts-at-stations-beyond-maharashtra-s-kalyan-city-for-essential-workers-to-commute/story-rCwu9z1QxmqrnPSzgWeLoM.html
29-08-2020||City||Himachal’s Covid-19 tally rises to 5,637; 3,000 cases reported in August alone||With 136 more Covid-19 cases reported in Himachal on Friday, the state’s tally has reached 5,637. Of the total positive cases more than 3,000 were reported in August alone, increasing the number of infections in the state by 95%. Thirty-five cases were reported in Sirmaur, 30 in Kangra, 19 in Solan, 15 in Una, 16 in Chamba, 12 in Shimla, three in Bilaspur, two each in Hamirpur and Kinnaur and one each in Mandi and Kullu. Two bank employees and one health worker posted at the regional hospital tested positive in Una. One of teh patients had returned from abroad while three tested positive at the flu outpatient department Of the four people who tested positive in Kangra, two have a travel history to Chandigarh and Nalagarh. The one case detected in Ram Nagar locality of Dharamshala town is the primary contact of a Covid patient. In Shimla seven bank officials were among 12 tested positive in Shimla. A woman admitted at Kamla Nehru hospital was also detected positive and 20 staff including doctors and nurses who came in her contact have been quarantined. Ten workers of a power project were among 16 people tested positive in Chamba. The district’s tally has reached 400. There are 1,413 active cases in the state and 4,149 people have recovered. Thirty-one people have succumbed to the contagion. Covid-19 cases have increased by a whopping 95% in the month of August compared to the combined caseload in March to July. The state had recorded its first case on March 20. Till April 24, the tally was 40. A second wave in May took the count to 330. A total of 623 cases were added to the tally in June, while in July the number swelled by 1,611, taking the virus count to 2,564. So far, 3,073 cases have been recorded in the state in August. As many as 2, 08,419 people have been tested for the virus in Himachal - 28,261 tests per million population. The recovery rate is 72.9% while the state has 753 confirmed cases per million. Fatalities also witnessed a steep rise in the rainy season. Till July, Himachal had recorded only 12 deaths. However, 19 people have died, so far, in August. The death count has reached 31. Solan has the most infections (1,382), followed by Sirmaur (789), Kangra (783), Hamirpur (493), Una (431), Chamba (400), Mandi (395), Shimla (308), Bilaspur (296), Kullu (271), Kinnaur (81) and Lahaul and Spiti (eight).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-5-637-3-000-cases-reported-in-august-alone/story-dpXK7h27PdzLmcMoBTbLcJ.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai traffic constable suspended for breaking quarantine norms to extort money||A 32-year-old traffic constable attached with the Sakinaka traffic division of Mumbai traffic police was suspended on Wednesday after he and his friend tried extorted ₹5,000 from a vehicle driver, and also siphoned liquor bottles the man had bought. According to Mumbai Police officers, constable Prasad Mahadik was advised to be in quarantine for 14 days from June 22 to July 6, after one of his neighbours at a chawl in Bhandup tested positive for Covid-19.However, Mahadik did not follow the quarantine norms, and on July 4, he and his friend Amol Devlekar went to Kharegaon toll plaza in Kalwa. They stopped a vehicle on the pretext of taking strict action against the motorist and took a bribe of ₹5,000 from the driver, identified as 41-year-old Raju Parte.Parte later registered a complaint with Kalwa police station and told officers that when he and his friend Vijay More were stopped near the toll plaza, they were scared of the consequences and had hence paid the bribe of ₹5,000. Parte said that Mahadik and Devlekar, who were dressed in police uniforms, seized the liquor bottles he had purchased. Parte told police that after he reached home, he remembered that the two were wearing sandals (not police attire), and so he decided to visit the toll plaza to check if the two accused were present. The complainant went back to the liquor shop where he had made his purchase and spotted Devlekar keeping an eye on anyone buying liquor. Once the person started his vehicle, Devlekar would follow them and then Mahadik would stop them near Kharegaon. Parte then approached Kalwa police station and a first information report was registered on July 5 under section 170 (personating a public servant), 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “A departmental enquiry was initiated against Mahadik and he was found guilty. On Wednesday he was suspended from the force.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-traffic-constable-suspended-for-breaking-quarantine-norms-to-extort-money/story-Fn5aUwZKPSxXoHpLvVWV2L.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab House passes resolution rejecting Centre’s farm ordinances||Punjab assembly on Friday passed a resolution rejecting the farm ordinances promulgated by the Centre during a specially convened one-day session amidst the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Chief minister Amarinder Singh moved the resolution which was supported by the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP). However, it was opposed by the BJP. The chief minister said the assembly was seriously concerned about apprehensions caused by the ordinances related to the farm sector. He described these ordinances as a “direct encroachment upon the functions of the states and against the spirit of cooperative federalism enshrined in the Constitution” and said it will promote distress sale. These ordinances would spell “economic ruin” for the farming sector of Punjab especially those 70 per cent having less than five acres land, he said. The House also unanimously passed seven bills. The 12th session of the 15th Punjab assembly began at 11 am and was adjourned sine die at 2.10pm. As many 56 legislators were present in the 117-member House, where strict protocols were put in place in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Forty-three MLAs in the House were from the ruling Congress, five from the AAP, four AAP rebels and two each from the BJP and the Lok Insaaf Party. Members of the Shiromani Akali Dal did not attend the session. The one-day session was convened amid the COVID-19 pandemic as it is a constitutional requirement to hold a session within six months of the previous assembly session. Punjab CM goes into self-quarantine Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh quarantined himself after two Congress MLAs who met him during the assembly session on Friday tested positive for COVID-19. The MLAs, Nirmal Singh and Kulbir Singh Zira, got tested for the disease after the one-day monsoon session. Singh and Zira represent Shutrana and Zira seats, respectively. “He (Nirmal Singh) got himself tested on August 25 and then his report was negative. Based on this report, he entered the House,” speaker Rana KP Singh said. After Singh felt feverish on Friday, he got himself tested again and was found positive. Zira got himself tested for COVID-19 after the session, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-house-passes-resolution-rejecting-centre-s-farm-ordinances/story-J3aFVzqkyBwtS6YxHWyC3J.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 outbreak: Hospitals can’t be shut without following due process, says Bombay high court||Notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, a hospital cannot be shut down without following due process of law, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) said on Thursday while striking down an order passed by local authorities abruptly shutting down a hospital in Jalna.“If a particular procedure is prescribed for initiating appropriate steps with regard to complaints against a hospital, such procedure has to be necessarily followed. A drastic order of closure of the hospital cannot be passed under the pretext of Covid-19 Pandemic,” said the bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Shrikant Kulkarni.The bench struck down an order issued by the district administration on August 21 cancelling the registration of Arogyam Hospital of Dr Ritesh Agrawal, after finding out that no notice was issued to the doctor before issuing the order. The bench rejected submissions advanced by government pleader DR Kale that a number of complaints were received about malpractices in the hospital and there was a public uroar about the mismanagement at the hospital while Covid-19 pandemic was spreading. “It was in these peculiar circumstances that a show-cause notice of hearing before issuing the order of closure could not be given,” Kale said.The bench, however, refused to accept the reason in view of an order pronounced by HC in December 2018, holding that under provisions of the Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949 a notice is required to be issued before cancelling registration of a hospital and that registration cancelled without giving hearing to the concerned is not legally sustainable.HC has now directed that the order dated August 21 be treated as a show-cause notice and that the competent authority under the Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949 shall pass a fresh order on complaints received against Arogyam Hospital by September 19 after granting the hospital an opportunity to file reply to the notice and hearing.On the request of the government pleader the bench has restrained the hospital, where nine patients are admitted for treatment, from admitting any other patient to the hospital till fresh order is passed by the competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-outbreak-hospitals-can-t-be-shut-without-following-due-process-says-bombay-high-court/story-bcJYqCAwKA3pTraH4RabDL.html
29-08-2020||City||Supreme Court upheld our contention: Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray on final-year exams’ verdict||Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said he welcomes the Supreme Court’s (SC) decision stating that universities cannot promote students without holding final-year examinations. Thackeray said that the SC order reiterated the state’s demand to let state governments decide on when to hold the exams, and not conduct them by the September 30 deadline set by the University Grants Commission (UGC).Thackeray also heads the Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the ruling Shiv Sena. Yuva Sena is one of the petitioners in the SC which had challenged the UGC directive to hold examinations amid the coronavirus outbreak.In a series of tweets, Thackeray wrote, “As Yuva Sena, we welcome the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court… The Hon’ble SC has reiterated that it is upto the respective State Governments to decide on when and how to hold examinations, not at the insistence of the 30th September deadline of the UGC. The Yuva Sena stands firmly for the well being and good health of the students, teachers, non teaching staff and their families (sic).” Thackeray said that the SC has upheld the state’s contention to uphold the decision taken by the state disaster management authority (SDMA). Earlier in the day, Yuva Sena secretary Varun Sardesai also welcomed the SC’s decision, but said that a day after India recorded over 75,000 new Covid-19 cases, the “SC in a video-conference judgment said final-year exams for lakhs of students are to be compulsorily held.” In a series of tweets, Sardesai said, “We thank SC for accepting our argument that SDMA overrides UGC guidelines and to allow postponing exams till the situation normalises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/supreme-court-upheld-our-contention-states-can-decide-when-to-hold-exams-maharashtra-minister-aaditya-thackeray-on-final-year-exams-verdict/story-NdVI2VVFUWHQl55OZObq6M.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Students, colleges in Mumbai seek clarity on details about holding final-year exams after Supreme Court verdict||Months of ambiguity over the end-of-term final-year exams were finally brought to an end on Friday, after the Supreme Court (SC) ruled that all the universities in the country will have to hold exams to promote students. Even as the Maharashtra government announced to follow the Apex court order, students and colleges are still confused, trying to figure out how and when the exams will be held in the upcoming weeks. The state education department has assured clarity over the exam schedule and other minute details soon. “Colleges are currently working on virtual classes and a majority have decided to conduct semester exams by November this year. Going by the state government’s announcement, the final-year exams might also take place around the same time, leaving teachers burdened again,” said a senior professor of a suburban college. She added that before announcing the exam dates, the state government will have to clarify the minutest of details such as how the exam will be conducted, how the papers will be set and assessed, among others. To give themselves enough time for clarity, several final-year students had decided to defer joining foreign universities for higher studies by one semester. Many are still worried that after missing the August-September session, they might miss joining universities abroad in the January-February session too. “Due to the Covid-19 scare and uncertainty over my exams, I had deferred my intake to the February semester. I’m worried that I might not even make it for that semester, if the university exams and eventual results are delayed further,” said Akruti Patel, a final year Bachelor of Management Studies (BMS) student, who has already been accepted by a Canadian university for Master of Business Management course. Several student organisations have called the SC verdict unfair, and claimed that the decision will put the health of students in jeopardy. “The SC verdict is completely unfair to the student community. Not only will this cause additional mental stress to students, but also pose a serious health hazard for all those who will be involved in the exam process,” said Mohammad Salman for the Student Islamic Organisation (SIO). He added that imposing University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines on all universities is contrary to the federal nature of education in the country and infringes on the rights of state governments and autonomous institutes. Some colleges, however, are not complaining about the verdict. “Conducting exams will hinder the current academic session but I’m sure every college has been mentally preparing for this situation, and so everything will be managed well,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal, St Xavier’s College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-colleges-in-mumbai-seek-clarity-on-details-about-holding-final-year-exams-after-supreme-court-verdict/story-XUOYMQS6Fs9ehNsouEhqKM.html
29-08-2020||City||49-year-old cop dies due to Covid-19, fourth case in Maharashtra’s Palghar district||In the fourth case in Palghar police district, a 49-year-old assistant police sub inspector (APSI) attached with Tulinj police station died due to Covid-19 and multi-organ failure on Thursday at Golden Park Hospital, Vasai, said sub-inspector Sachin Navadkar, public relations officer of Palghar Police.The deceased police officer is survived by his wife and three children, said Navadkar.So far, a total 314 cops in the district tested positive, of whom 30 are currently undergoing treatment. Earlier on July 26, a 55-year-old sub-inspector attached to Waliv police station died at a Panvel hospital, and a police naik attached to the same police station died in a Nallasopara hospital on July 13. Before that, a 40-year-old hawaldar succumbed to the infection in the same Nallasopara hospital on June 3.As per official data released by Palghar district collector, around 23,649 people tested positive for the infection and 476 deaths were reported in the district till Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/49-year-old-cop-dies-due-to-covid-19-fourth-case-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-district/story-707Tyh4duvS0ww2NJ7nLRN.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Three more police personnel in Maharashtra die of Covid-19, toll rises to 148||Three more Maharashtra Police personnel succumbed to Covid-19 and 346 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours.According to the state police department, 14,614 state police force personnel tested positive so far, of whom 11,752 have recovered and 2,741 are undergoing treatment at various Covid care centres (CCC). Till date, 148 cops from the Maharashtra Police force lost their lives to Covid-19. Of the total number of cases in the state police force, over 4,700 are from the Mumbai Police, of which 4,000 have recovered. Of the three new deaths, one was 45-year-old constable Samir Harishchandra Pawar, who was attached to Charkop police station. According to police, Pawar was lived with his wife and a son at Gorai, Borivli (West).An officer from Charkop police station said, “He was not able to breathe properly on August 6 and was admitted to Oscar Hospital in Kandivli. As his health condition started worsening, he was later shifted to SevenHills Hospital, Andheri (East).” He succumbed to the infection there around 9.30pm on Thursday. Naval Bajaj, Joint commissioner of police (administration), said, “There are 69 policemen from Mumbai Police who lost lives to the infection.”Most of the deceased policemen are from 45-58 age group and had co-morbidities such as diabetes, high blood pressure, hyper tension, etc., the police said. The state government is giving ₹50 lakh compensation and a government job to one member of the families of the policemen who died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-more-police-personnel-in-maharashtra-die-of-covid-19-toll-rises-to-148/story-jSeATm3hxgBwXzNFNuSY5K.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt doesn’t rule out review petition over Supreme Court’s decision on final-year exams||The Maharashtra government has not ruled out the possibility of filing a review petition on the Supreme Court’s (SC) decision over holding final-year exams for professional and non-professional courses. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray discussed the issue with higher and technical education minister Uday Samant late on Friday.Samant said the option to file the review petition is still under consideration. “We respect the court’s decision. We will have to study it and take the opinion of the advocate general and officials from law and judiciary department before reaching a decision,” the higher and technical education minister said in response to a query over filing a review petition against the Apex court’s ruling. Samant also said that the state will also be holding discussions with vice-chancellors of universities, parents and students on how exams can be conducted safely, as the “health of students is the top priority”. He further said that the students will be given sufficient time to prepare for the exams and also advised students to continue their studies. “I will visit every university in the state and hold interactions with the vice-chancellors concerned as well as parents and students on how exams can be conducted safely, as their [students’] health is our top priority. The state will take its decision as soon as possible,” Samant said. On Friday, SC ruled that students cannot be promoted without giving the final-year exams and upheld the July 6 directive of the University Grants Commission (UGC) asking varsities across the country to hold exams by September 30. However, the court gave states the liberty to approach UGC if they wished to postpone holding the exams beyond the September 30 deadline in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. “We will not be holding exams in haste and will give sufficient time to the students for preparations, as the apex court has allowed the states to decide exam dates. UGC will be informed on when we will be in a position to hold the exams,” he said responding to questions on conducting exams. The state government has been opposing the final-year exams for professional and non-professional courses, as Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The state had also earlier said that those students who wish to take the exams will be given the option to do so, when the state finds it is feasible. Samant said that the state government has always maintained that it is not in a position to hold exams. “I would have decided to stand by the decision if the court had allowed the states to take a decision on this but now we will have to find out a solution around the court’s decision, as there are containment zones, red zones and lack of transportation facilities in parts of state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-doesn-t-rule-out-review-petition-over-supreme-court-s-decision-on-final-year-exams/story-JdmO1n8emZjLngLDyC8ItL.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Treated 14,800 Covid-19 patients in home isolation since July 9, claims Mumbai civic corporation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said that since July 9, it has contacted more than 21,250 Covid-19 patients and treated around 14,800 patients, who had opted for home isolation. Some of these patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery and the BMC was providing them with post-Covid care treatment.The step was taken as a part of a project, ‘Mumbai Maitri’, in collaboration with non-governmental organisation (NGO) ‘Project Mumbai’ and healthcare company Portea Medical, to track the health status of Covid-19 patients.As a part of the initiative, a dedicated remote-monitoring setup, comprising trained healthcare workers call home quarantined patients and maintain the regular follow-up of their and their family’s health status. A dedicated number, 022-62676897, has also been started for patients as a part of the initiative. In case of mental or emotional stress, patients and their families can reach out to emotional wellness experts and mental health counsellors on 18001024040.“The remote monitoring has been working in close coordination with all the ward-level control room and informs them of need for hospitals beds/ambulances if required for the patients. There will be focus on high-risk patients who have co morbidities or are aged above 55. This setup will complement the work done by the ward-level control room, thereby reducing their work load and freeing up their capacity to focus more on bed management and patient contact-tracing, “ a statement issued by the BMC read.Civic commissioner IS Chahal said BMC plans to share the details of the initiative with other authorities. “BMC has been relentlessly ensuring that Covid-19 care reaches all patients, including those at medical centres as well as in home isolation. The learning and insights from this initiative over the next three months will be shared with other cities and district administrations,” he said.Around 20 lakh citizens have completed their quarantine period in the city, while 1.74 lakh are currently under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/treated-14-800-covid-19-patients-in-home-isolation-since-july-9-claims-mumbai-civic-corporation/story-fcQ4KxHc2ODyzCq9DU6nDP.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body asks private hospitals to refer critical patients to its Covid-19 facilities||To reduce the city’s high fatality rate, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has urged private hospitals to refer patients in critical condition to civic-run Covid health centres and major hospitals, in case of deteriorating health or no sign of recovery.The city’s fatality rate is 5.3%, higher than the state’s fatality rate of 3.2%. BMC aims to bring it below 3%. After the civic body noticed a surge in Covid deaths in private hospitals, they decided to monitor private hospitals with higher fatalities. The civic body has been conducting weekly meetings with top 10 hospitals registering higher death rate. As per BMC’s analysis, the share of fatalities in private hospitals has increased from 15-20% in June to over 40% in August.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of health, said, “Our suggestion to them is to refer critical patients to our major hospitals and Covid centres. We have also told them to not hesitate to take opinions of outside experts like deans of our hospitals or members from the state task force. All of this is being done under our ‘Mission Save Lives’, as part of which we want to bring down the fatalities.”Mission Save Lives is a nine-point strategy to reduce fatalities, which includes video surveillance of each patient, mandatory audit of every death and giving bedpans to serious patients. It was launched on June 30.Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultants, said, “The Covid fatality rate has increased due to two major reason – late admission and lack of regular check-ups of patients advised home quarantine. Patients still do not know where to get tested if they show symptoms and the bed allotment system of BMC is poor. There needs to be regular follow-up with patients who are home quarantined and their oxygen levels need to be checked twice a day. Apart from private hospitals, BMC needs to improve a lot in various areas to bring down the fatality rate.”On Friday, Mumbai reported 1,217 new Covid-19 cases. There were 30 deaths due to Covid-19 taking the toll to 7,565. Of the 142, 108 cases recorded in the city so far, 19,407 are active. The total number of discharged patients is 1.48 lakh. The recovery rate of the city stands at 81% and doubling rate has increased to 86 days. As per BMC’s data, of the 30 deaths, seven were aged between 40 and 60 years. 23 were above 60 years. As of Thursday, 7.43 lakh Covid tests have been conducted in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-asks-private-hospitals-to-refer-critical-patients-to-its-covid-19-facilities/story-rIpbkSjW0ppq0pkVhmvgrI.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress holds protests against Centre’s decision to conduct NEET, JEE||The main opposition party in Haryana, the Congress, and its youth wing NSUI on Friday staged protests at Bhiwani, Hisar, Sirsa, Rohtak and other cities against the Centre’s decision to conduct National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) (mains) for engineering aspirants amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Haryana Congress’ chief spokesman Bajrang Das Garg led the protest march in Hisar while other key party leaders, including Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Deepender Hooda, Kiran Choudhry, Kuldeep Bishnoi and Kumari Selja, who is in home quarantine, remained away from this protest. Garg said the central government was adamant on conducting the NEET and JEE by putting the students’ lives at risk.“Why isn’t the government paying heed to various stakeholders’ requests to postpone the exams due to rise in Covid-19 cases across the state. We are only requesting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone these tests until the situation improves,” he added.Similar protests were held in Haryana’s most-affected districts of Faridabad and Gurugram, where 40 examination centres have been set up for NEET which will be held on September 13.Former Tigaon MLA Lalit Nagar, who led the protest in Faridabad, said, “The state government suspended the assembly session in just one day, despite adhering to safety guidelines. But the central government has decided to conduct these examinations while ignoring the virus spread,” he added.A student from Rohtak, Naveen Sharma, said they tried hard to convey it to the central government to postpone the exams, but to no avail. “Who will be responsible if one infected student appears at the exam centre?” he asked.However, Anamika from Rohtak said the government should conduct their exams so that their worries can end.“We don’t want to lose an academic year. If a soldier can perform his duty on the border amid Covid-19, why can’t we appear in an exam for three hours,” she said.Preparing to hold exams of college, varsity studentsHaryana education minister Kanwar Pal has said that the higher education department is preparing to conduct online or offline examination of the students. He said necessary arrangements will be made for conducting examinations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Welcoming the Supreme Court verdict regarding the examinations of final year students, Kanwar Pal said now, as per the plans of University Grants Commission (UGC), the universities and colleges of various states will have to conduct examinations by September 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-congress-holds-protest-against-centre-s-decision-to-conduct-neet-jee/story-oOx18pu0kuULD23Xi2i5ML.html
29-08-2020||City||Working with Dushyant to tackle corruption in Haryana: Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Friday said “deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and I are fighting together against corruption in the state”. His statement came a day after he said that his recommendations for the special enquiry team’s (SET’s) report on the alleged liquor scam have been accepted by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said there was no scam in the excise department.“Dushyant is a part of the government and I don’t think he will say that he is not satisfied with the probe,” Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, said.Clearing the air on reports of him and Dushyant having a conflict on the ‘liquor scam’, Vij said, “We both want to stop the liquor smuggling that used to take place during previous regimes. Keeping this in our minds, we are doing everything in our power to plug the flow of illegal liquor.”On being asked about reports of Dushyant’s dissatisfaction with the probe, the home minister said, “The SET has submitted its findings and now, that will be further investigated by the vigilance department of the government. As I said that he (Dushyant) is a part of the government itself, I think he would be on board with this.” Vij had on Thursday informed that the state government has ordered a vigilance probe into the findings of the SET constituted to investigate the alleged smuggling of liquor during the lockdown. The inquiry findings had revealed glaring deficiencies in the functioning of the excise and taxation department and indicated collusion of officials in smuggling and illegal sale of liquor. It also mentioned names of present excise and taxation commissioner IAS officer Shekhar Vidyarthi and the then Sonepat SP, IPS officer Pratiksha Godara.However, Dushyant, who also holds the excise and taxation portfolio, had maintained that there was no scam in the department and cited higher revenue generated during the pandemic. The deputy CM had earlier too rebuffed the allegations of the SET that had blamed Vidyarthi for hampering the visit of the team to a distillery and on other issues as well.It’s pertinent to mention here that a committee comprising three IPS officers to be headed by ADGP Kala Ramachandran has been constituted to look into the remarks made about the police functioning in the SET report as well as irregularities committed by the cops. The committee will submit its report in two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-with-dushyant-to-tackle-corruption-in-haryana-vij/story-gMIuFicm7PHFRAmnBHpLwI.html
29-08-2020||City||Five lives snuffed out in three Sonepat mishaps||Five persons were killed in three separate road accidents in Sonepat on Friday.In the first mishap, two persons were killed when their canter rammed into a truck on the western peripheral expressway near Kundli in the wee hours of Friday. The victims were Suhail and Sahil of Muzaffarnagar in UP. They were going from Gurugram to Muzaffarnagar in their canter which was loaded with goods. Kundli police have registered a case against the absconding truck driver under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.In the second accident, two friends were killed after a tanker loaded with iron rods fell on them near Kurad village. The victims were identified as Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Rasulpur, and Sumit of Jainpur village.In the third incident, a bike rider was killed after a truck hit him on the Murthal road. The deceased was identified as Yogesh of Bhigan village.Sonepat DSP Virender Singh said they have booked the truck driver for rash driving and causing death by negligence.“Bodies of all the five victims were handed over to their family members after autopsy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-lives-snuffed-out-in-three-sonepat-mishaps/story-kwpGrPzyNxRvoXTgDhUmyL.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||1,298 new cases push Haryana Covid count past 60K||Haryana on Friday reported 1,298 new coronavirus infections, 50% of which came from six districts which logged over 100 cases each. They are Gurugram (126), Faridabad (115), Hisar (110), Panipat (104), Sonepat and Karnal (100 each). As per a medical bulletin, 15 infected persons succumbed to the virus on Friday, pushing the death toll to 661. Among the dead, three persons were from Karnal, two each from Rewari, Panipat and Panchkula and one each from Faridabad, Rohtak, Hisar, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Fatehabad. The fresh cases took the state’s patient tally to 60,596. The bulletin said that 1,020 infected persons recovered on Friday, following which the total number of recoveries reached 49,710. The number of active cases in Haryana on Friday was 10,225. The recovery rate was about 82% and the fatality rate stood at 1.09%. The bulletin said there were 203 critically ill patients, including 33 on ventilator support. Among the other districts, Yamunanagar reported 81 new infections followed by Ambala (80), Kurukshetra (76), Rohtak (63), Panchkula (56), Rewari (54), Mahendergarh (53), Sirsa (44), Kaithal (42), Fatehabad (20), Bhiwani (28), Palwal (13), Jhajjar (24) and Nuh (9). The districts of Jind and Charkhi Dadri did not report any fresh infections on Friday. In Rohtak, traders held a protest against the state government’s decision to shut down shops of non-essential goods on Monday and Tuesday. They gave a memorandum to Rohtak DC Manoj Kumar, asking the government to recall its decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-298-new-cases-push-haryana-covid-count-past-60k/story-WnUG2Etq8W3TRMwqsph7bN.html
29-08-2020||City||Trader shot dead in Yamunanagar||A trader was shot dead in broad daylight at his shop in Amar Market in Yamunanagar on Friday. The deceased, in his late 60s, was identified as Raghunath Prajapati, who was sitting at his electronic appliances shop when two men came and gunned him down, police said. An eyewitness, Gulshan, who works at his shop, said, “The firing took place around 11am. He was taken to a hospital but doctors declared him brought dead.” SP Kamaldeep Goyal said an FIR has been registered under Section 302 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trader-shot-dead-in-yamunanagar/story-KjRCRMcfEKI9jR1BbmYzxK.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray chairs meeting on Metro car shed at Aarey, decision likely soon||Close to nine months after stalling the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed project at Mumbai’s Aarey Colony, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a meeting with state officials on Friday to discuss possible solutions. Officials privy to the meeting said the state might take a decision soon. Earlier in January, a four-member committee appointed by the state to look into possible options had said the car shed should be built in Aarey Colony itself to avoid further cost escalation and delay in the 33.5-km underground metro project. “The committee had already said the car shed should be in Aarey Colony to avoid further delays. The state will take an appropriate decision soon,” a top official said. Another official said that options in Pahadi Goregaon are also being looked at. Apart from the car shed, the state has also proposed a 32-storey Metro Bhavan in Aarey Colony. The state-appointed committee had, in December 2019 and January 2020, visited various sites, including a plot in Kanjurmarg, as suggested by environment activists. In August 2019, the Bombay high court (HC) had dismissed a bunch of petitions challenging tree-felling at Aarey Colony. On the night of October 4, amid huge protests from citizens and environmentalists, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) which is constructing the metro began felling trees. Twenty nine activists are arrested and charged under sections of the Indian Penal Code after clashes with police when tree felling was underway. MMRC had then said that 2,141 of the 2,185 trees to be felled for construction of the car shed were cut, which is effectively 97% of the trees needed to be cleared for the project.In November, after assuming office, CM Thackeray stalled all work at the site. A committee was later set up to look into alternative options for shifting the car shed. Phase-1 of the ₹32,000-crore metro is expected to be operational by December 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-chairs-meeting-on-aarey-colony-car-shed-decision-likely-soon/story-lRLRCtzfA3vkrAEZZEDxqK.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 3,000-mm rainfall mark with 33 days of monsoon left; yellow alert for today||With 58.3mm rainfall within 12 hours, Mumbai has surpassed the 3,000-mm mark for the season on Friday evening.From June 1 to 8.30pm on August 28, Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 3,011.4mm rain. During the same period, Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 2,772.5mm rain.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated areas) between Friday night and Saturday morning and through the day on Saturday for Mumbai and Thane.Last year, Mumbai had surpassed the 3,000-mm mark on September 5 and had recorded 3,695.6mm rain throughout the season (June 25 to October 14), which was the second wettest all-time monsoon for the city. The highest rainfall for the season was recorded in 1958 at 3,759.7mm, as per data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In 2018, the total rainfall for the season was 2,243.4mm rain while it was 3,029.9mm in 2017.This year monsoon onset was declared on June 14. The southwest monsoon generally spans over four months (June to September), but withdrawal is generally declared by the second week of October. The new official withdrawal date for Mumbai is October 8, as declared by IMD in June this year.The city surpassed its seasonal rain target of 2,260.4mm on August 5 and annual average rain target of 2,514mm on August 9. This season, Mumbai has witnessed the lowest June rain (395mm) in five years, highest July rain (1,502.7mm) since records began being collated in 1944, and 1,113.8mm rain in August, highest since 1983. On Friday, as opposed to light to moderate rain prediction by the weather bureau, the suburbs recorded 58.3mm rain while south Mumbai recorded 64.4mm rain between 8.30am and 8.30pm. IMD classifies 15.6-64.4mm as moderate and 64.5-115.5mm rain as heavy. The city witnessed light to moderate showers with intermittent intense spells towards the eastern suburbs and surrounding regions of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) than south Mumbai and central suburbs.KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, said, “Monsoon conditions are active across coastal Maharashtra and closer to central India under the influence of a well-marked low-pressure weather system located over north Chhattisgarh adjoining east Madhya Pradesh. It is likely for this system to move west-northwest over south Uttar Pradesh over the next 48 hours allowing rain intensity to be similar to what is being observed over Mumbai on Friday. Additionally, convergence due to strong lower level southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from Bay of Bengal during this period would enhance rain activity.”Rain intensity was more over the past 12 hours (8am to 8pm on Friday) and location-wise rain showed Chembur recorded highest rain at 104mm followed by Kalyan 83.5mm, Mumbra 82.5mm, Navi Mumbai 80.2mm, Dombivli 79mm, Bhayandar 75mm, Bandra 62mm, BKC 53.6mm, Dahisar 51mm, Worli 43.4mm, and Mazagaon 26 mm. “Satellite and radar images indicated intense cloud formation over the north Konkan coast. Dense cloud patches were observed towards the eastern suburbs, Chembur rain figure is indicative of that,” said Hosalikar.IMD updated its district-wise rain forecast at 1pm with a yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated areas) for the rest of Friday and for Saturday for Mumbai and Thane. An orange alert (heavy to very rain) has been issued for Palghar and Raigad for Saturday. Heavy rain warnings have also been issued for Pune, Kolhapur, and the entire Vidarbha sub division.Independent meteorologists had predicted that MMR would witness an increase in rain from August 28 in response to the low-pressure system over central India. “There isn’t any severe weather potential since only moderate rain will continue. September will begin on a drier note and there are indications of subdued rain continuing during the first week. In fact, below average rainfall activity is possible in the first fortnight of September,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.FORECASTThe city and suburbs can expect cloudy conditions with moderate to heavy rain on Saturday. The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) issued a high wind alert for the west coast, especially along Gujarat, for winds gusting to 45-55kmph and fishing community were advised not venture out to sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-3-000-mm-mark-with-33-days-of-monsoon-left-yellow-alert-issued-for-saturday/story-zEZXJMdfWaANvq2rMjBkuK.html
29-08-2020||City||Water level at Barvi dam rises; Thane collector issues alert||With the catchment areas of Barvi dam receiving good rainfall since Friday morning, the water level in the dam has risen. Thane collector has issued an alert to the municipal corporations and councils in its jurisdiction to alert the people residing near water bodies as there is a chance of gates being opened if the level rises further. The notice stated that on Friday around 3.30pm the water level at the dam was 71.95 metres. The overflow level of Barvi dam is 72.6 metre and once water level reaches 72.2m to 72.6m, the automatic gate will start discharging water.“Since there is continuous rainfall in Barvi dam premises, the water level is likely to rise. In order to take precautionary measures, all the civic bodies, tehsil offices and industrial region authorities have been asked to alert the citizens and take precautionary steps,” said an official from the Thane collector’s office, who did not wish to be named. The Thane collector’s office has asked to take measures in Ansoli, Rahtoli, Chon, Sagaon, Patil Pada, Chandap, Padir Pada, Pimploli Karand and Chandap Pada which are closer to the dam. Authorities concerned have been asked to inform the citizens of these areas. Last year, opening of Barvi floodgates had led to flooding in Diva, Thane, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur and Kalyan areas. Sunil Pawar, additional commissioner of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation, said, “Based on the notification from the Thane collector’s office, ward officers have been asked to visit these places and alert the residents regarding not entering water bodies and take precautionary measures. The disaster management team has also geared up.” Thane region reported 9.8mm of rainfall on Friday while Kalyan-Dombivli reported 12.4mm, Bhiwandi 11mm, Ulhasnagar 10.8mm and Ambernath 9.4mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-level-at-barvi-dam-rises-thane-collector-issues-alert/story-HMInf7zRypHj54kIKxt17L.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first bilateral hand transplant conducted on 24-year-old train accident survivor||A Parel-based hospital on Friday conducted the Mumbai’s first bilateral hand transplant surgery. A team of surgeons performed a bilateral hand transplant on a 24-year-old woman, who had lost both her arms in a train accident six years ago.The surgery was conducted by a 12-member team led by Dr Nilesh Satbhai at Global Hospital, Parel. The team included plastic, microvascular and reconstructive surgeons, orthopaedic surgeons, and anaesthetists. The surgery began on Thursday night and went on for almost 15 hours till Friday evening, according to a statement from the hospital.“The patient has now been shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) postoperatively for further management,” said the hospital. Monika More, a Kurla resident, had lost both her arms in 2014 when she fell onto the tracks while trying to board a moving train at Ghatkopar railway station. Four years later, she registered for hand transplant surgery at Global Hospital and had been on the waiting list for a donor.On Thursday, the family of a 30-year-old man, who was declared brain dead at the Chennai branch of Global Hospital, agreed to donate his arms. The limbs were immediately flown to Mumbai on a chartered plane. While the entire procedure of flying in the donor arms, as well as the surgery, cost around ₹25 lakh, More’s uncle Vishwas Jadhav said that the family has not been charged anything so far. “Monika is stable and is being observed in the ICU. She is likely to gain consciousness anytime in the next 48 hours,” said Jadhav.Hospital sources said that it is difficult to predict the recovery time, given the complicated nature of the surgery. “Since the surgery has just been conducted, and for the first time in the city, it is hard to say how long the recovery process will take,” said a source.“We would like to thank the donor family and the donor hospital for the support extended. The zonal transplant coordination centre of the Transplant Authority, government of Tamil Nadu, Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation and National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation helped in the timely coordination and allocation. It goes without saying that the support extended by traffic police and the airport authorities of Mumbai and Chennai ensured timely transport of the organs,” said an official spokesperson for Global Hospital, Parel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-first-bilateral-hand-transplant-conducted-on-24-year-old-train-accident-survivor/story-ZllpXGgYhRSeB3NT1znxNJ.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC rejects Sudha Bharadwaj’s plea for bail||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday rejected the interim bail application of Elgar Parishad accused Professor Sudha Bharadwaj, after going through an affidavit filed by the state with her August 21 medical reports that showed her vital parameters to be normal. The court also noted the undertaking by the state that if need arose, Bharadwaj would be shifted to a superspecialty hospital, like another accused and poet P Varavara Rao. Bharadwaj is lodged in Byculla women’s jail. Bharadwaj had approached the HC on June 11 after a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court rejected her interim bail application on the grounds of health. Bharadwaj had submitted that she suffered from various comorbidities and due to overcrowding in the Byculla women’s prison, she was susceptible to contracting the Covid infection, hence she should be granted bail. A division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht, while hearing the bail application, was informed by advocate Ragini Ahuja that there was a contradiction in the July 21 and August 21 medical reports of Bharadwaj. She pointed out the report from July said her vital parameters were on the higher side and she had heart ischemia, while the report in August stated her vital parameters were normal and the aspect of heart ischemia was left out. The state, however, said Bharadwaj’s health was being monitored round-the-clock and she was being provided proper medication for her comorbidities. The affidavit further submitted that it was bound to provide all necessary medical facilities to Bharadwaj and would shift her to Sir JJ Hospital or even a superspeciality hospital. The bench observed there was no contradiction in the two reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-rejects-sudha-bharadwaj-s-plea-for-bail/story-fgGAXUZNZoZMEKUlMWyGZJ.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC disposes of petitions for Covid-19 test by Gonsalves, Teltumbde||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday disposed of the petitions filed by Vernon Gonsalves and Dr Anand Teltumbde, both accused in the Elgar Parishad case, seeking directions for them to be tested for Covid-19, as the state submitted their reports showing they had tested negative for the virus. Gonsalves and Teltumbde are currently lodged in Taloja jail. The bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht, while hearing the petitions, was informed by advocate Devyani Kulkarni that the correct report of Dr Teltumbde was not prepared and hence the state should be directed to comply as soon as possible. She further submitted that the state had only handed over a cover letter to the lawyers, which stated that Covid-19 tests were conducted and the reports were negative. She said the detailed report was not received. Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare sought time and submitted the report of Gonsalves and the corrected report of Dr Teltumbde would be handed over to the families and hence the matter be placed for hearing after the lunch hour, which the court allowed. When the petition came up for hearing, Kulkarni informed the bench that they had received both the reports, and were satisfied and hence the petitions could be disposed of. Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde had moved the petition, as they had been in close contact with Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, who is a co-accused in the Elgar Parishad case, while he was being treated in the Taloja jail hospital. As Rao had tested positive, Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde had sought to be tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-disposes-of-petitions-for-covid-19-test-by-gonsalves-teltumbde/story-hPdcfR2w05Wg7kJS1HXRbO.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC asks NIA to respond to Surendra Gadling’s petition against probe transfer||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to file an affidavit in response to the objection raised by Elgar Parishad accused advocate Surendra Gadling against the transfer of investigation into the case from Pune Police to NIA. Advocate Satish Talekar told a division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht that the petition challenged the move as the transfer was done after the Pune Police had filed the charge sheet and additional charge sheet. NIA’s advocate Sandesh Patil informed the court that he was not in a position to argue as he did not have a copy of the petition and hence needed two weeks. However, Talekar opposed it and submitted that Gadling had lost his mother last week, but due to the pendency of the current petition, the special NIA court was not hearing his application for interim bail and hence NIA should not be allowed two weeks. The court directed Talekar to serve a copy of the petition to NIA and directed NIA to file a reply within a week and posted the matter for hearing on September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-asks-nia-to-respond-to-surendra-gadling-s-petition-against-probe-transfer/story-ldH23rKjea8zrMzWEAw1NO.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra state board rolls out bilingual textbooks; teachers say it will make learning easy||In a bid to make concepts in mathematics and science easier for children in Maharashtra to understand, state’s publishing bureau Balbharti has rolled out its pilot project of introducing bilingual textbooks for students from Class 1 to Class 7. As a part of the first phase of the pilot project, schools from 59 administrative blocks across the state have been given bilingual textbooks with key terms and concepts written in English and Marathi. For instance, ‘Sukshmajeev’, which means microorganisms, in both languages in diagrams that refer to it. Likewise, concepts in maths such as addition, subtraction and division are also explained in Marathi. These textbooks are also integrated — all subjects are clubbed into a single textbook, which is then divided into three parts. Teachers from the state have said that students from vernacular-medium schools will benefit from the initiative and thus it should be scaled up. “Students from vernacular-medium schools face a tough time after entering colleges, as many terms and concepts that they have learnt in Marathi are taught in English. Using bilingual textbooks from an early age would help them overcome this hurdle,” said Suman Thorat, a teacher from a civic-run school in Mumbai. In January, Balbharti had sought suggestions and objections from experts for better implementation of the pilot. “The feedback [of the experts] was taken into consideration, and now textbooks for Class 1-7 are being rolled out in selected schools. The idea was to take feedback from schools and students, but owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, schools are shut physically. So we will have to wait and see,” said Vivek Gosavi, director, Balbharti. With schools conducting classes online owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, teachers have said that integrated textbooks will help in simplifying the learning process as students would not have to shift between multiple books at a time. Pravin Walke, assistant professor at National Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, University of Mumbai, said learning maths and science in one’s own language along with English helps in understanding the concepts well. “Students have a better grasping capacity when they learn in their own language. It’s easier to relate when technical terms in these subjects are explained in English and Marathi. The move will mainly benefit students while they pursue their higher education, which is mostly in English. Bilingual textbooks are thus a welcome step,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-state-board-rolls-out-bilingual-textbooks-teachers-say-it-will-make-learning-easy/story-nUk9ocMMjODsLYPvr7iWoO.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai toilet collapse: Developer booked for negligence||Nagpada police registered a case of causing death by negligence against the developer and unidentified civil workers in connection with the collapse of part of a cessed ground-plus-two structure in Nagpada that took place on Thursday afternoon leading to the death of two people.Deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Paramjit Dahiya confirmed that the rescue operation was completed late on Thursday.Police have lodged a first information report (FIR) in connection with the incident on Friday under section 304A (causing death by negligence) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against Sirsiwala Realty, a partnership firm, and others, said senior inspector Jaiprakash Bhosale, Nagpada police station.The FIR has been registered based on the complaint of Mohammed Zubair Qureshi, 55, a family member of the two deceased. Qureshi lost his elder sister Noorbano Akbar Nabi Qureshi, 70, and her granddaughter Arisha Riyasat Qureshi, 12.The incident took place around 1pm when a part of the toilet of Mishra building collapsed, trapping three residents of nearby structures. Of the three, two died at the hospital while the third person sustained minor injuries.Police said that Mishra building is more than 45 years old and that the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) had issued a no-objection certificate (NOC) to Sirsiwala Realty in 2017 for redevelopment of the structure. The realty firm is responsible for anything that happens to the structure or if any incident takes place at the property, Bhosale said.“We have started the investigation and are questioning people concerned. Documents are being checked. No arrest has been made so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nagpada-toilet-collapse-developer-booked-for-negligence/story-ZLpgMQctf7hWgCMCTiUn6L.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||3 Mumbai colleges yet to refund ₹2.5 crore to students: RTI||A right to information (RTI) request filed by a Maharashtra-based student organisation has revealed that several city colleges are yet to reimburse refundable deposits to students who graduated between 2006 and 2017. According to information revealed by the RTI, three colleges are yet to refund almost Rs2.5 crore collectively to their students.The Ambedkar Students Association (ASA) released the RTI findings on Thursday, which show that Jai Hind, Mithibai and GN Khalsa colleges have reimbursed only a part of the refundable deposit.College heads, however, said that no student has ever been denied the refundable deposit. As per university rules, said principals, such deposits can be secured by students within a time limit, and beyond that, the money can be converted into a student welfare fund for the current students of the institute.“We are a charitable trust and have to show our ledger books to the charity commissioner every year; we can’t afford to not follow the rules. Not only have students not claimed the money within the stipulated time frame, but in many cases, our students have refused to claim the money and asked us to use the fund for the benefit of students in the college,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College. He added that never has there been a case of a student seeking refund of deposits being denied the same.As per documents shared by ASA, Jai Hind College has collected over Rs53 lakh in refundable deposit and has reimbursed Rs12.50 lakh over the years. Similarly, Matunga’s GN Khalsa College has collected over Rs1.39 crore between 2006 and 2017, and reimbursed around Rs22.6 lakh, while Vile Parle’s Mithibai College has collected Rs1.32 crore and refunded around Rs22.8 lakh to students.“Crores of rupees have not been refunded over the years by these colleges, and we can only imagine what the status is of other affiliated colleges of the University of Mumbai. We have demanded that the state government look into this matter immediately,” said a spokesperson for ASA.Principals of GN Khalsa and Mithibai College were unreachable for comment, despite several messages and calls by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-mumbai-colleges-yet-to-refund-2-5-crore-to-students-rti/story-D06B5s8pHQdAZS0SQQ1dqI.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Convicts not entitled to benefit of section 436A of CrPC: Bombay high court||A three-judge bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has held that a convict is not entitled to the benefit of section 436A of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) under which undertrials are entitled to bail on undergoing detention of up to half of the maximum sentence prescribed for the offences charged against them.“Reading the section as a whole, we find that the benefit under the section has been intended to be given only to undertrial prisoners,” said the bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta, justice Ravi Deshpande and justice Sunil Shukre.The bench answered a question referred by a division bench led by justice AS Chandurkar on August 20, while hearing a plea filed by a convict from Chandrapur, Maksud Sheikh, who has been convicted by the Chandrapur sessions court in November 2016 for voluntarily causing grievous hurt and sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment.After failing to get bail twice during pendency of his appeal, the 46-year-old labourer filed a third application claiming he was entitled to bail under section 436A of CrPC. He said he was booked and arrested in November 2014 and as such he has undergone more than half the sentence handed down to him.In support of his contention, he relied on an order passed by a division bench of the HC holding a convict entitled to bail under section 436A. However, the bench headed by justice Chandurkar refused to accept the view and referred the question for consideration to a larger bench.The three-judge bench accordingly decided on the question on Friday, holding that a convict is not entitled to the benefit of section 436A of CrPC.The larger bench clarified that “the situation which went into the birth of section 436A was of undertrial prisoners, primary concern being their incarceration in jail for long period of time pending investigation, inquiry or trial, even though the presumption of innocence till found guilty was operating in their favour”.The three-judge bench said the section was introduced by 2005 amendment to the CrPC in an endeavour to remedy the condition of misery of undertrials relegated to dark corners within jails.It added that the words “during the period of investigation, inquiry or trial” and “maximum period of imprisonment specified for that offence” used in section 436A are significant and they clearly indicated that only the person who has undergone detention for a period of half or more of the maximum prescribed punishment during investigation, inquiry or trial is eligible for release on bail.It added that the section does not say that a person who has been detained for half the period of imprisonment imposed would be eligible. Instead, the larger bench added, use of the words like “maximum period of imprisonment” shows that the legislature was aware of the difference in the status of an undertrial and a convict, and, with it, of the consequences of detaining a person who enjoys presumption of innocence till found guilty for unduly long time.The three-judge bench rejected argument advanced on behalf of the convict that section 436A is a beneficial provision that requires to be interpreted liberally and applied to convicts as well on grounds that appeal is considered an extension of trial.The bench said adopting liberal interpretation is possible only where there are two possibilities caused by ambiguity in wording, but there is no scope of interpretation when the wording of a section is clear and unambiguous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/convicts-not-entitled-to-benefit-of-section-436a-of-crpc-bombay-high-court/story-Dwfr8tpZhoeMWBRxYPp6JM.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Even before Maharashtra forest department acts on complaints, more mangroves hacked at Panje, Uran||Within a span of three days, over 50 mangrove trees have been chopped at the ecologically sensitive Panje area in Uran by unknown persons, alleged environmentalists and locals.On Friday, local resident and birder Parag Gharat found that 40 mangrove trees were hacked towards the creek-end of Panje from where high-tide water flows into the area. “The mangroves are being hacked overnight or early morning and the branches are being left at the site itself,” he said.The Maharashtra forest department said the violation comes even before they could commence their investigation at the site. Gharat had spotted similar violations towards the central part of the 213-hectare (ha) migratory bird roosting area on Wednesday, leading to a series of complaints filed by environmentalists.“There are very few trees left at the site and we are losing them at a rapid pace,” said Gharat.Environmentalist Aishwarya Sridhar said, “These mangrove trees, around five- to six-foot-tall each, used to be the roosting point for cormorants, golden plovers, owlets and was home to a large biodiversity. It has all been lost.”Destruction of mangrove and construction within 50 metres of them was banned by the Bombay high court (HC) in September 2018. Based on Gharat’s information, environment group Conservation Action Trust (CAT) on Friday filed a complaint with various bodies of the Maharashtra government and a HC-appointed high-power committee consisting state secretaries. They had also filed a complaint on Wednesday. “Repeated offences are happening at the same location, and the forest department has not thought it necessary to deploy staff there on a permanent basis. Nor have they carried out a detailed investigation of these violations with the help of the police,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, CAT.Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forest (mangrove cell), said, “We have sought comments from Raigad district collector on this issue. The range forest officer has been directed to submit a report immediately. In the meantime, the matter will be raised during our next HC-appointed committee meeting in September.”The west side of Panje wetland is bordered with a narrow patch of mangrove (300-500-metre wide and 1.5-km long) which has been declared as Coastal Regulation Zone-I (having highest ecological protection) by the state government. The mangrove destruction was reported from this patch. “Land mafia operating out of Uran is hacking the trees as long as rainwater and high tide ingress is there. The minute weather conditions turn dry, they show that the area is devoid of mangroves to allow construction on it. It is high time the chief minister takes cognisance of rampant ecological destruction and fishing community’s livelihood,” said Stalin D, member of the HC-appointed committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/even-before-maharashtra-forest-department-acts-on-complaints-more-mangroves-hacked-at-panje-uran/story-ZrbHXmharJSttKzV06b8BJ.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows one taziya in south Mumbai with five persons||In a relief to All India Idaara Tahfuz e Hussainiyat, an Anjuman (religious organisation) representing a section of Shia community in south Mumbai, the Bombay high court (HC) has permitted them to take out a taziya from Bhendi Bazar to the graveyard at Mazagaon on Sunday (August 30) which is commemorated as Aashura, the day when the Holy Prophet’s grandson Imam Hussain was martyred in Karbala, Iraq. The court while refusing permission for a procession directed the organisation to give an undertaking to adhere to the guidelines prepared by the state for the same, failing which action would be initiated against them. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition, had been informed by advocate Rajendra Shirodkar, representing the organisation, along with advocate Shahzad Naqvi that carrying of alam and taziya was part of Muharram rituals, and hence directions should be issued to the concerned authorities to permit the organisation to take out a procession consisting 20-50 people from Bhendi Bazar to the graveyard at Mazagaon. Shirodkar had also sought permission for other rituals to be held every day for two hours from August 27 to 30. The bench had, on Thursday, directed the principal secretary (home) and the secretary of disaster management department to hear the petitioners and submit their decision on whether the organisation could be allowed permission and to what extent. After perusing the report on Friday, the bench directed the state to prepare guidelines for the organisation to take out the taziya and alam. The state submitted that only five people, including a cameraman/photographer, would be allowed to take out the taziya. The taziya would be taken on a truck and would stop 100 metres away from the graveyard, following which four persons would carry the taziya on their shoulders and would enter the graveyard to complete the rituals. After Shirodkar gave an undertaking on behalf of the organisation to adhere to the limited reliefs, the state submitted that it would only be applicable for the said organisation and should not be treated as a precedent. After hearing the submissions and as the organisation consented, the court disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-one-taziya-in-sobo-with-five-persons/story-5fpvyx3QeLH6YpDL8yXQnK.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Former Mumbai Port Trust chief Sanjay Bhatia takes oath as Maharashtra Upa-Lokayukta||Sanjay Bhatia, former chairman of the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT), has been appointed as the Upa-Lokayukta of Maharashtra. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari administered the oath to Bhatia at a brief ceremony held at Raj Bhavan on Friday. Bhatia, who retired from the civil services on July 31, he will get a term of five years as Upa-Lokayukta.The 1985-batch officer is a mechanical engineer and completed MBA from the Southern Cross University, Australia. He has also served as the vice-chairman and managing director of Cidco, commissioner, sales tax and chairman of Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB), among other important positions.Lokayukta ML Tahiliyani’s five-year term ended on August 23 and Upa-Lokayukta Dr Shailesh Kumar Sharma is holding additional charge of the position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sanjay-bhatia-takes-oath-as-maharashtra-upa-lokayukta/story-f2VyPoVbF29aBJDARY1CIM.html
29-08-2020||City||Thane civic body to make a list of illegal structures||With the recent building collapse in Mahad of Raigad district, the issue of illegal buildings in Thane have come to the fore again. The Thane civic commissioner on Friday has given directives to survey illegal buildings in the city and submit a list of these structures by Monday. The commissioner has warned of strict action against illegal structures from September 4. Civic chief Dr Vipin Sharma said, “All assistant and deputy municipal commissioners have to function at ward level and not only prepare a list of illegal structures but also ensure that the system is in place to start demolishing these structures. From September 4 onwards, efforts will be taken to ensure that illegal structures do not exist in any ward.” A special review meeting to discuss the status of Covid-19 in Thane city, property tax and illegal structures was held on Friday. All assistant and deputy municipal commissioners were present for this meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-body-to-make-a-list-of-illegal-structures/story-1t1ZkyQJ3jEged7hqTxmEO.html
29-08-2020||City||Bhiwandi man booked for giving triple talaq||Shanti Nagar police registered a case against a 26-year-old man under the tripal talaq law for giving verbal talaq to his 21-year-old wife. The accused, a Bhiwandi resident, also allegedly assaulted his wife, demanded a bike from her parents and threatened to kill her. According to police, the complainant, Najrana Khan, got married to Subhan Khan in 2017 and added that since their marriage, her husband and sister-in-law Husnatara Khan, 27, has been harassing her for dowry. “The husband and her in-laws allegedly harassed the complainant for not getting anything in the form of gifts or cash during her wedding. The accused wanted a bike from her family which the woman’s family could not afford. This led to constant fight between the couple, and Khan allegedly assaulted his wife on most occasions. On August 24 when the woman was at her parents’ place, the accused argued with her over phone, said talaq three times and he told her not to come back home,” said a police officer. Shanti Nagar police registered case against the husband and the sister-in-law under sections 498A, 323, 504 of the Indian Penal Code and the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-man-booked-for-giving-triple-talaq/story-pzrzvnQwqATTuuYETiZDfK.html
29-08-2020||City||Panvel police arrest three for credit, debit card fraud||Panvel police arrested three men for running a phishing scam since the past two years by conning debit card and credit card holders outside India and making online purchases from their accounts. The three accused, identified as Mudassir Shaikh, 38; Rafiq Ansari, 58; and Salman Ansari, 27, were arrested on Tuesday from Mumbai. Shaikh worked with Rafiq who is into selling used cars while Ansari is an electrician. Apart from buying goods, the accused also used the stolen cards to pay for food they ordered online as well as hotel stays, said police. The racket was unearthed when Panvel police was investigating a cybercrime wherein a Panvel welder lost ₹1 lakh in a debit card scam in June. Police sources said that during technical analysis and tracing IP addresses of suspects in the case, police found a lead in Mumbai. “During interrogation, we learnt of the involvement of three accused in other similar cyber frauds. The accused used stolen debit card and credit details to target people, mostly those residing outside India. They have been running the racket since March 2019. Using the cards, they would make purchases through online e-commerce websites,” said a police officer requesting anonymity. Based on preliminary investigation, police estimate they have duped scores of victims of ₹2.5 lakh and the figure is likely to rise as officials continue digging into previous purchases made by the accused. Panvel city police took assistance of the Mumbai Police’s crime branch and local police stations to trace Shaikh and his accomplices. It was ascertained that all three men were staying in Kurla, from where they were taken into custody on Tuesday. “We have arrested three persons but cannot reveal any further information at this stage as the case is still ongoing. We are on the lookout for more wanted accused,” said Ajaykumar Landge, senior inspector at Panvel city police station. Police said they are probing the involvement of the accused in the welder’s case, which the arrested accused have allegedly denied. Police are on the lookout for past accomplices of the arrested accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-police-arrest-three-for-credit-debit-card-fraud/story-JZsWVSEt4S1JP8DSX1kZHJ.html
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Lawrence Bishnoi can only be quizzed inside jail: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, if needed by any agency, can only be quizzed at the Central Jail in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur, where he is lodged. The high court order came on the plea of the gangster, who had expressed fear that he might also face the same fate as UP’s dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey, who was killed in an encounter recently. He had sought security cover and his transfer on production warrant in handcuffs only.The gangster had alleged threat to his life from the police of Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan and even the superintendent of the Central Jail, Bharatpur. However, he had said that for now, he was seeking protection only in the case of Haryana. With several FIRs registered against him in Haryana and Rajasthan, the petitioner is now apprehensive that when he is taken for interrogation in the context of the FIR registered in July in Sirsa, he may be ‘eliminated altogether’, his lawyer had told the court. Bishnoi has nearly two dozen FIRs registered against him, including attempt to murder, extortion, snatching, carjacking and cases under the Arms Act in Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The high court bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh, while seeking response from Haryana by September 18, asked the state as to why, especially in the situation of current pandemic, he cannot be interrogated at Bharatpur. Till then, if needed to be quizzed, he be quizzed there only, the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lawrence-bishnoi-can-only-be-quizzed-inside-jail-hc/story-UALjGiGAiuFxWsY23Hxu7M.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Congress, BJP trade barbs over drugs angle||The Congress has demanded an investigation into the alleged nexus between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and filmmaker Sandeep Ssingh in connection with Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The BJP hit back questioning why the Maharashtra police overlooked “drug dealing angle” to the case and whether they were trying to shield some political leaders from the ruling Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) alliance in the state.When HT called Ssingh for a comment, his phone was switched off, and he had not responded to a message till the time of going to press.State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant has written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking a probe into the drug dealing in Bollywood. He claimed the filmmaker has links with BJP leaders from the state. Sawant said it needs to be investigated if the leaders had been shielding people involved in narcotics dealings. He added it appears BJP’s top state leaders are very close to the Bollywood members and it needs to be probed if they are privy to the drug dealing.“I have tweeted the poster of biopic on the life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi produced by Sandeep Ssingh. The poster was released by then Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. We want to know if this was the reason why the drug nexus in Bollywood was not probed by the previous government. It needs to be clarified that Sandeep Ssingh’s involvement in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case was the reason why the case was hurriedly handed over to CBI and Enforcement Directorate, the agencies controlled by the Central government,” Sawant said.BJP leader and former CM Devendra Fadnavis questioned why the state did not probe the Ssingh angle. “The state police kept maintaining it was a suicide. They should have probed Ssingh too. Now a news has come about how Sssingh was co-producing a biopic on the life of honourable Bal Thackeray a few years ago. What will Congress now say about that link,” he said.BJP MLA Ram Kadam separately wrote to Thackeray demanding a debate in the Assembly over the matter and a through probe into the drugs dealing in Bollywood. In his letter to Thackeray on Wednesday, Kadam said, “The use of drugs in Bollywood is the latest angle which has come up in the SSR [Sushant Singh Rajput] death case and needs to be investigated. Bollywood has a long-lasting impact on the youths and such revelations related to the film personalities are harmful as many draw inspiration from them. The issue needs to be discussed during the forthcoming monsoon session beginning from September 7.”Kadam said they do not know why the Mumbai police did not check the drug angle related to the case during their probe that went on for 65 days. “Why didn’t Sandeep Ssingh’s chats not come to the fore? Was Mumbai police trying to shield some leader from the ruling parties. Congress is now raising doubts over Sandeep Ssingh’s links to our leaders, but it should have probed it when the investigation was with the state police. The state government is free to probe the Sandeep Ssingh episode to any extent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-congress-bjp-trade-barbs-over-drugs-angle/story-Hu6p2h8QYa4lEil0nbnzVI.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: CBI questions Rhea, brother; ED issues summons to Goa hotelier||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) began questioning actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty on Friday in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Rhea, who arrived for questioning at 10.30am at the DRDO guest house at Santacruz, left around 9pm. The CBI also questioned Rajput’s flatmate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and domestic help Keshav Bachner, too, for the fourth consecutive day on Friday. Meanwhile, Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials issued summons to a Goa-based hotelier, Gaurav Arya, and have called him for questioning on Monday in a parallel probe into allegations of money laundering related to the Rajput case. Arya runs Hotel Tamarind and Café Cotinga in Goa.ED officials visited Hotel Tamarind at Anjuna, a coastal village in north Goa, but found the property to be shut. They have stuck a notice on the door of the hotel, which according to officials has been shut since the lockdown restrictions were enforced in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak. The notice stated that Arya must meet Rajiv Kumar, assistant director, ED, at 11am on Monday in connection with a case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.Arya has also been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and is being investigated by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The NCB had on Wednesday registered a first information report (FIR) against Rhea, Showik, talent manager Jaya Saha, Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi and Arya under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the NDPS Act.The NCB action came after the ED wrote to the agency, asking it to probe if drugs were supplied to Rajput and Rhea. Arya’s name cropped in Rhea’s WhatsApp conversations related to drugs. ED officials, however, refused to divulge details of whether there were any financial transactions between Arya and Rajput, or Chakraborty or others named in the Enforcement Case Information Report registered by ED. On Thursday, ED had questioned Saha and also summoned Rhea’s father, Indrajeet Chakraborty, to access his family’s bank lockers in the Vakola branch of Axis Bank. Earlier on August 10, ED had questioned Rhea, Indrajeet and Showik. Later, Modi and Pithani, too, were questioned. Investigators had extracted information into the formation of four companies by Rajput and Chakraborty, and her family. Two of these companies were registered, while the other two were under the process of being registered. Investigators wanted to understand the terms mentioned in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed during the formation of these companies to understand how the profit sharing was designed. ED sources said Rhea had responded to all questions, but could not divulge details of the exact sequence of events. ED has also questioned Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, Chakraborty’s chartered accountant (CA) Ritesh Shah, and Rajput’s CA Sandeep Sridhar in the case.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. After a two-week quiet, a controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterparts. The probe was handed over to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) by the Supreme Court, after it upheld the validity of the Bihar Police’s first information report (FIR) filed on the basis of a complaint by Rajput’s father, KK Singh, who has accused actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money.Rhea, who has been questioned multiple times by the agencies, has denied all allegations levelled against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-cbi-questions-rhea-brother-ed-issues-summons-to-goa-hotelier/story-pV5R7SUU8lXPAgl2zIyZdK.html
29-08-2020||City||Road rage: Biker dragged under car for 150 metres in Delhi||New Delhi: A bike rider was critically injured after he was dragged under a car for about 150 metres at Pankha Road in west Delhi during the early hours on Friday following a road rage. Police arrested the car driver and his associate and charged them with attempt to murder.The arrested men were identified as Durgesh Tiwari, 31 and Karan Sethi, 44, both residents of Uttam Nagar.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said a PCR call was received around 2. 45 am on Friday reporting that a man has been injured in an accident. A police team that reached the spot, found that one Chetan Kumar, who also lives in Uttam Nagar, was riding his bullet motorcycle when a car rammed his two wheeler from behind, the DCP said.Purohit said, Kumar then confronted the car driver and stood in front of the car asking the two occupants to get down. “As told by witnesses, the car driver and co-passenger didn’t came out from the car and instead accelerated, hitting the bike rider. Kumar was thrown on the bonnet of the car. He held the wiper of the car and sat on the bonnet. He cried for help but the car driver didn’t stop the car and drove towards Pankha Road in Janakpuri,” the DCP said.The witnesses said when the car reached near Gold Gym at Pankha Road, Kumar lost grip and fell off the car. “They said because the car driver still didn’t stop the car, Kumar was dragged under it for about 100 to 150 metres. Passersby and locals saw Kumar stuck under the car and forced the driver to apply brakes,” he said.Seeing a crowd gathering at the spot, while the driver managed to flee, locals caught his co-passenger and reported the matter to the police, the DCP said. “Kumar was rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital from where he was referred to Safdarjung Hospital. A case of attempt to murder was registered and with the information from the co-passenger, the driver was also arrested,” Purohit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-rage-biker-dragged-under-car-for-150-metres-in-delhi/story-2JH7mYbap8E6RoGNDWGcyM.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||No water cuts in Mumbai from Saturday after level of seven lakes rises to 95.19%||There will be no water cuts in Mumbai from Saturday, the Brihamumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced on Friday, as the level of the seven lakes that supply water to the city has reached 95.19%. The seven lakes are Tansa, Bhatsa, Middle Vaitarna, Upper Vaitarna, Tulsi, Vehar and Modak Sagar.The civic body had imposed 20% water cut in the city on August 5 as the seven lakes had 37.36% useful water content, or 539.307 billion litres, as opposed to 89.96% at the same time in 2019. The cut was reduced to 10% on August 21 after levels in the seven lakes crossed the 85% mark. On Friday, BMC announced, “Due to heavy rain in the past few days, water storage has increased in the catchment area of seven lakes, which supply water to BMC area. As of 6am today [Friday], the total water storage in all seven lakes has reached 95.19 per cent. Taking this into consideration, the BMC administration has decided to withdraw the water cut that was implemented from August 5, 2020. Accordingly, regular water supply will be provided to BMC area from August 29, 2020.”BMC also decided to regularise water supply to villages and areas in Thane and Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation, which receive their supply from the Mumbai civic body’s lakes.As of Friday morning, there is 1,377.69 billion litres of water in the seven lakes. At the same time last year, the level of useful water content was 1,395.663 billion litres, or 96.43%.BMC supplies 3,850 million litres per day (MLD) as against a demand of 4,200 MLD. After the 20% water cut, BMC was supplying 3,080 MLD of water to Mumbai.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems – the Vaitarna system supplies water to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-water-cuts-in-mumbai-from-saturday-after-level-of-seven-lakes-rises-to-95-19/story-jOhW59bU1Izb2qVIeqvcxK.html
29-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records over 14,000 Covid-19 cases for a third consecutive day||Maharashtra recorded more than 14,000 cases for the third consecutive day, as the state’s Covid-19 tally reached 747,995 with the addition of 14,361 infections on Friday. The state also reported 331 fatalities, although 248 of these deaths were from the past two days, 47 from the past week and 36 from the period before that. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the state had decided to implement ‘Chase the Virus’ programme across Maharashtra to identify elderly and comorbid people and protect them to keep the fatalities in check. The announcement came after the Centre expressed concern over the state’s high fatality rate. Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held a review meeting on Thursday with officials from nine states, including Maharashtra, and a union territory where the case fatality rate (CFR) is high.Maharashtra’s CFR stands at 3.18% against the national CFR of 1.83%.The state authorities are concerned over their failure to bring down CFR, despite setting a target of bringing it down to less than 1%. The government has now directed the district administrations with the high CFR to go for the aggressive tracing, surveillance of high- and low-risk patients and provide quick treatment to patients. “In the first week of July, we had asked the district and civic administrations to reduce the positivity rate to less than 10% and CFR to less than 1%. More than two-and-half-months later, our positivity rate is around 19% and CFR at 3.25%. This is because of the lacklustre approach in surveillance and weak infrastructure in certain parts of the state. We are now gearing up the district administrations for immediate improvement on these two fronts,” said a Mantralaya official, on condition of anonymity.Apart from the announcement of implementing ‘Chase The Virus’ drive across the state, Thackeray also announced ramping-up health infrastructure in rural areas. “The drive will tap citizens over 55 years and treat them for comorbidities. We have erected jumbo and field hospitals to treat Covid-19 and they are equipped with oxygen and ventilator facilities. Although these facilities are temporary, we could use the equipment while setting up permanent health facilities. We want to make available health facilities to the rural population on the lines of facilities available in Mumbai,” he said. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said Maharashtra has seen a drop in CFR over the past two months, although the cumulative rate is still high. “It will rapidly come down over the next few weeks and we expect the infection curve to touch baseline by Diwali, in the second week of November. It is true that the infrastructure in some districts still needs to be ramped up. In some districts, the turnaround time for test reports is more than two days, even though testing facilities in rural areas, too, have been augmented. This has resulted in reporting of more cases in rural areas,” he said. Mumbai (5.3%), Solapur (4.1%) and Akola (4.1%) are among the districts with highest CFR in the state. Solapur has brought it down from 10% in the past three months by taking adequate measures. “We have been focussing on comorbid patients in the rural areas, where the spread has penetrated. We have been providing better facilities at Covid centres so that the patients are not scared of revealing their symptoms. We trace at least 20 high- and low-risk patients and it has helped us in reducing the daily cases to 350-400 from more than 700 a few days ago. In urban parts, we have reached the peak and in rural areas it’s expected to reach plateau in the next six weeks,” said Dr Pradeep Dhele, civil surgeon of Solapur district.Dr Rajkumar Chauhan, civil surgeon of Akola district, said aggressive tracing and testing has helped them reduce fatality rate too. “Akola district is known for the high salinity water leading to chronic kidney ailments among people, especially the elderly. We have been focusing on comorbid patients, with the help of general practitioners and local corporators. We have been tracking at least 18 people against every positive patient and it has helped us in containing the spread to daily 40-45 patients. We expect our CFR to drop to 3% in one month or so,” he said. Meanwhile, the number of active patients across the state on Friday crossed 1.80 lakh and 11,607 recoveries pushed up the total number of recovered patients to 543,170. The recovery rate of the state stands at 72.62% against the national rate of 76.24%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-over-14-000-covid-19-cases-for-a-third-consecutive-day/story-JhdkvEV8kd6VHYAnLirlaN.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||Cop probing Delhi riots case shifted||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal transferred several senior officers within the Delhi Police on Friday afternoon, including Rajesh Deo, who was deputy commissioner of police (crime) and had recently won the union home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation. Deo was also probing some of the Delhi 2020 riots cases. Deo, who held additional charge of the legal cell, will continue to head the unit. Indian Administrative Service officials Renu Sharma and Rajeev Verma were reinstated four months after they were suspended. While Sharma (1988 batch) has been posted in the urban development department, Verma (1992 batch) has been posted in vigilance. Both were suspended on March 29, with the Union government citing lapses in duty in implementation of the nationwide lockdown imposed from March 25. The orders were issued soon after huge crowds of migrants had gathered in Anand Vihar and other areas in the city borders. In the list of transfers within the Delhi Police, Ram Gopal Naik, another DCP of the crime branch, was transferred to the traffic unit. Naik was among the officers who brought fugitive cricket bookie Sanjeev Chawla back to the country in February this year after winning an extradition case in a United Kingdom court. Chawla is an accused in the 2000 match fixing scandal that rocked Indian cricket. North district DCP Monika Bhardwaj has been posted in crime branch. Dwarka district DCP Anto Alphonse has been given the charge of north district and DCP Santosh Kumar Meena who was posted in Delhi police’s security division has been appointed DCP of Dwarka district. IPS officer, Jaspal Singh who was Goa’s Inspector General of Police, has been appointed the joint commissioner of the New Delhi range in place of officer Anand Mohan, who has been promoted as the special commissioner of training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-officers-transferred-in-delhi-police/story-0eKxDkMaYye4vyhGgHAvnM.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||Two inebriated men kill man looking for his missing son in Pul Prahladpur||A 40-year-old man, who was searching for his missing son in southeast Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur, was beaten to death on Thursday night allegedly by two men who were infuriated at being “persistently” asked if they knew of the boy’s whereabouts. Police said the two men — Dheeraj Arora (29) and Rakesh Arora (31) — have been arrested and charged with murder. They both drive gramin-sewa vehicles and live in Pul Prahladpur area, officers said.Southeast deputy commissioner of police RP Meena said a team from the Okhla Industrial Area station was patrolling the area on Thursday night when the incident came to light. “The team was at Maa Anand Mai Marg when they saw a pregnant woman crying for help, with an injured man lying unconscious beside her. Our personnel took the man to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead on arrival,” Meena said.Police said the woman, Pappi Devi, and her husband, Krishan Kumar Meena, hail from Jaipur. They were searching for their seven-year-old son, who they said had gone missing a few minutes ago, in the area.“She said that when her husband asked the men about his son, they got irritated and assaulted him, and hit him on the head with a metal rod,” Meena said.Multiple teams were deployed to nab the murder suspects and find the couple’s missing son, he said. The boy was located a few hours later, and reunited with his mother.“A raid was carried out after we received a tip-off that one of the two drivers sleeps in mini-trucks nearby, which led to Rakesh Arora’s arrest,” the officer said.The officer said Rakesh confessed to have attacked the man and also revealed the whereabouts of his brother Dheeraj, who was then arrested from the area. “The brothers said they were both drinking alcohol in their tempo when Meena asked about his missing son. They said they got irritated because Meena was repeatedly asking about his child. Dheeraj caught hold of him and Rakesh hit his head with a metal rod. When his wife started shouting for help, both of them fled,” Meena said.Police said they have recovered the rod used in the crime. The two arrested men do not have any previous criminal involvement, Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-beaten-to-death-in-delhi-s-pul-prahladpur/story-yp6coroXZCNuJvEMqEmH1I.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||Anna Hazare turns down BJP request for anti-AAP protest||Social activist Anna Hazare on Friday turned down Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta’s request to join the party in a “mass movement” against the Aam Aadmi Party government. Gupta, on August 24, wrote to Hazare asking him to join a BJP-led agitation alleging the AAP government in Delhi has become the “new name of social, political and economic corruption”.In his letter, posted on his Facebook profile on Friday, the 83-year-old criticised the BJP for doing little to deliver on its promise of “corruption-free India”.Hazare said he felt “sorry” reading Gupta’s letter, writing that there “can’t be anything more unfortunate” that a party [BJP] which claims to be the largest political party in the world is calling an “83-year-old man, living in a 10x12 feet room in a temple, with no money or (political) power” to join their movement.Hazare, who along with Arvind Kejriwal (now Delhi chief minister) and others started the India Against Corruption (IAC) movement in 2011, wrote, “It is your government at the Centre. A lot of Delhi issues are under the central government. CBI, Economic Offence (Wing), vigilance, Delhi police are under the Centre’s control. The Prime Minister has always said that his government has taken tough action to eradicate corruption. If the Delhi government is corrupt, then why is it that your government is not taking any action against them? Or is it that the Centre’s claims to eradicate corruption are hollow claims?”Gupta issued a statement, in which he said, “Anna Hazare ji had organised a mass movement against corruption in Delhi in 2011 and the AAP, born from the same movement, is steeped in corruption today. In this context, the BJP had requested him to give his support. He himself has admitted that he has always been protesting against corruption and will take part in the fight against corruption in future. The BJP is committed and capable to fight every battle against corruption. We request those who have been fighting against corruption to join this movement.”When contacted, AAP refused to comment.Sanjay Kumar, director at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), said the BJP tried to use Hazare to give legitimacy to its anti-corruption campaign. “But the move backfired. Hazare had distanced himself from AAP after the latter’s victory in assembly elections in 2015. The BJP, I think, tried to use him as a symbol to start their anti-corruption campaign. It would have given legitimacy to their campaign given that Hazare is an anti-corruption crusader. But BJP needs to understand that unlike 2015, AAP won the recent assembly elections because of the work it has done in its first tenure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anna-hazare-refuses-to-join-bjp-leaders-call-for-protest-against-aap/story-oyv3sWwBS5GX18d631CBaL.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||No change in power tariff, marginal hike in pension surcharge||Power bills of all consumers will see a marginal hike of 1.2 percentage points from September 1 as the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) on Friday announced the new tariff order for 2020-21, keeping the per unit and fixed rates constant but slightly increasing a surcharge. The DERC kept all rates such as per unit energy cost and fixed charges on the sanctioned load of every household same as before. But power bills will still see a minor increase as the regulator raised the ‘pension trust surcharge’ from 3.8% to 5%. Chief minister and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal tweeted soon after the regulator announced the power tariff changes, saying this is the sixth consecutive year that people had been spared of a tariff hike. “Congratulations to the people of Delhi. At a time when power tariffs are increasing year on year everywhere, tariffs in Delhi have not been increased for the sixth consecutive year. In some sectors, we have reduced tariffs. This is historic. This is happening because you elected an honest government in Delhi,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.The chief minister, however, did not account for the increase in fixed charges that happened in 2018. After facing criticism for hiking the fixed charges back then, the Delhi government revised its subsidy structure last year, wherein electricity is now completely free for residents who consume up 200 units of power every month. Those who consume up to 400 units, get a discount of up to Rs 800 every month. Explaining the bit about “reduced tariffs” in Kejriwal’s tweet, DERC chairperson Justice (retired) SS Chauhan said the commission waived off the surcharge of 20% on the ‘time of day’ (ToD) tariff levied primarily on industrial and commercial connections. This waiver will be applicable only for a month though, he said. Under the TOD scheme, non-domestic consumers, mostly factories, shops, industries, etc., who consume electricity during peak hours -- 2pm-5pm and 10pm-1am -- had to pay a 20% surcharge. This has been waived off for a month starting September 1. The rebate of 20% on consuming more electricity during the off peak hour of 4am-10am will continue. Apart from the goods and services taxes, two surcharges are levied on every electricity bill in Delhi. These are the pension surcharge, which goes towards paying pension to former employees of power utilities before the sector was decentralised, and the regulatory asset surcharge, which goes to discoms to make up for their revenue deficits. Under the new order, the regulatory asset surcharge will remain unchanged at 8%.The DERC chief said the increase in the pension surcharge was done on a proposal sent by the Delhi government. “Due to outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, no tariff hike has been considered by the commission for the financial year 2020-21. Only the pension surcharge has been marginally increased because the number of pensioners under the erstwhile Delhi Vidyut Board increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-power-tariff-hike-in-delhi-but-bills-will-see-an-increase-as-surcharge-up/story-GR3HuPgWarTVaDEdwarGYO.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||After hot and humid week, skies open up, cause snarls||After a hot and humid week, overcast skies gave way to a downpour across the national capital on Friday. The spell of rain that lasted almost three hours resulted in several arterial roads being waterlogged, causing snarls at many places. The Delhi traffic police said severe congestion was reported from Ashram intersection, Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway (DND), Noida Link Road, Vikas Marg, India Gate roundabout, and Connaught Place Outer Circle, among others.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an ‘Orange’ alert on Friday morning for Delhi-NCR warning of ‘light to moderate’ rain and thundershowers. The Safdarjung observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, recorded 23.2mm of rain in the ‘moderate’ category. Delhi Ridge weather station recorded 44mm rain while Palam and Lodhi Road stations got 35.8 mm and 23.6 mm rainfall, respectively. Aya Nagar station, however, recorded only ‘traces’ of rainfall. “Delhi received moderate rainfall, as the monsoon trough is passing over the city. Over the next two days, ‘light’ to ‘very light’ rain may occur, as the trough will be moving southwards. On September 1 and 2, another spell of moderate rain is expected in Delhi, as the trough is expected to move towards the north by then,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, said. He added that there was a forecast of light rain over the past week, but the monsoon trough had moved towards the Himalayan foothills because of which there was no rain in Delhi. On August 20 and 21, Delhi had received ‘heavy’ to ‘very heavy’ rainfall. Residential areas like GK-II, Green Park and Saket saw massive water logging with vehicles struggling to wade through knee-deep water on several stretches. Residents dialed the local municipal offices to pump out the water. Sanjay Rana, president, GK-II Welfare Association, said there was literally a river flowing outside Savitri Cinema while it was raining. “This is the scenario every time there’s good rainfall.The sewerage system is too old and overflows even with little rain. The sewer lines had to be re-laid, but the process has not started so far,” said Rana. Malvika Gupta, a resident of Saket D-block, said there was almost knee-deep water in the colony. “It happens every monsoon. It is such a nightmare for residents,” said Gupta. Commuters were stuck on the road for hours as traffic crawled on waterlogged roads. Aarti Arora, a commuter, said it took her more than an hour and a half to reach Ashram Chowk from DND Flyway. “There was a long queue on the DND and they were moving at a snail’s pace. It was the same at Ashram Chowk too,” she said.The rain, coupled with Haryana releasing extra water into the Hathinikund barrage led to a surge in the Yamuna river’s level. By 4pm Friday, the water level in the Yamuna at Delhi’s Old Railway Bridge was at 204.41 metres, close to the warning level of 204.50 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-hot-and-humid-week-skies-open-up-cause-snarls/story-mvWZ3g9WRiNlK0B1vO9LIP.html
29-08-2020||Delhi||New master plan puts spotlight on illegal colonies||Nine months after the Centre initiated the process of giving ownership rights to four million residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the national Capital, efforts are now being made to bring these colonies under the planning ambit.The Master Plan of Delhi-2041, a vision document for the city’s development, will focus on development in all unauthorised colonies, said a DDA official. Officials of the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), roped in by the DDA to prepare Delhi’s 2041 Master Plan, said efforts will be made to provide essential services and social infrastructure in these soon-to-be authorised colonies. Unauthorised colonies — that house nearly four million people — are an integral part of the city and can’t be ignored, urban planning experts said.Hitesh Vaidya, director NIUA, said, “The new master plan will focus on providing opportunities of regeneration in all typologies of development, especially unplanned residential areas, such as unauthorised colonies, where it is imperative to improve the residents’ quality of life.”For this, the NIUA and the DDA will hold a meeting with resident welfare associations of these colonies on September 2 to discuss their concerns and identify issues to be addressed.A senior DDA official said, “We are holding consultation with all stakeholders. This is to understand their problems faced by people in these localities, what they want and how those issues can be addressed better.”Though the contours of the new plan are yet to be finalised, Vaidya said, efforts will be made to create provision of social infrastructure in such illegal colonies. “We are looking at aspects such as provision of social infrastructure — like schools, parks etc — wherever possible. NIUA is supporting DDA with public engagement and we look forward to all stakeholders and residents using this platform to provide constructive suggestions for the next master plan,” Vaidya saidThe Centre handed ownership rights documents to 20 property owners under the Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY) last year, days before the model code of conduct for the February 2020 Delhi assembly polls came into force.Ownership rights to residents of unauthorised colonies was one of the main poll planks of the BJP in the assembly elections held earlier this year. The DDA, the nodal agency for implementation of PM-UDAY, recently resumed the process to give ownership rights. Urban planner Shamsher Singh, the former chief town planner of the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi, said while ownership rights are being given, they can’t get building plans sanctioned as per the existing MPD-2021 norms. “In some of these unauthorised colonies, the lanes are not wide enough because of which the building plans can’t be sanctioned. They need a different set of development control norms,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/master-plan-2041-to-focus-on-development-of-unauthorised-colonies/story-M2wZLAGxJBjLtGpaNDgxyO.html
29-08-2020||City||SC order: Exams already over or are being conducted in Delhi’s varsities||New Delhi: The Supreme Court’s order on Friday, saying students cannot be promoted without writing final-year exams, has little significance for state-run universities in Delhi or the three central universities , which have already conducted their exams or are in the process of doing so. Though the Delhi government had in July cancelled exams of final-year students in state-run universities, keeping the Covid-19 crisis in mind, several of them had already conducted their evaluation by then.“States cannot promote students based on internal assessment or past performance. If states want to hold exams after September 30, they can approach the University Grants Commission for the same,” a three-judge bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said.Delhi has eight state universities -- Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi Technological University (GGSIPU), Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University (DPSRU), Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women (IGDTUW), Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology Delhi (IIIT-D), Ambedkar University, Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology (NSIT), and National Law University Delhi. Delhi University, Jamia Millia Islamia and Jawaharlal Nehru University are central universities. DU is already conducting online open-book exams for its final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, while offline exams are slated to begin September 14. Jamia has already evaluated its final- year students based on multiple internal assessments. At JNU, some schools have finished their online exams while papers are pending for others.In July, the Delhi government had announced cancellation of all end-semester examinations in eight state-run universities across the capital, calling for an evaluation based on internal assessments and previous examinations.“We had already conducted online examinations and results were also declared. Students have also joined their placements. So we won’t really be affected by this order,” said Anup Lather, Public Relations Officer at DTU.NSUT too had conducted its final-year exams orally. “We have not read the verdict yet but our students have been evaluated orally. Their results are in the final stage and will be declared within a week,” said Sujata Sengar, Dean Academics, NSUT.IGDTUW also conducted online exams for its final-year students in May. Ambedkar University, which focuses more on a continuous assessment process during the entire semester instead of putting more weightage on a single end-semester examination, evaluated its students based on the online assessments.Asked if the order would affect them, the university said they had already conducted their exams. “In AUD, assessment for courses is spread over the duration of the semester (Continuous Assessment). University has completed Assessment and results have been declared for all the programmes,” the university’s public relations office said, in a statement.However, GGSIPU, which has around 170 courses and over one lakh students under its wing, is yet to conduct written exams for some of its courses. For others, evaluation has been done on the basis of viva and dissertation. “We are awaiting formal directions from higher education. In case exams are to be done, we shall work out modalities and the mode,” said vice-chancellor Mahesh Verma.. Despite repeated attempts, the Delhi government too did not respond in the matter on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-order-exams-already-over-or-are-being-conducted-in-delhi-s-varsities/story-an199CdfjIdn9iVMP146TK.html
29-08-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar records an average 104 Covid-19 cases a day between Aug 21 and 27||Gautam Budh Nagar recorded an average of 104 new Covid-19 cases a day and discharged an average of 77 per day in the week from August 21 to 27.The health department said the increase in number of cases is due to higher testing rates. On Thursday, the district administration and teams of Noida and Greater Noida Authorities conducted sanitization drive at 48 locations. The teams are conducting surveillance, door-to-door survey and sampling, and running a dedicated call centre to monitor people in home isolation 24X7. Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the health department is conducting 3500-4000 testing per day. “These days we are conducting real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for Covid - 19. The test is able to detect slightest presence of virus in the body. The RT-PCR’s result rate is 8-10% while the Antigen test’s positive rate is only 2%,” he said. The Gautam Budh Nagar district has so far successfully treated and discharged 6483 patients while 959 other patients are undergoing medical treatment in different hospitals. A total of 45 persons have succumbed to the Coronavirus, including one on Thursday. The district has recorded so far 7497 Covid positive cases till now. On August 21, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 127 coronavirus cases and discharged 126 patients. On August 22 and August 23, the number of patients admitted to different hospitals were 98 and 79; and the number of patients discharged were 79 and 51 respectively. However, on August 24, the district recorded 138 patients – highest in August – and discharged 51 patients. The situation slightly improved on August 25 when 90 patients were admitted against 98 discharged. On August 26, again the number of patients increased to 89 and the patients discharged stood at 62. On Thursday, the district health department recorded 112 positive cases while 77 patients were discharged and one person died. The recovery rate of covid patients in the district stands at 86.6%, death 0.6% while 12.8% people are undergoing treatment. It is suspected that due to unlock phase, people’s movement has increased which leads to rise in the cases. However, the district health department terms the rise in cases to the rise in testing. On Friday, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 93 positive cases while 112 patients were discharged after treatment. There was no Covid-related death on Friday and the total number of Covid positive cases stands at 971 in the district. Rakesh Chauhan, district information officer, said that the Noida’s integrated Covid – 19 call centre 18004192211 gets around 400 calls per day, where Coronavirus related issues are addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-records-an-average-104-covid-19-cases-a-day-between-aug-21-and-27/story-G7e6briIJdrTzQdHhyjBeI.html
29-08-2020||Noida||Forty-year-old man arrested for molesting seven-year-old neighbour||A 40-year-old man was arrested for allegedly molesting a seven-year-old girl in Salarpur village on Thursday.The police said the suspect lives in the same neighbourhood as the girl and works as a daily wage labourer.“On Thursday evening, the minor girl was playing outside her house when the suspect lured her to his room and molested her. The suspect was trying to sexually assault the girl, who raised an alarm and local people gathered at the spot and held the suspect. The locals called the police and a team reached the spot soon and apprehended the suspect,” said Azad Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.The police said that the suspect, who lives in a rented house, and the girl’s family knew each other. The girl’s parents are also daily wage workers and live on rent in the same locality in Salarpur village.The police registered a case against the suspect under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) act.“The girl was sent for a medical examination and the report is awaited. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Tomar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/forty-year-old-man-arrested-for-molesting-seven-year-old-neighbour/story-qlmY9Wz48u89bd7I9bOSYJ.html
29-08-2020||Noida||Heavy rain in Noida lead to water-logging, traffic snarls; more rain likely Monday night||Noida, Ghaziabad and their adjoining regions saw heavy rainfall on Friday leading to drop in mercury while leaving several areas waterlogged.A number of places in Noida saw water logging and heavy traffic around the afternoon hours. As the rain started in the morning hours, around 9.30am, lasting at some areas till as late as 4pm, a number of roads in areas including sectors 63, 43, 16, and Bhangel, including parts and patches of road along Vishwakarma road near sector 76, were water logged.“I had to go to my office in Sector 16. Though not all areas were waterlogged, a number of patches along the road, including the Vishwakarma road, were full of water causing traffic jams as people drove slowly. A patch of road near Sector 50 metro station is also broken and there are some potholes, due to which it’s unsafe to drive over when the road is waterlogged as you never know when your vehicle might get stuck,” said Kartik Sharma, a resident of Sector 76, Noida. “The problem is that the road towards Sector 50 on the Vishwakarma Marg is low while the drains are at a certain height. So they always get waterlogged during heavy rains. There are also some craters and potholes on the road, making it unsafe to ride along such roads,” said Ankit Mishra, a resident of Sector 77.The expressway along Delhi also experienced traffic congestion due to rains towards morning hours near Sector 15-A to a few kilometres around 11am, and lasted for a few hours.“There were a few snarls in the morning but we were prepared so they did not extend much. However, we can’t help the waterlogging. Even so, there was no requirement of making special diversions on Friday and traffic was comparatively smoother than previous heavy rain days,” said Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Gautam Budh Nagar.EXPECT ANOTHER SPELL NEXT WEEKAccording to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), areas around Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad received the maximum amount of rainfall on Friday that could be around 60 to 70mm. Weather analysts have said that while the region will continue to get light, patchy rains over the next few days, a similar spell of moderate to heavy rainfall is however expected towards the intervening night of August 31 and September 1. “The maximum and most intense rainfall had been reported from areas around Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida. Though the actual figures would be available only by Saturday, it seems the rainfall would have been around or above 60 to 70 mm. The mercury has dropped, however, and will stay low for a few days. A similar spell of rain is expected in the region between August 31 and September 1,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the analyst, the reasons behind the deluge was favourable weather conditions that formed as a monsoon line of trough – the low-pressure line that oscillates around Delhi and causes rains as it passes over the region – met at the convergence of moist winds from Arabian sea and Bay of Bengal.“The cumulative effect of this led to heavy rains,” said Srivastava.Rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5mm is heavy. So far, Noida has seen an average rainfall of 65mm (since June 1), which is still 85% deficit. The mercury fell Friday to a maximum of 32.8 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season’s average, against 34.2 a day earlier. The minimum temperature, meanwhile, was recorded at 26.8 degrees, against 26.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/heavy-rain-in-noida-lead-to-water-logging-traffic-snarls-more-rain-likely-monday-night/story-tdnvHFK0jBnv9Yu7IFsb9N.html
29-08-2020||City||Railways forms teams to rein in misuse of senior citizen concessions||Discovering misuse of senior citizen concessions by younger passengers, the railways has formed special teams to check tickets of passengers in moving trains.Several uneligible passengers have been caught availing of travel concessions under senior citizen quota by submitting fake e-tickets. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, only 12 special trains are crossing the Ludhiana railway station currently, with ticket checking in moving trains being suspended for an indefinite period.But now, deputy commercial manager (DCM) Basant Kumar, through a letter to the senior DCM, has asked for special ticket checking staff to curb the illegal practice.The DCM has asked the senior DCM to intensify checking in moving trains for the next 15 days, and also when passengers deboard.Ticket checking staff have also been ordered to check tickets of passengers at the entry gate and allow only those to enter platforms whose tickets have been confirmed.Kumar said young passengers were found travelling on senior citizen quota with fake tickets. “Passengers are also using fake copies of Tatkal window tickets. Besides, unauthorised passengers have been found travelling in workmen trains meant for railway employees,” he added.On July 22, the railway ticket checking staff had unearthed a fake online ticket nexus being run in the city to dupe passengers boarding trains from the Ludhiana station. A ticket agent, Ravi, alias Bablu, of Kirpal Nagar was arrested in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-prevent-misuse-of-senior-citizen-quota-railway-forms-special-teams-to-check-tickets-in-moving-trains/story-p3Jdb6uSAvfUL5z2ksoC6L.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Twelve sandalwood trees stolen from NDA, Khadakwasla; one held||Uttamnagar police have lodged a case against unidentified persons for stealing twelve sandalwood trees from the restricted area of National Defence Academy (NDA) between August 1 - 21.A first information report (FIR) was lodged by the NDA security guard after informing the senior officials of the academy.Police have arrested one person identified as Lakhan Vitthal Hilam ( 34), a resident of Aglambe, in connection with the case. His two other associates are still at large and a police team has been sent to nab them.Sunil Pandharkar, Uttamnagar police station incharge, said, “The area from where the sandalwood trees were stolen is remote as it is a mountainous area with thick tree cover. The accused and two of his accomplices entered the restricted area and axed the trees.”“We have arrested Hilam and on the lookout for two others. The sandalwood trees must have been cut during the night and it is difficult to enter the area during the day. Hilam will be produced before the court on Saturday,” he said.NDA security guard Sanjay More ( 54) in his complaint to the police stated that the theft took place during night time between August 1 and 21 from the restricted NDA area through trespassing. A total of 12 sandalwood trees worth Rs 18,000 were stolen during the theft, the complaint stated.The police have invoked Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 447 ( criminal trespass), 379 ( theft ) and relevant sections of the Maharashtra Felling of Trees (Regulation) Rules, 1964 ( Section 4).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/twelve-sandalwood-trees-stolen-from-nda-khadakwasla-one-held/story-oqBC2p5CMtDTneF75EiHeN.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar reviews Bhama Askhed dam project, instructs PMC officials to complete work soon||Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar, on Friday, took a review meeting for completing the pipeline work from Bhama Askhed dam to Pune city.Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP’s) city unit president and MLA Chetan Tupe said, “The state government has decided to complete the project. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar have approved the water quota from the dam. Pawar has instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to complete the project soon.”The state government approved the 2.65 thousand million cubics (TMC) feet water from Bhama Askhed dam to Pune city on Thursday, August 27.Earlier, the state government had approved 2.65 TMC water per annum from the Bhama Askhed dam which is around 50 km from Pune city. As the PMC was not able to complete the project and did not pay the money for sanction water, the contract between the irrigation department and municipal corporation got cancelled.As eastern parts of the city are facing water scarcity mainly Vimannagar, Kharadi, Ahmednagar road, Lohegaon and Vadgaonsheri areas, the PMC had planned to lift the water from Bhama Askhed dam which is located near Chakan MIDC.The water pipeline work is almost 90 per cent complete, according to civic officials.As the villagers opposed the pipeline laying work and pump housework, the project was stalled. One of the major demands of the villagers is proper compensation for their land which will be used for the project. The state government had instructed the PMC to provide villagers with compensation. PMC had deposited the money with the district collector, but the demands of villagers kept rising, say, officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ajit-pawar-reviews-bhama-askhed-dam-project-instructs-pmc-officials-to-complete-work-soon/story-mHY601TIVoecdc66pSlvaI.html
29-08-2020||Pune||Structural audit on all projects by developers who constructed Tarique Garden in Mahad||The Raigad district administration has ordered to conduct a structural audit on all projects developed by Kohinoor real estate developers, the construction firm which constructed the Tarique Garden building in Mahad that collapsed on Monday. In addition, the Mahad municipal council issued orders for structural audit and subsequent repairs to 18 dilapidated building structures in the area. The audit order has been issued in the backdrop of the death of 16 persons in the building collapse incident on August 24, 2020. The Mahad police have booked five persons as accused in the case along with the developer on charges of using substandard construction material and negligence. Besides, the district administration has issued directions to all chief executive officers (CEOs) of its 15 municipal councils to take necessary action in connection with old and dilapidated buildings in their jurisdiction by way of structural audit and visual inspection. Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhari said, “We have ordered a structural audit and visual inspection of all the old and dilapidated buildings numbering 500 and more in the entire district. It will be done by external auditors and notices of evacuation will be sent in case there is an imminent danger of collapse.” According to Chaudhari, if there is no danger then structural audit reports of the respective buildings have to be submitted by the CEOs to the government. “Through visual inspection and safety audits, it becomes easy to go deep into the study of the building columns for safety analysis. For old and dilapidated buildings, as a practice, we do evacuation in monsoon and even demolition is carried out if there is a threat to the lives of the people,” she said. Based on the order, the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) has written a letter to the town planning and City Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) to conduct an audit of all projects by Kohinoor Developers with special focus on the structural stability of the buildings. In addition, if any violations are found, the PMC will take strict and necessary action at the earliest and file a compliance report to the administration. Meanwhile, the Mahad municipal council has been moving at frenetic speed issuing notices to the residential societies seeking details on the structural stability of the buildings. The municipal council area with a population of around 30,000 has around 200 residential co-operative housing societies in its jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/structural-audit-on-all-projects-by-developers-who-constructed-tarique-garden/story-4OJ5p4R0rulM1iyqlZskXI.html
29-08-2020||Pune||24 deaths for every 1,000 new cases in Pune||Pune’s case fatality rate (CFR) as of August 27 – the number of patients who contract Covid-19 that are succumbing – is at 2.41%. Last week that number was at 2.38%. As per data released by the district administration, the city is now reporting 24 deaths for every 1,000 new cases. However, the recovery rate has gone up from 78.9% last week, to 80.83% as of August 27. Of the 2,146 total deaths due to Covid-19, 1,547 are persons with Comorbid conditions. Maharashtra’s CFR is 3.2%, while the recovery rate for the state is 72.5%, as of August 27. The number of active cases too have been rising, which, as of August 27, is 14,995. This was 14,806 as of last week. With respect to the district, the CFR for Pimpri- Chinchwad is 1.86% with 850 of the 45,510 progressive positives dying. For the rest of the district, besides PMC, but including rural, councils and Cantonments, the CFR is 3.2% with 729 of 22,244 progressive positives dying. The Pune city and district administration a jumbo facility running currently at the COEP ground, dedicated for critical care patients, with 600 oxygenated beds and 200 ICU beds. In addition to ramping up infrastructure, the civic body also claims to be conducting random surveys, especially among comorbid patients. Embed 33% of comorbids screened test +ve A total of 3,57,270 comorbid persons have been identified in the city so far, of which 312 were found to be running a high temperature; 703 had low oxygen saturation; and a total of 8,284 were referred for treatment. Of the 9,299 that were screened for Covid-19, a total of 3,085 were found positive after testing. These were the people who were identified through a random survey and had no history of coming in contact with any person. This shows a 33% of positivity rate among those who have comorbidity and were screened. Of the 2,146 deaths reported due to Covid19, 1,547 are of those with comorbidities, which is 72.08%. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “Timely intervention through random comorbid survey helped identify Covid-19 patients among the vulnerable groups. With early medical help we can save more lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/24-deaths-for-every-1-000-new-cases-in-pune/story-YA6LsDV9ICndtcc5PD5SYL.html
29-08-2020||City||Daughter, lover arrested for Ludhiana farmer’s murder||The 46-year-old farmer found dead in Salempur village on August 25 was murdered by his daughter and her lover, as he was against their relationship, police said on Friday.The woman, Manpreet Kaur, her lover, Baljinder Singh, alias Inda, have been arrested for the murder of Kulwant Singh, a resident of Salempur village.Kulwant, who had retired from the army in January, was found dead near the Sports Stadium in Sidhwan Bet. The body, bearing multiple stab injuries, was tied up with his Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycle.Apart from Manpreet and Baljinder, their accomplices, Kuldip Singh and Sumit Kumar, have also been arrested. Another accomplice is at large.“The accused have confessed to the murder. Baljinder is the woman’s distant cousin. Therefore, her father was against their relationship. Finding him a hurdle, they decided to kill Kulwant,” said Ludhiana Rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni.After Kulwant’s body was found by his two brothers, police had initiated an investigation suspecting it to be the fallout of old rivalry. “During the probe, we found a cap on the spot, which led us to the accused,” said inspector Rajesh Thakur, SHO at Sidhwan Bet police station.On August 25, as Manpreet’s father left for the fields on his motorcycle, she called Baljinder, who intercepted her father with his accomplices and hacked him to death with sharp-edged weapons.“All accused have been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts are on to arrest their absconding accomplice,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daughter-lover-arrested-for-ludhiana-farmer-s-murder/story-p5iJL4jMK8IhiAVAMHquiL.html
