31-08-2020||City||Greater Noida: Local leader’s house broken into, car damaged||The house of a local political leader was allegedly broken into by unidentified persons in Badalpur early Monday . The family car was damaged by the assailants, police said.Mahendra Singh, the district representative of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), lives with his family in Noida while his 76-year-old mother lives in the Badalpur house with his nephews.“I had been in Badalpur till around 10pm as I had several meetings in the area. My mother is hard of hearing but around 3am, she woke up one of my nephews as she heard a sound. She thought something had fallen,” said Singh.However, the family soon realised there were people who were shouting and knocking on the door of the house.“When my nephew went outside, he saw that the windows of our car had been broken and there was a brick lying nearby. He just about saw someone jump over the boundary of the house. They cannot be sure as to how many people were there or what the intruders looked like,” he alleged.The family has denied any specific enmity with anyone. “The incident could be political in nature. But I cannot think of anyone in particular who could wish to cause me harm. There is a chance that they assumed that I was still at home and wanted to scare me for some reason,” Singh said.Following the incident, Singh filed a complaint at the Badalpur police station and a case was registered against unidentified persons under Section 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code.“A probe in the matter is underway. The family does not suspect anyone. We will nab the culprits soon,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-local-leader-s-house-broken-into-car-damaged/story-V5X4zcYxtKREZFtnuAyBZK.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||UT rejects schools’ proposal on fee payment||The Chandigarh administration on Monday told the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) that it had decided to reject the proposal made by private schools involving fee payment. The schools wanted the administration’s order stalling fee hikes during the Covid-19 oubreak and not allowing striking off names of students unable to pay the fees.The schools also wanted the administration to roll back its decision to take action under the Disaster Management Act and other laws against schools violating its instructions. The administration’s senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain told the HC bench of justice GS Sandhawalia that the schools’ proposal of August 7, 2020, was unacceptable and that the administration would stand by its orders.On August 7, the Independent Schools Association (ISA) had proposed that schools be allowed to strike off the names of students not clearing their dues by mid-month. The institutes, however, had also agreed that they would charge the same fee collected in the 2019-20 session. They had also given the assurance that applications filed by parents in distress would be dealt with sympatheticallyJain apprised the court of the decision at the resumed hearing of a plea in which schools challenged the UT’s order disallowing a fee hike in the academic session 2020-2021, among other measures. The UT had on August 7 sought time from HC to take a decision on the schools’ proposal and its rejection would mean the court would have to decide the case on merit after hearing both sides.Arguments on the issue will start on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-rejects-schools-proposal-on-fee-payment/story-NVHu8b6KtJoLdc40Nt9sBO.html
31-08-2020||City||How DU modified admission process to make it Covid-proof||New Delhi: The Delhi University had shifted the admission process online in 2016. This year, the varsity introduced several other measures in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure that the students don’t have to visit at all even for trials and document verification. The students applying under the extra-curricular activities (ECA) quota were asked to upload videos on YouTube, trials for aspirants under sports quota were cancelled and they asked to provide only certificates and the annual open-day counselling sessions were held on the web to conform to the restrictions imposed by the government to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). DU officials said that it was for the first time that all aspects of the admission process were done completely online in a “contactless manner”. This year, the university had also done away with the physical verification of the documents for which students had to visit colleges. This year, the initial verification will be done online and the final verification would be done by the colleges whenever the situation “normalises” and campuses reopen.The university also allowed students to apply for all courses instead of a select few. “The university decided to allow students to apply for all the courses this year since results of many state boards and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), were pending at the time when the registration process had begun,” said Suman Kumar, a member of the admission branch.“It helped students since they did not have to think about the courses they could be eligible for. Besides, the university’s decision to switching completely to an online admission process ensured that no applicant had to travel to Delhi amid the pandemic,” added Kumar.Besides, the University also allowed students with disabilities to apply using disability certificates from any hospital instead of only government hospitals since the majority of government health facilities were treating only Covid-19 patients. Last year, only 27 government hospitals across Delhi were designated to issue disability certificates under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, for 21 conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-du-modified-admission-process-to-make-it-covid-proof/story-eTgLXhd8fJL6AukBFvD4RJ.html
31-08-2020||City||DU gets highest-ever applications for undergraduate courses||New Delhi: The registration process for admissions to various undergraduate, postgraduate, M Phil/PhD courses at Delhi University ended on Monday with 353,153 applications -- the highest ever --for around 70,000 undergraduate seats, the incharge of DU’s admission data said.Sanjeev Singh, head of DU’s Computer Centre, said this is the highest-ever applications received by the university. In 2019, 258,388 students had applied while 278, 544 applications were received in 2018. According to data provided by the university, for postgraduate courses, over 146,996 applications were received while for MPhil/PhD courses, 21,699 applications had been submitted till Monday evening. The highest number of applicants are from Delhi (142,526), followed by Uttar Pradesh (66,657), Haryana (50,701), Bihar (21,151), and Rajasthan (14,485). Of the 353,153 applicants, as many as 285,128 are from CBSE affiliated schools. Gender-wise, 181,484 males applied this year compared to 171,681 females. Six candidates are for the ‘Other category’. Under sports category, maximum number of applicants selected football (1,627), athletics (1,621), basketball (1,420), and cricket (1,092). For extra-curricular activities (ECA) category, NCC (3,876) and NSS (1,796) topped the list.Though registrations have now been closed, students will be allowed to upload their documents such as marksheets and certificates on the DU portal in the second or third week of September. As per the university’s admission branch, the cut-offs might be declared by the first week of October. The registration portal was open between June 20 and July 31 for all courses. While registrations for entrance-based courses had closed on July 31, DU had extended the deadline for admissions to merit-based courses till August 31. Dean (Admissions) Shobha Bagai said a number of factors could have led to a sharp increase in the number of applications this year. “This time the registration portal was open for ten weeks instead of the usual three weeks. Additionally, the process was initiated before several other universities and students must have applied to ensure their academic year,” she said. Bagai also said that lack of clarity over entrance exams such as Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), or Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) could have also prompted students to apply at DU to “keep their options open”. “Due to the uncertainty in the wake of the pandemic, more students must have applied, leading to an increase in the number of applications. Besides, many students who had planned to go outside India might have changed their mind and applied at DU. But these are speculative reasons and a proper analysis needs to be done to explain the increase in the number of applications,” she said. Vivek Shukla, 18, a JEE aspirant said, “I am appearing for JEE but I have also applied at DU to have a second option. There is so much uncertainty around everything this year. If I could not clear JEE, I will take admission in any good honours course.”N Sriya, 18, a NEET aspirant, said there was uncertainty if NEET would be held or not this year. “Though if I don’t clear NEET, I might consider dropping a year. But applying to DU gives me a scope to apply for other courses if I change my mind. Several other friends who are appearing for JEE have done the same.”Manika Sharma, director of The Shri Ram Schools, said some students had been going to other countries for pursuing higher education, but in the wake of the pandemic many have also applied to at DU as a backup. “Since there is a lot of uncertainty, students would want a backup option. Safety protocols will also be important in the coming year and many families would like that children remain closer home [instead of being in a different country] which could explain the surge in applications,” she said. Also, in the wake of postponement of CBSE board exams and the subsequent delay in results, DU extended the admission process for over two months this year. Former academic council member Pankaj Garg said the number of applications could have also increased because of students filing multiple registration forms. “Repeated counselling by the university during the open-day sessions discouraged students from filling up multiple registration forms. This did not happen this year as the counselling events were done over the web and university officials did not focus much on this aspect,” said Garg. “Another reason could be the timing of the admission process. Students from other states could apply more easily since their results were declared while registrations were open,” he said. Manoj Sinha, secretary, DU Principal’s Association, said, “Increase in the number of applications has a direct link to cut-offs and chances of cut-off percentage going up is high.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-gets-highest-ever-applications-for-undergraduate-courses/story-UcTlJLDFwVUlzH584LLYUK.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Maharashtra: State inches towards 800K cases||Maharashtra on Monday inched closer to the grim mark of 800,000 Covid-19 cases as it added 11,852 new infections, taking the state’s tally to 792,541. Maharashtra also reported 184 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the state’s toll to 24,583. Maharashtra now has 194,056 active cases with 11,158 people discharged, taking the tally of recovered to 573,559.The recovery rate in the state stood at 72.37%.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1179 new infections taking the city’s tally to 145,805. the city also saw 32 new Covid-19 related fatalities, taking the city’s toll to 7,658. Of the total Covid-19 cases recorded in the city so far, 20,551 are active cases. The case fatality ratio (CFR) of the city is 5.2%, and the recovery rate stands at 80%. As per Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s data, out of the 32 deaths, one death was of a patient below 60 years of age, seven deaths were between 40 to 60 years and 24 deaths were above 60 years of age.August turned out to be bad in terms of the absolute number of Covid-19 infections and deaths reported. However, state officials said the rate of infection compared to July has been marginally lower in August. In August alone, Maharashtra saw 370,423 Covid-19 cases and 9,589 fatalities. July saw a lower number of cases and deaths reported with 247,357 cases and 7,139 deaths in the month. The cases reported in July constituted 58% of the state’s total cases, while August contributed 46% of the total cases, displaying a gradual slowdown in the rate of infection.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “August is showing good signs, though the absolute numbers were high. The [weekly] growth rate is around 2.15%, the doubling rate has improved to 37 days. If we look at the case fatality rate (CFR) of August, it is 2.6%; lower than the state’s overall average at 3.10%. The growth rate in Mumbai and Thane region is under 1%.”Maharashtra carried out over two million tests in the month of August. According to the state health department data, it tested 20,08,831 samples in August. The positivity rate in the month was 18.34%The spread of Covid-19 in rural parts has seen a significant rise as five districts in the state have recorded over 400% rise in coronavirus disease cases in the past month. Data shows that Chandrapur, Beed, Nagpur, Sangli and Osmanabad districts have seen a spike in last one month, suggesting a shift in hotspots from Pune district, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Mumbai to these semi-urban and rural areas of the state.While Pune district and Mumbai have seen 96.23% and 27.58% jump in cases, respectively, Chandrapur has seen a jump of cases by 451% escalation in cases, while Beed has recorded a jump of 535% in cases. Nagpur, during the same period, has seen a jump of 479%, and Sangli has recorded a jump if 465% in cases. Osmanabad, on the other hand, has recorded 508% jump in cases in August. Looking at the spike in cases, Chandrapur district collector has ordered a complete lockdown for a week starting from September 3. Only medical shops and emergency services will be allowed to operate during the week-long lockdown.Awate added, “A large chunk of the people these [five] districts in Marathwada and Vidarbha migrate to other regions of the state. With relaxations provided, these people travel have back to their districts. However, these regions are less populated and areas are not densely populated. Therefore, there is an inherent limitation for transmission of Covid.” He added that the district administration has geared up to tackle the rise in cases. He acknowledged that the region does not have adequate health infrastructure and the presence of the private sector is also less which adds to the burden.The senior state government official added that the situation in Kolhapur district, which has 22,479 Covid cases, is “worrisome”. In the last month, it has recorded a 344% rise in cases. Authorities said that the region is densely populated and therefore the spread has been rapid over since mid-July. “The situation in Kolhapur, which is a major hub in western Maharashtra, is definitely worrisome as it is densely populated. But the administration has taken the necessary steps to contain the situation. With an aggressive containment strategy, we expect a decline in cases in a week or so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-maharashtra-state-inches-towards-800k-cases/story-6b9dOAvUcdTgCeQ4BovFoJ.html
31-08-2020||City||24-year-old history sheeter nabbed in Dadri following police encounter||A 24-year-old suspected criminal was arrested by Dadri police after an “encounter” on Sunday in connection with a shooting in June wherein a businessman’s son was injured.The suspect was identified as Ankit (identified by a single name in police records), who is from Bulandshahr district. According to police officers, the suspect along with two of his accomplices had tried to rob a businessman in Dadri on June 30.“During the robbery attempt, the businessman’s son had received bullet injuries in his legs. The businessman somehow managed to intervene and the suspects couldn’t take away the money. Three people, including a suspect who had helped in planning the robbery, have been arrested already, while Ankit was on the run. We had declared a reward of ₹25,000 had been declared on his arrest,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey. The victim, who is in his early twenties, used to work with his father who runs a fodder business in Dadri.Police officers said Ankit was arrested during routine checking near Jarcha bypass.“He was on a motorcycle with one more person. When they were asked to stop, they tried to flee and shot at the police team. The team gave them a chase, and Ankit was injured in his left leg in the retaliatory firing, while his accomplice managed to flee. A search is on for him,” said the ADCP.The suspect was taken to a government hospital in Dadri for treatment, said the police. “He was also wanted in several murder and robbery cases in Bulandshahr and the police there had announced and a reward of ₹1 lakh on him,” said Pandey.The police said they recovered a motorcycle and country-made pistol from the possession of the suspect. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-year-old-history-sheeter-nabbed-in-dadri-following-police-encounter/story-6CoYmsWQpBpYWqvfFOpQKO.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||42-year-old arrested for molesting minor in Mumbai||A 42-year-old driver was arrested by Kandivli police for allegedly molesting his six-year-old neighbour. The police arrested him on Sunday from Ekta Nagar area in Kandivli (East).Survivor’s 43-year-old mother told police in her statement that on Saturday at around 12pm her daughter was playing outside their house. At that time, the accused called minor to his house and molested her. After she started shouting, he spared her. Survivor later narrated the incident to her mother.An officer from Kandivli police station said, “Following her statement we registered an first information report (FIR) under section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of Indian Penal Code and section 8 (Punishment for sexual assault) and 12 ( Punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/42-year-old-arrested-for-molesting-minor-in-mumbai/story-1fuyBcvlNvLTUvOg3rw5nM.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||7,263 students from Chandigarh tricity area to appear in JEE Mains from today||As many as 7,263 students from Chandigarh region, which includes Mohali too, will sit for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Mains being conducted for admission to engineering institutes from Tuesday. Five centres have been set up in Chandigarh and Mohali, where computer-based exam will be conducted amid strict social distancing and mandatory masks. The National Testing Agency, which is tasked with organising the exam, had even held a training session for teachers. The exam will be held daily till September 6. The earlier exam was held in January 2020. The best of both scores will be considered during admissions. Those wanting to get admitted to Indian Institutes of Technology will have to appear for the JEE Advanced exam on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-263-students-from-chandigarh-tricity-area-to-appear-in-jee-mains-from-today/story-vYC9pOPWFcGrrTSgVz75aN.html
31-08-2020||City||Noida: Elevated stretch over DSC road likely to be ready by March 2022||NOIDA The 5.5km elevated road project, which is being built over Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) road to facilitate commuting between Noida and Greater Noida, will be completed in scheduled time, officials of the Noida authority said on Monday.The authority has completed more than 250 piles of the elevated road and started work on pillar cap to finish the Rs 467 crore project by March 2022, which is the actual deadline. In June, the authority had said that the project would be delayed by four months due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The construction of the elevated road is progressing as per schedule. So far, 256 piles have been completed and work on casting of pillar cap has been started,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.The proposed elevated road will start from Sector 39/43 crossing and end at Sector 82 T-point. Once developed, the stretch will decongest major traffic in Noida’s Barola, Bhangel, and sectors 49, 45, 47 and 46, among other areas.The authority had on March 3 this year roped in the Uttar Pradesh Bridge Corporation for construction of the stretch that will provide seamless connectivity to thousands of motorists who daily face congestion on the DSC road. The authority had started the piling work on June 30. It now needs to build 143 pillars on which the elevated section will rest.“The work on this project is put on fast-track. We want to build it at the earliest so that commuters do not face issues due to the construction activity for longer,” said an authority official, requesting anonymity.The work could not be started in March this year due to the pandemic. In October last year, the authority had started the tendering process to select an agency for construction of the project.In 2012, the authority had for the first time conceived the idea of constructing an elevated stretch over DSC road. In May 2016, it prepared a detailed project report of the project. But work could not start due to fund crunch. The DSC road, earlier known as the Dadri Link Road, passes from Noida’s Gole Chakkar to Greater Noida’s Dadri town.The proposed elevated road will have exit and entry at Sector 100 so that new group housing societies located in sectors 107, 47 and 104, among others, can benefit from the project, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-elevated-stretch-over-dsc-road-likely-to-be-ready-by-march-2022/story-l9nBFbvb5aGLoSaeSYvrjN.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Model Jail has more undertrials than convicts||Chandigarh’s Model Jail, also called Burail Jail, had more undertrials than convicts in 2019, calling for an urgent need to expedite trials. Of 984 inmates in December 2019, 580 (59%) were undergoing trial while 404 were convicts, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)’s Prison Statistics 2019 released recently. Chandigarh’s only jail has a capacity to hold 1,120 inmates (1,000 men and 120 women). However, its occupancy remained 88% at the end of 2019 as compared to 92% in 2018 and 86% in 2017. Of 984 inmates in December 2019, 935 were men and 49 women. When it comes to foreigners, there are 18 such prisoners, 14 of whom are undergoing trial. While 11 are from Nigeria, four are from Nepal. 98 convicted for crimes against women At 98, the maximum number of convicts are serving jail sentence for crimes against women, including 84 for rape. As many as 74 inmates are undergoing trial for crimes against women, including 66 for rape. Meanwhile, 123 are undergoing trial for theft while 23 have been lodged here after conviction. Similarly, there are 82 murder convicts and 83 on trial for it. When it comes to drug cases, there are 45 convicts and 80 undertrials.Most are school dropouts When it comes to educational qualification, most inmates are school dropouts. Of 383 dropouts, 191 are illiterate. Meanwhile, 293 could not complete graduation, 80 are graduates, 21 are postgraduates and 16 hold a technical degree or diploma. The demography is on the younger side with 212 convicts and 326 undertrials in age group of 18 to 30 years, and only 34 convicts and 27 undertrials above 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-model-jail-has-more-undertrials-than-convicts/story-tNv0UuxRxMa3fXUHUfBI7O.html
31-08-2020||Noida||Discom gives last chance to over 130 high rises to have a say in multi-point connections||The Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has issued notices to over 130 high-rise societies in Noida for their consent for installing multi-point connections at their premises. Officials, however, said that if these societies do not submit rejections by at least 51% of their residents within 21 days, the discom will not wait for their consent letters to install the multi-point connections and convert them automatically.In the suo-motu order issued on August 5 by the Uttar Pradesh electricity regulatory commission (UPREC), in connection with non-compliance of its earlier order of May 17 this year, it has been categorically said, “in case of conversion of single point connections to multi-point connections, the consumers shall pay only the prepaid meter cost and the connection charges as per the data cost book.“In case of dual source dual register prepaid metering system, where prepaid functionality is achieved through backend-headend system, the consumer shall pay the cost of dual source-dual register meter along with associated infrastructure and connection charges. The rates for dual source dual register meter along with associated infrastructure shall not exceed Rs 15,000 in any case,” the UPERC order says.Mentioning categorically that “no other charges besides prepaid meter cost and connection charges, shall be charged from the consumers,” the order stated that a migration period of 60 days will be allowed to concurrently run single point and multi-point systems to avoid inconvenience to consumers during conversion.“It is pertinent to mention that if the licensee does not get consent of 51% consumers of multi-storey building to retain single point connection, conversion from single point to multi-point system shall be taken up immediately. For the rest of the consumers not opting for multi-point connection, licensees shall take proactive measures to convince all the customers to convert to multi-point connection during the migration period of 60 days,” the order states.As per the submissions given by six different power distribution companies in the state which appeared before the UPREC hearing, there are 3,847 multi-storied buildings in their license areas, of which 1,573 having single point connections. While 576 of them have opted to retain single point connections, 603 others have opted for conversion into multi-point connections.PVVNL managing director Arvind Mallapa Bangari said that in PVVNL’s license area, there are 658 multi-storied buildings, of which 364 have single point connections. “While 278 of them have so far opted to retain single point connections, 24 others have opted for conversion into multi-point connections. Eight high-rises in PVVNL’s license areas have already been converted into multi-point connections,” he said. PVVNL (Noida division) chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said that presently, housing societies having multi-storeyed buildings/plotted areas develop their internal electrical infrastructure in such a way that a high voltage meter is installed at the incoming supply point to measure the consumption of electricity of the whole society. “To implement the order by the UPERC, we have issued notices to over 130 high-rises in Noida to immediately provide the rejection of at least 51% of their residents for not opting multi-point connection within 21 days. If they fail to give it, it will be deemed opting for conversion into multi-point. Operation and maintenance of the transformer and associated distribution network as well as ‘metering, billing and collection’ of end consumers are done by the societies, which in turn deposit electricity bills with their discoms concerned. But, now in the multipoint connection, each owner/allottee will get direct connection from us and the payment of electricity consumption charges to be deposited directly to PVVNL, and we will send ‘bill-cum- payment recharge statement’ electronically on their registered email ID and mobile number,” he said. On the other hand, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai), has criticised the government’s decision of converting high rises to multi-point power connections. Subodh Goel, secretary, Credai (western UP), said that over 50,000 home-buyers in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts are still waiting to shift into their ready-to-move flats as the projects have not been able to install multipoint meters. “The projects were completed two years ago when the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board changed the policy of meters from single point to multipoint. These high-rises were already complete and electric lines were laid with single-point meters, but we are not able to install multi-point devices. One side possession and occupancy of flats has not been issued in the absence of electricity. The electricity department, on the other hand, is unable to provide dual registered meter as per the multi-point requirement. The issue was also brought before the UPRERA, but UPERC has yet not addressed this issue,” he said. Goyal further said that the Credai has not yet found a way out since the power department refused to allow them to go ahead with single-point meters. He added that the buildings are already wired in a certain way.“We have no option left other than to procure meters which can censor readings from both PVVNL and power backup separately. Once we will get these meters, the apartments will be eligible for completion certificates,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/discom-gives-last-chance-to-over-130-high-rises-to-have-a-say-in-multi-point-connections/story-lPSaXOfkZn6Px2VnbFq9UK.html
31-08-2020||Noida||Stench from Kondli drain making life difficult, say residents||The Kondli drain, a storm water drain that carries sewage in an unauthorised manner from several small drains, is emanating a stench, residents in the area complained, with fumes rising from it, which is affecting their health and lives. The drain passes through several residential areas of the city including Sector 92, where residents complained that the untreated sewage from the neighbouring high rises falls directly into the drain and pollutes it. Earlier on Sunday, a team of Noida authority’s health department had inspected the drain and ensured remedies, even as residents said they do not foresee the years-old issue getting resolved any time soon.“The authority should get the sewage treated because it’s becoming unbearable to live amid such intense stench and fumes. The entire 500 metres stretch along the drain and all the houses in its vicinity are affected due to this. Almost every household experiences regular failure in their household electronics such as air conditioners and refrigerators due to the fumes of the drain,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president of the Sector 92 residents’ welfare association (RWA).The residents demand that either the drain be treated or the sewage from neighbouring high rises be tapped, and the drain covered. “The authority officials have said that they cannot get the drains covered as it would be against the order of the national green tribunal, but we have given an example of how Shahdara drain had been covered. Why can’t they cover Kondli on the same lines,” Jain added. Residents said the Noida authority should get these fixed soon. “We shifted here from Delhi some seven years ago as this area looked beautiful and green but soon after, we realised its practical issues. The stink is unbearable and our air conditioners, refrigerators, etc., develop faults every month and we have to get the gas refilled. We also have health issues. It’s not just me but every house in this neighbourhood has this complaint. The authority should get its priorities straight and instead of building more golf courses, they should fix such issues,” said Talvinder Ahluvalia, another resident of Sector 92. “There are neighbouring group housing societies which are not treating their sewerage and are letting it directly into this large drain. The drain stinks all day and it is causing issues. We even did plantation along the drain but it didn’t work. The authority must get it covered,” said Yash Bisht, another resident of Sector 92. The 20-kilometre long Kondli drain, which has been there since about 40 years, originates from Kondli village, Delhi and enters Noida (via Ghaziabad) at near Hari Darshan police post in Sector 11. After travelling for about 17km in the Noida in Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 22, Sector 50, Sector 92 and Sector 168 it submerges into the Yamuna near Chak Mangrola, Sector 168. The drain is also known as Irrigation Drain.The matter of Kondli drain is also pending in the NGT, where the Noida authority had submitted a proposal to construct wetlands along the drain to clean it. However, tapping the undertreated sewage from several high rises continues to pollute it, officials said. “This is one of the major issues of the city that a number of high rises don’t have a functional sewage treatment plant or they don’t run it properly. I inspected the Sector 92 area yesterday (Sunday) and it seemed that untreated sewage from some of the neighbouring high rises is being discharged in the stormwater drain, leading to the stench. A separate team was sent today (Monday) to collect samples from the high rises. We have initiated action to check the STPs of those high rises. Soon the issue would be resolved,” said SC Mishra, Project Engineer (Health), Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/stench-from-kondli-drain-making-life-difficult-say-residents/story-DKkSa5jc2KQwfywzlZn7KJ.html
31-08-2020||City||Delhi-Meerut Expressway gets new deadline: December 2020||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is now treating December 2020 as the extended deadline of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) project after Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted that the DME will be completed by December 2020. The DME comprises four phases of which phase 1 (Akshardham to UP Gate) and phase 3 ( Dasna to Hapur) are operational. Phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna) and phase 4 (Dasna to Meerut ) are under construction. The NHAI officials said the previous deadline was May 2020 which is now been extended to December 2020. “Delhi-Meerut Expressway will be completed by December 2020. It will further ease traffic and reduce pollution in Delhi/NCR. The aerial video gives us the glimpse of its ongoing and completed work. #PragatiKaHighway,” Gadkari had tweeted on Sunday. The phase 2 is about 19.2km while phase 4 is about 32km and stretches from Dasna in Ghaziabad to Meerut and is being built as a six-lane access-controlled highway. “Since the minister has announced the deadline of December 2020, it will now be the our official completion time. We are also planning that the six lanes of the expressway from Delhi to Meerut gets complete before December,” said Mudit Garg, project director NHAI. “We will now be holding meetings at our headquarters and also at local level to expedite work as per the revised deadline,” he said. The 14 lanes of the DME comprise six lanes of expressway (towards the centre) while the four outer lanes on each side will be dedicated highway lanes. The expressway lanes run from Akshardham to Meerut over a distance of 60km and is likely to be converted into a cashless stretch with the installation of automatic registration plate readers. These readers help calculate the distance covered by a vehicle, going by its entry and exit points, and automatically deduct from the toll from the e-wallet of the traveller. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 31, 2015, had laid the foundation stone for the DME project. In November 2019, the deadline of DME was revised to May 2020, which has now been extended. However, there are more challenges ahead with the new deadline. The phase 2 is about 84% complete while phase 4 is 74% complete. But officials are now carrying out construction with a 40-50% lesser workforce as most migrant workers left for their villages in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown on March 25. “We have some issues with farmers and about 10% of the compensation promised to them is still pending. Some farmers have not taken the compensation while others have moved the court demanding more money. We have paid the highest possible compensation to farmers for the DME project,” Garg said. According to officials, they have paid bout ₹60 crore per kilometre as compensation to farmers as against ₹40 crore per kilometre given for the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. “We are also trying to manage the ongoing work with fewer workers. Overall, for phase 2, we require about 1,500 workers and for phase 2, we require 1,300 workers. Also, we still need clearance for one span of the Chipiyana rail over bridge under phase 2,” he said. The phase 1 of the project caters to about 1.2 lakh passenger car units (PCUs) per day while the phase 2 is estimated to cater to about 60000 PCUs per day. The estimated PCU for the phase 4 is about 48000 per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-meerut-expressway-gets-new-deadline-december-2020/story-f8KkCtIfDsHpHmzrcQXaOJ.html
31-08-2020||City||Woman duped of ₹1.46 lakh in cyber fraud in Navi Mumbai||A 47-year-old interior decorator was cheated of ₹1.46 lakh in a phishing attack after the caller claimed to activate her e-SIM.According to police, complainant Mahalaxmi Vyankat received a call from the fraudster who posed as a customer service executive from a popular telecom company. The caller claimed that her SIM is old and will be discontinued soon. To avoid this, the company is issuing an e-SIM.“To gain her trust, the accused read out her email ID. She also cross-checked the caller ID and it flashed as customer service. She then agreed for the e-SIM activation,” said an officer from Kharghar police station.She later received a message from a three-digit helpline number which said that the verification had started. The caller told her that her number would be off for the next 24 hours. When her number was not activated after 24 hours, she called the customer care helpline from another number to inquire about her connection’s status.The executives informed her she has fallen for online financial fraud and asked her to check her bank balance. When Vyankat tried to log in to her bank account, she realized her password had been changed. She checked her email only to realise ₹1.46 lakh had been siphoned off from her account using her credit card.Vyankat approached the Kharghar police on Saturday and registered a case against an unknown person.Meanwhile, Between March and July this year, 58 cases of online cheating and OTP related frauds were registered in Navi Mumbai.Over 48 cases of online frauds including vishing and phishing attacks were registered between March and July this year in which victims lost ₹60.60 lakh. 10 cases of OTP related frauds were registered where victims lost ₹8.22 lakh, as per the cyber cell’s data.The state’s advisory also urged people to not reveal personal or financial details in an email or open any attachments and links sent by unknown persons. The Maharashtra cyber cell recently issued an advisory that phishing kits are being sold on online hacker forums on the dark web. These easy to use kits are designed for people with little to no technical knowledge of the scams but help them quickly learn how to run the scam.The advisory issued by the special inspector general of police, Maharashtra cyber, states, “Online hacker forums have a huge collection of more than 1,300 phishing kits on sale that cover top-rated websites, banks and financial organisations. The low average price of these phishing kits is to attract more cyber-criminals into buying them to commit different sorts of phishing scams.”“The phishing kits are virtual packages with fake domain page, fake numbers to use for fraudsters. Since everything is virtual, the fraudsters easily set up a virtual WhatsApp and Telegram account using the fake number. These packages also allow spoofing, wherein the fraudster calls the target victim from a fake number, but they would receive the call displaying it as an authentic number, for example, a bank’s helpline number,” said Vicky Shah, cyber expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-duped-of-1-46-lakh-in-cyber-fraud-in-navi-mumbai/story-Vhtje5XX1H5J4ucqHdXwyK.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||With 441mm rain, August was wettest since 2004 in Chandigarh||With multiple spells of heavy showers, August this year was the wettest since 2004, when the all-time high of 718mm rain was recorded, according to data for Chandigarh available with India Meteorological Department (IMD).The city received 441mm rain this August, and the trend is likely to continue, with higher than normal rains expected in September as well.The month was also the second wettest in the past two decades. Also, August 12 was the wettest day in the past 11 years with 133.5mm. In fact, after 80mm rain in wee hours of August 23, even the floodgates of Sukhna Lake had to be opened as it reached the danger mark.“Monsoon has been more than active this year due to many reasons,” said Chandigarh IMD director Surender Paul. “Formation of low pressure and high pressure areas in the world and even locally have facilitated monsoon here. Differences in sea temperatures have also been favourable for the city. Since Chandigarh falls on the foothills of Himalayas, it has received more rainfall than other cities around it.”To date, 914mm rain has been recorded this monsoon, against the normal of 701mm, which means 30% surplus. This is already more than 697mm rain recorded last year throughout the entire season (from June to September). “As per the long range forecast of the IMD, La Nina current would be favourable and will provide a good amount of rainfall in the earlier half of September. Heavy spells of rain can also be expected till September 10,” said Paul.Meanwhile, only light spells can be expected up to Thursday, after which intensity will pick up, stated the weather bulletin. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 31 and 33 degrees and minimum between 26 and 27 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-441mm-rain-august-was-wettest-since-2004-in-chandigarh/story-PmVNuBP0i5x2kjyIa5SXgM.html
31-08-2020||City||Amid apprehensions, JEE kicks off from Tuesday||New Delhi: Despite protests, the National Testing Agency (NTA is all set to conduct the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), which will be taken by around 858,000 students in 660 centres across the country between Tuesday and Sunday.Thousands of engineering and medical aspirants have been protesting on social media against the decision to hold entrance exams amid the Covid pandemic. However, the NTA announced on August 25 that it would conduct both the JEE (Main) and NEET as per schedule. The JEE (Main) is for admission to engineering colleges such as NITs, IIITs and other centrally funded technical institutes while the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is held for entry to medical colleges.A day ahead of the JEE (Main) exams, students said they were anxious about their safety. Avya Sharma, 18, a resident of east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar said his examination centre is 31 km from his home in Rohini. “I have my B Arch (architecture) on Tuesday. My father will pick and drop me to the centre since it’s unsafe to take cabs. I will wear a mask and hand gloves, and carrying a hand sanitiser. I am really scared about my safety. My parents are asking me to maintain social distance. It’s just we cannot miss the exam. It’s a matter of our future,” he said.Naman Maheshwari, 18, another JEE (main) aspirant from Mayur Vihar Phase-1. who exam is scheduled on Saturday, said his parents are worried. “My exam centre is at GT Karnal road and I am yet to decide if I should take a cab or go with my father. I am thinking of isolating myself in my room for some days after the exams since I am really scared about my parents’ safety,” Maheshwari said.Many students said their exam centres are far from their homes. Jigyasa Pandey, 17, a resident of Rohini, said her exam centre in Ghazipur and she doesn’t have any private vehicle. “We cannot afford cabs since we are going through a tough financial time. My parents have asked me to skip the exams since it’s not safe for us to travel in buses and the metros is not still working. I’m just trying to convince my parents to let me go on a bus,” she said.The exam has been a major subject of contention with the opposition parties questioning the move to conduct it amid a pandemic. The Centre says not holding could throw an entire academic year into jeopardy. When contacted, an education ministry official said all preparations had been made to ensure that the JEE (Main) exam and then the NEET exam take place smoothly. Union Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has spoken to several state chief ministers to ensure that candidates are provided assistance, the official said.The NTA has prepared a detailed protocol to ensure social distancing. Masks and sanitisers would be allowed while the entire process would be kept “touchless” as far as possible, another government official said. In addition to making masks, gloves, thermo guns, and sanitisation mandatory, NTA has increased the number of centres to meet social distancing requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-apprehensions-jee-kicks-off-from-tuesday/story-sSUDZfO5vccpPJMaP2WxRM.html
31-08-2020||City||Man stabbed multiple times outside police station during dispute over not returning borrowed laptop||New Delhi: A dispute over returning a borrowed laptop led to a 32-year-old man being stabbed multiple times by four suspects near the Timarpur police station in North Delhi early Saturday, police said.Police said the victim, Naresh Singh, was stabbed four times while his family alleged he had received at least eight stab wounds. Singh’s condition remained serious through Monday as well.Singh’s cousin, Jaswant, said the victim ran towards the Timarpur police station -- a walking distance from the crime scene -- and shouted to the police for help, forcing the suspects to escape.Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north), said one of the suspects had been nabbed while a search was on for the others.Singh lives with his family in Timarpur and is a cab driver. His cousin, Jaswant, who witnessed the alleged knife attack, said the injured man is the sole earning member of his family that includes his wife, two children, mother and three sisters.A senior police officer said that a few months ago, Singh had taken his friend’s laptop to lend to a local man named Suresh Malhotra. “Malhotra wasn’t returning the laptop and this led to a dispute,” the officer said.Late Friday night, Singh and Malhotra had a quarrel over the issue but people in the neighbourhood intervened to separate them.The two men, however, met again around 1 am on Saturday when a local offered to sort out the matter. “Singh and I arrived in our car and Malhotra arrived by another car with some of his friends,” said Jaswant, adding the crime spot was barely 50 metres from the police station.Jaswant said the mediation turned into a quarrel during which Malhotra opened fire but missed. “Several men began stabbing my cousin while I ran to the police station to seek help,” Jaswant said.The policemen rushed an injured Singh to Sushruta Trauma Centre where he remains critical. A case of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-stabbed-multiple-times-outside-police-station-during-dispute-over-not-returning-borrowed-laptop/story-PUCaBWjf5utJFsCTmFEFgL.html
31-08-2020||City||Sharjeel Imam’s custody extended by three days||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Monday extended the police custody of JNU student Sharjeel Imam by three days. Imam was arrested under the stringent anti-terror law -- Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act -- in connection with a north-east Delhi riots case.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat sent Imam to custody for another three days after police had moved an application seeking seven days remand to interrogate the accused. The police had contended that the during the previous remand, Imam was asked questions but he did not support the investigation.Imam, a PhD student at the Jawaharlal Nehru University’s (JNU) Centre for Historical Studies, was arrested in the case under the anti-terror law for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in connection with the riots in north-east Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February.He was brought to Delhi from jail in Assam on a production warrant. Earlier, on July 26, the police had filed a charge sheet against Imam charging him of sedition in a connection to the alleged seditious speech he had given at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sharjeel-imam-s-custody-extended-by-three-days/story-fMElqH25mdGw0pvCf4GyVI.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bar on bars lifted in Chandigarh||While lifting the night curfew with immediate effect under the Centre’s Unlock 4 plan, the Chandigarh administration on Monday also allowed serving of liquor in restaurants, clubs and hotels and opening of bars after nearly six months.In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, serving of liquor was banned on March 24. Even night curfew had been imposed, which at present was from 10pm to 5am in the city.The decision was taken in line with the central government order that prohibits lockdowns outside containment zones without its permission as part of Unlock 4 guidelines. It comes at a time when the city has seen a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases. With 191 fresh cases reported on Monday, the total has reached 4,346, which includes 1,857 active cases.Meanwhile, the administration will take a call on the odd-even system imposed in 12 congested markets and weekend closure of the city’s prime tourist spot Sukhna Lake in the Wednesday’s war room meeting. Till then, the previous orders will continue to remain operational.MAJOR RELIEF FOR HOSPITALITY INDUSTRYFor the city’s hospitality industry that is reeling under the six-month lockdown and pandemic blues, the opening of bars will bring a major relief, said industry representatives.Though hotels, clubs and restaurants were opened as part of Unlock 1 on June 8, liquor was not allowed to be served. Similarly, the night curfew restricted the working of restaurants. Consequently, many restaurants have remained closed.Manmohan Kohli, chairman, Hotels and Restaurants Association, Chandigarh, said: “It is a positive step. It is more symbolic in nature than economic, indicating that things are moving toward normalcy.”However, due to the pandemic, the number of main clientele of bars — professionals from outside and tourists — is still very low, he said.Welcoming the decision, Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association, said: “Hospitality industry has been one of the worst-hit sectors due to the lockdown. The decision will help in its revival. However, nearly 60% of the beer season, which is the main liquor consumed in the city, is gone. It will affect the earnings.”The UT excise and taxation department will also start issuing liquor licences to restaurants and hotels for the current financial year from Tuesday. Reacting to hospitality industry’s demand for some relief, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “We are examining the matter, and subject to the UT’s financial condition, a reasonable decision will be taken.”TO FOLLOW SOCIAL DISTANCING NORMSThe Centre has not issued any specific guidelines for serving of liquor, though industry insiders said the June guidelines on social distancing and other precautions will be followed. “Guidelines like wearing of masks, proper social distancing, using only 50% of seating capacity and sanitisation will be followed. We are awaiting to get more clarity on the issue,” said Ankit Gupta.Meanwhiile, even clubs will be able to serve liquor again. Sandeep Singh Sandhu, president, Chandigarh Golf Club, said: “We are yet to start the club restaurant. As now liquor has been allowed, we plan to open it in the next three to four days. Initially, people might hesitate in eating out, but gradually the pace will pick up and liquor will help us meet the expenses of running the club restaurant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bar-on-bars-lifted-in-chandigarh/story-DIXcA45qVTWtgrc0l7YHlJ.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana adds 1,450 new patients to its Covid tally; 6 districts account for 50% cases||Haryana on Monday reported 1,450 new coronavirus infections, about 50% of which came from six districts which logged more than 100 cases each. They are Panipat (154), Karnal (135), Ambala (114), Gurugram (113), Sonepat (109) and Faridabad (103). The fresh infections pushed the state's patient tally to 64,732. As per a medical bulletin, seven infected persons – three from Sirsa, two from Kaithal and one each from Faridabad and Panchkula – succumbed to the virus on Monday. As per the medical bulletin, 1,052 people recovered on Monday, taking the total number of recoveries to 52,672. The number of active cases in Haryana stood at 11,371. The recovery rate in the state was 81.37%, while the fatality rate reached 1.06%.The bulletin said there were 251 critically ill patients, including 34 on ventilator support. Among the other districts, Hisar reported 86 new infections followed by Panchkula (78), Rohtak (73), Sirsa (67),Yamunanagar and Mahendergarh (60 each), Kurukshetra (57), Jind (51), Kaithal (40), Jhajjar (38), Bhiwani (34), Rewari (27), Palwal (24), Fatehabad (17), Nuh (8) and Charkhi Dadri (2). Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said six cops of Gohana city police station, four persons from CRPF camp at Khewra and seven employees of a Kundli company were among the new patients detected in the district. The medical bulletin didn’t mention it, but three persons, including a former sarpanch, died of Covid-19 in Fatehabad on Monday. Two deaths each were also reported from Karnal and Kurukshetra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-adds-1-450-new-patients-to-its-covid-tally-6-districts-account-for-50-cases/story-mnof5hXI2Y4kOdPQKDk89N.html
31-08-2020||City||Day after HP man takes life, two booked for abetment to suicide in Ludhiana||A day after a Himachal Pradesh resident committed suicide in a hotel near the Ludhiana ISBT, two have been booked for abetment to suicide, including a woman. The accused have been identified as Riya Thakur alias Laxmi and Deepak.The case was registered following a complaint by the man’s brother, who is resident of Chandigarh. Police have recovered a handwritten suicide note, which the victim addressed to his brother and sister-in-law, where he said the two accused were the reason behind him taking the extreme step. Assistant sub-inspector Judge Singh, investigating officer in the case, said the 35-year -old man had checked into the hotel on Saturday evening. On Monday morning, when he did not open the door, hotel staff informed the police.When police broke open the door, they found the body of the man hanging from a ceiling fan. Then, they informed the man’s family to record their statements.The ASI added that a case has been registered under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code against the accused. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-hp-man-takes-life-two-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-in-ludhiana/story-SeAiDcKXWYYz3RSVemOaaO.html
31-08-2020||City||Karnal extortion case: Police get 1-day remand of woman who accused school owner of rape||The woman, who was arrested for allegedly extorting money to withdraw the rape complaint she had filed against the owner of a local school and a senior government official, has been sent in one-day police remand. She, along with her husband, was arrested on August 21 from outside the Karnal district court while allegedly taking Rs 7.25 lakh from the school owner’s men. The police had claimed to have recovered the money from her possession. The next day, the police produced her in court and sought her two-day remand for the recovery of Rs 6 lakh, which they claimed the woman had already taken from the school owner.However, the police failed to convince the court at that time as the investigating officer could not establish whether the woman was caught red-handed or not. The court had then sent the couple to judicial custody.As per the police officials privy to the case, the remand was granted to take the woman to her residence in Kurukshetra for the recovery of money. The police said they will also take her voice samples to match them with some telephonic conversations and also question her in connection with other evidence the school owner provided to the police against her.On the appeal of the woman’s advocate, the court has allowed him to accompany her. “We requested the court that the interrogation should be done in a dignified manner and the court allowed an advocate to remain present during the interrogation,” her advocate Rahul Bali said. Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Surender Singh Bhoria said, “She is well within her rights to have an advocate with her, but at a certain distance. He cannot interfere in the investigation though.”However, in a brief interaction with mediapersons at the court, the woman refuted the allegations and claimed that she was implicated. She also accused the police of torturing her, a claim rejected by the latter. SP Bhoria said she is an accused and she could level any allegation. “She was in the judicial custody and the police cannot torture her. Also, soon after her arrest, she was produced in a court after medical examination. She did not make any such allegation in the court,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-extortion-case-police-get-1-day-remand-of-woman-who-accused-school-owner-of-rape/story-UYjGJjwW5LQdLcALuSFBhJ.html
31-08-2020||City||Meham MLA Kundu slams Haryana govt for not tabling his ‘MSP guarantee’ bill||Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, on Monday accused the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana and main opposition party, the Congress, of not tabling his private bill that gives guarantees of minimum support price (MSP) to the farmers, in the one-day monsoon session of the state assembly held last week.Addressing a press conference here, Kundu said the members of business advisory committee, including deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, few BJP ministers and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, did not select his private bill for discussion regarding introduction of fourth bill which gives clarity on MSP to farmers, and that was moved for adjournment motion.“I have realised that the BJP-JJP government and the main opposition are playing a fixed game in Haryana assembly. The leaders of these parties can seek votes from farmers, but won’t take stand for their rights,” he added.He said he would take part in farmers’ agitation against the three agriculture-related ordinances promulgated by the Centre on September 10 at Pipli in Kurukshetra.‘Hooda working like BJP ally’Making a direct attack on Hooda, Kundu said , “The leader of opposition is working like a BJP’s ally and doing politics as per the directions issued by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Hooda’s key is in Khattar’s hand because the former is booked in several land allotment cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meham-mla-kundu-slams-haryana-govt-for-not-tabling-his-msp-guarantee-bill/story-qha4i8Io40P5e2lYE7Q06H.html
31-08-2020||City||Rohtak, Sonepat, Jhajjar witness 115 murders since March: Police data||Since March 1, 115 murder cases have been reported in Haryana’s three Deshwali districts of Rohtak, Sonepat and Jhajjar, shows the data obtained from the police departments of these areas.Rohtak saw 47 murder cases, Sonepat 42 and Jhajjar 26 in the span of six months.Officials say most of these murders were outcomes of family disputes and personal enmity.The most recent killing was of a 36-year-old man, who was shot dead by a group of seven persons near his fields at Bhainswal Kalan village in Sonepat on August 29. The police had last week recovered from a Jhajjar canal bodies of a young runaway couple from a village in Sonepat district. The police had arrested the woman’s father for hatching a conspiracy to kill them. The couple had fled their homes on August 10 as their parents were objecting to their marriage. Three of those killed in Sonepat were police personnel. Two of them were gunned down by four assailants while they were patrolling near Butana check-post in Sonepat’s Baroda on June 30. The third one was killed in a crossfire. In Rohtak, the list of murders includes a 19-year-old woman and her husband from Farmana village, who were killed by the former’s brother and his two aides at Bhiwani’s Badesra in June; a milkman who was shot dead by unidentified assailants this week; a woman who was stabbed to death by her husband in Bhani Maharajpur village; a man who was gunned down in Bhali village; another man who was killed in a similar manner by his friends in Bhani Bheron village; a convict out on bail who was also gunned down and a woman and her daughter who were burnt alive by her husband in Salara Mohalla.On the rise in criminal activities, Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa said most of the murders were the result of family disputes and old enmity.“We have traced most of the criminals and accused, except four. The remaining accused will be behind bars soon. Our cops are working hard to prevent such criminal activities and making constant efforts to arrest the murderers who committed these crimes,” he added.A spokesperson of Jhajjar police said they have traced 24 out of 26 accused named in the murder cases that took place in their district. As per the Rohtak police spokesperson, they have arrested the accused in over 90% of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-sonepat-jhajjar-witness-115-murders-since-march-police-data/story-qxeyyZGa83MfGChummCBbM.html
31-08-2020||City||Multi-crore SC scholarship scam: SAD seeks dismissal of minister Dharamsot||Ludhiana: Demanding dismissal of cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over his alleged involvement in multi-crore SC scholarship scam, the scheduled castes (SC) wing of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) staged a protest against the minister and the state government at the Jalandhar Bypass on Monday. During the protest, the SAD leaders gave social distancing a miss.The protesters stated that it is clear that the minister is involved in the scam as the additional chief secretary of his own department has indicted him into the inquiry. They demanded that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should immediately dismiss Dharamsot from the cabinet. SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon said, “We have been raising the issue that the funds meant for the SC students are being misused and embezzled and the report submitted by the additional chief secretary has blown the lid off the same. The SC community comprises around 32% of the state’s population and Dharamsot has embezzled around Rs 64 crore which were meant for the SC community students. The CM should immediately dismiss Dharamsot and the funds should be transferred to the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multi-crore-sc-scholarship-scam-sad-seeks-dismissal-of-minister-dharamsot/story-00jflWATrtxCrO4B0wBNcK.html
31-08-2020||City||PCTE students clinch top university positions||The students of PCTE Group of Institutes pursuing journalism and mass communication course bagged top university positions. As many as nine students of PCTE made it to the top ten list of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University. Sanskriti Verma of the 2018 batch bagged the first position with 9.05 SGPA, Ishita Sharma and Laveena Sharma bagged the second position with 8.1 SGPA, while Karan Sharma bagged the fifth position with 7.71 SGPA. The sixth position was clinched by Khushboo Sharma with 7.67 SGPA, while Pooja Goswami bagged the seventh position with 7.62 SGPA. Saksham Juneja bagged the eighth position with 7.48 SGPA, while Nikhil Nagpal bagged ninth position with 7.33 SGPA and Chestta Gumber bagged the tenth position with 7.29 SGPA.Topper Sanskriti Verma said “I am elated on securing the first position in my university exams. I want to share the credit for my success with my parents and mentors. The guidance of mentors and my consistent efforts have helped me achieve this. I believe in keeping my eyes on stars and feet on the ground.”While Laveena, who clinched the second position, said, “I am grateful to my teachers and parents as they had put a lot of effort into me. Being a university topper is a special feeling. Hard work and dedication is the key to success and everyone must follow it.”Prabhleen Kaur, coordinator, faculty of journalism and mass communication, said, “It is a proud moment for the department as we have bagged several positions. Students are hardworking and their dedication will surely help us achieve more in the future.” KNS Kang, director-general, PCTE, congratulated the students and said, “The students at PCTE not only perform well academically but also excel in extracurricular activities on campus to achieve overall development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcte-students-clinch-top-university-positions/story-cC8PG2lHQKD4shvwR9FbPN.html
31-08-2020||City||Scribe, son injured in clash||A scribe, his son, and their kin were assaulted in a road rage near Itta Wala Chowk on Monday. The victims have been admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) where their condition is said to be critical.In the incident, the accused identified Kirti, 27, of Itta Wala Chowk has also suffered injuries. He has been admitted to a hospital.Tarsem Ghai, 53, of Shimlapuri said that his son Rahul and their relative Davinder reached Itta Wala Chowk, they landed in a scuffle with Kirti, who while reversing his car hit the victim. The accused later called his accomplices and started assaulting the trio with sharp-edged weapons. Shimlapuri police station SHO Inspector Varunjit Singh said that the police will lodge FIR after recording the statements of the victims.Further the SHO said that the police are trying to trace the other accused involved in the clash. Besides, statements of the injured accused will also be recorded. A cross-FIR may be registered as both groups have attacked each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scribe-son-injured-in-clash/story-uEMK1jenydlG80IzJBxW4N.html
31-08-2020||City||Discrepancies in tickets booked through agents: Checking intensified at Ludhiana railway station||After finding discrepancies in tickets booked through agents, railway officials have started cross-checking the addresses of all passengers boarding trains from the Ludhiana railway station. As per officials, on August 26, the staff found a suspicious ticket during checking.The ticket had been booked for Siwan district of Bihar, through a Ludhiana-based agency. The agency had booked a confirmed ticket till Ambala Cantt railway station in Shaheed Express and after Ambala, a waiting ticket was issued.When the railways started scanning the reservation forms, they found more discrepancies. In most of the reservations made by agencies, there was no mention of the destination address. In a few forms, the agencies had not even mentioned the present address or phone number of the passengers. According to rules, the Indian railways does not accept a reservation form in case of absence of address, but the booking agencies managed to breach the system.Ferozepur division had made it mandatory for all passengers to give the details of their destination, including the PIN code of the area, while filling the reservation form. Passengers also have to fill their own address so that in case of Covid-19 infection, tracking them becomes easy. The railway ticket checking staff has brought the matter in knowledge of Railway vigilance for further action.It is pertinent to mention that after discovering the misuse of senior citizens’ quota, the railways on Friday had formed special ticket checking teams. Several passengers have been caught for allegedly availing train travel concessions under senior citizens’ quota by submitting fake e-tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/discrepancies-in-tickets-booked-through-agents-checking-intensified-at-ludhiana-railway-station/story-IKFbYIh8LHrgGAVmYqvjhL.html
31-08-2020||City||Ludhiana sees highest single-day toll with 18 deaths||A day after Covid-19 cases crossed the 10,000-mark, Ludhiana recorded its biggest spike in casualties with 18 deaths on Monday. The previous surge was on August 29 when the district had reported 17 deaths. So far, 411 persons have succumbed to the virus in the district. August alone accounts for 323 deaths. Monday’s casualties include, a 93-year-old male from New Shivpuri, a 33-year-old man of Baba Deep Singh Nagar and another one from Basti Jodhewal, a 59-year- old man, a 56-year-old man from New Subash Nagar, a 35-year-old man from Salem Tabri, a 71-year-old man from Basant Avenue, a 71-year-old man from Barewal, a 59-year-old man from Janakpuri, a 62-year-old man from Gandhi Nagar, a 61-year-old man from Moti Nagar, a 62-year-old man from Raj Guru Nagar, a 69-year-old woman from Patel Nagar, a 58-year-old man from Chander Nagar, a 43-year-old man from Ludhiana, a 42-year-old man from Partap Nagar, a 58-year-old man from Chander Nagar, a 43-year-old man from civil lines, a 42- year-old man from Partap Nagar. Besides, as many as 183 new cases took the district’s tally of positive cases to 10,222. Of these, 1,729 cases are still active. Don’t fall prey to rumours: DC Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma appealed to the residents to not fall prey to rumour-mongering. He was reacting to rumours that doctors were extracting organs of patients by declaring them Covid-19 positive. He further added that there is another rumour that the state government is getting Rs 3 lakh per patient in lieu of declaring a patient Covid-19 positive. The DC said that such rumours are having a detrimental effect in the fight against the virus. Man who jumped from hospital buildings succumbs The 43-year-old Covid-19 patient, who jumped off the first floor of Bhagwan Ram Charitable Hospital on Daresi Road, on Sunday afternoon, succumbed to injuries. The patient had been rushed to the civil hospital, where he died during the wee hours on Monday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that a report has been sought and the hospital has been served a notice. Dr Bagga said that the man was admitted in the hospital for five days following complaints of liver issues. He had tested positive for the virus during treatment. The district administration has started 24x7 psychological support helpline: 7814718704, 6284531852. ADC Neeru Katyal Gupta, who had battled Covid-19 successfully, said that counselling could be an added benefit for a patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sees-highest-single-day-toll-with-18-deaths/story-sUp5tk9CnwCHhh3sXVbjlO.html
31-08-2020||City||Industrial bodies in Ludhiana move SC seeking loan interest waiver||Reeling under losses due to the lockdown, over a dozen industrial associations have filed three separate petitions in the Supreme Court (SC), seeking a waiver of bank loan interest for six months (March to August). The industry has also filed an application seeking extension in the period of moratorium. One of the petitions has been filed by five knitwear industry associations, the second has been filed by seven associations under the umbrella of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) and the third has been filed by Northern India Textiles and Mills Association. The petitions have been collaborated with similar petitions filed from different parts of the country and were heard on August 26. The SC has directed the union government to file an affidavit on the stand of the government and the next hearing of the case has been scheduled for September 1. As per information, the loans availed by members of the above said associations amounts to around Rs 21,000 crore and around Rs 160 crore is being paid by them as monthly interest. Bajwa Nagar knitwear club president Darshan Dawar said, “Small and micro enterprises have been hit badly due to the lockdown and we have suffered loss of crores due to the ongoing pandemic. The sector has also not been able to revive itself after the unlocking started as the demand has dipped and further there is a shortage of labour. No relief has been provided to the sector in terms of bank interest waiver and many units are on the brink of a shutdown. Due to this, we were forced to move the Supreme court.” FICO president Gurmeet Kular said, “The industry was forced to shut down due to lockdown imposed by the government. Why are we being asked to pay the bank interest for the period when all units were closed? The government should provide a bank interest waiver for at least six months and a moratorium should be announced.” Advocates Ashish Virmani and Himanshu Dhuper said, “Firstly the Supreme Court has slammed the union government for failing to file an affidavit regarding its stand. The government was directed to file an affidavit before the next hearing of the case which is scheduled for September 1. The moratorium period for payment of bank loan installments is ending on August 31.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industrial-bodies-in-ludhiana-move-sc-seeking-loan-interest-waiver/story-itMdykUbyopcaVjhLagReK.html
31-08-2020||City||Influx of Covid patients from Delhi led to spike in cases in Punjab: Balbir Singh Sidhu||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu blamed the national capital for the rise in Covid- 19 cases in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, and Amritsar. He said that the state is paying the price due to the influx of positive patients from Delhi after the lockdown was lifted. “When there were restrictions on inter-state travel we had a limited number of commuters but ever since the restrictions have been lifted there is a sudden spurt in the number of cases,” said Sidhu. The health minister was speaking on the occasion of the foundation stone laying ceremony of community health center building at Doraha on Monday. He laid the foundation stone in the name of former chief minister Beant Singh.Speaking about the community health center, he said that it is targeted to be completed in the next 15 months at a cost of Rs 9 crores and will benefit a population of over 50,000. Sidhu said that the development of health facilities in the state was going on since the formation of Captain Amarinder Singh led Congress government. He also said, “Punjab government is making all-out efforts to provide high-quality healthcare facilities to people that is why the target is to open 37 new hospitals in the state by the end of 2020, out of which about 27 have already been commissioned.” Talking about the efforts being made to manage the staff shortage in government hospitals, Sidhu said, “The process of filling up 4,000 posts has been initiated. In addition, other ancillary posts will be filled soon. Other temporary employees will also be made permanent.” In his address, Lakhbir Singh Lakha, MLA of Halqa Payal, said that as the city is situated on the main road, there should be no shortage of health facilities there. He thanked the Punjab government and the health minister for the community health center. He said that state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had assured that he would release an amount of Rs 1 crore for the development of Halqa Payal and that this hospital was a 30-year-old demand of the people of the area. He added that this hospital would be a boon for more than 30 villages. Gurkirat Singh Kotli, MLA of Halqa Khanna, former minister Malkiat Singh Dakha, Ludhiana Zila Parishad chairman Yadvinder Singh Jandiali and others were also present on the occasion. Later, Sidhu made a surprise visit to Ludhiana civil hospital and issued the necessary directions to the health authorities. He also praised the doctors and paramedical staff for bravely tackling rising Covid- 19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/influx-of-covid-patients-from-delhi-led-to-spike-in-cases-in-punjab-balbir-singh-sidhu/story-atmj9xZepFBsChAm3ulr4J.html
31-08-2020||City||No relief from overflowing sewers in several wards of Ludhiana||With overflowing sewers still haunting the residents of different streets in wards 7,9, 10 and 12, the area councillors and municipal corporation (MC) officials visited the areas on Monday. As per information, the sewer lines overflowed in the areas due to some glitch in the motors installed at Shivpuri and Tibba road disposal points. Councillor of ward number 10, Harjinder Pal also alleged that the sewer lines are overflowing due to the dumping of excessive waste by owners of dyeing units which are situated near his ward. Harjinder Pal said, “The residents of Karamsar colony and Anandpura area of his ward are facing trouble due to accumulation of sewer water for the last few days due to dumping of excessive waste by owners of dyeing units, which are situated in the area opposite to my ward. The sewer lines in few other areas of wards including 7, 9 and 12 are overflowing due to some technical glitch in the motors installed at the disposal points of the concerned areas. It is also being said that the Bhattian sewer treatment plant (STP) is running over capacity, due to which the sewers are overflowing.” Ward number 9 councillor, Gulshan Kaur said, “The sewer lines in Maya Nagar are overflowing as the disposal point at Tibba road is not working properly. The MC officials have been apprised of the issue and we have sought an immediate solution.”MC executive engineer, Ranbir Singh said, “The sewer lines overflowed due to some technical glitch in the motors installed at Shivpuri and Tibba road disposal points. The motors have been repaired and the accumulated sewer water is being drained out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-relief-from-overflowing-sewers-in-several-wards-of-ludhiana/story-Gc4dpjiNwSkIIIcwkwoo3L.html
31-08-2020||City||BJP councillor writes to mayor seeking repair of Dharampura drain||With the safety of commuters at stake, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor (ward number 57), Manju Aggarwal has written to mayor Balkar Sandhu seeking repair of the boundary wall of Dharampura drain on Monday. The councillor said that the project to cover the seasonal drain from Transport Nagar to Dharampura has been hanging fire for a long time, but the municipal corporation (MC) has even failed to repair the boundary wall of the drain despite several complaints. Aggarwal said that the boundary wall has completely collapsed at some points and the civic body is waiting for a mishap to take place. “The boundary wall has collapsed from different points and many accidents have also taken place in the past. The MC’s lackadaisical approach towards the project is putting many lives at risk,” he said. Taking a dig at the tall claims made by area MLA Surinder Dawar and the mayor, Agarwal said that an announcement regarding the commencement of work to cover the nullah was made before the MC elections in 2018. Then the same announcement was made before the MP elections in 2019, but the work has not yet commenced at ground level.Aggarwal said, “Whenever the matter is taken up with the MC officials, they claim that tenders for the project have been floated and work would be commenced after an order would be issued. If the MC is facing trouble in taking up the project then it should at least repair the boundary wall to avoid accidents.”MLA Surinder Dawar said, “The project got delayed due to imposition of the lockdown. I have also been infected and undergoing treatment at a hospital. I will take up the matter with the authorities in a day or two. It is expected that the work would begin in a week and the project would be taken up on priority basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-councillor-writes-to-mayor-seeking-repair-of-dharampura-drain/story-iWmjAAetdU8RYQq7SZJVmM.html
31-08-2020||City||Anganwadi workers oppose pre-primary classes in government schools||Over 100 Anganwadi workers submitted a memorandum to the district programme officer under the department of women and child development at the Shimapuri office demanding that children between 3-6 years should be sent to Anganwadi centres.Anganwadi workers staged an agitation outside the office of district programme officer and said that the government can start pre-primary classes in anganwadis as there is already an existing setup there.The workers gathered outside the Shimlapuri office and discussed the problems faced by them during the Covid-19 pandemic.Under Bachpan Bachao and integrated child development services (ICDS), Anganwadi workers all over the country submitted a memorandum to programme officers of the women and child department and also sent an email to Union minister Smriti Irani requesting her to ask the state government to stop enrolling children between 3 to 6 years in government schools so that they can be sent to Anganwadi centres.The workers allege that in the last two years, the state education department has come up with pre-primary classes in government schools and enrolling children between the age group of 3 to 6 years due to which the student strength at Anganwadi centres has been decreasing.Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union general secretary, Subhash Rani, said, “We have written to the Union minister to intervene in the matter. Children below 6 years must be enrolled in Anganwadi centers instead of government schools. For the last many years, Anganwadi workers and helpers have been taking care of their nutrition and daycare and now we want the state government should stop enrolling children in this age group in government schools.”Under the new education policy, the universalisation of early childhood care and education is a great step, but the government should not privatise it. The aim should be at the holistic development of a child’s social, emotional, cognitive and physical needs in order to build a solid and broad foundation for lifelong learning and well-being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anganwadi-workers-oppose-pre-primary-classes-in-government-schools/story-YfhfBErhXDMcrcjZ5Pk60L.html
31-08-2020||City||MC to hold e-auction of commercial sites, vacant plots||A cash-strapped municipal corporation (MC) has decided to auction commercial properties and vacant plots, the registration process for which would commence from Tuesday.Interested bidders can register for e-auction till September 15 (till 5 pm). The auction would take place on September 18 through the e-auction portal, www.tenderwizard.com/DLGP. As per MC officials, they have identified several properties including five shops-cum-office sits (reserve price ₹1.5 lakh/sq yard) situated opposite Keys Hotel at Lodhi club road, 653 yards of land at Chandigarh road (reserve price ₹40,000/sq yard), 268.44 yards land situated backside Kailash Cinema (reserve price ₹38,000/sq yard) and 17 shops in bearing market situated below Jagraon bridge at old GT road (reserve price ₹1 lakh/sq yard).MC joint commissioner, Kulpreet Singh said, “Mayor Balkar Sandhu has given the approval for the e-auction and registration process would commence on Tuesday. It will continue till September 15 and the e-auction would be held on September 18 from 9 am to 3 pm. Interested bidders can also get more details regarding the e-auction at www.mcludhiana.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-to-hold-e-auction-of-commercial-sites-vacant-plots/story-6myMMBWCh6JMojZus0XHRK.html
31-08-2020||City||Tanzanian woman shot in leg, robbed of ₹9,000 in Ludhiana||A Tanzanian-national woman was shot at on the leg and robbed of ₹9,000 by a man after both celebrated his birthday at a hotel on Ferozepur road, police said on Monday. The victim has been identified as Magnaza Janite Comen Roger, 32. She is pursuing BBA from Lovely Professional University. The woman sustained a bullet injury on the leg and was taken to a private hospital. In her complaint to the police, Magnaza said that on August 29 she came to Ludhiana to meet her sister Charity Jon who lives on Ferozepur road. On Sunday night, she had received a call from her friend, Tisha, a resident of Hyderabad, inviting the 32-year-old to attend her friend’s birthday party in Sarabha Nagar.Magnaza said that at around 11 pm on August 29, the accused came to pick her up. The duo went to a hotel where they both celebrated the accused’s birthday. On Sunday, at around 4 am, the accused offered to drop Magnaza at her sister’s place on his bike. When they reached near Government Senior Secondary School, Sarabha Nagar, the accused stopped the vehicle and pointed a gun at her. “He robbed me of ₹9,000 He then asked to give him my watch and mobile phone to which I refused. The accused tried to snatch it and when I resisted, he shot me in the leg. Later, he fled the spot,” the victim said. The woman called her sister who took her to a private hospital. Thereafter the police were informed about the incident.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP, city 3) Sameer Verma said that the victim was not known to the accused. She met him for the first time to celebrate his birthday. The woman has given the accused’s phone number to the police, who are trying to trace him.A case under Sections of 307 (attempt to murder), 397 (robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the IPC and sections of the Arms Act has been registered at Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tanzanian-woman-shot-in-leg-robbed-of-9-000-in-ludhiana/story-sLskjpUlgkUEWi7a2yWTVL.html
31-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: Odd-even rule for shops discontinued amid uproar||The odd-even rule for opening shops of non-essential items was discontinued on Monday evening, following the directions of the state government. The information was shared by the police through the Facebook page of Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana.Now, all non-essential shops can remain open from Monday to Friday between 7am and 6:30pm. Police have, however, appealed to the residents to avoid crowding and follow social distancing and other preventive measures to keep the virus at bay.Earlier, during the day, shopkeepers in Ghumar Mandi, one of the main markets in the city, had opened their shops in defiance of the odd-even system, to mark their protest.The traders said that their business was suffering due to curbs and they won’t be able to survive if the shops remained open only three days a week.The shopkeepers, however, closed the shops in the afternoon after the administration assured a meeting with deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma.President of the market association, Pawan Batra said, “For the last one week, we had been opening 50% shops but this is leading to losses. Moreover, no relief is being provided by the government or administration.”Following Monday night’s orders, general secretary of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Sunil Mehra, and district president Arvinder Singh Makkar said that the government should also abolish the weekend lockdown and give some relief in night curfew restrictions to bring relief to the traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghumar-mandi-shopkeepers-up-in-arms-against-odd-even-system/story-4FAzSmVByz4RWM1KnpoizN.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends lockdown till Sept 30 amid Covid-19 outbreak: All you need to know||Maharashtra government on Monday extended lockdown in the state amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak but lifted restrictions on certain activities like inter-district movement of persons and goods and allowing hotels to operate at 100 per cent capacity starting September 2. The state continues to be the worst-hit state with over 7.8 lakh total Covid-19 positive cases as of Monday, and 93,889 active cases, according to the ministry of health. Here is all you need to know about the revised lockdown:• Hotels and lodges will be allowed to operate at 100 per cent capacity from September 2• Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres (including those in malls and market complexes), bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain closed. • The Maharashtra governments Group A and Group B officers can attend offices to 100 per cent of their strength across the state from September 2.• No restriction on inter-district movement of persons and goods, including those for cross-land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries from September 2.• Passenger movement by private bus/mini bus and other operators has been permitted. • Other government staffers can attend offices with 30 per cent of their strength or minimum 30 employees, whichever is more, in areas under municipal corporations in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and others — all Covid-19 hotspots.• Private offices can operate up to 30 per cent of their strength as per requirement.• A vigilance officer will need to be appointed in every office to ensure social distancing norms are observed to contain the spread of Covid-19.• All non-essential shops can operate as per relaxations issued from time to time and liquor shops will continue to operate.• International travel of passengers, except as permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs, and metro rail services will be disallowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-till-sept-30-amid-covid-19-outbreak-all-you-need-to-know/story-QutDUHrPsjTtjfS6c4Vo8H.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ajay Chautala is JJP’s national president||Former MP Ajay Singh Chautala was on Monday appointed as the new national president of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP). Ajay, who was sentenced to 10-year imprisonment in January 2013 by a special CBI court after being convicted in the JBT teachers’ recruitment case, is still serving his sentence. His elder son Dushyant is Haryana deputy chief minister. A JJP spokesperson said that party’s Haryana president Nishan Singh announced Ajay’s appointment as the national president after a meeting of the newly constituted state executive members. The spokesperson said that the national executive of the party decided his name unanimously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ajay-chautala-is-jjp-s-national-president/story-ipgGxwEsvjd784O6qs7g4H.html
31-08-2020||City||Nitish’s call to Sharad sets off talks of his return to JD(U)||PATNAA telephonic call by Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to the family of former JD(U) president Sharad Yadav to enquire about his health has set off speculation about the latter’s possible return to the party he once led.Yadav, who had been undergoing treatment at AIIMS in Delhi, was discharged from the hospital on Sunday.“Yes, Nitish Kumar called Sharad Yadav, but it was just a courtesy call to enquire about his health,” said Arun Srivastava, general secretary of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), the party Yadav founded after parting ways with the JD(U) after it returned to the NDA fold. Dropping clear hints, Srivastava said, “Anything is possible in politics. Nitishji has been our leader and we have worked together.”Yadav formed LJD after he was expelled from JD (U) for anti-party activities in August 2017. He contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Madhepura as a Grand Alliance candidate but lost the elections.During the course of his illness, several JD(U) leaders contacted him and enquired about his health. “If he joins us, it will definitely be a good move,” said JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan. “He is a tall leader. It will strengthen the NDA,” said BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav. The main opposition party in Bihar, the RJD, which leads the Grand Alliance, reacted on expected lines. “JD(U) has become desperate. They are moving from the doors of one leader to another and extending them invites to join their party,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary.JD (U) had removed Yadav as the party’s leader in the Rajya Sabha in 2017 after he publicly disapproved of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s decision to rejoin the NDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nitish-s-call-to-sharad-sets-off-talks-of-his-return-to-jd-u/story-zS2J7H9VQ5TaDiXPRuXytO.html
31-08-2020||Pune||PMC issues diktat for jumbo Covid facility: Call helpline, then get admission||The jumbo Covid-19 facility at the COEP grounds in Shivajinagar, which was inaugurated by the chief minister just a week ago, has come under heavy criticism from the public and the opposition parties. There have been major goof ups being reported from the facility, including critical Covid-19 patients being denied ventilators and inadequate food, resulting in patients seeking discharge. Taking into account the complaints, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued a diktat on Monday stating that critical patients should be admitted to the facility only after they contact the PMC helpline. The order stated, “The civic body requests citizens that they must contact the civic body helpline number, 020-25502110 or 020-25502115, before going to the COEP jumbo facility. The citizens must not directly go to the centre and those who directly go to the centre will not be given admission.” Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We have instructed the facility managers to admit critical patients who have used the helpline or come through the official channel. If private hospitals or other hospitals start sending critical patients to the facility without information, then, it will be difficult to manage here, hence the decision was taken.”Shivajinagar MLA, Siddharth Shirole said, “There have been multiple complaints coming in about the facility. Citizens are sending me messages through social media platforms that there is no working oxygen supply, no food and also not many expert doctors working at the site. I even heard that people are seeking discharge voluntarily as they are not satisfied with the services being provided there. The dedicated Covid-19 health centre (DCHC) which is for critical patients is also on its way to be turned into a Covid care centre for asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms.”A relative of a patient admitted at the centre, said, “On Sunday I was not allowed to enter the centre, when my father asked for food to be brought from home because he did not like the food being provided there. However, when I went back again on Monday, the guard allowed me to go in. When I asked him about the same he said that since the food got over, they were now allowing and asking relatives to get food from home. I am planning to get my father admitted to another private hospital because he is not feeling safe here.” On Monday evening, the COEP jumbo facility was missing from the civic administration’s dashboard. The Shiv Sena in its letter to the municipal commissioner on Monday slammed the civic body for running the facility in such a haphazard way. The letter states, “Yesterday, a patient with an oxygen saturation level of 74% was denied admission because he did not have the Covid-19 test report. Many such complaints have already started coming like unhygienic conditions, inadequate food, crowd management by relatives of the patients.” About the facilityThe 800-bed dedicated Covid-19 DCHC was inaugurated by CM Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy CM, Ajit Pawar on August 23. This was the first Covid-19 jumbo facility, after which two more have been inaugurated - one at PCMC and another at Baner. After much delay due to various reasons including rains, the facility could finally be operational and was handed over to a private agency, Lifeline. The agency runs the facility and provides manpower, including doctors and nurses. The facility has 600 oxygenated beds and 200 ICU beds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-issues-diktat-for-jumbo-covid-facility-call-helpline-then-get-admission/story-Szly8O69rUQVAAnomxwuIJ.html
31-08-2020||City||Netizens cry foul as admn suspends Jammu tehsildar over ‘massive’ domicile certificate pendency||After a government order regarding the suspension of tehsildar Ravi Shankar made the rounds on social media, netizens on Monday criticised the J&K administration for the decision, terming it humiliation to an honest and dedicated officer.The junior Jammu and Kashmir Administrative Service (JKAS) officer was suspended with immediate effect on Sunday for “dereliction of his duties involving disobedience and very poor performance” in the issuance of domicile certificates to applicants here, an official order said.“Ravi Shankar, posted as tehsildar Jammu (Khas), has been attached in the office of the divisional commissioner, the order issued by principal secretary (revenue) Pawan Kotwal read.Kotwal has marked the inquiry to Jammu district commissioner Sushma Chauhan, to be completed and submitted to the government within 15 days.Ramgarh tehsildar Kamalpreet Singh has been transferred and posted as tehsildar Jammu (Khas).However, Shankar’s suspension has invited sharp criticism from netizens.“He is an honest and hardworking officer, his suspension must be the outcome of some conspiracy. We demand revocation of his suspension order with immediate effect,” wrote advocate Praveen Choudhary on Facebook.“Shame on the administration for this is the reward of honesty and hard work. I stand with Jammu tehsildar Ravi Shankar. Revoke this order,” posted Dr Gemini Sharma, another Facebook user.Netizen Dr Surjeet Singh Shan wrote, “Indeed a dedicated, hardworking and honest officer,” posted.“This is sheer nonsense on the part of administration.....The reward of hard work and dedication is humiliation and transfers,” posted Divya Sharma, while another user Rajinder Singh Manhas said, “We condemn this draconian order...I wonder if he was just made a scapegoat...Administration should rethink this.”When contacted, revenue secretary Kotwal cited pendency of 73,000 domicile certificate applications with the civil servant.“Pendency of domicile certificates here was far more than in other tehsils. I am not raising any query on the integrity of the official and he will be given full opportunity to explain his position, but his performance was being watched for the past six to seven months,” said Kotwal.“The Lt governor had taken a strong exception to the massive pendency of applications in Jammu Khas tehsil during a review meeting and sought reasons from the district commissioner. All that the official had to do was to see the documents and issue domicile certificates,” added Kotwal.“If he answers satisfactorily, he will be restored,” said the principal secretary, adding that he was not prejudiced against any officer.It may be stated here that Ravi Shankar had been performing other duties of reportage and rescue during the recent floods, supervising Covid-targeted testing and routine tehsildar work before sitting in office till late hours every night to issue domicile certificates.“On average, he was issuing around 400 to 450 domicile certificates every day and in the past 45 days, he cleared around 14,000 certificates. Jammu Khas is the most populated tehsils of the district and number of applicants here are far more than other tehsils,” said official sources.They added, “The online method to apply for domicile certificates is quite cumbersome and poor net connectivity compounds to the problems of applicants. Take any tehsil, and one would find that only a handful of certificates have been issued online.”A tehsildar, who has a lot of duties to perform, should have been spared from issuing domicile certificates, especially in populated cities, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/netizens-cry-foul-as-admn-suspends-jammu-tehsildar-over-massive-domicile-certificate-pendency/story-FNPXowa0kLUGzOlGvcxbfJ.html
31-08-2020||Patna||JEE Main: 61.5k across Bihar to write exam beginning today||Altogether 818 students with paper two of Bachelor of Architecture and Bachelor of Planning have registered for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main in the capital city on Tuesday.A total of 359 candidates would take exam in the first sitting while 449 students in the second sitting across 20 exam centres in the city.As per advisory issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA), candidates are allowed to carry admit card, valid identity proof, passport size photograph, transparent ball pen and personal hand sanitiser. Candidates will be provided three-ply mask at the entrance.Patna district administration on Monday said that preparation on their part have been completed for smooth conduct of examination.A senior district administration official said, “Exam centres are responsible for following standard operating procedure issued by agency for conducting exams. We have made arrangements for crowd management outside exam centres.”He said, “Adequate number of magistrates and police personnel have been deployed to prevent gathering outside exam hall. As public transport including auto-rickshaws and city buses are plying, there will be no shortage of transportation.”Meanwhile, exam centres in the capital city Patna were gearing up for making pre-exam preparations.Ajay Singh, who is managing Uniconcept exam centre at Kankarbagh, said, “We have almost completed arrangements. Exam hall, computer system, doors and common surface areas have been sanitised thoroughly. We have also placed notice on walls to remove shoes and maintain social distancing. Dustbins have been placed for collecting biomedical waste.”He said, “Invigilators have been provided gloves and masks and security personnel have been trained for managing crowd and frisking”, he added.Altogether, 61,583 candidates across Bihar have registered for taking JEE Main from September 1 to 6 across 43 exam centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/jee-main-61-5k-across-bihar-to-write-exam-beginning-today/story-PyDJmZQryGdsowdFUH34bK.html
31-08-2020||City||Vehicle falls into Chenab river in J&K, 8 passengers missing||Eight people have gone missing after their vehicle skidded off the highway and fell into the Chenab river in Jammu and Kashmir’s Ramban district on Monday, police said. The driver was trying to overtake another vehicle when he lost control and it rolled down the slope before falling into the Chenab river. Ramban district commissioner Nazim Zai Khan said, “We have not been able to trace the passengers. The Chenab is in full spate and nothing has been found so far.” “Nine people were on board, out of which police constable Mehraj Din jumped out of the vehicle,” he added.“He is undergoing treatment at district hospital in Ramban. Prima facie it is a case of negligent driving,” the DC said. Senior superintendent of police Haseeb-ur-Rehman said, “The vehicle was on its way to Ramban from Udhampur. We tried to trace the vehicle with the help of hooks but there is no clue so far.” “We have requisitioned divers to trace the passengers. However, we have recovered some bags from the slope,” he added According to the lone survivor Mehraj Din, there were eight passengers, including head constable Ajay Kumar and constable Hafiz Hussain of Akhnoor, in the vehicle when it submerged completely in the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicle-falls-into-chenab-river-in-j-k-8-passengers-missing/story-bI7DRIfusZ9JZMbBMQ5A3N.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Unlock 4.0: Metro journeys to be back, with #socialdistancing||‘Kripya darwazo se hatt kar khade ho. Please stand away from the doors.’ This announcement is one that almost every Delhiite has come to love over the years, while rushing about the city from one place to another in the city’s lifeline. Commonly referred to, by the millennials, as the voice of the Metro aunty / uncle, it has certainly been missed in all these five months when the Delhi Metro was made non-operational to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Now, however, the wait of denizens seems to finally come to an end. As per the recent guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs under Unlock 4.0, Delhi Metro is expected to resume its services for public from September 7, in a ‘phased manner’. Further details on the functioning and usage of the Metro by the public will be shared soon in detail. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), says, “All necessary guidelines in place to combat the spread of the Covid-19 virus shall be implemented.”Talking about some of the new rules that will have to be followed in Delhi Metro, Dayal adds, “Alternate seating will be allowed and stickers will be pasted on the prohibited seats. For standing passengers, one meter distance must be kept, all passengers will be checked with thermal scanners and their hands will be sanitised. Lifts will accommodate about two-three passengers only. Trains will halt a little longer at stations to allow social distancing while boarding and de-boarding.”No hour is rush hour? So what can one expect in their ‘Unlock metro’ experience? City-based entrepreneur, Akash Gupta says, “I feel, there will be lesser people riding the Metro as many individuals will stick to #WorkFromHome in the new normal. Travel will be lot more need based, and hence this will lead to lesser pushing and shoving. However I just hope this trend continues for long and people use Metro facilities judiciously and with sanity.” Gupta jokes, “What I’ll miss is standing at Rajiv Chowk metro station boarding for Gurugram and just standing in the queue, waiting for the crowd to do the rest in terms of taking you in inside the metro.”  Coming to stations near you on 7th September. #MetroBackOnTrackA post shared by  Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (@officialdmrc) on Aug 30, 2020 at 1:02am PDTRiding the metro without getting pushed around by the crowd? That’s a feat that Delhiites haven’t been able to witness often! “When I used to travel via metro to my college, I used to travel at 8 am rush hour. I remember that usually at Rajiv Chowk there was so much rush in the women’s section that the co-passengers often grabbed each other’s bags and even hair to enter the train. When the metro reopens now, the experience will be entirely different and surreal since metro is synonymous with dhakka mukki! Metro bin dhakka mukki is like chai without pappe,” laughs Jacqueline Joseph, a graduate from Jesus and Mary College, Delhi University.Kripya doori banaye rakhein/ Please maintain distance Will metro have some social distancing audio messages for riding passengers? “I’m hoping that the metro aunty (female voice of announcer) has a lot of fun one liners like ‘Darwazo se hi nahi, kripya ek doosre se bhi doori banaye rakhe #janhitmainjari (Not just from the door, maintain distance from fellow passengers, too. Issued in public interest). It will be so much fun travelling via the metro with lesser passengers, poori foreign wali feel aayegi, like the London tube that I’ve travelled in,” says Jaskaran Singh, a photographer.  Delhi Metro will be resuming its services for public from 7 September 2020 onwards in a caliberated manner. #MetroBackOnTrack #DelhiMetro #Delhi #Metro #LetsMetro #DMRC #SociallyFlippedA post shared by  Socially Flipped Media (@sociallyflipped) on Aug 30, 2020 at 4:52am PDTIs it a metro station or FBI office? Thermal scanning being made mandatory before getting permission to ride the metro has made city residents wonder how will it feel like being at gunpoint. Tanishka Kapoor, an IT professional, says, “I’m happy that stringent measures to protect our health will be made by the DMRC. But I can’t stop thinking how it will feel to be stopped at a (thermal) gun point from entering the metro. I’ve kept my jokes prepared for the guards scanning every passenger. One of my jokes will be saying loud – Yeh metro station hai ya FBI ka office?”   Meme compilation on becoming a star with Delhi Metro. I know, it's been a long time. But Delhi Metro has been shut since late March and I'm still sad that I don't know when I'll ride the metro next. 😭 Anyway, here's an investment tip - real estate located close to an efficient and cheap public transport is always more valuable than real estate that isn't. If you're looking to invest, maybe you should scroll down to my first post and look where Delhi Metro is about to come up. ;) #DelhiMetroA post shared by  Delhi Metro Memes (@ilove_dmrc) on Jul 30, 2020 at 8:06am PDTSanitiser puffs to replace perfume puffs“Wearing a good perfume was common courtesy while riding the crowded metro trains in the pre-Covid era. But now I feel that with a cap on the number of passengers, a sanitiser’s puff will go a longer way! Seems like the rules have changed,” says a gleeful Shweta Gupta, a merchandise designer from Delhi who is happy that travellers will finally give hygiene a priority when commuting via Delhi Metro. “I’m a hygiene freak! I’m so excited to ride the spic and span Delhi metro that won’t be messed up by people,” she adds.  #NewsAlert #DelhiMetro will be resuming it's services for public from 7th Sept onwards in a calibrated manner🚇 as per new MHA guidelines for Unlock 4. More details awaited 💯 . . . Follow Back @nightlifeinindia or #nightlifeinindia . . . . . . . #delhidiaries #delhifoodie #delhinightlife #delhigirls #delhifood #delhimodel #bangalorenightlife #delhi_diaries #delhifashionblogger #mumbaishopping #delhifoodblogger #delhiblogger #delhincr #delhite #bangaloreshopping #delhifashionblogger #delhifashion #delhifashion #bangalorefashion #mumbaimodel #delhifoodguide #mumbainightlife #connaughtplace #mumbai #gurugram #mumbaifashionA post shared by  India’s nightlife (@nightlifeinindia) on Aug 29, 2020 at 11:43pm PDTAuntiyon ki gossip will be missed!“Didi zara zor se boliye, social distancing ki vajah se awaz nahi sunayi de rahi.” Delhi-based undergrad student Abhir Bhalla, will miss the over hearing conversations in the metro, on any average day, but feels personal space, would be better this time. He says, “Since there are reports that metro will be keeping only a few gates open, it’ll be important that social distancing is followed. The community could really benefit from understanding and respecting the concept of personal space, which often does not happen in public transport. I’d miss the funny conversations though. You tend to hear other people talking loudly on the phone. And if you’re really bored, or your signal drops, and OTT isn’t working, it can be amusing to listen to people talk so loudly, and the whole compartment ends up staring at that person.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddha and @NainaArora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-4-0-metro-journeys-to-be-back-with-socialdistancing/story-BZQvvFa4zMmD39JVUlgbTK.html
31-08-2020||City||Jalandhar not meeting covid-19 testing target||Jalandhar Even as the state government has directed districts to ramp up testing for covid-19, the Jalandhar health department has been unable to meet its allocated target of 3,000 tests for a day. The district has 6,623 cases and seen 165 deaths till August 31 evening.Over the past two months, the district’s average has been 800 tests per day. The district has just one testing lab that has a capacity of 100-150 tests a day. This has led to a delay in tracing and shifting positive cases and increases the risk of virus spread.On most days over the last fortnight, the sample collection was about 400. For only five days, the figure went above 1,000 samples. The department collected 433 and 428 samples on Sunday and Saturday, respectively. Only 89 samples were collected on Monday. Jalandhar is lagging behind Ludhiana, the worst-hit district in sample collection, as its per day positive ratio is higher, said a senior health official. At 1.37 lakh samples collected, Ludhiana has 407.4 cases for every 1 lakh population, while Jalandhar at 74,405 samples, has 977 cases per lakh. The data are from Punjab Covid-19 Status Report till August 26. There is a backlog of around 1,000 samples as authorities have to send most samples to Faridkot medical college for testing, which generally takes two days in generating result. “There are 13 micro-containment zones in the district, but all houses have not been examined. There will be a spike in covid cases and it is possible that the district will surpass Ludhiana, if authorities intensify the contact-tracing on a daily basis,” said a senior administration official.Jalandhar civil surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said they were collaborating with the health department and 15 more teams will be assigned to the job. Presently, 39 teams comprising three-four health staff in a team collect covid samples.State covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said covid sampling was being intensified across the state. In a silver lining for Jalandhar, it is the only district in the state that has level-3 beds for critical patients, in the civil hospital, after the three medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-not-meeting-covid-19-testing-target/story-dvSHgZ7Bu11vmuiiTzf3NO.html
31-08-2020||City||Unlock 4.0 in Himachal: Lockdown extended till Sep 30 in containment zones||Considering the continuous spike in Covid-19 cases and overall circumstances in the state, the Himachal government has extended the lockdown in containment areas till September 30 with immediate effect.Several activities will be allowed outside containment zones as per the Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued by the central government.As per the state notification, interstate movement of public transport buses will remain prohibited till further orders, religious places and places of worship will only open as per the SOPs of language, art and culture department; tourist units will be opened and operated as per the SOPs issued by the department concerned from time to time.School, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed till September 30, however, online and distance learning will continue. Students of classes 9 to 12 living outside containment zones may be allowed to visit schools on voluntary basis.Government offices will function as per the orders issued by the personnel department and SOPs issued by the revenue department.All interstate movement will be monitored through registration in the Covid-19 e-pass software.Any person entering the state, whether a tourist or Himachal resident, needs to show a Covid-19 negative report.All asymptomatic persons coming from other states will be home quarantined and any person who violates the same will be shifted to institutional quarantine facilities, while all persons coming from highly-infected areas will be institutionally quarantined.Educational institutions may not be used as covid-care centres and preference will be given to community buildings, hotels and guest houses.Any persons violating these orders will be liable for punishment under sections 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act and legal action as per Section 188 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-4-0-in-himachal-lockdown-extended-till-sep-30-in-containment-zones/story-LachBnpjJb6qs0JAhBS2jK.html
31-08-2020||City||Fake degree scam: Failing to make headway, police want I-T dept to handle case||After failing to make much progress with its probe into the alleged fake degree sale by Solan-based Manav Bharati University (MBU), the Himachal police have urged the state government to hand over the investigation to the income tax department.Solan police, that is currently investigating the matter, has registered three criminal cases under sections 420, 467, 468 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Dharampur police station. These cases are being investigated by a special investigation team (SIT) of the HP police.MBU, owned by Manav Bharti Charitable Trust, was established in 2009. Its chairman is Raj Kumar Rana and trustees are his wife Ashoni Kanwar and daughter Aina Rana. Madhav University, Rajasthan, was also established under the aegis of the same trust in 2013.During the investigation, the police had found that Rana acquired huge movable and immovable property in Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and other places with the funds generated by the sale of fake degrees. Rana was arrested in June this year.“Apart from the fake degrees, it is necessary to investigate the financial aspects of the crime, for which evaluation of properties and tracking of financial transactions and money trail relating to the crime needs to be undertaken by the income tax department,” said director general of police Sanjay Kundu.Solan-based MBU had come under the scanner after University Grants Commission (UGC) had written to authorities concerned in the state in August 2019 to conduct a thorough inquiry into the allegations of sale of fake degrees by APG University in Shimla and MBU, but the government remained silent for six months. It was after repeated reminders from UGC that the Himachal government initiated a probe against the two private universities.The UGC had informed that MBU had sold over four-five lakh degrees during the past seven years with the help of agents in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, West Bengal and South India, under the nose of HP Private Universities Regulatory Authority.As MBU is under investigation, passed out students from the university, who are employed now, have expressed worry about their future. They have formed a group and are demanding justice from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-degree-scam-failing-to-make-headway-police-want-i-t-dept-to-handle-case/story-rg1MJCEKESRL60TjuGUliK.html
31-08-2020||City||JEE Mains paper today, expect temperature checks, staggered entry at Ludhiana centres||As engineering aspirants gear up for the Joint Entrance Examination (Mains) to be held on Tuesday, authorities at ION digital zone, the only centre in Ludhiana, have left no stone unturned to ensure the safety of students amid the Covid-19 outbreak. At the centre, students will be seated in adherence with the social distancing norms, and entry and exit will be staggered so as to avoid crowding. Besides, students have been asked to reach the centre an hour before the exam begins. The gates will be closed at 8.30am in the morning shift and 2.30pm for the evening shift. Authorities will be doing a thermal scan, besides checking the students’ admit cards, before allowing them to enter. In case, a candidate has body temperature above normal (37.5 °C/99.4 F) or displays any Covid-19 symptom, he or she will be placed in a separate isolation lab. Santisers will be available at the entry and exit points of the centre. 388 CANDIDATES TO APPEAR AT LUDHIANA CENTRE The exam by the National Testing Authority will be conducted by Tata Consultancy services and a total 13,995 candidates will appear from the nine examination centers in Punjab. From Ludhiana alone, as many as 388 students are set to sit for the exam. Gurpreet Singh, owner of the ION Digital zone, said, “We are fully prepared to conduct the exam and all arrangements have been made according to the standard operating procedure.” The entrance exam had been postponed twice in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-mains-paper-today-expect-temperature-checks-staggered-entry-at-ludhiana-centres/story-gESsLOkhClavgcSrpDg1CL.html
31-08-2020||Pune||‘We are preparing for worst... but on most parameters situation in Pune under control: state health min Tope||After six months since Pune reported the first Covid-19 case in Maharashtra, the city’s Covid tally on Sunday crossed 1 lakh mark while Pune district has already surpassed Mumbai in the number of total Covid cases. Yogesh Joshi of Hindustan Times spoke to Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on the situation in Pune, Mumbai and rest of Maharashtra. Following are the excerpts: Pune cases have reached the 1 lakh mark. How do you see the situation here? Pune has almost reached its peak as it touched the 1 lakh mark. Now the city’s tally of fresh cases must come down from here on and I am very optimistic about the situation in Pune. Having seen the graph of various cities across the world, I can tell you that every city reaches the peak at some point and then gets plateaued before the tally comes down. This has been a global trend in the Covid situation and Pune will be no exception. While cases are rising, the bed situation in Pune city and the rest of district has somewhat eased. As a government, it is duty bound to be prepared for the worst. Now we have been preparing for the worst in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. As part of our efforts, we have set up jumbo facilities in both cities with each having 800 beds. Both have been made operational now. There is no bed shortage now and we are further ramping up our bed capacity. Besides Pune and PCMC, rural parts are also reporting cases in higher numbers. This is because the virus is spreading in nearby areas and we cannot control it. Covid-19 is a highly contagious disease. Can we stop people from stepping out of home? No. In Maharashtra, we started lockdown earlier than the Centre while extending it till June. Now we are into unlocking mode. Are you satisfied with the case fatality ratio (CFR) of Pune? This is a contagious disease and it will spread. While the spread is not a big concern even as it creates a fearful situation, what we have to pay more attention to is the Case Fatality Ratio (CFR). In Pune, the CFR is below normal and it currently stands at 2.4 per cent. Considering that Pune has reported 1 lakh cases, CFR of 2.4 per cent is not bad. The death rate for Covid has always been around 3 per cent. The doubling rate has also increased and is almost 30 while recovery rate is almost 80 per cent. So on most parameters, the situation in Pune is under control. For administration, whatever guidelines, notifications have been issued; will have to be enforced in letter and spirit. Be it 80 per cent beds being taken by government, the order has to be implemented properly. At the same time, we have prescribed rates– be it for treatment or RT-PCR tests. These things are to be properly monitored by administration. On the availability of drugs also, there is no issue at all as Remdesivire and Tociluzumab are in ample quantity. From government side, we have to see preparedness and we are prepared for the worst even as numbers are increasing. In Pune, the number of people succumbing to the virus is growing along with the number of positive cases. People are dying because of two major reasons - co-morbidities and late detection or lack of knowledge. Many people are reporting late because of stigma. If we analyse the situation in any district of Maharashtra, most people are dying within 48 hours of reporting because they reported late. Many people are not coming out on their own even if the health department is trying best to aggressively carry out contact tracing and identifying affected patients. The three things I believe that are most important are information, education and communication and we should be insisting on this always. On unlocking- we are still to relax curbs on many things including temples, gyms or e-passes for travelling. We have adopted a staggered opening approach. The chief minister, Uddhavji Thackeray is conservative in opening up things. There is a demand, and political parties have staged an agitation. Is there a chance that gymnasiums, temples and other such sites will open in September? We have to do it at some point. We have to take a call on this as many things have already opened. But the chief minister is very much conservative on this. NCP chief Sharad Pawar backs opening up, but the CM has a different stand. Well, we have to achieve the via-median between what Sharad Pawarji is saying and what CM thinks. We can’t open everything 100 per cent, which will allow virus to spread even rapidly and create a burden on the health infrastructure. We will only earn a bad name if people find no beds in hospitals. We have to do it slowly. Without opening also, we are having 14,000-15,000 cases daily in Maharashtra. On Saturday, state reported 16,867 cases in one day. In Mumbai, the daily cases are once again rising. In a big city like Mumbai, having population of around 1.5 crore, if 100-200 add more or less to the tally, it is not a point of worry at all although it is showing a trend that cases are increasing. However, I do not believe that it is an indication of second wave. There are couple of other places which can act as an example. Dharavi in Mumbai and Malegaon in North Maharashtra have shown the way cases can be brought under control. In Malegaon, which has population of 3 lakh who live in congested place – Its population density is 19,000 persons per square kilometre and is highest in Maharashtra – we have been able to control it. I believe we are heading towards herd immunity in these places. Are we reaching herd immunity in other places too? Ultimately, all these places where the tally subsides, we will reach herd immunity. We are approaching 25-30 per cent of the people getting infected. This is in the direction of achieving herd immunity. Once most people are immune to virus, I don’t think there fresh positive cases will come this way. Sero surveys showed 51.50 per cent and 57 per cent individuals in Pune and Mumbai were exposed to Sars-Cov-2 and recovered owing to the antibodies produced. How do you look at the scenario? Even if the sample size of these two Sero surveys were relatively small, they collected samples from various areas. In Pune, the survey covered people from slum and non-slums. It definitely has some significance. It gives an indication. In rural and semi-rural parts of Maharashtra, more and more cases are coming up. The cases are definitely growing in rural parts of Maharashtra. However, I can say with all certainty that the picture is not scary as over 80 per cent people are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. The number of critical or serious patients is around 2 per cent. If we take precaution, each one of us can defeat Covid-19. On the broader side, how optimistic you are about Maharashtra? I am 100 per cent optimistic and at the same time, I and my department are cautious and alert to deal with any eventuality. Now that we are past six months, most of the frontline staff is working relentlessly. There have been complaints about hospitals overcharging or doctors not opening clinics Doctors should have empathy and sympathy while treating patients. Most of 5.5 lakh recovered patients who have returned home are because of doctors’ treatment. However, there are some who require working on mission mode. They should not just treat patients for the sake of treatment. It should come from the heart. We are witnessing that at some places, doctors are not treating patients properly may be because they are scared. There is human touch required while treating patients. I am constantly telling them it all depends on you as we as lay person can’t treat anyone. Doctors should have humanitarian and sympathetic approach. The entire society is dependent on the doctors’ fraternity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/we-are-preparing-for-worst-but-on-most-parameters-situation-in-pune-under-control-state-health-min-tope/story-VFJLLP51uUG7jM1RVc3YgN.html
31-08-2020||City||Alternate day water supply to continue in PCMC||Pune: Even as the city has received adequate rainfall and Pavana dam’s water stock touched 99.15% at 8:30 am on Monday, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) administration has decided to continue with alternate day water supply. According to the state irrigation department, 3,000 cusecs of water has been discharged from the dam since Sunday morning. “We need extra 30 to 40 million litres per day (MLD) for daily water supply. We may provide daily water supply if we continue to receive surplus rain in September,” said PCMC municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar. From November 25, 2019, Pimpri and Chinchwad have been receiving alternate day water supply. The residents were expecting daily water supply post good rainfall in August. In the last 24 hours, Pavana dam has received 22mm rainfall, according to the state irrigation department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alternate-day-water-supply-to-continue-in-pcmc/story-qYVl3xUv8SKKPDTdwLdfMP.html
31-08-2020||Pune||Army personnel from CME, Pune, airlifted to Nagpur for rescue operations||Indian Army personnel have been airlifted from Pune with the help of Indian Air Force officials for rescue operations to Nagpur, which is currently dealing with floods.The company that landed in Nagpur after an overnight flight is from the College of Military Engineering (CME), Pune. “The Sappers from CME, Pune, have got rich experience in executing rescue and relief operations as they were instrumental in saving more than 11,000 people during the Kerala floods in 2018 and Maharashtra floods in 2019. In view of COVID-19 pandemic, the challenges of flood rescue operations have increased manifold,” read a statement from CME, Pune.The men who left from Pune are carrying boats and supplies for rescue operations. At the outset, they are deployed in Ambhora village of Kinu, Nagpur.“Approximately 100 people evacuated till now,” read another statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/army-personnel-from-cme-pune-airlifted-to-nagpur-for-rescue-operations/story-cSCo3C4WKaDYLnTvQe1aUP.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Running toy business in Punjab’s Dhanaula no child’s play after Covid-19||Their business was impacted first when imported toys hit the market, but Covid-19 has been the biggest challenge for Punjab’s toy town Dhanaula in Barnala district. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, laying emphasis on getting vocal for local toys, however, has given them a glimmer of hope.Located on the Bathinda-Chandigarh National Highway around 12 km from Barnala, Dhanaula has for decade been an important market for wooden toys. For starters, toy makers feel, they should get some relief from goods and services tax (GST) and the government promote their products through exhibitions.“Our business was making profits before the pandemic. We used to supply toys to Haryana, Rajasthan and Abohar. However, the coronavirus ruined it. We use rubber tyres for toys but during the lockdown the supply of tyres stopped. The factories concerned increased their prices,” said Gurdeep Singh (37),whose family has been running a toy business for the last 35 years.He also suggested that the government should exempt wholesalers from GST as they could not afford to get a GST number or hire accountants. “The government should also organise exhibitions in cities and install signboards of toy shops on national highways,” he added.Though children liked wooden toys, they could not buy them as markets were closed because of the lockdown, said Gurpreet Singh, a shopkeeper. “When we are allowed to open, however, parents don’t bring the children to the markets.” People heading to Bathinda, Moga or Chandigarh used to stop at these shops earlier. Now they drive past, say locals.“We have not incurred losses in the last 19 years in this business. People including NRIs buy our products, which they say represent Punjab and its agricultural legacy. However, Covid-19 has affected our business,” said Harwinder Singh Sohal, a wholesaler.The pieces are also not very expensive, with a tralla (truck) costing Rs 400, a small size truck Rs 90 and a tractor-trailer Rs140. Dharampal Bhagat, general manager, District Industry Chamber, said the government was focusing on small industries by making clusters of such entrepreneurs.“I have organised a meeting on Wednesday and we discuss formation of clusters of these manufactures. The government will provide machinery and other required assistance to promote wooden toys,” added Bhagat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/running-toy-business-in-punjab-s-dhanaula-no-child-s-play-after-covid-19/story-wAqnXDBNUYDXULaCdD7NTM.html
31-08-2020||City||HPTU to start BTech, MBA at off-campus centre in Lahaul-Spiti||In a move that will benefit students in tribal areas, Himachal Pradesh Technical University, Hamirpur, is going to introduce Bachelor of Technology (BTech) and Master of Business Administration (MBA) in tourism and hospitality management at its off-campus centre in Lahaul-Spiti from the current academic year.Technical education minister Ram Lal Markanda said the university has established an off-campus centre for the first time in a tribal area where these courses will be introduced.SETS ‘VISION 21/21’The university has initiated ‘Vision 2021’ under which it has decided to do 21 things in the year 2021.Markanda said in the next year, the university authorities have planned to start BTech in computer science, PhD in management and technology, set up a skill development centre, recreation centre, stadium, auditorium, open-air theatre, gymnasium, community radio, research hub, separate hostel for students from tribal areas, vice-chancellor residence, residence for non-teaching staff, tuck shops, besides construction of educational block phase-2 and of guest house.University will go completely paperless from next academic session.TO BE RENAMEDTo promote skill development in the university, Himachal Pradesh Technical University will be renamed as State Technical and Skill Development University.Markanda said the board of governor has granted permission to change the university’s name and the matter will be raised in the cabinet meeting for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hptu-to-start-btech-mba-at-off-campus-centre-in-lahaul-spiti/story-9lpXfDml4vLPgMRFHpP1pN.html
31-08-2020||City||Jai Ram dedicates Rs 40 crore developmental projects for Bilaspur’s Jhandutta||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth Rs 40 crore for Jhandutta Legislative Assembly Constituency (LAC) in Bilaspur district through video conferencing from Shimla.The CM said PWD has fulfilled the long pending demand of people of the area and this division will go a long way in strengthening the public works in Jhandutta. Similarly, the fire sub-station at Jhandutta will also provide immediate assistance in case of any fire incident. Thakur also inaugurated newly opened division of public works department to facilitate about 91,562 people of the area.The CM laid foundation stones of Rs 11.50 crore upgradation of Samoh-Geharwin Thuran road under PMGSY, Rs 10 crore upgradation of Jhandutta Bharoli Kalan road, Rs 7 crore 100 metre span double press-stressed box girder bridge at Ree-Radoh over Seer khad, Rs 3.82 crore Community Health Centre building at Talai, Rs 3.62 crore Daslehra-Khamerah Kalan bridge, Rs 1.68 crore science laboratory at Government Senior Secondary School, Talai, Rs 94 lakh development and improvement of additional source of Lift Water Supply Scheme Chounta Jangla Thathal in Jhandutta tehsil and Rs 48 lakh electric sub-division building at Talai.Thakur said Jhandutta-Bhadoli road that will be upgraded by spending Rs 10 crore under PMGSY will provide better connectivity to about 25,000 people of the area. Another upgradation of Rs 11.50 crore Samoh-Geharwin-Thuran road will also facilitate people of the area. He said work on Rs 6 crore 33 KVA sub-station will be completed soon to solve the voltage problem.He thanked the people of Jhandutta for contributing Rs 1.16 crore towards the CM Covid Relief Fund and Rs 5 lakh towards PM Cares. He said the BJP workers had prepared and distributed over 54,000 face masks to people of the area. He said people need to be more cautious about the pandemic since the cases are on a rise during the rainy season. He urged people to use face masks while going out in public places and regularly wash hands with a soap to check spread of virus.Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Singh Thakur thanked the CM for opening PWD division at Jhandutta to ensure better conditions of roads and bridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-dedicates-rs-40-crore-developmental-projects-for-bilaspur-s-jhandutta/story-9d9bZUPpKiG2CO1wotzj6L.html
31-08-2020||City||Apples, kiwis from Iran, Turkey have Himachal’s fruit growers worried||Grappling with labour shortage and transportation challenges in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, fruit growers of Himachal Pradesh have now urged the central government to take steps to check the sale of apples and kiwi fruit from Iran and Turkey that are finding their way into fruit markets across the country. This year has been tough for apple growers. Himachal’s Rs 4,500-crore apple economy sustains the livelihood of 1.65 lakh families. Of the 12 districts, apple is grown in seven with Shimla, Kullu and Kinnaur being top apple-producing districts. The primary concern of fruit growers was the labour shortage with skilled Nepalese labourers unable to return in time due to the sealed borders. The apple orchardists managed with local labour and worked overtime as harvest got off to a slow start in mid-July. Since the crop was lean, the growers got a good price for premium apples being sold for Rs 1,400 to Rs 2,500 per box of 20 kg. But the growers now fear that unregulated and uncontrolled imports from Iran and Turkey could have an impact on the apple prices. “Uncontrolled and unregulated cheap imports of kiwis and apples from these countries is affecting our realisation from the market,” said Lokinder Singh Bisht, the president of the Progressive Growers Association. Bisht has written to Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal to draw his attention towards the issue. “Most of the imports with sanctions are routed through hawala transactions, undervaluing the fruit to ride over the 33% tax barrier of import duty. Besides the quarantine inspections are overlooked and the fruit is being dumped in third grade plastic, becoming an environmental hazard,” he said in the letter. “If this goes on unchecked, it will not only lead to insects being imported with the fruit but will also make the cash crop unviable in our region,” he said. The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority data shows that Turkey dumped 7,500 metric tonnes of apples in 2017-18 which grew to 32,289 metric tonnes in 2019-20. While the apple import from Iran was 7,020 MT in 2018-19, it grew to 21,521 MT in 2019-20. Three years ago, the Centre allowed the import of kiwis and since then the volume has grown to 30,000 metric tonnes in 2019-20. “Fruit imports should complement our consumption and not replace our domestic crop. There are more apples from Iran this time. The only way to differentiate the apple from Iran is from its packing,” says Abhinav Jaggi, a Delhi-based apple importer. Apples from Iran change the port of origin in Dubai. There are reports that the apples are also smuggled from Afghanistan and later sold under different trademarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apples-kiwis-from-iran-turkey-have-himachal-s-fruit-growers-worried/story-ryYpD1P0058AdyAUfQv2tN.html
31-08-2020||City||Himachal logs three deaths, 171 fresh Covid-19 infections||Three people died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the death toll to 36, officials said.A 68-year-old man from Nahan in Sirmaur district succumbed to the virus during treatment at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC), Shimla. Chief medical officer Surekha Chopra said he was referred to IGMC on August 26 as he was a post renal transplant case and was also suffering from phenomena and respiratory diseases. A 76-year-old man from Bilaspur also died at IGMC. He was a patient of lung cancer, Chopra said. Another fatality was recorded at civil hospital, Barsar where a 48-year-old woman died during treatment.Meanwhile, the state recorded 171 fresh virus infections, taking the tally to 6,166. Also, 65 more patients have been cured. Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said 4,473 patients have recovered so far and 42 have migrated out of the state. Of the new cases, 33 were reported in Hamirpur district, 28 were reported in Una district, 26 in Solan district, 20 in Bilaspur, 16 in Chamba district, 18 in Kangra, 10 each in Kullu and Sirmaur districts, eight in Shimla district and two in Mandi district. In Una district, eight cases are in Kalhera village of Haroli sub-division. Of these, five are from a family. Station incharge of Amb police station has also tested positive. Besides, a 38-year-old employee of Jal Shakti Department and his 32-year-old wife were also found infected in Una town. In Kullu district, all 10 cases have been reported in Anni. All new cases are primary contacts of a 57-year-old Covid-19 patient who was referred to IGMC, Shimla on August 27 and is undergoing treatment. In Sirmaur district, all 10 cases were reported in Nahan developmental block.In Shimla district, a 50-year-old man without any travel history has tested positive.In Solan, 26 cases include a police personnel and a pregnant woman. Out of these, 17 were reported in Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh (BBN) while other patients are from Solan and Parwanoo.With 1,451 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Sirmaur where 887 cases have been reported till date. Kangra has 860 cases, Hamirpur 567, Una 487, Chamba 430, Mandi 400, Shimla 338, Bilaspur 323, Kullu 283 and 81 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported eight Covid-19 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-one-death-38-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-HEUav4J4lrltYzziuMie8I.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Four micro containment zones declared in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: The district magistrate declared four Covid micro containment zones in Hoshiarpur district on Monday. They are Ajit Nagar and Mandiala village in Hoshiarpur district and Kainthan Mohalla and Unchi Bassi in Dasuya. Only medical emergency and essential services will be allowed in the zones, where health teams are carrying out intensive door-to-door surveillance and contact tracing besides shifting all positive cases to health facilities according to the health protocol with a focus on vulnerable and high risk population. The containment period will be of 14 days and if during the last one week not more than one new case is reported, the micro containment zone will be opened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-micro-containment-zones-declared-in-hoshiarpur/story-KREFwZSa51YZmybUgmxKiJ.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab hikes health charges in govt hospitals, draws flak from Opposition||Chandigarh: The Punjab government has revised the fee for several medical services in government hospitals in the state with effect from September 1, drawing sharp reaction from the Opposition. Among the services, the charge for an ambulance has been raised from Rs 5 per km to Rs 15 per km, while the fee for an ECG has been increased from Rs 60 to Rs 75. The OPD registration charge has been increased from Rs 5 to Rs 10 and the admission charge for general ward has been hiked from Rs 25 to Rs 40. The operation charges for minor surgery have been revised upward to Rs 250 from Rs 100 earlier and for major surgery, the fee has been increased from Rs 750 to Rs 1,200, as per the order. The fee for private AC room has been increased from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per day and bed charges in general ward has been increased from Rs 30 to Rs 40. However, the state health officials said these charges are meant for the maintenance of hospital buildings and other infrastructure. They clarified that coronavirus patients will continue to get free treatment at all government hospitals in the state. Opposition parties, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party, have slammed the Congress-led dispensation in the state for raising the charges for medical services. The SAD accused the state government of “profiteering” during a time when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak. SAD leader and former minister Daljit Singh Cheema described the move as an “unfortunate development” and said that instead of making health services more affordable and ensuring free treatment to the poor, the government had raised rates of all services. “It seems that the Congress government wants to profiteer from the plight of the people,” Cheema said in a statement here. The rates of services, including stay in private ward which had been doubled from Rs 500 per night to Rs 1,000 to a 15 to 20% increase in X-ray, ultrasound, ECG and operation charges, would make treatment in government hospitals out of the reach of the poor and needy, said Cheema. “This hike in charges should be withdrawn immediately. The government should subsidise these services on humanitarian grounds instead of seeking to profit from them,” said the Akali leader. AAP leader Aman Arora said the state government has put an additional financial burden on the poor for availing health services by increasing charges. Describing it as “anti-people”, Arora said the party would launch an agitation if this decision was not taken back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-hikes-health-charges-in-govt-hospitals-draws-flak-from-opposition/story-atcePqXRQ4csKJ2ZiTl6uJ.html
31-08-2020||Noida||Unlock 4: Weekend curbs to continue in Noida till September 30||Restrictions on outdoor movement of people during weekends will continue in Noida and Greater Noida till September 30 due to the Covid-19 outbreak in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district, an order stated on Monday.All social, cultural, academic, sports, entertainment, religious and political gatherings shall remain prohibited till September 20 and can be started after that but with a maximum 100 people in attendance, the order issued by the district police under CrPC Section 144 stated.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here It prohibits outdoor movement of people, except for those engaged in essential services and those facing emergency, from 10 pm on Fridays till 5 am on Mondays.The order comes in the wake of the Centre and the state government announcing guidelines for “Unlock 4” -- the phased re-opening of activities that had been barred in March to contain the spread of Covid-19.All educational institutions in the district shall remain closed till September 30 for students and classes, according to the order issued by Additional Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Ashutosh Dwivedi.Cinema halls, swimming pools, amusement parks, theatres, auditoriums, and other such places of public gathering will also remain shut till the end of the month, it added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Open air theatres shall remain closed till September 20, the order stated.A maximum of 30 people can participate in any wedding programme and 20 in a funeral till September 20, and after that, the number of participants in both cases can go up to a maximum 100, it stated.People above the age of 65 years, children below 10, those with co-mobidities and pregnant women have been asked to stay indoors except for cases of health emergencies, it added.People have been cautioned against roaming outdoors without a face mask or cover and spitting in the open. Any violation of these rules will invite punishment, Dwivedi stated in the order.“These orders have been issued till September 30, and any violation would attract punishment under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant),” Dwivedi said.Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, has so far recorded more than 7,800 cases of Covid-19 and 45 deaths. Over 86 per cent patients have recovered so far, while 1,009 cases are active, as per official figures till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/unlock-4-weekend-curbs-to-continue-in-noida-till-september-30/story-GJXSXWzEVXA0z1jpK0XlxL.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||A fine is a fine but don’t take away right to criticise: Lawyers of Punjab, Haryana on Prashant Bhushan’s sentencing||Chandigarh: The fine of Re 1 on activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt of court for his tweets against the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde evoked a mixed response from lawyer bodies in Chandigarh on Monday. A three-judge bench of the apex court said if Bhushan fails to deposit the amount by September 15, he will have to undergo simple imprisonment of three months and will be barred from practising for three years. Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association secretary Rohit Sud hoped this would put an end to the saga. The apex court had on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt of court and stated that the allegations levelled in the tweets against the court and the CJI are malicious and have the tendency to scandalise the court. “It is harsh. The Bar and bench should try to maintain cordial relations. There should not be a hitch in dialogue between the two. The court should have referred the matter to the Bar Council (of India) so that relations between the two remain cordial,” said association president DPS Randhawa. Based in Chandigarh, the high court Bar has 4,000 registered members, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Mandeep Bedi, the president of the Senior Advocates’ Association of Punjab and Haryana High Court, termed the judgment wrong. “He should not have been fined. A fine, whether of Re 1 or Rs 10,000, is a fine. He should have been let off with a warning because it was just a tweet,” he said. Earlier, not many lawyers had come out in protest against the Supreme Court initiating contempt proceedings against Bhushan. Only one protest was reported outside the high court premises last week. Former chairman and member of Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana Lekh Raj Sharma termed the decision a balanced one. “The rule of law should prevail and I think it has been upheld in this case to save the institution. In the name of fair criticism and freedom of expression, no one should be allowed to scandalise the courts,” he said. The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has more than 1 lakh members from the two states and Chandigarh. District Bar Association, Chandigarh, president NK Nanda said this verdict can’t be criticised. “Then we will be held guilty for contempt. All we can say is that whatever decision the SC has taken, it must have taken after going through all facts. It is a balanced judgment,” he added. District Bar Association, Mohali, president Manpreet Singh Chahal said the decision curbs the right to speak of an individual. “Imposing a fine of Re 1 or Rs 1 lakh is a punishment. It is clear now that the apex court is under some political pressure in giving the judgment. Every advocate has the right to speak, otherwise these institutions will finish one day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-fine-is-a-fine-but-don-t-take-away-right-to-criticise-lawyers-of-punjab-haryana-on-prashant-bhushan-s-sentencing/story-MoBkjtV63759WEfwLnKbaM.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||DGCA extends suspension of international flight operations till September 30||Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday announced its decision to extend the suspension of international flight operations till September 30. The circular, dated August 31, stated that travel and visa restrictions have been further extended. The circular read, “...scheduled international commercial passenger services to/ from India till 2359hrs of 30th September. This shall not apply to international all- cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA.” The regulator, however, stated that it may allow international scheduled flights on selected routes on case-to case-basis. DGCA had first issued a circular suspending both international and domestic flights on March 26 when the nationwide lockdown was announced in order to curtail the spread of Covid-19. After two months of a complete ban on flights, India resumed its flight operations on May 25. While domestic travel has been allowed, international flights are operational only under Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indians stranded overseas. As part of easing lockdown restrictions, the government also set up air bubble arrangements with select countries to provide regulated, safe and restricted international travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dgca-extends-suspension-of-international-flight-operations-till-september-30/story-gomxB8Sj8qIavWw4XuRkuO.html
31-08-2020||City||Govt sacks 3 Palghar cops who didn’t stop mob from killing 2 seers, driver||Three policemen who were suspended for not taking adequate steps to save three men lynched by a mob in Maharashtra’s Palghar on April 16 have been sacked, a police spokesperson said on Monday. Sachin Navadkar, Palghar police spokesperson, said the three policemen were assistant police inspector Anandrao Kale, assistant sub inspector Ravi Salunkhe and constable Naresh Dhodi. Salunkhe, 57, and Dhodi, 45, have been compulsorily retired while Kale, 43, has been dismissed with immediate effect, said Navadkar.The killing of the two saffron-robed men and their driver in April this year had sparked off national outrage after video clips showed policemen heading to safety inside the police station and leaving the three men at the mercy of hundreds of people who suspected the three were thieves.Kalpvrush Giri, 70, Sushil Giri, 35, and driver Nilesh Telgade, 30, were dragged out of their vehicle and thrashed by the mob in Gadhchinchale village, about 110 km from Palghar. The seers belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were on their way to attend the last rites of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri in Surat.The three sacked policemen are among the five suspended after the Uddhav Thackeray-led government came under sharp attack from the opposition over the conduct of the police personnel. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had also spoken to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to advise him to order a probe.The Maharashtra government transferred all personnel posted at Kasa police station soon after and overnight, brought in 47 personnel from other parts of the district. When Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh came a month later on a visit in May, he removed district police chief Gaurav Singh. An IPS officer, Singh was placed on compulsory wait and hasn’t been given a new assignment yet.The investigation into the lynching of the three victims was handed over to Maharashtra’s Criminal Investigation Department. Home Minister Deshmukh had then released a list of 101 people arrested for the violence, setting off a second round of back-and-forth with the opposition after the Congress claimed that those arrested included local BJP functionaries.The CID, which initially looked at the role of 824 people for the violence, had arrested 165 tribals including 11 minors for the three deaths. Of them, 10 men and 9 minors have been released on bail since the CID did not charge them within the stipulated 90 days.Two charge sheets running into 11,000 pages have been filed by the police in early July. On 6 August, the CID filed their third charge-sheet against 47 people arrested for attacking a police team that had gone to investigate the crime on 13 May. This time, the police had opened fire at the protesters to force them to retreat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-palghar-cops-who-watched-mob-kill-3-men-including-70-yr-old-seer-sacked/story-oTlQ2oxJmHqiSuylMPUZcI.html
31-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt releases guidelines for Unlock 4, allows inter-state travel||Rajasthan government released the guidelines for Unlock 4 which allow inter-state and intra-state travel of individuals and movement of goods.According to the guidelines, lockdown will continue to be implemented in containment zones till September 30.Under relaxed norms, open-air theatres will be allowed to open from September 21. Outside containment zones, no district will impose lockdown without permission of the Central government, as per the new guidelines. All schools, colleges and educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed till September 30.Outside containment zones, students from Class 9 to 12 will be allowed to go to schools voluntarily to get guidance from teachers. But before this, students require written approval from their parents.In Rajasthan, a maximum of 50 people will be permitted in social/ academic/ sports/ entertainment/ cultural/ religious/ political functions and other congregations after September 21 with the mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer.Marriage functions will be allowed with 50 people but sub-divisional magistrate should be informed about it.After September 21, a maximum of 50 people will be allowed for the last rites related programmes in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-releases-guidelines-for-unlock-4-allows-inter-state-travel/story-yia4MvYoiFQMwmmWlWEiRN.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty to be questioned by CBI again, Gaurav Arya reaches ED office||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will continue to question actor Rhea Chakraborty for the fourth consecutive day on Monday. Rhea is at the centre of a controversy following the alleged death by suicide of her friend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14. Rhea left her home at 10:30 am on Monday to appear before CBI officials at the DRDO guesthouse in Santacruz (East). On Sunday, CBI questioned Rhea face-to-face with Rajput’s roommate and creative director Siddharth Pithani, and his house manager Samuel Miranda. Gaurav Arya, a Goa-based hotelier, also reached the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office in Mumbai at 10:45 am. Earlier on Friday, ED had asked Arya to join the probe in connection with Rajput’s death and alleged money laundering, wherein Rhea and her family members have been accused by the late actor’s father, KK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rhea-to-be-questioned-by-cbi-again-gaurav-arya-reaches-ed-office/story-MSm47qN992CGsgq4zZ6bFK.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||As Maha govt is set to roll out more relaxations, August saw almost half of its total cases||The Maharashtra government is all set to roll out more relaxations from the first week of September after the maximum number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and fatalities were reported in August.In August, Maharashtra reported 3,58,571, or 45.93%, Covid-19 cases, and 9,405, or 38.55%, fatalities related to the viral outbreak.The state had reported its first Covid-19 case on March 9.Also Read: Maharashtra reports 16,408 new Covid-19 cases, 296 deathsThe state government is likely to issue a notification on Monday announcing more relaxations under its Mission Begin Again campaign. State government officials said the decision on interdistrict, interstate travel, reopening of gymnasiums, allowing more employees in private and government-run officials would be taken on Monday. “The relaxations will be rolled out in a phased manner in a bid to avoid a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. Though the Centre has mandated lockdown only in containment zones, the state is unlikely to lift it entirely from the red zones that are spread across its 19 civic body areas, where there are still a high number of active Covid-19 cases,” said a state government official.Maharashtra is inching towards the mark of 800,000 Covid-19 cases. The state has reported 780, 689 Covid-19 cases and 24,399 deaths until Sunday. The highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state was reported over the past four weeks.Newer hotspots in rural and suburban areas were added to the growing list. Cities such as Pune, Solapur, Nagpur, and Malegaon have reported a spike in viral outbreak cases.The state health authorities expect the surge to hold the line until the first two weeks of September.In July and June, the state had reported 247,357 and 107,106 Covid-19 cases, respectively. The two months had accounted for 31.68% and 13.71%, respectively, of the total number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra to date. In July, 7,139 people had died of the viral infection, while the corresponding figure for June was 5,569. These months had contributed to 29.25 and 22.82% of deaths, respectively, due to the contagion. Maharashtra’s case fatality rate (CFR) is still high at 3.13%, as compared to the national figure of 1.81%. However, the state has reported a steady drop in its CFR. In August, the CFR is 2.62% , as compared to 2.89%, 5.20% and 4.40% in July, June and April, respectively.The steady rise in Covid-19 cases in August has pushed the state’s projection of the flattening of the viral curve by a few more weeks. “We didn’t experience the plateauing of the infection curve in August because of a spike in Covid-19 cases. It’s difficult to give a realistic timeline. The state is likely to achieve a peak by mid-September and by Diwali, which is to be observed in the second week of November, the curve is likely to move faster towards the baseline,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, surveillance officer, Maharashtra.The spread of the contagion in the rural areas has penetrated faster over the last few weeks. The percentage of Covid-19 cases in rural areas has increased by 34% -- 7,175 out of 16, 408 --- until Sunday from 21% --1,024 out of 4,878 --- on June 30. “The penetration in the rural areas, where the health infrastructure is comparatively weaker, is a cause for concern, as the containment of its spread is a challenging task,” said an official. The state authorities are planning to tackle the spread by launching Chase the Virus initiative in rural areas from the second week of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-maha-govt-is-set-to-roll-out-more-relaxations-august-saw-almost-half-of-its-total-cases/story-cWM2WvAkAjMV0vFmV3XrHO.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Two arrested for duping investors in Delhi||Two persons, including a woman (32), have been arrested for allegedly duping investors in the name of lucrative insurance bonus or installation of mobile towers, Delhi Police said.Also read: Man arrested for duping Delhi Speaker on pretext of donating plasmaThe two also impersonated insurance and telecom officials, as many forged documents and identity cards (IDs) of such officials were recovered from them along with four mobile phones, a laptop, fake voter IDs, and permanent account number (PAN) cards issued against forged documents, said Delhi Police’s crime branch officials, who are conducting the probe.The arrested accused were identified as Brij Bhushan Sharma alias Vishal Sharma (34), the kingpin of the racket, and his aide, Neetu Pathak (32).The duo belong to Modi Nagar in Uttar Pradesh (UP). They were caught on Saturday following investigation into a four-year-old cheating case registered at Uttam Nagar police station in west Delhi following a complaint of an Indian Army personnel. The case was transferred to the crime branch in March 2019, said BK Singh, additional commissioner of police (CP) (crime), Delhi Police.The complainant, additional CP Singh said, in his complaint had alleged that in February 2016, he had received a call regarding investments in various insurance schemes for lucrative returns. The Army official was convinced that the schemes were genuine and he was tricked into transferring over Rs 25 lakh in various bank accounts, purportedly belonging to two companies, said Singh.“The culprits vanished after the funds were transferred. Soon, the Army personnel filed a cheating and forgery case,” Singh added. The case was transferred to Delhi Police’s crime branch at the behest of the Delhi high court (HC) after local police authorities failed to make any breakthrough.During the probe, an investigating officer (IO), who did not want to be named, said, the probe team examined details of the mobile numbers and bank accounts that were used in the crime. “The call details did not reveal much. The bank accounts were opened following the submission of fake IDs. While the cheated sum had been withdrawn through cheques and ATMs (automated teller machines),” the IO said. However, the probe team stumbled upon a vital clue: one of the e-mail IDs mentioned in the account opening form was still operational. The details of the e-mail account were obtained from the service provider and the investigators found a mobile number that was still in use, said the additional CP.“We caught Pathak, who was using the mobile phone through which she had been accessing the e-mail ID. Her interrogation led to the arrest of Sharma and the recovery of several incriminating documents,” he added.During the interrogation, Pathak disclosed that she was part of the cheating syndicate and her job was to prepare forged documents such as voter IDs through which she applied for PAN cards. She also operated the fake e-mail IDs created in the name of the two fictitious companies. Sharma’s role was to call the potential investors and lure them into their web, said the additional CP.The police said that Sharma used to work as a tele-caller in a call centre and Pathak worked in another office close to him. In 2013-14, the two along with their other associates -- Dushyant Bhardwaj, Krishan Sharma and Saurabh -- had started a fake call centre from a rented space in Ghaziabad in the national capital region (NCR).“They cheated many people on the pretext of insurance bonus, tower installation and other lucrative offers. The gang was disbanded in 2016 after the police went after them. However, Sharma and Pathak stuck together and kept on cheating people,” said Singh.Now, a hunt is on for the other members of the cheating syndicate, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-arrested-for-duping-investors-in-delhi/story-OvevWZ5pudc5pS6DRA5uKM.html
31-08-2020||Lucknow||3 burnt bodies found in Agra, police launch investigation||The police in Agra found the burnt bodies of 3 members of a family in the Nagla Kishan area.The police said that they are investigating the motive behind the incident and the time it took place. They scanning the CCTV cameras installed in the area.According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, the police were told by the locals that the milkman first sounded the alarm early on Monday morning after nobody from the family opened the door.One of the relatives then entered the house and was shocked to see the bodies, Hindustan reported. The police was immediately informed.According to the cops, the locals and family have told them that they did not have any enmity. The locals also say that no fire was reported from the house or the area, and that they did not hear any sound.The police are investigating the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/three-burnt-bodies-found-in-agra-police-launch-investigation/story-fmbUps8ZQzlOPgf1dbRLcK.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||‘Dirty toilets, insects in food’: Patients on Covid centres in Navi Mumbai||Patients admitted to several Covid care centres in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) have complained about dirty washrooms, bug infected beds and substandard food quality. The patients have also alleged that complaints to the concerned authorities have fallen on deaf ears and there is no improvement in the situation. Civic chief Abhijit Bangar agreed that there are issues in some of the centres and action is being taken to resolve them. The NMMC has set up 12 Covid care centres in Navi Mumbai, including one in Panvel, to quarantine Covid positive patients and also their close contacts. The patients said they have complained against the amenities in these centers. Few have got themselves shifted to private facilities, like hotels, to quarantine themselves. A woman quarantined at ETC School Centre Covid facility in Vashi said, “I was not allowed to be quarantined at home and was admitted here last Saturday. On reaching the facility I found that the toilets were dirty, they were neither flushed nor cleaned. The food that was served was cold. In the night, I was attacked by a locust and there were insects all over. I actually puked seeing the situation.” She added that she complained to those in charge and also a senior NMMC official. “No action was taken and I continued to stay here for a few days, however when things did not seem to resolve, I got myself shifted to a hotel in Mahape.” A man quarantined at the Panvel-based NMMC’s Covid care centre had a similar experience. “There are around 400-500 patients at the facility and I was quarantined on the 9th floor. The washroom was in a pathetic condition and seemed not to have been cleaned since the last person had used it. There was not a single slot of a light bulb in it. The flush tank was not in working condition,” he said. The man added, “I was told that the housekeeping staff comes just once a day and later when they did come the next day, they just mopped the floor. They refused to clean the washroom and I was forced to do it myself.” There was no mosquito repellant, the food served was cold, he complained, adding he even found an insect in it. There were no pillows, only one blanket was provided, he said. “Doctors who came to check my temperature did so in a rush and I was asked to go to the doctors on the ground floor for any medicine or treatment as they do not visit the patients. Finally, I got myself shifted to a private quarantine facility,” he said further.Former corporator Divya Gaikwad claimed that she was approached with several such complaints from many patients. Gaikwad said, “There have been several complaints about these facilities as the those in-charge at the local level are not doing their job well. The patients are going through a trauma and these additional issues make it worse. There is utter lack of hygiene and adequate care.” The civic commissioner claimed that the complaints are being looked into. Bangar added, “I have received complaints about some Covid centre at Panvel and have verified through independent sources as well. Necessary action is being taken in terms of housekeeping, food and medical checkup. We will also check into complaints of ETC and other facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dirty-toilets-insects-in-food-patients-on-covid-centres-in-navi-mumbai/story-5VWjkF2aIZJxqS9G1fxKHK.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Very light rainfall likely in next 2 days, says IMD||The national capital’s weather would remain pleasant on Monday because of very light rain, or drizzle, with gusty winds blowing at a speed of up to 25 kilometres per hour (kmph), said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. The winds and overnight light rain also helped clear Delhi’s air. The air quality index (AQI) recorded at 6am on Monday was 42, which fell in the “good” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) data. The average AQI on Sunday was 70 that belonged to the “satisfactory” category. If the average AQI for Monday remains under 50, then it will be the fourth “good” air day in August. August may emerge as the cleanest month in a year since 2015 because of monsoon rains. August 13, 20 and 24 had also recorded “good” air days. HT had reported that since May 2015, when air quality monitoring records are being kept, no month in a year had reported as many “good” air days as this year’s August.IMD officials said gusty winds and light rainfall in parts of the city are likely to keep the mercury down. “The winds were mainly because of a cyclonic circulation in north-west Madhya Pradesh and north-east Rajasthan. The winds are expected to blow on Monday as well. However, the wind speed is likely to slow down between 20 and 25 kmph,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. Delhi is expected to receive very light rainfall, or drizzle over the next two days, he added. However, a good spell of rainfall is expected to hit the national capital around September 3 (Thursday), when the trough will be close to the northern region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-very-light-rainfall-likely-in-next-2-days-says-imd/story-sOqT1QiQxUzCR41aaKKBDJ.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Monsoon’s pilgrimage||On one recent evening, after a heavy downpour, one of the Lodhi Garden lawns filled up with water like a reservoir. To stand by it was like being in that fabled Lake District of England, mostly identified with poet William Wordsworth. By the next day the water had drained off. The lake seemed to be but a mocking dream.But there’s a place in the heart of the city that is a lake all year long. It is an experience to walk around the lake—or Hauz—in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas Village, and something has to be said about going there at this time of the year, when the monsoon is still lingering on, and the clouds play hide and seek with the sun throughout the day. In the evening, this playfulness is made sublime by the many shades of light produced by the marriage of the setting sun with the wide array of irregularly shaped clouds—the borders of those clouds then glow with fire, the gaps between them permeated with smouldering shades of pinks and blues. These intense colours fall on the surface of the lake, making it a kind of impressionist painting that no painter could have rustled out in real life.This evening the lane circling around the lake is teeming with joggers from Green Park and Safdarjung Enclave, along with many monkeys, boldly sitting on the park benches and fences, watching the equally fearless humans go by. There are also ladies with dogs—one woman is met walking with her little dog, Barfi, under the arm.But a mere fleeting glance towards the water transports you far from all this crowd. All you can see is the sprawling lake, lit up with the lights of the dying day, with its glassy surface reflecting the clouds, the setting sun, and the birds flying overhead. Sometimes there is sudden trail of milky froth forming up on the water by a travelling duck—the lake is home to a cluster of these waterfowls. In one corner of the lake, curious walkers throw bread pieces into the water to see the surface suddenly getting dark with scores of tiny fish rushing on to claim their bites.Hauz Khas is situated firmly inside Delhi but its lake looks remote. Maybe because it is surrounded by trees to great distances, with no sign of any tall building pricking the horizon. You feel like you’re standing in one of those pristine watery places in summer-time Canada, whose photographs often pop up in the old issues of the National Geographic magazine.Don’t leave the lake until it gets dark. As the sun is about to quit, station yourself on the side of the lake that is closest to the walls of the Hauz Khas Village. From there, you get a straight view of the dipping sun, with the water aglow. You wish the scene could last forever. But suddenly it’s dark and you are left discontented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-monsoon-s-pilgrimage/story-bO2GkQX3hj84zchDye3moL.html
31-08-2020||City||Beant death anniversary: Cong MP Bittu takes another salvo at Akal Takht jathedar||Congress’ Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Sunday took yet another jibe at Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh over their plans to observe a religious function in the memory of the assassin of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh in the Golden temple complex in Amritsar. The then CM was assassinated by terrorists on August 31, 1995, by Dilawar Singh, a Punjab Police constable who acted as a suicide bomber. In a tweet on the eve of 25th death anniversary of his grandfather, Bittu, said, “August 31 will be a decisive day this year. This is the day when Beant Singh Ji sacrificed his life for Punjab and the nation. If Jathedar Sahib, under the direction of SJF (Sikhs for Justice) & Pannu (its convener) holds an ardaas for Dilawar Singh at Akal Takht Sahib, who was a prominent Khalistani and an assassin, it will provide evidential proof that the Jathedar stands for Khalistan & is working to fulfill SFJ’s paid agenda to disturb harmony and peace in Punjab (sic).”NO SARV DHARAM SAMMELAN AT BEANT MEMORIAL DUE TO COVID Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli, also a grandson of Beant Singh, said the ‘sarv dharam sammelan’ (a congregation of all religions) to mark the death anniversary of the former chief minister will not be held at his Chandigarh memorial due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He urged the people of Punjab to pay homage to their leader by staying at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/beant-death-anniversary-cong-mp-bittu-takes-another-salvo-at-akal-takht-jathedar/story-69uGeJATWgChKhseXO41SP.html
31-08-2020||City||Pall of gloom at fallen soldier’s native village at Khadoor Sahib||A pall of gloom descended on the native village of Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh of Sikh Light Infantry regiment, who was killed in a ceasefire violation by the Pakistan Army on the Line of Control (LoC), soon after the news about his death reached on Sunday afternoon. Rajwinder (40), who hailed from Goindwal Sahib in Khadoor Sahib sub-division and died in the Nowshehra sector of Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajauri district on Sunday morning, wanted to make his son an army officer. He was the sole breadwinner of the family. Rajwinder is survived by his mother Balwinder Kaur (70), wife Manpreet Kaur (38), daughters Pawanpdeep Kaur (14) and Akshjot Kaur (10), and son Jobanjit Singh (16). His father Jagir Singh, who died around 2 years ago, was a retired army jawan. His younger brother Sukhwinder Singh, who was also serving in the Indian army, died in a road accident in 2009. Balwinder Kaur said, “Rajwinder had come on leave in January. He talked to his wife on phone for last time on Saturday evening. He was enthusiastic since his childhood to join Indian Army. My husband and younger son also served in the army. I am proud to have a husband and a son who laid down their lives for the nation.” Rajwinder was critically injured unprovoked firing on the LOC and he later succumbed to his injuries. His mortal remains will reach the village on Monday. CM ANNOUNCES ₹50 LAKH, JOB FOR FAMILY MEMBER Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh along with a government job to a family member of Rajwinder Singh. Paying homage to the soldier, the CM said the nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pall-of-gloom-at-fallen-soldier-s-native-village-at-khadoor-sahib/story-KzRabkjU6jjbn1aarAH8PP.html
31-08-2020||City||3 Canadian cities dedicate Sept 6 to slain rights activist Jaswant Khalra||The councils of three key Canadian cities — Burnaby, New Westminster and Brampton — have proclaimed September 6 as ‘Jaswant Singh Khalra Day’ to mark the 25th death anniversary of the slain Amritsar-based human rights activist. The proclamations signed by the respective mayors pay tribute to the rights campaigner who originally belonged to Tarn Taran district’s Khalra village. “Jaswant Singh Khalra was a strong advocate of democratic and civil rights and a highly respected leader of the Sikh community. He died fighting for human rights and dignity of the Sikhs and others. September 6 is a historically important day recognised by the Sikhs and South Asians all across Canada each year in commemoration of his death in 1995,” reads the proclamation. It further reads, “The city honours the Sikh history and culture, Jaswant Singh Khalra’s place in South Asian history, and our valued relationship with the Sikh community and its strong commitment to social justice,” it further reads. Hailing the move of the Canadian cities, his wife Parmjit Kaur Khalra, who contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Khadoor Sahib segment unsuccessfully, said, “It is matter of great pride for me that other countries are recognising the contribution of my husband to human rights. More Canadian cities are likely to make such proclamations.”“But in our country, we had to wait for several years to get justice for him. And the work done by him has not been recognised so far in India,” she added. The Punjab-origin representatives in these municipalities and other councillors reportedly pushed these proclamations, it is learnt. These cities have a considerable population of Punjabis who play a key role in the electoral politics there.In 2017, the city council of Fresno in California, US, named one of its important parks after Khalra. This park was earlier known as Victoria Park.Khalra was investigating the extrajudicial killings in Punjab during the militancy period and raised his voice against the same at international level. Some police personnel kidnapped him on September 6, 1995. Earlier that year, he had visited Canada to educate the Punjabi diaspora and Canadian politicians about the human rights situation in Punjab. As per the verdict of a Patiala court, he was abducted and murdered by the police in cold blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-canadian-cities-dedicate-sept-6-to-slain-rights-activist-jaswant-khalra/story-8IXCzP2zmWcC4GkNZp60BO.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||66-year-old booked for sodomising 4-year-old grandchild in Mumbai||Cuffe Parade police booked a 66-year-old man for allegedly sodomising his four-year-old grandchild on two occasions. The police said that the incident came to light after the minor’s father, who is an advocate, filed the complaint against the accused on Saturday. According to the complainant, the boy was sexually assaulted for the first time in February. When the accused committed the crime again this month, the child told his father about it, following which the latter decided to file a case. A first information report (FIR) registered under section 377 (unnatural offences) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) and 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/66-year-old-booked-for-sodomising-4-year-old-grandchild-in-mumbai/story-K9Wq5H7Bojiyf1RMJSj8UI.html
31-08-2020||City||2 brothers drown in Kamvari river near Mumbai||Two brothers, who went fishing at Kamvari river in Bhiwandi along with their mother, drowned on Saturday evening. The fire brigade recovered their bodies by Sunday afternoon.The two deceased, Shahbaj Ansari, 24 and Shahaalam Ansari, 22, were residents of Mittal Nagar in Bhiwandi. Shahbaj worked at his uncle’s shop while Shahaalam was unemployed. On Sunday, they decided to go fishing at the river with their mother.“While they were on the banks of the river a5.30pm, Shahaalam fell into the water and started drowning, as he did not know to swim. Shahbaj jumped into the river to save him, but due to the strong water currents, he too started struggling. Their mother ran towards the road asking villagers for help, however, by the time locals reached the spot, the two had drowned,” said an officer from Bhiwandi taluka police station. Fire brigade officers reached the spot, and around 11pm, they found the body of Shahaalam with the help of local fishermen. The operation resumed on Sunday morning for the second body. “The water currents were strong in the river while the continuous downpour was making it difficult to search for the second body. With such strong currents, we suspected that the body might have flown towards Thane creek. Some fishermen went towards the creek in their boats and found the body of Shahbaj stuck on a tree 20km away from the spot where the two had drowned,” said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-brothers-drown-in-kamvari-river-near-mumbai/story-ksfsWq3274dMcdVa4NG6WO.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Digitalisation of lower courts in Mumbai a distant dream; lockdown adds to existing woes||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-enforced lockdown, in place for over five months now, has brought to the fore the digitalisation, or lack of it, woes of an overburdened and slow judicial system, exemplified by the close to 570,000 cases pending before Mumbai’s magistrate and sessions courts. There are 73 magistrate courts spread across 14 centres in the city and 80 sessions courts, the functioning of which have been thrown into a tizzy by the lockdown owing to little or no infrastructure. According to the national judicial data grid, there are 459,671 pending cases before the city’s magistrate courts (which conduct trials for cases where the punishment is less than 10 years) and 108,978 such cases before the sessions courts. The state of affairs is despite the numerous efforts made by the Bombay high court (HC) and the Bar Council of Maharashtra (BCM), including moving towards e-filing of applications. However, the project could not succeed for various reasons, one of them being the want of proper infrastructure. In its advisory issued on March 14, before the national lockdown was announced, the HC insisted that the court can record evidence of witnesses through video-conferencing and emphasised on the use of the digital platform. However, hearing through video-conferencing could hardly work in practice for trials. “Of the 80 sessions courts in the city, hardly 10 are functional at a time, that too in restricted hours. And these courts are again required to take up cases of remand under special acts, anticipatory and regular bail applications. Trials in such circumstances become tough to conduct,” said a senior lawyer, requesting anonymity. The few courts, which have video-conferencing facilities, face different challenges. “How can I confront the witness with a document? How can I get a signature identified? What if the witness doesn’t have a proper phone or a facility to come on video-conferencing? How will the witness produce original records before the court? These are practical difficulties,” said a prosecutor, on the condition of anonymity. In one such case where a special court under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was recording a deposition of a school principal to establish the age of a survivor, who was sexually assaulted by her cousins, the principal could not produce the original record as the school was not open, which affected the prosecution’s case, said the prosecutor. While there was inconsistency in the statement of the survivor, the accused were acquitted by the court last month. “Our law requires the prosecution to follow several mandatory procedures, which lawyers claimed are not practically possible for conducting trials through video conferencing. Due to practical difficulties, the trials in all pending cases are stopped till the court resumes physical hearing of cases. The courts are presently hearing only urgent applications,” said the prosecutor. Further, to limit the footfall in the courts and to facilitate lawyers, the courts began to encourage lawyers to submit their application through the web portal of e-courts. In order to file a copy through web portal, the lawyer first has to register himself and fill a form on the portal. Later, he needs to upload the scanned copy of the application on the portal. After uploading the documents, the system would notify him about the next hearing date in 48 hours. Sources in the HC, who are looking after the functioning of the web portal, claimed that the department has held several seminars and webinars to guide lawyers and encourage them for maximum use of e-portal during the lockdown. But lawyers, however, cite several difficulties. “I tried to file a bail application through the e-portal. It didn’t work. The portal requires me to first register and fill up all my details. Even after several efforts I could not even register on the portal. I sought help from the expert in the IT department of the court, but they, too, could not help,” said Pradeep Shetty, a a lawyer practicing criminal law in magistrate courts at Andheri, Bandra, Borivli. Lawyers are in a state of confusion over the system. Dilip Gondecha, president of Bar Association of Esplanade court, said, “The option of e-filing or hearing through digital platform is not possible in lower court as there is no infrastructure. Even after filing applications on web portal, a lawyer is required to submit physical copies in the court. In such a situation, what is the use of submitting copies through a web portal.” Jaiprakash Bagoria, president of Bar Association of Bandra centre, said, “Not all lawyers have proper offices or facilities to file applications through an e-portal. There were several seminars and webinars arranged by the bar council and high court to guide lawyers about the use of e-portals. But it cannot work for the lower court in such a short span. There is a need to set up a centre or a booth to help lawyers resolve their issues, while trying to submit documents on web portals.” The lawyers have raised several grievances about the present operating system of the court. “We lack infrastructure to implement something like this on a larger level,” Bagoria said. “A change cannot come over night. This will happen in future, but it will take at least five to ten years. No one as far as I know could use e-portals from our centre. There are several technical glitches, while operating through web portals and it will take time to develop,” said Brijesh Avichal, president, Bar Association of Girgon centre. Avichal said that for proper functioning of courts, physical hearing has to resume. “We don’t have a system for every procedure and court work to be done through digital platforms,” Avichal added. Even as the lawyers face such practical difficulties, the BCM is now making efforts to take the concept of digitalisation ahead. “The present situation has opened our eyes. We are now preparing for the future. We are looking forward in setting up centres in bar rooms across the state to facilitate e-filing. But this could happen only once things become normal. We are also looking forward to collaborate with companies to provide laptops to lawyers at concession rate so that we can focus more on digitalisation in coming future,” said Subhash Gatge, president, Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa. Both the registrar-general of the HC and principal secretary (law and judiciary) were unavailable for comment. State of city’s courts73 magistrate courts in 14 centres across the city 459,671 cases pending80 sessions courts at Kala Ghoda and Goregaon 108,978 cases pending||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/digitalisation-of-lower-courts-in-mumbai-a-distant-dream-lockdown-adds-to-existing-woes/story-PYxXCONL428bOrFDxgZzyK.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||First merit list for admissions to Mumbai’s junior colleges out, rise in cut-offs across streams seen||With an increase in the overall pass percentage and a substantial rise in the number of top scorers from the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations this year, the cut-offs for admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJC) in the first merit list – declared on Sunday evening – have skyrocketed across streams. The highest jump is in the cut-offs for science stream, with prominent colleges witnessing a rise of 6-8 percentage points compared to 2019. Of the total applicants in MMR this year, 19,437 FYJC aspirants have scored 90% and above – an increase of about 20% from 2019. The number of aspirants who have scored 95% and above is 3,802, which is a jump of about 28% from last year. Principals said that as there are more number of high scorers from SSC board this year, students from the board stand at an advantage over those from the other boards.“This trend was expected as students, especially those from the state board, have scored so well in the board exams this year and this is indicated by the high cut-offs across streams,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice principal, VG Vaze College, Mulund. Churchgate’s Jai Hind College saw a jump of 6 percentage points in science cut-offs, from last year. Principal Ashok Wadia said that although the cut-off percentage for the stream has risen from 2019, it is still lower compared to this year’s commerce and arts cut-offs. “Students and parents have realised that technology has a huge role to play amid the Covid-19 situation and there are a lot of opportunities opening up in the science and technology sector. This might have encouraged high scorers to take up science,” he added.In the arts stream, St Xavier’s College at Dhobi Talao saw a rise in the cut-offs by 0.6 percentage points compared to 2019. The college closed its first list at 94.6%, while Matunga’s Ramnarain Ruia College recorded a jump of about 2% points from 2019, closing the first merit list for arts at 94.2%. A similar surge in the cut-offs was also seen at Jai Hind College, which closed its list for arts at 92.6%. In the commerce stream, all prominent institutes such as Vile Parle’s NM College, Matunga’s RA Podar, Mulund College of Commerce, Churchgate’s HR College and Vaze Kelkar in Mulund closed their first lists above 90%. Around 2.12 lakh students had applied to colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) this year, of which 1.17 lakh students have been allotted colleges in the first merit list. More than 40,000 students have been allotted the college of their first preference and will have to take admission in that institute. If they fail to do so, they will be able to apply only after regular admission rounds are over. As the entire admission process has been ‘zero contact’ owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, students can confirm their admissions online by September 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-merit-list-for-admissions-to-mumbai-s-junior-colleges-rise-in-cut-offs-across-streams/story-6pCJi0NUzjSnJa5vKkdH3K.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Congress, BJP continue to trade barbs over filmmaker Sandeep Ssingh||The Maharashtra unit of Congress on Sunday continued its attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), questioning its links with film producer Sandeep Ssingh, even as the latter party refuted all allegations as “fake” and a bid to divert the narrative in the probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Ssingh’s name has surfaced in the Rajput death investigation.When HT called Ssingh for a comment, his phone was switched off, and he had not responded to messages till the time of going to press.State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant raised the issue of a ₹177-crore memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between Ssingh, producer of the biopic on PM Narendra Modi, and the Gujarat government for the Vibrant Gujarat Summit in 2019. In a series of tweets, Sawant had also alleged on Saturday that Ssingh had called the office of BJP’s Maharashtra unit 53 times between September 1 and December 23 last year.“Every day there are revelations linking the BJP with the Sushant Singh Rajput case, specifically the party’s connection with Ssingh, who had made a biopic on PM Modi. Days after the making of this biopic, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani had signed a ₹177-crore MoU with Ssingh in 2019. Ssingh’s company was the only one called for the MOU. As per financial statements filed by Ssingh’s company, it had made a loss worth ₹4 lakh in 2019,” said Sawant on Sunday, tweeting that “BJP’s blue eyed boy” Ssingh’s company’s financials reflect a “sorry story”.He questioned how a loss making company was going to raise ₹177 crore and whether this MOU was a quid pro quo in return for making of the biopic. “The truth behind this must come out, BJP must clarify. Further, days after Rajput’s death, Ssingh met a state BJP leader. The party must clarify who was the leader who met Ssingh and what was discussed at this meeting,” said Sawant, who had earlier written to state home minister Anil Deshmukh asking for Ssingh’s drug links to be probed. Deshmukh on Saturday had said the government will ask the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct the probe.In Delhi, Congress national spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi, too, raised the issue of the 53 calls made by Ssingh to the BJP’s Maharashtra unit office. “So, the question we ask is, who is the special person, the special protector, the special link, the special surkhsha chakra, as I said in Hindi, the special ‘Aaka’ who is taking responsibility for this person?” said Singhvi. The BJP has refuted the allegations as “fake”. BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar slammed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “Why is he [Sawant] making the allegations now. For more than two months the probe was with Mumbai Police. This is just a diversionary tactic. We have no issues if they want to probe anyone even now,” said Bhatkhalkar.In a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, Bhatkhalkar claimed that someone from within the state home department and one minister had exerted pressure to hide the political-Bollywood-drug nexus in the Rajput case. “Who in the state home department was acting to hide this nexus in the Rajput case and which minister exerted pressure on Mumbai Police to not call some actors for interrogation or demanded that they be asked only certain things? We have this information. I have written to the Union home minister Amit Shah to probe this,” said Bhatkhalkar. Bhatkhalkar, however, did not name either the minister or the actors who the alleged person tried to shield. He also alleged that Deshmukh’s tweets and initial declaration within three hours of his death that the case was one of suicide “coloured the Mumbai police investigation”.(With inputs from New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-congress-bjp-continue-to-trade-barbs-over-filmmaker-sandeep-ssingh/story-lP1mQJ5tgv1CF0itPLPLAM.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Sewri mudflats see fewer birds; can’t blame trans-harbour link work yet, say experts||The number of birds at the city’s Sewri mudflats witnessed a significant decline between October 2019 and February 2020, compared to the corresponding period last year, according to a report by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). The area is witnessing construction of the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL) – a 21.8-km bridge connecting Sewri in Mumbai to Nhava-Sheva in Uran – since April 2018. While researchers said it may have kept birds away from the site, the report does not conclude so, stating “the impact of the construction on birds, whether temporary or permanent, can be inferred only after five years of post-construction monitoring.” The report, ‘Monitoring and Mitigating impacts of the MTHL on flamingos and other avifauna’, was submitted to the Mangrove Foundation of Maharashtra last week. BNHS said the fluctuations were attributed to several factors that influence migration such as breeding success, weather, and habitat degradation along the flyway as well as alternate foraging and roosting habitats. The research began under its 10-year bird monitoring programme across select wetlands in October 2018. Deepak Apte, principal investigator of the project and director, BNHS, said, “The present report is purely an annual update and does not reflect conclusive findings yet.” Flamingo numbers at the 500-hectare Sewri mudflat were 13,813 in January 2019 and 60,733 in March 2019, which fell to 4,395 in January 2020 and 4,106 in March 2020. This year’s data included only 287 greater flamingos during March and none in January. It was 1,497 in March 2019. Similarly, for all other water birds at Sewri, the number dropped from a maximum of 17,331 birds during November 2018 and 15,365 in February 2019 to 1,053 in November 2019 and 8,305 during February 2020. Nhava-Sheva, on the other end of the eastern seafront, saw a maximum of 4,500 water birds and 1,500 flamingos during February and March this year. Data from last year was available only from May 2019 onwards when 986 birds were recorded. “By contrast to other wetlands in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), results showed that Sewri and Nhava-Sheva supported lower species richness and abundance of migratory and resident birds throughout the survey period,” read the report. With movement of people and machinery, there will be disturbance due to noise till construction takes place, said Apte, adding, “These annual updates are helping us develop a conservation and systematic blueprint for the seascape.” BNHS also published results of bird behavioural studies for 10 species across roosting, feeding and construction sites in MMR from October 2019 to March 2020. A decline in wader (migratory shorebirds like little stint, Black-tailed Godwit, curlew sandpiper, and common greenshank) numbers was observed at Sewri and Nhava-Sheva mudflats, while there were minimal or no observations of Pied avocet and Whimbrels. Birds most observed were lesser flamingos, common redshanks and lesser sand plovers. “During the early migratory season, birds prefer the northern part of the Thane Creek, and later move south towards Vashi and Sewri, which is why birds were seen during February and March in Sewri last season,” said Rahul Khot, assistant director, BNHS. According to mangrove cell researchers, post-monsoon rain and impact of Arabian Sea tropical cyclones during October-November 2019 disturbed the natural migratory pattern to MMR wetlands. “The numbers drastically increased from last week of March till the rains began. For Sewri, some adverse effects of construction cannot be ruled out, but reduction in numbers cannot just be associated with that,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell). Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) joint metropolitan commissioner BG Pawar said, “Efforts were taken to ensure bird population was not disturbed right from day one of the project. We have been extra cautious. We have not seen the report, but will consult our engineers about it.” MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-sewri-mudflats-see-fewer-birds-can-t-blame-trans-harbour-link-work-yet-say-experts/story-2l3Crjwt2VEFLydwuNxeTP.html
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Former Congress MLA Raj Kumar Balmiki joins INLD||Former Congress MLA Raj Kumar Balmiki joined the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) in the presence of party leader Abhay Chautala here on Sunday. Balmiki was first elected as an MLA in 1991 from Jundla segment of Karnal district and went on to become chief parliamentary secretary (CPS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-congress-mla-raj-kumar-balmiki-joins-inld/story-uJ59Vd74b7VINGZFeZoFeO.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Battery parcel bursts at Mumbai Central station||A minor fire was reported at the Mumbai Central railway station on Sunday early morning. The fire was immediately brought under control by the Western Railway officials, present at the spot. No injuries were reported due to the incident. According to Western Railway (WR) officials, the fire was caused by a parcel carrying batteries. The package had arrived in Golden Temple Express’s parcel van. The incident occurred while the parcels were being unloaded.The WR has constituted a team to look into the incident and to suggest measures to prevent such incidents in the future.“It was a minor spark and was brought under control immediately. No passenger or crew or any railway personnel suffered any injury in the incident. We will investigate the incident and undertake measures,’’ said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, WR.The Western Railway officials have also stated that a detailed examination in the incident is required as batteries are widely transported. “It is critical is to determine as to why it happened. A detailed guideline for handling of the parcel better, will only help in safely moving of the parcels,” said a senior WR official. Transporting of batteries in parcel vans is permitted by the Indian Railways||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/battery-parcel-bursts-at-mumbai-central-station/story-uniwAx3Xe4CTrgMejVk1eI.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Rain intensity reduces in Mumbai, IMD predicts moderate rain for today||After moderate to heavy rain over 48 hours on Friday and Saturday, the intensity of rain reduced on Sunday. The weather bureau has predicted light to moderate rain Monday and very light rain from Tuesday onwards. Between 8.30am Saturday and 8.30am Sunday, the suburbs recorded 52.9mm rain while 37.2mm was recorded in south Mumbai. On Sunday between 8.30am and 5.30pm, the suburbs recorded moderate rain 26.4mm while light showers were recorded in south Mumbai 8.2mm. Thane recorded 21mm, Dahanu 29.4mm while areas in Palghar recorded 40-45mm rain.On Sunday, light showers were recorded towards the northern suburbs but intense rainfall was underway over Palghar and further north of the district, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Location wise rain showed 10-40mm rain across most areas in the city between 6am and 6pm. Bandra recorded maximum rain at 29.6 mm followed by Powai 25.6mm, Lokhandwala 22.8mm, and Goregaon 20.5mm.“The low-pressure weather system over west Madhya Pradesh adjoining Rajasthan is allowing rain intensity to be more over northwestern parts of the country including Rajasthan and Gujarat. Peripheral showers are being witnessed along the north Konkan coast including Palghar and Raigad. However, Mumbai witnessed dull weather and could expect only on and off showers on Monday too,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region IMD. Over the last 24 hours, Matheran recorded maximum rain along the Konkan coast at 124 mm followed by Mahabaleshwar at 75mm, Thane recorded 60 mm, Dahanu 53 mm and Harnai 27 mm. Mumbai city and suburbs have recorded 63% excess rain for the season so far and the highest August rain since 1983 at 1,219.4 mm. The forecast issued for Monday said light showers with the possibility of a few moderate spells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rain-intensity-reduces-in-mumbai-imd-predicts-moderate-rain-for-today/story-2thT6XeLBRBstzKSd2gN4L.html
31-08-2020||City||Road cave-in, wall collapse disrupts life in Kalyan, Ulhasnagar||Several incidents of collapsed and road cave-in were reported from Kalyan and Ulhasnagar areas after a heavy downpour on Sunday. A portion of the Shiv Mandir road, Kurla Camp in Ulhasnagar caved in on Sunday. Due to this, one side of the road has been barricaded and is closed for traffic. An incident of slab collapse of a vacant building and a wall collapse of a bus depot in Kalyan were reported, however, no one was injured in any of these incidents. Mahesh Sitlani, City engineer of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), said, “We have barricaded the area. We will soon take up the repair work in three-four days after we appoint a contractor. The continuous downpour might have led to the cave in of the road.”Another incident of slab collapse in Ulhasnagar’s Lal Chakki locality was also reported on Sunday. This is the second time when a slab of this building has collapsed. No one was injured in the incident, as the residents had vacated the building last year. Ganesh Shimpi, assistant commissioner, UMC, “The slab of this building fell last year, after which it was vacated. We have not taken any decision yet as there is a stay order on demolition work. The Bombay high court had asked not to vacate and demolish buildings during the pandemic. In June, we initiated the demolition of extremely dangerous buildings, however, residents approached the court and got a stay order on all 30 extremely dangerous buildings.” In Kalyan, the continuous downpour led to the collapse of portions of the wall of the Ganesh Ghat, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) depot on Sunday. The wall that is located on the banks of the Waldhuni river fell off on the road that leads to the depot. No injuries were reported in the incident. “The city has been receiving rainfall since last three days. Earlier also the wall had collapsed followed by which the portion was repaired,” said a worker at the depot. As per the tehsil wise rainfall recording and analysis data, Kalyan recorded 33.7mm of rainfall, and Ulhasnagar received 63.0mm rainfall on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-cave-in-wall-collapse-disrupts-life-in-kalyan-ulhasnagar/story-8CireCBC9QQsHyMfajZtbI.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||TB testing machines record 20% Covid-19 positivity rate in Maharashtra||TrueNat, a portable medical device that was originally designed to detect tuberculosis (TB), was recently used to test 26,000 people across Maharashtra for Covid-19. Of this number, almost 20% tested positive for the novel coronavirus. This has prompted the state health department to run TrueNat tests for Covid-19 on individuals in need of emergency surgeries since it gives results within 20 minutes. TrueNat is a chip-based real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test kit that was used as a screening mechanism for potential TB patients. As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the diagnostic tool involves two steps — E gene screening assay for suspected Covid-19 samples, and a follow-up confirmatory assay of RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) enzyme found in the virus’ RNA (ribonucleic acid). RNA is essential in various biological roles in coding, decoding, regulation and expression of genes. Since May, 26,215 people in the state have undergone TrueNat tests, of which lab technicians found 7,693 samples had the presence of the E gene. This accounts for 29% positivity rate in the first stage of TrueNat tests. Though actual data is not shared, as per an official from the state health department, more than 90% of samples were found Covid-19 positive in TrueNat RDPR. After completing both steps, the cumulative positivity rate of TrueNat in identifying the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, stands at 20%. “As per ICMR guidelines released in May, if the E-gene screening is negative, the sample will be considered a true negative. But if the sample is positive, the RdRp assay will be done as a confirmatory test. If the sample tests positive, it will be considered a true positive, and no further test will be required,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. “So far, we are conducting a limited number of TrueNat tests in comparison to RT-PCR and antigen tests. But we have plans to extend the TrueNat tests,” he said. TrueNat is an indigenously developed, portable version of cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CB-NAAT), also known as the GeneXpert test. Medical experts said the advantage of the test is that it is quick and portable – allowing teams to set up mobile testing centres or kiosks in containment zones instead of having to transport samples to laboratories. Since the swab samples are collected in a viral lysis buffer (solution), biosafety and biosecurity requirements to use TrueNat machines are minimal. TrueNat machines were previously used to detect the Nipah virus during the 2018 outbreak in Kerala. “Both the tests [CB-NAAT and TrueNat] are cheaper than the traditional RT-PCR tests. Unlike CB-NAAT, TrueNat runs on a battery and doesn’t need an uninterrupted power supply and air conditioning. So, it can be carried to containment zones and slums for testing,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). With the goal of speedy detection of Covid-19 cases, the state government is planning to conduct TrueNat tests in medical emergencies like accidents or pregnancies. “We have instructed hospitals with the machines to run diagnosis in emergency cases along with the general screening of suspected Covid-19 patients,” said a senior official from the health department. As per sources, hospitals have also been instructed to conduct TrueNat tests on dead bodies in case doctors suspect Covid-19 infection. In the absence of a vaccine or drugs to treat Covid-19, faster diagnosis and early medical intervention are essential. “Under the present testing procedure, diagnosis takes almost eight hours. This test [TrueNat] can provide faster results [20 minutes], saving more time and lives. However, we need more studies to understand its accuracy in the diagnosis of Covid-19,” said Dr Ramraje Nagsen, pulmonologist at JJ Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tb-testing-machines-record-20-covid-19-positivity-rate-in-maharashtra/story-d9B29zKLxccUMmjBlpN4NN.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exams: Maharashtra government may publish decision on schedule today||The state government is expected to publish its decision regarding the schedule and method of conducting the end-of-term final-year exams, by Monday. In a meeting held on Sunday, between the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant and the vice-chancellors (VC) of all 13 state universities, suggestions by a specially-formed committee were discussed and deliberated to find how exams could be held, keeping in mind the health and safety of all stakeholders.“The virtual meeting was attended by VCs of all state universities as well as former VCs of University of Mumbai, Rajan Welukar and Vijay Khole for their expertise on our request. A report based on the compilation of our discussion and decisions will be released by noon on Monday,” tweeted Samant on Sunday. A source from MU said majority members of the exam committee have suggested that examination be held in a combination of online and offline mode. “Exams could be held in multiple-choice question (MCQ) mode,” said the source.On Friday, the Apex court upheld a decision by the University Grants Commission (UGC) that called for completion of the evaluation process cross-country by September. The Supreme Court (SC) clarified that colleges and universities cannot award degrees to students without conducting final-year or final-term examinations. The court also mentioned that states were empowered to take decisions under the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005, to postpone final-year or final-semester exams beyond the September-end deadline. It allowed states to approach UGC for new dates that have to be communicated to them “at the earliest”.“The University Grants Commission (UGC) has given a deadline of September 30 to complete exams but in Maharashtra, schools and colleges are going to remain shut till September 30 due to the Covid-19 situation, so how do we conduct exams? These details are being thought over and we assure students that the decision will be taken ensuring safety of all,” added Samant, via Twitter.Samant has already clarified that examinations will be held in the simplest way and without summoning students to the exam halls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-maharashtra-government-may-publish-decision-on-schedule-today/story-DwbxExQ8Z1ifeEUJzj4eJP.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||After battling Covid-19, Mumbai’s slum area of Dharavi faces next challenge of economic revival||After its success in flattening the Covid-19 curve, Dharavi, a densely populated in south-central Mumbai, is now staring at the next set of challenges – a collapsed economy and loss of livelihood for lakhs of its residents. Dharavi, India’s largest slum area, has been a self-sufficient economic ecosystem thriving with the help of unorganised micro and small enterprises of leather, pottery, textile and artificial jewellery until the Covid-19 outbreak and country-wide lock down crippled the supply chains and took away the demand for such non-essential goods. Dharavi residents are largely daily wage earners and several live hand-to-mouth, with no savings to fall back on if they lose employment. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Dharavi is home to 5,000 goods and services tax (GST) registered businesses, and over 15,000 un-registered businesses. It is considered a hub for international exports, with an estimated turnover of US$1 billion annually. Dharavi has a population of 6.53 lakh, which is estimated to be over 8.5 lakh due to unaccounted for migration. Organisations working to revive Dharavi’s economy post-lockdown estimate that over 60% of the businesses fail to restart post lockdown. Many government and semi-government organisations are now working to restore Dharavi’s economy and revive business supply chains, explore alternate business options and learn new vocational skills. Rajendra Korde, a resident of Dharavi, managing trustee of Dharavi Foundation and secretary of the Peasants and Workers Party of India, said, “The employment situation is Dharavi is dire at present. At least one lakh people are out of jobs, and many businesses have been unable to get back on their feet post lockdown. We are introducing interventions that will help as many residents as possible to earn at least two meals a day.” Korde, along with some non-government organisations (NGO), are helping residents learn vocational skills and find some temporary employment, until businesses in Dharavi get back on their feet. Brinelle D’Souza, co-convener of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, who is also working in Dharavi, said, “Unemployment is a major issue. We have formed a committee to see what can be done in this regard, such as re-skilling the youth, to look at new opportunities in this Covid economy. They need to have niche skills to find employment in this economy. The group of activists working with residents are looking to tie up with the National Skill Development Corporation.” Most residents of Dharavi do odd jobs such as working as house helps, accessorising clothing with buttons or embroidery, catering at parties, selling flowers, vegetables and fish and meat as hawkers, if they are not employed with a business. During lockdown, labourers, who did not go back home, took to other jobs to earn an income, such as housekeeping staff or security personnel in Covid hospitals, making masks, cleaning and sanitising toilets. Avirath Shinde, a resident of Dharavi and a government contractor, said, “I employed the 20-odd labourers, who work with me to clean and sanitise community toilets in Dharavi and man the queues. That way I could keep paying them their salaries.” Many labourers who returned home are now coming back to the city. Janardhan Pujari, who worked as a Dharavi tour guide for foreign tourists left for his family home in Mangaluru in May. He said, “My company was paying me half the salary, but only until September, so I decided to return home. Tourism will not start in Dharavi for another six to eight months.” Many residents here continue to live on hand outs and food packets distributed by BMC and NGOs. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward with jurisdiction over Dharavi, said, “The government officially stopped distributing food packets and grocery packets, as per directives from the state government. But most residents of Dharavi do not have money to buy their own groceries. Many NGOs periodically step forward. We recently distributed 500 grocery packets with grains and cooking oil donated by an organisation. This keeps them going for now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-battling-covid-19-dharavi-faces-next-challenge-of-economic-revival/story-SzjIblwmh8ADj52trgKmTI.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: India first to hit 80,000 cases in a day; 16,000 in Maharashtra||India on Sunday became the first country in the world to report more than 80,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day, as the outbreak continued to grow and set new records.A total of 80,097 new infections were reported across India on Sunday, taking the nationwide tally to 3,616,747, according to HT’s dashboard. To contextualise the size of the daily tally, China, where the virus originated in December 2019, has 85,031 infections to date.After Sunday’s spike, the seven-day average of daily cases in the country stands at 73,318, also a new global record, and taking it higher than the seven-day daily case peak recorded in the United States .Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 16,408 Covid-19 cases, second in excess of 16,000 and also the second-highest one-day spike, as the tally rose to 780,689. This has pushed the active cases closer to 200,000 at 193,548 cases — 24.79% of the total cases reported so far.The toll reached 24,399 after 296 deaths were reported, of which, 220 were in the past 48 hours, another 43 deaths were from last week, while the remaining 33 deaths were from the period before that, health officials said. The surge in cases is likely to continue for weeks as some more fresh relaxations are expected to come into force from September first week in the state. Experts are of the view that it may take months for the state to bring down cases. Moreover, the state has found that some patients have been reinfected few weeks after fully recovering. It has also reported patients who, even after recovering, are facing respiratory issues.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading the communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said the state has got a few cases of Covid-19 reinfection and relapse. “There are a few cases of reinfection and relapse in Covid-19 patients. Thankfully, this is rare, but it is happening, Dr Salunkhe said.“In some of the cases, we have also found that the patients who were recovered from Covid-19 have again facing respiratory problems. It happens because a vital organ especially lungs of the patients get damaged by the virus. For this, we need to set up post-Covid treatment facilities at hospitals,” he said.State health minister Rajesh Tope, too, had said that the state has found some cases where patients have started experiencing respiratory problems after recovering. “In some hospitals, there are a few patients who have started facing difficulty in respiration. It shows different forms of Covid-19. The task force will study such cases,” Tope told reporters recently.“More movement will expose more and more people to the virus and will eventually lead to more infections,” said a senior official from the health department.The surge in cases can be seen with the rise in daily infections, which on an average has come close to 12,000 per day. It wasn’t even 8,000 a day during last month.In the last 30 days of this month, the state has reported 359,368 cases, which accounts for 11,979 per day, on an average. With a day left, it is likely to go up even further.In July, the number of average cases was 7,980 cases per day as the state has recorded 247,392 cases in that month, while in June it was 3,405 cases a day as cases recorded were 102,172.Dr Salunkhe said the state may take months to reduce daily infections. “Going by the current scenario, it may take months to bring down daily cases until a vaccine arrives in the market soon. See, people are not ready to protect themselves. In that case, the state will have to make its surveillance more aggressive. This can be achieved by making Covid testing accessible to all. Like Mumbai, the mandatory condition of having prescription from a doctor for testing need to be removed from across the state,” he said.Mumbai recorded 1,237 cases, taking its tally to 144,626. Of them, active cases are 20,321.On June 27, Mumbai has reported highest single-day spike with 2,077 cases. The city has been maintaining a sort of stability in fresh cases in the last month.Meanwhile, the city toll stands at 7,626 after 30 deaths were reported on Sunday.Pune city continue to contribute maximum infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,663 cases on Sunday and has also crossed the grim milestone of over 1 lakh cases. Its tally stands at 100,236 cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad, satellite city in Pune Metropolitan Region, recorded 1,072 cases, becoming the third-highest contributor, pushing its tally up to 47,217.Apart from them, Nashik city has also recorded over 1,000 cases with 1,049 cases and its tally stood at 26,914.Besides, Pune district, Nagpur city, Kolhapur district, Jalgaon district and Satara district have recorded 991, 836, 669, 625 and 616 cases respectively.Along with fresh infections, number of casualties continues to be highest across state in the country.In the past 30 days (of this month), the state has reported 9,405 deaths, which is the highest in a month so far. In July, a total of 6,988 deaths were reported, while in June, May, April and March, total number of deaths recorded were 5,638, 2,286, 449 and 10 deaths respectively.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 3.13% on Sunday. It is slightly less than Gujarat, having the highest CFR in the country as present. On Saturday, Gujarat’s CFR was 3.19% with 2,989 deaths (93,734 cases), according to statistics shared by the state medical education department.On Sunday, it has conducted 74,554 tests and total number of tests conducted till date are 4,084,754As many as 562,401 infected patients have been recovered and discharged from various hospitals across the state till date. On Sunday alone, 7,690 recoveries were reported, taking the recovery rate of the state to 72.04%, against the national average of 76.60%.Currently, 35,373 people have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities and 1,309,676 people are home quarantined across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-india-first-to-hit-80-000-cases-in-a-day-16-000-in-maharashtra/story-rkbHJ6PdO9GdEnC993wrVK.html
31-08-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay’s portal to help find transport for NEET, JEE candidates to test centres||Five students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have designed a web portal to help candidates appearing for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) find transport to their test centres.EduRide is a web portal that connects candidates across the country with volunteers willing to drive or arrange a vehicle to their respective test centres. Any NEET or JEE candidate can log in on the website, enter details of the location of residence and test centres. These details are then matched against volunteers, who are from a network of students and alumni of various IITs.“We take preferences from a volunteer and he/she could either drive the student or arrange a vehicle for the student. Our portal tries to map a suitable student from a particular area to a volunteer from the same area,” said Kriti Kamna, who handles publicity of the website. The portal is also raising funds to facilitate transport for candidates.Since its launch, on Saturday, the portal has been receiving almost 200 entries a day for transport. The web portal was designed keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown in various parts of the country.However, IIT-B has clarified that it is merely facilitating the process of connecting a candidate with a volunteer, and does not authenticate the genuineness of either the candidate or the volunteer.Scheduled to be held in September, NEET and JEE exams have been in the centre of a national controversy after the Supreme Court allowed the central government to conduct physical examinations, amid calls from distressed students to postpone or cancelling the exams. One of the problems cited by candidates is the lack of public transport facilities in the lockdown that can deter the candidates’ ability to reach their centres on time.The EduRide portal has come forward to help students overcome the transport problem. Taking to social media, IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “To help the JEE (Main) and NEET candidates in various locations across the country, several students and alumni of IITs, including those of IIT-B, have come forward to connect needy candidates with the volunteers willing to help in transport or monetarily through an online portal http://eduride.in. I request volunteers to help in providing transport to the needy candidates in their neighbourhood. Let us all help the future engineers, doctors and scientists of India.”Kamna said that while the portal will do its best in finding transport for such distressed candidates, they should also have a backup option ready.“Since we have a shortage of time, we can’t process every request with a guarantee but we are striving towards it,” said Kamna, a final year electrical engineering student at IIT-B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-s-portal-to-help-find-transport-for-neet-jee-candidates-to-test-centres/story-i3NWfNuKIODlqVyqSStqpI.html
31-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Four more private hospitals get nod to conduct test for Covid-19||Gurugram: Almost a week after the Haryana government permitted accredited private hospitals and diagnostic labs to conduct antigen and antibody testing for Covid-19, four private hospitals and one private lab in Gurugram have been given approvals to do so. The four hospitals are Metro Hospital & Heart Institute in Palam Vihar, Mayom Hospital in sector 41, W Pratiksha Hospital at Sushant Lok-2 and Paras Hospital in Sushant Lok-1, while Core Diagnostics is the private laboratory.Till date, only three other private institutes -- Medanta- The Medicity in sector 38, Artemis Hospital in sector 51 and Max Hospital in Sushant Lok-1 -- had permission to do so. They had taken permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for it. However, recently the ICMR had changed its guidleines, requiring the state government’s permission.Health officials said that the facilities were given permission based on the credentials submitted and the eligibility criteria as per the government guidelines.Prices of the test will be capped at ₹ 650 for the antigen tests and ₹250 for the antibody test. “Only private hospitals approved by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare (NABH) and private labs approved by National Accreditation Board for Laboratories (NABL) and approved by the ICMR as Covid-19 testing lab are allowed to conduct antigen and antibody test for coronavirus,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer.Dr P Venkata Krishnan, internal medicine, Paras Hospital, said, “The hospital is currently doing antibody test of patients who are suspected of being exposed to the virus, while we have tied-up with the private labs for the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). We are yet to start the antigen tests.” In hospitals, as per the guidelines issued by the ICMR, antigen test has to be conducted in all symptomatic Influenza Like Illness (ILI) patients present in the hospital, who are suspected of having Covid-19 infection. High-risk asymptomatic patients who are hospitalised or seeking hospitalisation for chemotherapy, patients who are immunosuppressed due to HIV infection, transplant patients or those diagnosed with the malignant disease will be tested for Covid-19 through antigen detection kits. Even those undergoing surgical procedures or non-surgical interventions like bronchoscopy, GI endoscopy, dialysis among others will also be tested for SARS-CoV-2 before the procedure.For the antigen test that delivers results in 15-30 minutes, a testing kit is used that looks for specific protein associated with the SARS-CoV-2 virus — the pathogen that causes Covid-19. For the antibody test, blood samples are collected to check for antibodies which appear after the person is infected with Covid-19 and stays in the body for months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-four-more-private-hospitals-get-nod-to-conduct-test-for-covid-19/story-KP5XTWIr2cbaU2oOLRPPXM.html
31-08-2020||City||Large-capacity diesel gensets in Gurugram yet to be fitted with emission control equipment||Close to a month after the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) instructed its regional office in Gurugram to ensure retrofitting of emission control equipment in all diesel generator sets that are above 500 kilovolt-amperes (kVA), no compliance reports have been submitted in the matter by licenced DG set operators, said HSPCB officials on Monday.Earlier on July 23, HSPCB chairman Ashok Kheterpal sent official instructions to regional offices in five NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Panipat and Bahadurgarh, asking them to ensure retrofitting of emission control equipment in diesel generator sets. Kheterpal’s instructions stated, “It is hereby ordered that all DG sets in operation with capacity of 500kVa and above are required either to retrofit the emission control equipment... or shift to new gas-based generators... within three months.”The process involves upgrading existing DG sets with a CPCB-approved carbon capture device that can mitigate as much as 70% of the particulate matter emissions from the combustion of diesel fuel or, alternatively, switching to less harmful gas-based generators. This move was first proposed as part of the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which was rolled out early last year in over 100 ‘non-attainment cities’. Gurugram and Faridabad were added to the NCAP’s list of non-attainment cities in July 2019, on World Environment Day. A ‘non-attainment city’ is a polluted city in which the prescribed National Ambient Air Quality Standards are violated.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Gurugram, said, “As per the NCAP, we have to aim for a 30% reduction in particulate matter levels by 2024. DG sets are assumed to contribute around 18% of all particulate matter pollution in cities. In preparation for the winter, and in compliance with a National Green Tribunal’s order from December last year, we have been instructed to take these steps and ensure compliance of large capacity DG sets by October 23 this year.”When asked how the HSPCB plans to implement these directives in the district before the October 23 deadline, Singh said, “We have issued a public notice on our website. It is the responsibility of the operators to apprise themselves of it, do the needful, and send us a compliance report.”So far, however, Singh said that no compliance reports in the matter have been received from licenced DG set operators in Gurugram. “We will send individual notices to all residential complexes, hospitals, malls, office buildings and other commercial establishments in our jurisdiction, cautioning that action can be taken under the Air Act and Environment Protection Act if they fail to comply with the directive,” he said.Experts, on the other hand, expressed doubts over the feasibility of this plan. Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist, said, “There are at least 10,500 diesel generators in Gurugram city alone, as per a recent study by the Centre for Science and Energy. Many of them are extremely old, highly polluting, and do not possess the required NOCs. It is an almost insurmountable task, considering that there is no official record of many of them. As such it is difficult to say exactly how many operators are there in the ciy. Even initiating action against the operators of such generators will be hard for this reason.”Guneet Singh, who runs a city-based non-profit organisation in the field of air-quality research, said, “The task is challenging. But, there are some ways to go about it efficiently. Firstly, it will be easier to identify large-scale diesel generators in commercial or residential establishments because they are all annually maintained by a small group of contractors. Out of 10,500 diesel generator sets, the directive would apply to a smaller number of 500kVA sets, which are better regulated than smaller portable sets. So there’s one big starting advantage.”Experts, including Guneet and Pawar, also said that providing incentives to operators (for example, in the form of reduced electricity bills) or subsidising the cost of new equipment, may ensure compliance with the HSPCB’s directive. However, they also pointed out that the proposal does not address the larger issue of informal DG sets used in Gurugram.“Larger diesel generators, for example in RWAs, are designed to release emissions at greater ‘stack heights’, and not at a breathable proximity to residents. Portable generators, in the 200 to 300KVA range, that are used in small shops and individual homes are the real issue. They cause a bulk of street-side pollution and are also poorly regulated,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/large-capacity-diesel-gensets-in-gurugram-yet-to-be-fitted-with-emission-control-equipment/story-J5aXAxDh3M6lFiJOgXuI1L.html
31-08-2020||City||Gurugram: 12 mobile phones, 5 chargers found in Bhondsi Jail||Gurugram: Authorities of Bhondsi Jail on Saturday recovered 12 mobile phones, five chargers and several batteries from the barracks inside the jail complex. They also recovered a 4G SIM card and two headsets concealed in four packets, the police said. The jail authorities have filed a complaint in the matter at Bhondsi police station. According to the complaint, an inspection of all the barracks was conducted by a quick response team at 11am. During the inspection, four packets were found on the roof of and behind barrack number 7. Preliminary probe suggested that the packets, containing the phones and other items, had been thrown from outside and flung across the boundary wall of the jail complex, the police said. “The packets contained 12 mobile phones, including smartphones, several batteries, five chargers, a 4G SIM card and two headsets. We are questioning inmates to ascertain if they had any knowledge of the incident,” said a police official privy to the investigation. Several instances of mobile phones and drugs being flung across the boundary wall of the jail complex have been reported in the past. The police said mobile phones are used by some inmates to make extortion calls and contact their henchmen and aides to run their operations. Neeraj, station house officer, Bhondsi police station, said, “An FIR has been registered in the case. Efforts are on to locate the shops from where the mobile phones and other items had been purchased.” The easy access of mobile phones and narcotics among jail inmates had come under the scanner after the police had arrested Dharambeer Chautala, who was posted as deputy jail superintendent of Bhondsi Jail, on July 23. Chautala, along with his associate Ravi, was caught supplying mobile phones and narcotics to some inmates. The police had recovered at least 11 4G SIM cards and 230 grams of hashish from their possession. A probe had found that one 4G SIM card was sold for over Rs 20,000 to the inmates, who were using phones to run their networks outside the prison. A special investigation team (SIT) was formed to probe the matter, following which two more aides of Chautala were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-12-mobile-phones-5-chargers-found-in-bhondsi-jail/story-9bkWce4SCiequMz1fr0NdI.html
31-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Five days after going missing, tractor driver found dead in Sector 66||Five days after a 35-year-old tractor-trolley driver went missing, his body was found in the basement of a private company in Sector 66 area on Saturday. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure(CrPC). Police said the victim, identified as Pankaj Kumar, a native of Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh, went to the house of his employer, Jagbir, at 9am on August 24 to pick up the trolley. He drove to a private company in Sector 66 for some work and parked it there around 11.30am, following which he went missing. Jagbir said that he had been trying to reach Pankaj but his phone was found switched off. He said, “I tried looking for him but could not locate him. On August 26, I filed a missing persons’ complaint with the police.” The police said an FIR was registered under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) on August 26 at Sector 65 police station. “On Saturday, someone in one of the basement floors of the company noticed a dead body as some foul smell was emanating from a spot. The matter was then reported to the police. The body was partially decomposed. The cause of death would be known after the post-mortem report comes out. We are trying to ascertain the circumstances leading to his death. Prima facie, it appears that he died due to drowning as some water had collected in the basement. We have initiated inquest proceedings,” said a police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity. The police said the victim’s body was handed over to his family after the post-mortem examination on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-five-days-after-going-missing-tractor-driver-found-dead-in-sector-66/story-lvYM6oim476UqkmuiQHOCK.html
31-08-2020||City||Gurugram: 4 nabbed with cannabis worth ₹5 lakh meant to be sold in NCR||Gurugram: Faridabad police arrested four men in the wee hours of Sunday from Sector 62 for allegedly possessing contraband items worth at least ₹5 lakh, said the police. Police said they recovered 64 kg of cannabis from the suspects which they allegedly smuggled into the city from Orissa to sell it in NCR. According to the police, the four, who were travelling in a Maruti Eeco, were apprehended following a tip-off. The suspects were identified as Keshav, Muhammad Ansaar, Abdul Sabir and Muhammad Sanazir of Delhi.Dharna Yadav (ACP, crime against women), said Ansaar is allegedly the kingpin of the gang and was involved in many cases under the NDPS Act in the national capital region. He allegedly used to travel in an Eeco car to get the supply of drugs from Orissa and to mislead the police he used to have passengers in the vehicle so as to avoid checking,” she said. Police said checking was going on in the area when crime teams received a tip off and started checking all vehicles.“The Sector 30 crime team had received information that the suspects were carrying a huge quantity of cannabis and were coming from Orissa. Accordingly, a check point was set up near the Sector 62 crossing. They came in from the direction of Palwal and were arrested in the wee hours,” said Yadav. She added that the suspects had allegedly hidden the drugs in the boot of their car and below the seats in plastic bags covered with clothes and other household stuff. Police said after the drugs were recovered, they questioned the suspects and got to know crucial details of the organised crime and how they allegedly used to run their business. According to OP Singh, commissioner of police, the police have also seized the car they were travelling in as it was allegedly used to smuggle the drugs from other states. “During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they used to deliver the consignment in different areas and had been doing this since past many years. They used to pack the drugs in small packets of 10-100 grams and we have also received information of their suppliers in areas but the end users are yet to be identified” said Singh. Police said they suspect that more persons may be involved in this racket and they are on the lookout for the others. A case was registered against the suspects under sections of the Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act 1985 at Adarsh Nagar police station in Faridabad. “We are working to identify more cases against them. Though they claim this was their first offence, we have reason to believe they have been smuggling drugs for many years,” said commissioner Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-4-nabbed-with-cannabis-worth-5-lakh-meant-to-be-sold-in-ncr/story-b8jteOlTsw6Bd22lyPQszO.html
31-08-2020||City||Faridabad man kills self, leaves note alleging blackmail by two||GurugramFaridabad police nabbed two people on Sunday for allegedly blackmailing a 50-year-old businessman, who later killed himself by jumping into a river and left behind a note.Police said the suspects had recorded a video of the businessman in an objectionable position, which they later used to blackmail him.The victim, a 50-year-old printing press owner was found dead in a river flowing to Gurugram on Friday and his car was recovered from the bridge of the river. Dharna Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said that they received a complaint from the deceased’s son that his father had gone missing from home on August 24 and they had recovered a suicide note alleging three people for forcing him to take his life. “The man used to run a printing press and was financially sound. A woman who was working in his office honey trapped him, along with her friend who worked at the same press,” she said. The woman, along with her aide — identified as Vinod Kumar — recorded an objectionable video of the victim in a compromising position in a hotel. Yadav said the woman was aware that a video was being shot, but the victim didn’t. Later, the man and the woman recruited a third person — identified as Swami alias Kripal Singh of Mathura in Uttar Pradesh — and started living in a rented accommodation in Palwal. “Vinod and Swami blackmailed the businessman for over a year and extorted Rs 15 lakh. Recently, they had again started pressurizing him to cough up more money, following which the man wrote a suicide note as he feared facing his family and took his life,” she said. A case under section 346 (Wrongful confinement in secret) ,384 (extortion) ,506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Ballabhgarh police station against three people, including the woman. OP Singh, commissioner of police, Faridabad, said while teams were investigating the case, they recovered the car of Kaushik from a bridge near a cremation ground in Sector 8. “Before the police could investigate the case, Ballabhgarh police received a complaint from the woman alleging rape by the victim on Friday. A day later his body was recovered from the river. As soon as we received the complaint we found it suspicious and started investigating the whereabouts of the woman,” he said. The police teams recovered some crucial evidence, such as the video recording, and three suspects were identified as blackmailing the businessman. The woman and her close aide were arrested and during questioning they revealed that they had laid the trap as they thought that the businessman was rich and will easily fall prey, said police. Singh said the third suspect is still absconding and police teams are conducting raids to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridabad-man-kills-self-leaves-note-alleging-blackmail-by-two/story-r2kd6HcCTbPX0FHPHFzmbJ.html
31-08-2020||Gurugram||MCG House meeting to take place at a new venue each time||After realising the gravity of civic ailments in sector 27 and areas surrounding it, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to conduct House meetings at a new venue each time in the future.On Friday, the MCG’s house meeting took place at a community centre in sector 27, the first time it was held at a venue other than the John Hall in Civil Lines or the MCG’s main office in sector 34. House meetings are held between top MCG officials and city councillors.Prior to the house meeting on Friday, MCG officials inspected the drainage facility in sectors 27, 28, and Golf Course Road (GCR), a matter which came into focus during last week’s rain when the area for flooded.The inspection also helped officials understand the topography of the area, which is located in close proximity to the Aravallis and hence, remains vulnerable to waterlogging.During the meeting, MCG formed a 10-member committee for reviewing the existing drainage system of the three areas and compile a report on the matter, suggesting the best possible ways to address water-logging issues in these areas. In addition, they also announced that a private agency has been hired for preparing a detailed drainage plan for the two sectors.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said that holding house meetings at a new venue each time will give an opportunity for officials and councillors to closely examine and understand the local civic issues and subsequently undertake necessary steps to expedite improvement in infrastructure.He added it would also ensure that various civic buildings such as community centres are regularly maintained.“A lot of new issues pertaining to civic ailments came to surface during our recent house meeting, most of which only came into the spotlight as we had held a house meeting in a residential sector for the first time. Hence, we felt that from future onwards, conducting a house meeting at a new venue each time will not only help us with an in-depth understanding of civic issues at a particular sector but also expedite starting of new projects or repairing of existing ones,” said Singh.He further said that MCG has properties spread across the city and that almost all residential sectors have a community centre managed by the MCG or the local RWA.“Hence, conducting a meeting at a new venue each time would not be that difficult for us,” said Singh.There are 60 community centres in the city, of which 38 are managed by the MCG and 22 by RWAs.For a better understanding of localised issues, MCG has conducted operations in each of its 35 wards in the past. In December last year, under the “nagar nigam aapke dwar” initiative, MCG officials will hold camps in a particular ward where localised issues of residents would be addressed by a team of MCG officials, which often included the area joint commissioner and executive engineers among other officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-house-meeting-to-take-place-at-a-new-venue-each-time/story-vmzHvwZZJrCQTJ4bNenCzH.html
31-08-2020||Gurugram||South City 2 residents forced to buy water for daily consumption||Residents of South City 2, who have been severely hit by a persistent water shortage in the area since the imposition of the nationwide lockdown in March, are being forced to buy water for their daily needs. The residents of Block D said that they are suffering due to an acute shortage of water and despite six months having passed, nothing has changed for them. These residents, who are presently in a containment zone, are spending out of their pockets to get water.Around 5,000 residents in the area have been dependent on water tankers since March 22 due to water shortage. As per the residents, the water flow in the area is less than normal. Further some residents are using boosting pumps, while some have constructed underground tanks, due to which the water pressure is often low and fails to reach all the houses. Bhupinder Singh, one of the residents, said there is no water supply for the past one week. “The situation has particularly worsened in the past week. There are three Covid-19 patients in the block and a portion of block is under containment. Yet, the authorities are not paying any heed to our problems. There is no operator in the pump house and the operator’s number is switched off. We have complained to both the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the developer. However, no action has been taken so far,” he said. Some residents have taken to social media, highlighting their plight and tagging the deputy commissioner and the commissioner of the MCG. They have even approached the chief minister regarding the persistent water shortage. Another resident, Jasbir Singh, said, “It is becoming very difficult to manage without water everyday and spending ₹1,000 on tanker is again not feasible. Senior citizens are the worst-hit” he said. Residents alleged that there is no one to hold either the developer and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) accountable. Although the MCG has taken over the area, services are still with the developer. They continue to blame each other while the residents are forced to bear the brunt.Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG, said that the water is supplied by Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to the developer and is routed through them. “The pipelines were being shifted. However, the work is almost over now.The water supply will resume by Sunday night.” he said. A senior GMDA official, requesting anonymity, said they are looking into the problem. A GMDA team will inspect the area on Monday and will try to resolve the issue at the earliest.Despite repeated attempts, the developer of South City 2 could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/south-city-2-residents-forced-to-buy-water-for-daily-consumption/story-RTnAAjVZvwMllJeVi10rpN.html
31-08-2020||Gurugram||Haryana govt revokes weekday restrictions on markets, malls||Following the Unlock 4 guidelines from the Union government, Haryana on Sunday withdrew its August 28 order disallowing markets and shops in urban areas on Mondays and Tuesdays.According to the guidelines, state governments should not impose any lockdown outside containment zones without permission from the central government. Haryana home minister Anil Vij tweeted the government’s decision on Sunday. Earlier, the restrictions were on markets and malls in urban areas on weekends, Saturday and Sunday, but later on shifted to the weekdays Monday and Tuesday following protests from traders who said they had already suffered high losses on account of the lockdown.A state government spokesperson in the evening said that the government will allow all activities permitted outside containment zones, except for schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions that will continue to remain closed up to September 30, 2020, as per the central government guidelines.The government’s latest decision added to the relief of market associations in the city and traders who were suffering business losses since the imposition of the Covid-19 induced lockdown on March 22.“The withdrawal is a positive decision and it will help traders but the manner in which lockdown was imposed for two days created confusion for the customers and traders. These decisions should be taken after taking the trade and business associations in confidence,” said Mandeep Goyal, a jeweler based in Sadar Bazaar.Mall operators and shopkeepers there also said that this decision was necessary as otherwise they would suffer more losses. “People are slowly returning to malls and started shopping and this has given some hope that business and trade will revive. Closing business for two days would have badly hit all stakeholders,” said Vijay Aima, vice president, Ambience Mall, who added that all safeguards for preventing the spread of Covid-19 were being followed in their, as well as other, malls.A government spokesperson further elaborated that as per the Unlock 4 guidelines, social, academics, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious functions and other congregations with a ceiling of 100 persons will be permitted with effect from September 21, 2020, with mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer.However, marriage related gatherings with number of guests not exceeding 50 and funeral/ last rites related gatherings with number of persons not exceeding 20 will continue to be allowed up to September 20, 2020, after which the ceiling of 100 persons will apply.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain closed. However, open air theatres will be permitted to open with effect from September 21, 2020, he addedHe further said that Lockdown shall remain in force in the containment zones till September 30, 2020. Strict containment measures will be enforced in these containment zones and only essential activities will be allowed.The spokesman said that in the containment zones, there shall be intensive contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance, and other clinical interventions, as required. These containment zones will be notified on the websites by the respective district collectors and by the states/UTs and information will be shared with the ministry of health and family affairs.He further added that there shall be no restriction or inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods including those for cross land-border trade under the neighbouring countries. No separate permission, approval, e-permit required for such movements.He said that persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-govt-revokes-weekday-restrictions-on-markets-malls/story-XE2w6LaJ3oPPOltiKDCQfM.html
31-08-2020||Gurugram||Avg daily new cases in Ggm grows to 119||Gurugram saw average growth of 119 new Covid-19 cases per day over the past seven days (August 24 to 30), up from the previous week’s average of 101 daily.The test-positivity rate (TPR) of the district on Sunday was 6.9 percent. “We have ramped up testing to respond to the surge in new cases and will continue to test at the current level,” said Dr. Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s (IDSP) district surveillance officer (DSO) in Gurugram. Of the current tally of 965 active patients, 119 were hospitalised, while the majority (827 people) are under home isolation. This is up slightly from 765 people under home isolation a week ago. Another 19 patients (up from 9 a week ago) are under observation at district covid centre centres.Gurugram on Sunday also collected 2000 new samples for testing, up from 1794 samples collected on Saturday. Of these, 450 samples were taken by private labs for RT PCR tests, while the majority of remaining samples are those of RT PCR and antigen tests by the health department.DATA:Total cases: 11804New cases: 125Total deaths: 133New deaths: 0Mortality rate: 1.1%Recoveries: 10706Recovery rate: 90%Active cases: 965Total cases in Haryana: TBA Total fatalities in Haryana: TBA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/avg-daily-new-cases-in-ggm-grows-to-119/story-FdTI7PNVXMBHhReqKwa0GK.html
31-08-2020||City||Noida may witness moderate rainfall on Sept 2||Noida: The city and adjoining region, which witnessed drizzling on Sunday, is likely to receive moderate rainfall on September 2 and 3, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, the light rain will continue in some parts of the region for the next two days, the weather department predicted. Noida and Ghaziabad had received heavy rainfall on August 28. “The light rain and drizzling would continue on Monday and Tuesday as well. There is moisture in the region which could lead to good thunder activities. The showers are likely to be light to very light. The next good weather activity leading to rainfall is likely to be around September 2 and 3,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5mm is heavy. Since June 1, Noida has seen a rainfall of 66.3mm till Sunday against expected 440mm, which is about 85% deficit. The neighbouring Ghaziabad has received 185.1mm rainfall which is 58% deficit, as per the IMD data. According to weather analysts, the low pressure monsoon line of trough – that oscillates around the region and causes rains as it passes over the region – has currently shifted south of Delhi-NCR and is likely to shift northwards in the next 24 hours. “The monsoon line of trough is hovering over western Madhya Pradesh adjoining Rajasthan. But by next 24 hours this will move northwards towards Delhi and this will lead to good rainfall in the region within next few days. We can predict moderate rainfall on September 2 and 3. However, the current weather pattern doesn’t suggest heavy rainfall this week,” said Mahesh Palawat, director at Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency. On Sunday, the maximum temperature in Noida was recorded at 31.4 degrees Celsius, a drop of about four degrees due to patchy rains as compared to 35 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The humidity level oscillated between 82% and 77%. According to IMD, the day temperature is likely to hover around 35 degrees over the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-may-witness-moderate-rainfall-on-sept-2/story-vMkko7IsYoQsfPDzAg61IK.html
31-08-2020||City||Unlock 4: Weekend restrictions to continue in UP, says state govt||Ghaziabad: A day after the Union home ministry issued guidelines for Unlock 4, the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday said that the present weekend restrictions will continue in the state.Issuing a set of fresh guidelines on Sunday night, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari also said that the lockdown will continue in containment zones till September 30. Tiwari in his order has categorically stated that the district magistrates will not impose lockdown at local level outside the containment zones under any circumstance. This indicates that the lockdown activities will continue only in containment zones. “In the wake of the Covid-19 infection, people aged over 65 years, pregnant women, children below 10 years and those having co-morbid conditions will stay at home and should move out only in cases when there is some medical emergency. The weekend restrictions which are put in place from 10pm on every Friday up to 5am on Monday will continue till further order,” Tiwari said in his order. Adding further, the chief secretary stated that all schools, colleges, educational institutions and coaching institutes shall remain closed till September 30. He, however, added that online classes/distance education will continue. Tiwari also said that the Metro services will be allowed to operate in a phased manner and standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be issued in a separate order. The Union home ministry on Saturday had announced the guidelines for the fourth phase of relaxations in the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In the latest round of relaxation, called Unlock 4, Metro train services have been allowed to resume from September 7, but in a graded manner. Schools and colleges will, however, remain closed and the government will hold separate discussion before opening up these educational institutions. The Centre’s guidelines also say that from September 21, states and Union territories may permit up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching/tele-counselling and related work. The SOPs will be issued by the Union health ministry separately, the guideline says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-4-weekend-restrictions-to-continue-in-up-says-state-govt/story-AaTw7cchQy8Zx5SLkFrMfL.html
31-08-2020||Noida||Teenager ends life after being scolded by father||A 16-year-old boy in Noida allegedly took his own life on Sunday morning after he was scolded by his father over studies.The boy’s parents work as daily wage earners. According to police officials, the father had scolded the boy in the morning.“The family has said that due to schools being shut currently, the boy was slacking with studies and had started keeping bad company. Apparently the father had scolded him in the morning for wasting time,” said Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station,After a while, the family found him hanging in his room and then rushed him to a nearby private hospital where he was declared brought dead, said police.“No suicide note was found at the spot and the boy’s body was then sent for an autopsy. It will be handed over to the family later,” said the SHO.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/teenager-ends-life-after-being-scolded-by-father/story-fUYKOOM3Yi4d1i6Cm6Nt8M.html
31-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Man kills 8-year-old boy in revenge, arrested||A 24-year-old man was arrested by Noida police on Sunday for allegedly killing an eight-year-old boy. The boy was found dead on Thursday a day after we went missing from his house in Chhalera village.The police said it appears that the suspect, Babu (identified by a single name in police records), killed the boy in an act of revenge after the boy’s family rejected his proposal to marry the victim’s 14-year-old older sister.The suspect, who is from West Bengal and worked in Noida as a gardener, lived in the same neighbourhood as the victim’s family.“The last I had seen my son was with Babu on August 26 evening around 6 pm. When he didn’t come home in the evening, we started searching for him. Even Babu was not at his home. When we exhausted all our options, we reported our son missing to the police around 2am early August 27 morning, ,” said the boy’s mother in her complaint to the police.The family said that later in the afternoon on August 27, a child’s dead body had been found in a ditch on the Mahamaya flyover-Sector 37 route. After the mother went to identify the body, it turned out to be her missing son.Based on the mother’s complaint, a case was registered against the suspect at the Sector 39 police station under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (whoever knowing or having reason to believe that an offence has been committed, intentionally omits to give any information respecting that offence which he is legally bound to give) of the Indian Penal Code.“Babu had been harassing my 14-year-old daughter for a long time. He wanted to get married to her and we had objected to her proposal. He would also try to intervene in our family matters and when we objected, he threatened to kill our son,” said the mother. The victim’s family is also from West Bengal and the boy was the youngest of five siblings, said the police.The police officers said the motive behind the murder was the family rejecting the marriage proposal.“The suspect would take the boy for fishing often, refer to the boy’s mother as mother-in-law. He had been harassing the family for a while, and the family members were so troubled that they had started entertaining the idea of sending their daughter to an acquaintance’s place in Ghaziabad. It was the rejection of the marriage proposal that led the suspect to kill the boy,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.“The pit where the boy’s body was found was barely a foot deep. It seemed that the boy had been hit on the head and his head was pushed into the ditch and kept in that position by force. The autopsy also said that the boy died of drowning,” said the DCP.The suspect, who had been on the run since the incident, was arrested near Sector 44 based on a tip-off. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-kills-8-year-old-boy-in-revenge-arrested/story-SvHjLDU226qWJM5BioTA1M.html
31-08-2020||Noida||Greater Noida appoints NGO for sterilising, vaccinating stray dogs||The Greater Noida authority on Sunday appointed an NGO (non-government organisation) for sterilising and vaccinating street dogs across the city.The NGO hired for the task, Friendicoes SECA, has been asked to sterilise and vaccinate at least of 10 stray dogs everyday . The authority has also appealed to the residents’ welfare associations(RWAs) and apartment owners welfare associations(AOA’s) to come forward to help the NGO in addressing the stray dog menace. The authority has also set up a dog shelter at Parshvnath Panorama society in Swarn Jayanti.“We have appealed to the RWAs and AOAs to rope in volunteers who can get the stray dogs sterilised and vaccinated by the NGO in their presence for maintaining transparency and accountability. If the volunteers RWA or AOA office bearers will be present at the spot, then we can verify if the work is being done properly or not,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.Residents said in the past the agencies that had been hired by the authority did not carry out the vaccinations and sterilisation properly. To address this issue, the authority wants to involve RWAs and AOAs in the initiative.“The NGO will charge ₹950 for each sterilisation and vaccination. We request that RWA, AOA to pay ₹250 for each dog and the rest of the amount will be borne by the authority. Once the AOA, RWA or other resident groups will send a picture of the dogs vaccinated or sterilised, the authority will release the payment to the NGO,” said Chandar.“Friendicoes will pick up and release the street dogs, and will also take care of the sterilisation and vaccination process. Greater Noida authority plans to share the payment with the RWA or the housing groups, but at the moment that plan remains a little hazy and the program will take a while to run smoothly. There are more dogs outside housing complexes than inside and they definitely need to be sterilised if this program is to show significant results. However, who will bear the costs of the stray dogs outside a residential society hasn’t been made clear. But we hope that the program does well,as the area needs a good animal birth control program,” aid Geeta Sheshamani, vice president, Friendicoes SECA (Noida chapter).Many residents had been complaining about the stray dog menace in the city.“The stray dog menace is a long-standing issue that needs to be addressed. In the past, the authority’s health department failed to tackle this. As a result, residents almost in all societies, especially children and the elderly, face troubles. Now we hope, the authority will be able to address the problem. However, asking RWAs or AOAs to pay is not justified,” said Davendra Tiger, president of federation of Greater Noida RWAs, an umbrella body of city’s RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-appoints-ngo-for-sterilising-vaccinating-stray-dogs/story-0c349bB4FE6AwY79eckOQJ.html
31-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Five arrested in connection with burglary in Sector 80 warehouse||Five men were arrested by Noida police on Saturday night in connection with a burglary at a warehouse in Sector 80 on August 28. The police said that stolen goods were also recovered from the suspects.The police said that two of the suspects, Shiva (identified by a single name in police records), Satendra Kumar worked at the warehouse as labourers in the warehouse and one Ashok Kumar was deployed as a security guard. The other suspects include Monu Kumar, the getaway driver, and Asif Ali, a scrap dealer, the police said.According to police officers, the suspects had broken in the warehouse, which is used for storing utensils and other metal objects, on the night of August 28. “Since some of the suspects knew their way around the warehouse the suspects were able to carry out the burglary successfully and then stored the stolen goods nearby a tubewell close by. We got a tip that the suspects were going to shift all of the stolen goods to some other area. They were nabbed while they were moving all the goods into a car which was also subsequently seized,” said Raj Kumar, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.After the burglary, the suspects employed with the company did not turn up for work which suggested their involvement after which the police started narrowing on them. said the police officers.“All the stolen goods including various utensils, bundles of clothes were recovered from the suspects,” said the SHO.The suspects were booked under sections 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention)of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-five-arrested-in-connection-with-burglary-in-sector-80-warehouse/story-fwXUHtXAXRSx8GwgPvjAfM.html
31-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Man arrested for beating tenant to death over pending rent for lockdown period||Ghaziabad: The police on Sunday arrested a man who, along with his family members, had allegedly beaten up his 40-year-old tenant to death after he failed to pay up rent during the lockdown period. The police had arrested the landlord’s son-in-law after the incident that took place on August 3. According to the police, an FIR was lodged at Vijay Nagar police station against three suspects -- Ishwar Singh, his wife Rajni and son-in-law Akash Singh -- under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. During the incident, victim Budh Pal, a daily wager, was at home with his two minor sons aged eight and six years while his wife had gone to meet their relatives in Loni, the police said. “The man sustained internal injuries which caused his death. The son-in-law of the landlord was arrested after the incident, while the prime suspect was arrested on Sunday from Vijay Nagar. We are still investigating the role of his wife. If her role is established, she may be arrested,” said Devendra Singh Bisht, station house officer of Vijay Nagar police station.The victim’s wife, Reena Devi, had lodged a police complaint in the case. “The rent was due for some months. Though we paid ₹3,500, some part of the pending rent was still due. The suspects started demanding the balance amount, but my husband requested for more time in the wake of lockdown. Upon this, they got furious and started beating my husband. He sustained injuries and died on the spot,” Reena said in her complaint. “The next day Ishwar Singh informed me at 6am that my husband was lying dead. When I reached my house from Loni, I saw my husband lying dead. My eight years old son then told me that the suspects had beaten up my husband and narrated the entire sequence which took place a day earlier. Thereafter I gave a police complaint,” she said. The victim and his family stayed at a house in Siddharth Vihar which is owned by the prime suspect. According to the police, the victim had rented the room for ₹2,000 per month and failed to pay rent for the past four months due to lockdown. After lockdown opened up in phases, Budh Pal started getting work and paid ₹3,500 to Ishwar, but part of the rent was still pending, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-man-arrested-for-beating-tenant-to-death-over-pending-rent-for-lockdown-period/story-GpDfG1AcoVNqkQgbHLjY1H.html
31-08-2020||City||Noida: Over 60 Covid-19 patients deliver healthy babies since outbreak||NOIDA As many as 63 Covid-19 positive women have delivered healthy babies so far at different hospitals in the Gautam Budh Nagar district since the outbreak began in March this year. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that after the outbreak, it was found that no hospital was willing to admit Covid-19 positive pregnant women. “Then we set up an exclusive ward at our Greater Noida hospital for pregnant women. After that decision, some hospitals started taking Covid-positive women who are either close to their delivery date or have some complications,” he said. Suhas further said that the district administration had also tied up with some maternity homes as step-down facilities so that we had beds available for the urgent cases. In the district, currently three hospitals -- Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Sharda hospital and Fortis hospital -- are admitting Covid-19 positive pregnant women.Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS, said that the hospital started a 20-bed exclusive ward for such pregnant patients in the first week of April. “So far, 41 Covid-19 patients have delivered babies here, and over 10 women who are about to deliver are admitted in the gynaecology ward. Our obstetricians, led by Dr Shikha Seth, have done exemplary job in not only ensuring the safe delivery of babies, but also in fast recovery of Covid-19 positive mothers. we also arranged additional beds in the paediatric ward to accommodate the influx of such patients,” Gupta said. Till date, GIMS has performed a total of 266 deliveries, the hospital authorities said.Dr Nimmi Chutani, head of gynaecology department in Sharda hospital, said that after the Covid-19 outbreak, the hospital has developed a protocol for deliveries, handling of newborns and their discharge. “The newborns are not separated from their Covid-positive mothers after delivery. Mothers are allowed to breastfeed, as that helps boost babies’ immunity. The hospital administers the BCG vaccine, also an immunity booster, to every baby. Barring complicated cases, the babies are discharged along with their mothers,” she said. Chtani said that so far 21 Covid-19 patients have successfully delivered babies here. “Of the 21 deliveries, 15 were performed through C-section and six were normal deliveries. A few babies have tested positive about five to six days after delivery. But we have observed that it was more due to the handling of those babies by multiple relatives than any particular setting of the mother. However, these babies too have recovered. Finally, all babies born here have been Covid-19 negative at birth and at discharge,” Chutani said. At Fortis hospital in Noida, only one Covid-19 positive pregnant patient has been admitted so far and she gave birth to a coronavirus negative baby. Dr Monika Wadhawan, senior consultant (obstetrician and gynaecology) at Fortis, said that the patient had tested positive for Covid-19 the same day her delivery was planned. “She was in active labour and we performed the delivery normally in our dedicated Covid-19 building. All staff members, including the gynaecologists and paediatricians, were in Level-3 PPE kits. The baby tested negative and is absolutely fine,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-over-60-covid-19-patients-deliver-healthy-babies-since-outbreak/story-PGMT5vJoc6TAlpuhQvO0RJ.html
31-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad admin can reserve up to 50% beds in private Covid hospitals, says state govt||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh government, in an order issued on Saturday, mandated that in case of shortage of L2 and L3 beds, the Ghaziabad administration can reserve up to 50% of the number of beds in private Covid-19 hospitals in the city for treatment at rates prescribed under Ayushman Bharat Scheme. State officials stated that the decision was taken as several government hospitals across districts in the state are facing a shortage of beds while beds in private facilities are lying vacant. Covid hospitals in UP were divided into three categories – L1, L2 and L3 – as part of the state government’s three-tier structure coronavirus. While L1 hospitals are meant for asymptomatic patients, L2 hospitals treat patients having moderate symptoms and L3 category hospitals are for Covid patients with severe symptoms.Confirming the order, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said he will hold a meeting with private hospitals to apprise them of the development.“The state government order means that the district will now have more L2 and L3 category beds available for patients. The rates will be charged as per the prescribed rates under the Ayushman Bharat Yojna and will be paid to the hospitals by the government. Patients who get referred to these reserved beds from government facilities will not be charged,” said Pandey. In Ghaziabad, there are 598 beds across 10 private hospitals that offer paid Covid-19 treatment on the basis of rates fixed by the state government on July 10. The government had capped the prices for Covid-19 beds between ₹8,000 to ₹15,000 per day. Under the Ayushman scheme, the cost of a general-ward bed is ₹1,800 per day, that for a high dependency unit is ₹2,700 per day. The cost of beds without ventilators has been fixed at ₹3,600 per day while those with ventilators are fixed at ₹4,500 per day. Till August 29, a total of 2,463 patients were admitted in paid private hospitals in Uttar Pradesh. At present, the district has 376 L2 category beds and another 200 L3 category beds available in government or government-acquired facilities. Of the 598 beds available in private Covid hospitals, 278 were occupied by paying Covid patients till August 29.“Till now, we have reserved only 19 ICU beds, out of the 598. As per the new order we can now reserve up to 50% in case we face shortage of L2 or L3 beds in our facilities. This will help our patients who are in government facilities. The patients referred from our hospitals will get treatment free of cost and the government rates will be paid from government funds,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.“Since a majority of asymptomatic patients are now in home isolation, our L1 hospitals have almost shut down with only one being operational at present. The 50% reservation of beds in private hospitals would mean that we have about 300 more L2 or L3 beds available for our patients in case of need,” Dr Gupta, added. Dr Ashok Rai, president of the Indian Medical Association (Uttar Pradesh) said that they have not received the order as of now and will be able to comment once it is received. Meanwhile, private hospitals raised concerns about operational costs and availability of beds to handover to the admin.“It is not the case that beds remain vacant in private hospitals. The administration has already reserved some beds in the ICU ward and we have treated patients free of cost. If the administration asks for more beds we will allow in present circumstances due to pandemic. We have about 70-80% occupancy,” said Dr Mahesh Chaudhary, director (operations), Navin Hospital at Vaishali. “We have a limited number of ICU beds and if we part with 50% of them, how will we take out our operational cost. We have limited infrastructure and staff. There are issues in getting staff also. We are already working on rates given to us for paid Covid treatment. If they want more beds they must allow some concessions. Otherwise, giving away beds will not be feasible. Out of 100, we have 30 beds operational and the present occupancy is about 50% at present,” said Dr Manoj Singh, director of Flores Hospital at Pratap Vihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-admin-can-reserve-up-to-50-beds-in-private-covid-hospitals-says-state-govt/story-PSscdQS3HpkWyScgXEhN1N.html
31-08-2020||City||Greater Noida: 11 foreign nationals arrested for organising party||Greater Noida: Police on early Sunday arrested 11 foreign nationals, including four women, for organising an in-house party allegedly in violation of Covid-19 norms. According to the police, a group of African nationals gathered at a house in Greater Noida on Saturday night and started drinking and making noise which is also a violation of Section 144 CrPC enforced in the district. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that local people informed the police that around 40 to 50 foreigners were having a late night party in a single storey house in UPSIDC Colony. “When a police team from Surajpur reached the spot, some of the suspects started to escape by jumping the boundary wall. The police managed to arrest seven men and four women,” he said. The police have also seized seven cars and about 300 liquor bottles from the spot. The suspects are from Nigeria, Cameroon, Zambia and Uganda, the police said. Some of these suspects are students and others are involved in business, the police said, adding that they are residents of different residential societies in Greater Noida, and had gathered at the house to join the party. Chander said that the suspects were flouting weekend lockdown norms by organising the party. The police also got medical examination of the suspects conducted and the reports are awaited. A case has been registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 60 of the Excise Act.“The arrested persons were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-11-foreign-nationals-arrested-for-organising-party/story-dPYv0aIcKmDpTxw9T1mnrJ.html
31-08-2020||City||Dhanauri wetlands robbery: Three nabbed, camera recovered; police post to come up in area||Greater Noida: A week after two wildlife photographers were robbed of their professional camera in Dhanauri wetlands, the Greater Noida police, on Sunday, arrested three suspects and recovered the camera, along with the lens, from their possession. Police said the suspects – Deepak Pawar, Pramod Kumar, and Dipendra alias Deepanshu – are intermediate-level students and residents of Bulandshahr. They were returning from a friend’s birthday party when they allegedly robbed the photographers at gunpoint. Dinesh, a fourth accomplice, is absconding, officers said.Greater Noida police have decided to set up a police check post in Dhanauri wetlands and patrol the area to improve safety and securityOn August 22, photographer Narinder Kohli and his uncle Shyam Bhagra had gone to Dhanauri wetlands in their Maruti Ciaz. Bhagra was in the driver’s seat while Kohli was sitting next to him. They were shooting photos and videos from their parked car for a documentary on Sarus cranes when three masked men had approached them on a black TVS Apache motorcycle around 3pm. Two of them got down from the motorcycle and struck up a conversation with Bhagra. Kohli said the suspects asked them about the camera, which is worth Rs 5 lakh, and photography and soon pulled out a gunpoint. “They first tried to snatch Bhagra’s camera but failed since it weighed 8-10 kg. The suspects then grabbed my camera and fled on the motorcycle,” he said.Kohli, 42, is a resident of Paras Tierea Society in Sector 137, and his uncle Bhagra, 52, is a resident of Eldeco Utopia in Sector 93A. The complainant in the case, filed at the Dankaur police station, is Kohli.According to Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner Greater Noida, “Kohli told the police the motorcycle’s headlight bore a sticker bearing the name of a community. This was a significant clue which we started following,” he said.The police formed three teams and launched a search in the area. “We scanned CCTV footage from several cameras in nearby areas and also questioned some suspects. We also scanned around 100 motorcycles registered in Gautam Budh Nagar and Bulandshahr in the process. A team was also scanning social media in the meantime, wherein a motorcycle bearing that particular type of sticker was spotted,” he said.Officers further investigated the matter and found that the motorcycle was registered in the name of Surendra Kumar Pawar, a resident of Chiyasi Bada village in Bulandshahr. Upon questioning Surendra, officers found that it is his son Deepak who uses the motorcycle. The police then picked up Deepak, who allegedly admitted to the crime with two accomplices Pramod and Dipendra, from whom the camera’s lens was recovered. The police arrested the three and recovered the stolen camera, the lens, the motorcycle, a country made gun and one live cartridge.The ADCP said a case had been registered under IPC Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) on a police complaint filed by Kohli. “They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Dinesh, a local accomplice, who was allegedly involved in plotting, is absconding. Dinesh had allegedly given them the idea that Dhanauri attracts photographers and they can be easily robbed,” he said.The ADCP said that the police have written a letter to the Yamuna Authority for them to develop a police check post in the Dhanauri wetlands to improve safety and security.Kohli said he is very satisfied by the prompt action by the Greater Noida police. “The police had swiftly registered my case and launched a search. They kept me updated daily about the investigation. On Sunday, I again visited Dhanauri and a police team accompanied me. The police check post will immensely improve safety of birders in Dhanauri. I and a group of birders have decided to felicitate the Greater Noida police team next Saturday which solved our case,” he said.Yamuna Authority chief executive officer Arunvir Singh’s phone was unavailable, while officer on special duty Shailendra Bhatia did not receive the call for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dhanauri-wetlands-robbery-three-nabbed-camera-recovered-police-post-to-come-up-in-area/story-nOxpsxIMi9hqAIDCwbBz1J.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi prisons most packed in country, shows data||Delhi’s prisons are the most crowded and violent in the country, according to data for the financial year 2019-20 released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), which also shows the authorities here spent more on food, clothing and medical care of inmates than any other jail in India.According to the NCRB data, Delhi was on top of the chart with the highest prisoner occupancy in the country at 174.9% -- housing 7,508 more prisoners than its given capacity of 10,026. The total number of prisoners in Delhi’s jails on December 31, 2019 was 17,534.The data shows while Rajasthan has seven prisons for women, highest in the country, Delhi, with just two, has the highest number of women inmates at 629. The occupancy rate of Delhi’s women prisons was 97.07% as on December 31, 2019, the report says.Fifty-seven clashes between inmates were reported in Delhi jails last year in 2019, making it the country’s most violent prison. 92 prisoners were injured in these incidents, the highest in the country, the NCRB data shows.Sandeep Goel, director-general, Delhi prisons, said the number of clashes was high because each and every incident is reported. “One reason is also that the jails are overcrowded. Recently, we had taken measures to decongest our jails. While 1,150 convicts were released temporarily to decongest jails in the wake of the pandemic, 2,900 undertrials were released on interim bail. A police housing complex with a capacity of 2,000 inmates was also converted into a temporary jail near Mandoli,” he said.Sunil Gupta, who was the prison’s only law officer for 35 years until his retirement in 2016, said the reason behind fights among the prisoners is that criminals in Delhi are divided into separate gangs and groups. “At the time of their admission and jail allotment, it should be seen that an inmate is not put in the same jail where the members of his rival gangs are housed,” he said.There are 14 central jails in Delhi and two for women.According to the data, of the total expenditure incurred on inmates, Delhi prisons spent the highest on food and medical care -- Rs 18,620 was spent per prisoner on food and Rs 9,684 on medical care of each prisoner in the financial year 2019-20, the data shows.It shows Delhi prisons spent an average of Rs 5.70 on education and vocational training of each of its prisoners in the financial year 2019-2020 and Rs 62.73 on their clothing the whole year.Delhi prisons stood second when it came to the total expenditure of Rs 310.02 crore incurred on its inmates in the financial year 2019-2020. Uttar Pradesh was on top with a total expenditure of Rs 349.55 crore and Haryana was in third place with Rs 272.62 crore.The data shows Delhi prison’s expenditure break-up was Rs 32.65 crore spent on food, Rs 11 lakh spent on prisoner’s clothing, 1 lakh on their education and Rs 16.98 crore on their health care.Director general Goel said the expenses on education was low because the expenses of those inmates who express interest in studying further are taken care of by the National Institute of Open Schooling and Indira Gandhi National Open University. “They bear all the expenses related to education,” he said.Goel said they have computers in every jail. “NGOs visit our jails and help inmates learn. In Jail number 5, for inmates in the age group of 18-21 years, we have a school to engage them in activities that focus in transforming them,” Goel said.Goel said medical expenses are high as they have an advanced medical facility available in jail for every prisoner. “We have in every jail a dispensary with doctors round the clock. We have two hospitals in the Tihar complex and one in Mandoli. Apart from this, we have a pathology lab for basic diagnosis. If required, patients are referred to other hospitals,” Goel said.Gupta said more than 80% of jails’ population comes from the lower economic strata, whose monthly income is less than Rs 8,000. “About 40% of them are illiterate. Because IGNOU and NIOS take care of major expenses, the jail administration only teaches the illiterate prisoners who express interest in learning. Therefore the expenses incurred are minimal like those on basic stationery,” he said.Another reason why the medical expenses are high was that most of the inmates from the lower economic backgrounds suffer from ailments such as tuberculosis, cancer and even AIDS, Gupta said .“Delhi prisons has more than 100 doctors and para-medical staff. Their salaries and allowances form a major part of expenditure,” Gupta said.Apart from these expenses, a sum of Rs 17 lakh was spent on welfare activities and Rs 260.12 crore on other services. These other expenses may include money spent on sanitation, hygiene, on transport facilities for the movement of prisoners during remand, trials, transfers and to hospital etc., the data says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-prisons-are-most-crowded-spend-more-on-food-clothing-ncrb-data/story-PqLYipaF0BWk7kRz4QsBIL.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Back in action, Metro Police ask for reinforcements||For the first time in its history, the Delhi Metro police have asked the headquarters for additional forces to enforce Covid-19 rules with the Centre allowing Metro train operations in a graded manner from September 7.While the Central Industrial Security Force ensures security from the checking point onwards, the Delhi Police is responsible for security from the entrance to the checking point. So, the Metro Police can also impose fines in their jurisdiction.Further, the Delhi Police is also responsible for investigating crimes that take place inside the Metro station premises or trains.“We have written to the police headquarters to request eight companies of police,” said Jitendra Mani Tripathi, deputy commissioner of police (Metro).Tripathi said additional forces were necessitated after repeated meetings with other Metro stakeholders — the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the police forces of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.“It was decided that only about 200 metro station gates will be opened, out of around 900. We will have to deploy two to four police personnel at each of these stations to control the crowd,” said the officer.An increased number of police personnel will also be deployed at 30 busy stations and interchanges, apart from the 23 Metro police booths, which are expected to receive a large number of complaints against passengers not wearing masks or flouting social distancing norms.“We have also written to the district police to help with deployment outside Metro stations if the situation turns unruly,” said Tripathi.From March 22 till mid-August, the Metro police have registered just 1,200 cases compared to about 3,000 in the corresponding period last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-five-months-with-little-to-guard-metro-police-looks-for-reinforcements/story-jcTEV45Gw2JIYQOw0ZQaWO.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Metro stations in red zones not likely to open on Day 1||Metro stations in containment zones and a few other places may not immediately open when the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) restarts train operations from September 7, according to Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued by the Union home ministry, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday. The minister said tokens might not be issued initially, and only those with smart cards could be allowed. He also said that to manage footfall and enforce social distancing and other measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Delhi government will deploy home guards outside the stations. “We have discussed the opening of Delhi Metro and based on that, it has been decided that no tokens will be issued in Delhi Metro from September 7 until further orders. Also, not all Metro stations will open at once. Those in containment zones and a few others will not be opened immediately from the first day. The DMRC is currently preparing a list of stations, which will be opened based on footfall and other parameters. A list of stations where travel services are being restored will be made public soon,” Gahlot said.After five months with little to guard, Metro Police looks for reinforcementsWhile DMRC and CISF have prepared draft standard operating procedures, a final list of protocols for Metro travel will be issued by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (Mohua). Soon after the Centre announced that Metro operations will be allowed in a graded manner under Unlock 4.0, the ministry said a meeting of all metro rail bodies in the country will be held on September 1. WATCH: ‘Will live up to the challenge’: Delhi transport minister on metro resumption“All MDs have been asked to look into SOPs prepared by Mohua earlier in view of the current realities. All suggestions will be considered in the meeting and accordingly, SOPs will be finalised,” Mohua spokesperson Rajiv Jain said on Saturday.Gahlot said based on the SOPs issued by the ministry, the Delhi government will issue a formal order after careful consultations with Metro officials and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).He explained that other than containment zones, “only a few other metro stations will not operate”. “In our discussions with DMRC, it was found that ensuring social distancing and managing crowd will need a lot of manpower, which is not possible if each and every station is opened at once,” he said. As Metro reopens in a week, rickshaw-pullers feel their lives will get back on trackWhen asked about the deliberations with the Delhi government, the DMRC did not offer a comment.There are 264 Metro stations in Delhi and as on Sunday, there were 820 containment zones. The relaxations being announced by the Centre under unlock guidelines to gradually ease restrictions do not apply in containment zones. “Inside the Metro stations, CISF and Metro security staff will ensure social distancing and face masks. Outside the stations, the Delhi government will deploy civil defence volunteers. Anyone found without a mask will be fined. Inside the Metro, a distance of 1 metre will have to be maintained between people and seats will be marked accordingly,” the minister said.DMRC officials said the focus of the SOPs will be to effectively regulate crowd so as to ensure that only 50% of a station’s commuter footfall capacity is allowed at a given time.To be sure, before the Covid-19 lockdown, Rajiv Chowk Metro station witnessed a daily footfall of nearly 5 lakh passengers, which means that at any given hour around 20,000 to 21,000 passengers were on the station premises. Now, to provide ample space for passengers to maintain social distancing, only 8,000 to 10,000 passengers will be allowed inside the station at any given hour. For enforcing the rule, DMRC will assign supervisors who will keep a tab on the footfall and help regulate entry. Anuj Dayal, executive director, DMRC, said, “In the coming days, we shall focus on the preparations for the eventual resumption of services. Aspects such as the implementation of hygiene-related protocols, sensitisation of staff and other functional requirements, etc., will be looked into as per the detailed SOPs that will be issued in consultation with the ministry. We shall try to provide the best possible services to our valued commuters.”A Metro official said regulation of crowd will be imperative, especially on the first 10 stations from the train’s point of origin. This is primarily because passengers usually do not alight immediately after boarding from a terminal, and it is only after the first 10 stations that the entry-exit balance is attained, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-metro-stations-may-not-open-says-delhi-minister-sops-yet-to-be-finalised/story-747aa7O4rO435fEI2XA2oK.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Daily ridership in Delhi’s buses down 59% since March||The daily ridership in state-run buses in the national Capital has declined by nearly 59% since March this year and the ticket earnings of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) have dropped by 73%, data shared by the city administration showed.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said there has been “a massive decline” in ridership in the government’s DTC and cluster buses despite there being a “huge demand” due to the Delhi Metro being shut for over five months.“Not just that, our transport utilities continue to face losses despite Delhi now having the biggest fleet of buses in 10 years. This is because of the existing cap of 20 passengers per bus as advised by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for maintaining social distance inside buses,” Gahlot said.Data showed that in March this year, DTC and cluster buses together carried over 3.2 million passengers every day, which went down to 1.3 million in August, largely due to the 20-passenger limit.Similarly, the earnings through tickets for the DTC dropped by almost Rs 167 crore during the months of March, April, May and June when compared to the same period in the year 2019. The loss was highest in May when DTC’s ticket revenue dropped to just Rs 1.91 crore from Rs 56.92 crore earned in the same month last year.The combined DTC and cluster bus fleet in Delhi currently stands at over 6,100 - the highest in nearly a decade. It was during the 2010 Commonwealth Games that Delhi had last operated around 6,000 buses.The transport minister, however, said the situation is likely to improve once the Delhi Metro opens from September 7 based on the Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the Central government on Saturday.“We hope the problem of crowding at bus stops will be resolved to some extent with the opening of the Delhi Metro. Tomorrow (Monday), there is a high-level meeting to discuss how the Unlock 4 guidelines will be enforced in Delhi. It is likely that all Metro stations will not be opened to manage the crowds and ensure proper social distancing and sanitisation,” Gahlot said.After being shut for 55 days since March due to the nation-wide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), DTC and cluster buses resumed services from May 19. But with the Delhi Metro still being shut, buses have been the lone mass transit option available for a city of nearly 20 million people. The consequence has been long waiting times at bus stops, where people are hardly able to keep the suggested six feet distance from one another. Gahlot said that a proposal to run DTC and cluster buses to full capacity was placed before the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on August 19, but it was rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daily-ridership-down-59-ticket-sales-73-in-delhi-s-buses-shows-govt-data/story-xL7a30Xe8YSIZ2iQPc3mPL.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Last-mile lifeline for rickshaws with Delhi Metro set to resume||Umesh Chand was on his way home on Saturday when, at about 9 pm, he got a call from a relative, informing him that Metro trains would restart soon. He immediately confirmed the news on his mobile phone. For the past few days, Chand, a rickshaw-puller, had been thinking of returning to his village as his income had dipped drastically. “I used to make Rs 600 every day; these days I am lucky if I make Rs 150. Getting passengers has been a struggle after the Metro closed. Now that the Metro is reopening, I will stay back in Delhi,” says Chand, sitting in his rickshaw at the Moolchand Metro Station, right next to a signboard that marks the area as a ‘halt-and-go’ parking space for cycle and auto-rickshaws. He was the only rickshaw-puller in the parking, which had been overtaken by cars belonging to customers of a popular paratha joint at the station, which is doing brisk business. “Before Metro stopped its services, this parking used to have more than 100 rickshaws, all parked in a queue, waiting for passengers, and they never had to wait for more than a few minutes. Rickshaw-pullers in Delhi cannot survive without the Metro,” says Chand, who is from Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and has been pulling a rickshaw in the city for almost 12 years. Also Read: Metro stations in red zones not likely to open on Day 1Talk to any rickshaw-puller in the city – there are about 600,000 of them, most of them seasonal migrants from UP and Bihar — and they will tell you how their lives came to a halt and their income fell by nearly 80% after the Metro suspended its services in March due to the coronavirus crisis. The rickshaw-pullers who earlier used to make anything between 500 and 700 per day, now barely made Rs 100-150, with the wait for passengers stretching for hours. Gone were the long queues of rickshaw-pullers at Metro stations, which ensured a steady flow of passengers throughout the day. The fate of the humble rickshaw in the Capital has been closely tied to the Delhi Metro ever since it came to the city. No wonder then, with the Metro announcing on Saturday that it would restart its operations from September 7, rickshaw-pullers feel their lives too would be back on track soon. Sujit Kumar,28, another rickshaw puller at the Moolchand Metro station, says the Metro ensured he never had to bother about where to find passengers. Every morning at 8, he would come to the station and for the next three hours, he would be busy taking commuters to and fro without a break. “ But today, I keep moving from Defence Colony to Andrews Ganj to the Amar Colony market in search of passengers, and consider myself lucky if I find one,” says Kumar. When the lockdown happened in March, Kumar, who is from a village in Bihar’s Katihar, pedalled to his home town, covering over 1,500km, in his rickshaw. He came back in the last week of July and rented a rickshaw. “ I had heard the news that the Metro was reopening, but unfortunately, it did not,” says Kumar, who returned by train, leaving his own rickshaw behind. In his village, many others who pulled rickshaws in Delhi stayed back, saying they would come back when the Metro starts. “Today, I called them to say the Metro is starting. But they were doubtful and said they would come only after it actually restarts. Metro ensures a steady income to us.” Also Read: Back in action, Metro Police ask for reinforcementsA 2012 study tilled ‘Urban Transportation Infrastructure and Poverty Reduction: Delhi Metro’s Impact on the Cycle Rickshaw Rental Market’ by Kurosaki Takashi, a professor at the Institute of Economic Research, Hitotsubashi University in Tokyo, Japan, said the Delhi Metro increased the demand for traditional transport services such as cycle rickshaws, resulting in the higher total number of rickshaw-pullers and higher income at lower working hours per day. More than 70% of rickshaw pullers — in a sample of 1320 — said they prefer to work near a Metro station because either there are more customers or each customer pays a higher amount for the ride. Mukesh Singh, a rickshaw-puller in Patel Nagar, testifies to it. “ When the Metro was running, most of my passengers were office-goers. Now only locals take my rickshaw to visit markets. I get Rs 15 for a ride that earlier got me Rs 30. And I have no option but to accept it,” Singh says. In fact, one can see only a few rickshaws at the Patel Nagar Metro Station, which used to witness fights over parking space between rickshaw-pullers and e- rickshaw drivers. “ While my income has gone down four times, I continue to pay the same rent, Rs 50 a day, for my rickshaw,” says Singh, adding that the Patel Nagar Metro station was like his ‘workplace’, where he would come by 9 am and leave by 12 midnight when the doors of the Metro closed. “Now I leave the house at 11 am and generally wait for passengers in the nearby markets and return home by 6 pm, my earning barely crossing Rs 150,” says Singh, who is from Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh. Introduced in Delhi in the 1940s, cycle rickshaws were seen as a major technological advancement over the hand-pulled rickshaws. Vighnesh Jha, founder of FORPA (Federation of Rickshaw pullers Association), an umbrella body of rickshaw-puller associations, says there were about 800,000 rickshaws in Delhi until 2012, but their numbers almost reduced by half over the past few years because of the growing popularity of e-rickshaws. Jha credits the Metro with driving the income of rickshaw-pullers by creating the need for last-mile connectivity in Delhi. “ When there was no Metro, hardly anyone talked about last-mile connectivity. Those who used DTC buses generally walked to their bus stand because unlike a Metro station, which could be 1 to 3km from their house, bus stands were always a couple of hundred metres,” says Jha. “Over the years, Metro stations became rickshaw hubs where rickshaw-pullers parked their rickshaws, important in a city that has no parking stands for cycle rickshaw and no minimum fares.” Rajendra Ravi, founder, Institute For Democracy And Sustainability, a Delhi-based non-government organisation, which fights for the cause of green transport, says rickshaws in Delhi are also a source of what he calls ‘invisible mobility’ during the hard lockdown. “When no transport was available, many families and senior citizens used rickshaw- pullers, who fetched grocery and medicines for them. Most rickshaw-pullers work in a particular area, and so many locals know them personally. Many people used them to distribute essentials to the needy,” says Ravi, adding that there has been a symbiotic relationship between the cycle rickshaw and the Metro. “ Cycle rickshaws helped the world-class transport such as Metro by being an important feeder service and the Metro helped them get passengers,” says Ravi, a social urban planner. Also Read: Will ensure people maintain social distance on Delhi Metro: Transport minister Kailash GahlotIn the last 15 years, he says, cycle rickshaws have figured in all urban transport policy and plans, all of which have recognised their role in employment generation and sustainable transport. The Delhi Master plan 2021 and the National Urban Transport Policy (NUTP 2006) emphasised the promotion of non-motorised modes (cycles and cycle rickshaws) of transportation in cities, acknowledging that the rickshaws provided employment to a large number of unskilled workers in the city. “The time has come to modernise cycle rickshaws and formally integrate them into our urban transport system,” says Ravi. Prof Avilash Roul, principal scientist at Indo-German Center for Sustainability, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, feels the pandemic has provided an opportunity for planned integration of rickshaws into public transport in Delhi. “ Like the bike-sharing system, cycle rickshaws should be integrated into the city’s public transport system. It is a good idea to introduce dial-a-cycle-rickshaw service, ” says Roul. “ I feel cycle rickshaws can also be part of a planned post- pandemic poverty alleviation and livelihood programme.” In the meanwhile, Radhey Shayam Verma, 29, a rickshaw-puller near the Mayur Vihar Metro station, calls up a few people who used to regularly take his rickshaw. “ Metro stations allowed me to make personal connections with many people in the area. But some of my regular customers have started using their own cars. They said they would use my services when the Metro restarts. Since it is starting now, I wanted to ask if they are coming,” says Verma, wearing a mask. Verma, who hails from Kanpur and has studied up to the 11th standard, keeps a small bottle of sanitiser in his pocket. “I have a small child at home and cannot afford to fall sick. These days, I do not allow more than one person in my rickshaw. One of my passengers told me that rickshaws, which are mostly open, are safer than closed auto and taxis. I hope commuters will understand this and use our services when the Metro starts next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-metro-reopens-in-a-week-rickshaw-pullers-feel-their-lives-will-get-back-on-track/story-B1yljeZRsaQ3ah0ZIjo5bM.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||School vs Covid-19: Voluntary class option divides parents, teachers||Principals, teachers and parents in Delhi have expressed mixed views over the central government’s ‘unlock 4’ guidelines that allow students of classes 9 to 12 to visit schools on a voluntary basis from September 21 to seek academic guidance. Many school authorities said the move, if implemented taking all precautions, will help students, specifically those who do not access to online education. But parents are still apprehensive about the safety of their children.Schools across the country have been physically shut since March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Classes are conducted online, and links to online study material are sent via WhatsApp, emails and SMS. The Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the union ministry of home affairs on Saturday said schools will continue to remain closed till September 30. At the same time, it stated, “Students of class 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the containment zones only, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers. This will be subject to written consent from their parents/guardians and will be permitted with effect from September 21, 2020, for which SoPs will be issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.”Govt schools step up efforts to bring kids back to classThe guidelines said the states and union territories may permit up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time after September 21.WATCH | Unlock 4: States’ lockdown power curbed; 1st step to school reopeningOfficials at government schools said students will benefit. Dr Devindar, principal of Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya (SBV) in Rouse Avenue, said, “It will be really helpful if teachers can hold sessions for students to clear doubts. It’ll be more significant for Board students since teachers have to brief them about the pattern of the exams. It is still unsafe to allow students of primary and upper primary classes to schools,” he said.Government teachers said students who were not being able to attend online classes due to the lack of devices or internet facilities would get better guidance if allowed to visit schools. Manish Bhatia, who teaches mathematics at a government school in Subhash Nagar, said, “For subjects such as mathematics, face-to-face teaching is vital in case of many students. I teach class 10 students and many of my students need extra attention since they do not have anyone at home who can help them in studies. It’s a welcome step to call students for guidance at schools with proper precautions. We are yet to hear anything from the Delhi government on this.”US coronavirus cases approach 6 million as Midwest, schools face outbreaksA senior official at the Delhi government’s education department said a decision may be taken on Monday. “A meeting will be held on Monday to discuss the unlock 4 guidelines. The guidelines regarding schools will be discussed at length with all stakeholders. We will have to analyse how many schools are in containment zones,” the official said.Authorities at private schools said majority of their students are already attending online classes. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “Our students are very well-connected with their teachers remotely. We are conducting online sessions regularly just to clear doubts. But if the government directs us, then we will allow students to visit schools with all precautions. It’s anyway voluntary.”Some private schools, however, raised concerns over the safety of students. Himachal schools told to submit report on Covid prevention arrangementsAmita Wattal, principal of Springdales Schools in Pusa Road, said, “The school can keep their premises open, safe and secure. But the decision of sending students to schools totally depends on their parents. The schools won’t ask anyone to come because we cannot take guarantee of the safety of students amid the pandemic.”Parents of both private and government school students expressed different opinions. Jai Prakash, a carpenter and father of a class 10 student at a government school in Vishwas Nagar, said, “I think it’s a good option for students if they want to go and clear some doubts. We had to arrange tuition for him since schools have been shut.”Aparajitha Gautam, president of Delhi Parents Association and mother of a class 12 student at a private school, said she won’t send her daughter to school amid the pandemic. Unlock 4: Some educational institutes allowed to open, states can call 50% of staff“She is attending online classes and accessing online material. The guidelines can be significant for the students of government schools where majority of the students do not have access to digital education. But the question is how well the government schools are prepared. Also, the government should make sure that the private schools should not interpret this option as a reopening of campuses and charge extra fees from the students,” she said.A few students HT spoke to had mixed feelings about the order. Darshan Ram, a class 12 student at Bluebells School International in Kailash Colony, said his parents will not be comfortable in sending him to the school amid a pandemic. “Visiting teachers and the school on a voluntary basis comes with its own risks too. I don’t think students themselves would want to take risks,” he said.Vaishnavi, a class 11 student at a government girls senior secondary school in Yamuna Vihar, however, said it will be helpful for her if she gets a chance to visit school even once a week. “It’s become very challenging to study some subjects like Mathematics and Physics with the help of online study material the school sends us on WhatsApp. I’ll definitely visit the school and get all my doubts clear if I get a chance,” she said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-4-principals-teachers-parents-divided-over-allowing-students-of-classes-9-to-12-to-visit-schools-for-guidance/story-ZpAsGnqUjdor7PUaHQRQnK.html
31-08-2020||Pune||Pandharpur police barricade roads leading to the temple||The local administration at Pandharpur has put up checkpoints at entry and exit points to the temple town while barricading the roads leading to Vitthal temple in view of Monday’s agitation by Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA). The Vanchit Bahijan Aghadi president Prakash Ambedkar has threatened to enter into famous temple along with other devotees. Several warkari organisations (pilgrims) have extended their support to VBA agitation that demands the opening of religious places across Maharashtra. According to Solapur superintendent of police Manoj Patil, notices have been issued to VBA workers. “We have served them notices under section 149 of CrPC. We have also barricaded streets leading to temple in order to prevent anyone visiting the religious place,” Patil said. The notices asked protestors not to break the law. To prevent anyone entering into the temple town, state transport bus service has been suspended in Pandharpur for a day. Since March 25, all the places of worship across the state have been closed for devotees in view of Covid pandemic. However, there is a growing chorus from various sectors for the opening of temples and other religious places. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday staged ghatna-nad (bell ringing) agitation across the state pressing the demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pandharpur-police-barricade-roads-leading-to-the-temple/story-noS9TY3pHJVolxtY90VZiN.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Legendary cardio specialist Dr Sivaramakrishna Iyer Padmavati dies of Covid-19 at 103||Pioneering cardiologist Dr Sivaramakrishna Iyer Padmavati, who had established the country’s first cardiac care unit at Delhi’s Govind Ballabh Pant hospital, died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) late Saturday night. She was 103. Born in Myanmar, she fled to India after the Japanese invasion during World War II and became the country’s first woman cardiologist. She was diagnosed with Covid-19 11 days ago and was admitted to the National Heart Institute (NHI), which she had founded in 1981. “Although on oxygen, she was fairly stable till Saturday morning when there was an acute drop in the oxygen saturation. She had to be put on a ventilator and passed away at night. Even though her body had given up on her – she was wheelchair bound for the last five years – she was mentally very sharp and put us to shame. She remembered who had inaugurated our centre and other information,” said Dr OP Yadav, chief cardiac surgeon and CEO of NHI. Popularly referred to as the ‘Godmother of cardiology’, she is known for her extensive research on rheumatic heart disease, a condition that permanently damages the heart valves when infections such as strep throat or scarlet fever are left untreated or undertreated. Those who have interacted with her talk of her mental acuity. “I met her four years ago, when our department completed 50 years of establishment. We decided to honour her. At the time, she said she just wants a boy – she meant a young cardiologist – who could help her out for a couple of hours each afternoon. When we asked, she said she needed to do more research work. At the time, she was just shy of a 100 years,” said Dr Vijay Trehan, professor of cardiology at GB Pant hospital, where she established India’s first speciality course in cardiology. Padmavati did her MBBS from Rangoon Medical College and trained at Sodersjukhuset hospital in Stockholm, John Hopkins and Harvard Medical School in USA. She was a fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of London and has received the India’s civilian awards Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/legendary-cardio-specialist-dr-sivaramakrishna-iyer-padmavati-dies-of-covid-at-103/story-XYGFBcz9oGq8Qj9j0o0xzL.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Bureau of Civil Aviation Security flags fake boarding pass risk||Soon, any boarding pass printed or downloaded more than once will have “duplicate” mentioned on it — a step aviation security authorities said was essential to avoid misuse of such passes. Bar code scanners used at the airports to check boarding passes will also be upgraded to be able to catch any modifications made in the travel document to prevent forgery, officials aware of the development, said.The measures have been taken by the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) in the wake of airlines and airport operators promoting self check-ins and use of e-boarding passes for passengers, after the Covid-19 lockdown, in order to ensure contactless travel.In one of its recent circulars, BCAS has warned airlines, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and airport operators about the possibilities of boarding pass forgery. The bureau has directed agencies concerned to come up with solutions and establish a “fail-proof passenger movement system”.In its circular, accessed by Hindustan Times, BCAS has said, “Passengers with ill intentions may falsify their bar coded boarding passes by changing the flight number or class of service. They may also print two copies of the bar coded boarding pass and pass one to a friend or even create a counterfeit bar coded boarding pass”.It further said that technical solutions shall be incorporated in the process by concerned aircraft operators.A senior CISF officer from the Delhi airport said barcode scanners currently used are basic ones. “Because of e-boarding passes the risk of forgery is higher now. BCAS has suggested upgrade of scanners to the ones that will also catch any modifications and will be able to identify if the print out or the e-copy of boarding pass has been doctored. It has also asked airlines to write ‘duplicate’ on any boarding pass that is printed more than once . This will help us identify people travelling on duplicate boarding passes and we can re-verify their credentials to make sure the traveller is genuine,” the officer said, wishing not to be named.While Air India said it will comply with all the protocols and norms specified by BCAS, IndiGo said all their boarding passes are in synchronization with the airline’s Reservation and Passenger Servicing System.“These boarding passes have International Air Transport Association recommended barcode. All such boarding passes are reconciled electronically against Passenger Servicing System. This process takes care of potential risk that it may cause due to forged barcode, forged boarding pass or due to multiple copies of boarding passes,” an airline spokesperson said.IndiGo, however, said it is in process of upgrading their system to print “duplicate” on the boarding passes.BCAS, in its circular, has also said that the airport operator shall work in coordination with aircraft operators and CISF/police so that a synchronized system is established for movement of passengers right from the entry gate to kiosks generating boarding passes to security checkpoints and to the boarding gate or ladder point.Delhi International Airport Ltd (Dial), that operates Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, did not respond to requests for a comment on the issue. Former CISF director general, Arvind Ranjan said as banks continuously keep improving their software for enhanced security, a similar system can be introduced. “So every time a passenger prints the boarding pass, the information is shared with agencies concerned. The airlines and airport operators will need to upgrade their system and engage experts to build devices that are fail proof,” Ranjan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bcas-wants-fail-proof-passenger-movement-system-at-igi/story-91DLArxE2aAzV7uJK8g4DK.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Strong winds provide respite from humidity||Hot and sweltry conditions of Saturday made way for gusty winds a day later, which helped pull the temperature down and keep the weather pleasant on Sunday.While light rainfall was observed in some parts of the city, gusty winds brought down the day temperature by at least three notches.On Sunday, the day (maximum) temperature was recorded at 31.4 degrees Celsius, which is three notches below the season’s average, the night (minimum) temperature settled at 26.7 degrees Celsius. A day earlier on Saturday, the day temperature had settled at 35 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. The night temperature was 24.8 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that on Saturday, the heat and a sense of discomfort was felt mainly because of high humidity levels and the bright sun due to the absence of a cloud cover. According to IMD officials, the winds were recorded at a speed of 30-40kmph, which were mainly responsible for bringing the mercury down. “The winds were mainly because of cyclonic circulation in northwest Madhya Pradesh and northeast Rajasthan. The winds are likely to blow on Monday as well, however, the speed will slow down to 20-25 kmph,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered the representative of Delhi’s weather, recorded only ‘traces’ of rainfall, Aya Nagar weather station received 1.6 mm rainfall, Lodhi Road also recorded traces, while Palam received 0.9 mm rain. Delhi Ridge did not record any rainfall at all. “The monsoon trough is southwards near South Rajasthan. Very light rain or drizzle is expected over the next two days. However, a good spell of rainfall is expected to hit Delhi between September 2 and 3 when the trough will be close to the northern region,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-strong-winds-provide-respite-from-humidity/story-XQSHkLRhSqoaEMnsRODISI.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Immunisation outreach to resume in September||To increase routine immunisation that had taken a hit due to Covid-19, the Delhi government has decided to restart the outreach campaigns and camps with the help of Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) and Anganwadi workers September onwards. The activities had been halted when the nationwide lockdown had been announced in March-end. As compared to July last year, only 70% of vaccines were administered under the routine immunisation programme last month. “Our data shows in July we saw 70% vaccination as compared to the same month last year. With the lockdown being eased and travel becoming easier, the number of vaccines administered had started picking up over the last couple of months,” , according to senior officials from the health department. “The immunisation programme had taken a severe hit in April right after the lockdown. In fact, as per the health ministry advisory we should not have immunised children anywhere in Delhi as the entire city had been categorised as red zone. But, we continued immunising those who came to the dispensaries outside of the containment zones. We had stopped actively motivating people to come to the centres to get vaccinated or holding camps in the Anganwadi centres,” the official said. Delhi women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Singh Gautam said that the each of the 10,000 Anganwadi centres in Delhi will start conducting one camp each month to ensure every child in the area gets vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-immunisation-outreach-to-resume-in-september-after-dipping-to-70-in-july/story-xBwP53T3gpoIdaRG5kgd1I.html
31-08-2020||Pune||City Covid-related death toll at 2,532||The progressive positive count of the city breached the one lakh mark on Sunday after the state health department reported 1,663 fresh cases. The total progressive positives stand at 1,00,236. The city is now only 44,390 cases short of reporting as many cases as in Mumbai, which had been one of the worst affected cities by the Covid-19 pandemic. Pune’s case fatality rate stands at 2.34% and while Mumbai seems to be stabilising in the number of cases being reported, Pune is staring at increasing numbers daily. Pune district has reported the maximum active cases in the country and is now also reporting the highest single-day deaths. In addition, Pune city is now on the radar of health experts as it has crossed the one lakh grim and despite several measures by the administration to curb the spread of the virus, which included declaring the entire city as a containment zone, the cases are increasing. The district health office reported that 76,686 people have recovered till date and there are 15,544 active cases in Pune Municipal Corporation of which 7,835 are in hospital isolation and 7,709 are in home isolation. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district said that if the existing conditions are followed religiously, then, it would be possible to control the spread of the virus, however, the careless attitude of citizens is leading to the rise in cases. He added, “It is true that people are not serious enough when it comes to Covid-19 now. The fear which was earlier there during the start of the pandemic does not exist now. We often see people roaming about without masks and violating social distancing norms. The district collector has now passed new orders which empowers the police to penalise such people.”Dr Bharat Purandare, infectious disease expert from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, said, “This is the natural curve of the virus in any pandemic. We are following the same trend that Mumbai or Delhi followed earlier which Pune is now following. The other metro cities will follow the lead. Only the vaccine can help us come out of the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-breaches-one-lakh-covid-19-case-mark/story-5B52UphymEdTJBXZg6NgKL.html
31-08-2020||Pune||Software engineer allegedly robbed at gunpoint in Pimple Saudagar||A software engineer was allegedly robbed at gunpoint late on Saturday night in Pimple Saudagar, Pimpri-Chinchwad.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Jasvant Kumar Agarwal (42), a resident of Pimple Saudagar area.The victim was walking near the end of the bridge that connects Govind Garden Chowk to PK Chowk at 11:50pm after dinner, according to his complaint. The two men pointed a gun in his direction, according to Agarwal’s complaint. One of them pulled forward and snatched the 15 gram gold chain that he was wearing and fled the spot. The chain is estimated to be worth around Rs 50,000, according to police.A case under Sections 392 (punishment for robbery), 34 (common intention), and 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) of Indian Penal Code and Section 3(25) of Arms Act was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/software-engineer-allegedly-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-pimple-saudagar/story-VTL6qRojvIaDkoohE1H2rN.html
31-08-2020||Pune||Four booked for luring, robbing man using gay dating app||A 34-year-old man was robbed of Rs81,000 by a man he met on a gay dating app, and three other men. The four people have been booked and the police are on the lookout for them.The incident happened in the morning hours of August 9 in a flat in DSK Vishwa in Chavan Bagh area near Nanded phata, according to the complainant.However, the complainant is a married man whose family is not aware of his sexual orientation, according to his complaint. His attackers had allegedly shot a video of him in compromising positions and had threatened to spread it online, according to his complaint.“He is a working professional in a private company. He has been married for the past 10 years. He informed us about it on August 9, but he was hesitant of filing a complaint. His friend convinced him that he needs to lodge a formal complaint and gave him moral support. To prevent the same thing from happening in the future with someone else, he decided to lodge a complaint,” said assistant police inspector UV Umre of Sinhgad road who is investigating the case.On the morning of August 9, he got a message from a boy named Ravi from an online dating platform for homosexual men, according to his complaint. The boy asked him to meet and took the complainant to a flat in DSK Vishwa.When they were in a compromising position, three others barged into the room and started hitting him with wooden rods, according to his complaint. The men then took cash, silver bracelet and rings, and made him transfer money from a payment app to one of their accounts.The four men then threw him out of the house.A case under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sinhgad road police station on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-booked-for-luring-robbing-man-using-gay-dating-app/story-JJZ09wxUuUqHMjhoz9RjzI.html
31-08-2020||Pune||10 per cent of BDP zone’s hill land encroached upon, says Pune civic body||It has been two years since the state government had decided to preserve the biodiversity park (BDP) zone or hills in Pune. However, as Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) failed to acquire any land, there is rampant illegal construction underway in the zone.To prevent construction activity on hills falling under the BDP zone in 23 merged villages adjoining the municipal limits, the state government on August 18, 2018, decided to protect them by giving eight per cent transfer of development rights (TDR) as compensation to landowners for acquiring 773 hectares of land falling under the biodiversity park area.TDR allows the original owner of the land to use the rights at another designated location.As per the civic estimates, at least 10 per cent of the total land has been illegally encroached through unauthorised constructions, said PMC corporator Sachin Dodke, who represents Warje area.“There is around 10 per cent encroachment on hills. If the civic body offers better compensation to landowners, it can acquire the land and in turn, save hills. Currently, as per the norms, the compensation is offered for only eight per cent of total land,” said Dodke.Another senior officer from PMC requesting anonymity accepted that huge encroachment is going on the lands reserved for BDP. “Slums are coming up on the hills while some owners divided plots into 1,000 square feet and sold out illegally,” he said.When asked, city engineer Prashant Waghmare said, the PMC will act against illegal construction on BDP zone.Unauthorised construction is not the only issue. Officials and elected representatives alleged that BDP has created many issues in the city as PMC’s development works have been affected. Many roads passing through BDP areas have been affected as the owners are not ready to hand over their land as per the compensation decided by the government.The proposed multi-storey flyover project located at Chandani chowk has become the latest victim as the land required for the project also falls in BDP and therefore the process had delayed.According to Waghmare, the civic body has submitted a proposal to state government for getting the government land though there has been no progress over it.“We have submitted a proposal to various government departments including forest and revenue to first handover land in their possession. There has been no progress in the land acquisition process which is owned by private owners,” said Waghmare.Vikas Dangat, NCP leader and former councillor in PMC, said, “I own 20 acres of land which is falling in the BDP. As my area is big, I did not sell it and I would not hand it over to the PMC as the compensation is very less. No other landowner would give their land to the civic body. Instead of that they would sell the small plots and allow encroachment on their land.”The concept of the biodiversity park is unique to India and was introduced in the Pune city under which PMC had made the reservation on the hills in surrounding areas and not allowed construction on it. Most of the lands on the hills are owned by private people and they are demanding the civic body to allow construction on it.“It is a wrong policy to not allowing the construction on hills. Either the government should give handsome compensation or if the present policy continues Pune will one day have big slums everywhere like Dharavi,” said former mayor Datta Dhankawade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-per-cent-of-bdp-zone-s-hill-land-encroached-upon-pmc/story-h1PfvdWySViaPLEBsPro7J.html
31-08-2020||Pune||Ganeshotsav 2020 less noisy than last year: MPCB||The city has seen a less noisy Ganeshotsav this year as compared to 2019 because of the Covid lockdown restrictions. The Maharastra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) officials have, however, recorded high ambient noise levels at some areas this year also. MPCB, every year, records noise levels of city areas during the 10-day Ganpati celebrations. “The noise levels at some areas this year were still high despite the lockdown restrictions even as DJ music or dhol-tasha celebrations were absent during the immersion processions,” said Pratap Jagtap, sub-regional officer, MPCB. According to an MPCB officer, the readings at some areas were high this year as ambient noise also includes traffic density. “We have been measuring noise decibels at 18 spots across the city and the average reading is between minimum 50 dB (A) above ambient noise and maximum 79.7 dB (A),” he said. MPCB recorded noise levels on August 22 , August 23 , August 26 and August 28. The next recording will be on the last day of immersions (September 1). The reading are taken between 6pm and 12 midnight. The Maharashtra police have issued guidelines that noise levels at a public place shall not “exceed 10 decibels dB(A) above the ambient noise standard for the area or 75dB(A) whichever is lower.” As per the noise pollution rules, the permissible levels in silence zones, during the day is 50dB, while in residential areas it is 55dB. For high traffic areas and industrial areas, the levels can go as high as 65dB. According to the MPCB findings, the maximum noise level was recorded in Yerawada (bear Gunjan theatre) with ambient sound average recorded at 79.7 dB(A) while the lowest noise level was recorded in Kothrud at 55.9 dB(A). “The officials take reading every ten minutes and an average is derived after compiling it,” said Jagtap. Mangesh Dighe, environment officer, PMC said, “Although the festival was celebrated with simplicity, one cannot remove the ambient noise of traffic while recording noise levels. One can say that noise pollution was less this year with no loud noise of DJ music and high-powered speaker walls due to the Covid-19 situation.” The 18 designated spots that MPCB monitors are Shivajinagar near Sakhar Sankul (75.7 dB); Karve road, Nal Stop (76.2 dB); Swargate, Tilak road (76.1 dB); Satara road, Balajinagar (73.3 dB); Shaniwar peth, near Shaniwarwada (73.2 dB); Shagun chowk on Laxmi road (74.1 dB); Mahatma Phule mandai (69.2 dB); Vegetable mandai in Hadapsar (73.1 dB); Parvati (68.0 dB); Koregaon Park (62.7 dB); Khadki bazar (73.8 dB); MG Road at Babajan chowk (65.8 dB); SPPU road chowk (69 dB); Aundh Parihar chowk (57.3 dB); Vishrantwadi (69.4 dB) and Sarasbaug near Mitra Mandal chowk (68.6 dB). In 2019, the MPCB readings at Mandai near Shanipar area was 88 dB, Laxmi road (92 dB); Karve road (96.6 dB), Kothrud (92.8 dB). The lowest noise level was recorded at Shivajinagar at 73.4 dB. According to MPCB, in 2016, the highest noise level of 109.3 dB(A) was recorded at Mahatma Phule mandai on September 5. The noise levels were high because idols were taken to mandaps and traffic congestion. The September 15 (last day of immersion) readings at Shivajinagar area was 86.0 dB(A), Karve road 94.5 dB(A), Swargate 90.0 dB(A), Satara road 90.8 dB(A), Shaniwar peth 91.9 dB(A), Yerawada 87.1 dB(A), Laxmi road 98.6 dB(A), Kothrud 94.1 dB(A) and Mahatma Phule mandai 109.3 dB(A). In 2017, out of the twenty locations monitored in Pune region, the highest noise level was observed at Koregaon Park with 90.9 dB(A). The increase in noise level was due to traffic and crowd. Shivajinagar recorded 79.1 dB(A), and Karve road 84.7 dB(A), Swargate 76.6 dB(A), Satara road 77.1 dB(A), Shaniwar peth 80.5 dB(A), Yerawada 81.1 dB(A), Laxmi road 82.9 dB(A) and Mahatma Phule mandai 85.8 dB(A). Eighteen locations were monitored during the Ganesh festival 2018. On September 13, Shivajinagar recorded highest level of noise with 91.1 dB(A). On September 14, Mahatma Phule mandai had the highest level of noise with 83.6 dB(A). On September 17, Vishrantwadi with 89 dB(A) had the highest noise level. On September 19 and September 23, Kothrud (near Shivaji putala) had the highest noise level with 89 dB(A) and 95.9 dB(A) respectively. BOX Bappa beats make less sound this year [in dB(A)] 2020/2019/2018 Shivajinagar (Sakhar Sankul)/75.7/73.4/91.1 Mahatma Phule mandai (near mandai)/69.2/88/83.6 Kothrud (near Shivaji putala)/55.9/92.8/95.9 2020 readings Karve road (Nal stop)/76.2/ Laxmi road (Shagun chowk)/74.1 Hadapsar (vegetable market)/73.1 Karve road (Nal stop)/76.2 Parvati/68.0 Swargate (Tilak road)/76.1 Koregaon Park/62.7 Satara road (Balajinagar)/73.3 Khadki ( near bazar)/73.8 Shanivar peth (Shanivarwada)/73.2 MG road (Babajan chowk)/65.8 Yerawada (near Gunjan theatre)/79.7 SPPU road chowk/69.0 Laxmi road (Shagun chowk)/74.1 Aundh Parihar chowk/57.3 Kothrud (near Shivaji putala)/55.9 Vishrantwadi/69.4 Saras Baug (Mitra mandal chowk)/68.6||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ganeshotsav-2020-less-noisy-than-last-year-mpcb/story-f0AmA19bjvdCo7Tj2q3y2L.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Govt schools step up efforts to bring kids back to class||Armed with a microphone and a loudspeaker, Ajay Arya, a Delhi government school teacher has been visiting colonies and slum clusters in parts of north east Delhi since last week, looking for students who are not in touch with their schools ever since the physical classes suspended in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In seven days, Arya, a 47-year-old physical education teacher at Rajkiya Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Kiran Vihar, traced around 100 such students who do not have smartphones or Internet facility at home and could not be reached out by any means.“Are there any students enrolled in government schools who neither attend online classes nor collect assignment sheets from schools that live here? I have a list of students who are not reachable on phone. Please help me locate them,” announces Arya on the microphone. After locating the address of a student, he counsels him/her and his/her parents about ongoing virtual learning in schools.Schools across Delhi have resorted to conducting online classes, sending links to study material via WhatsApp and emails and SMS after the Covid-19 pandemic, and an ensuing lockdown, forced them to physically shut down.The links are sent by the schools to the mobile phones of the parents of the students.Due to the existing digital divide, government and civic bodies run schools have also started giving hard copies of assignment sheets to students, who do not have digital devices.However, despite all efforts, many schools said that some students could not be reached out via phone calls, SMS and WhatsApp messages.From making door-to-door visits to find such students, to sending letters and assignments to their postal addresses, government schools in the national capital are making extra efforts to reach out to such students . For instance, Harpreet Kaur, principal of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya (SKV) in Tilak Nagar said that her school had formed area-wise teams of support staff and School Management Committee (SMC) members to search for students missing online classes.“Within a week of starting the drive (started last week) we managed to trace 50% of the 112 students who were completely out of contact. Our teachers took extra efforts and joined WhatApp groups of the feeder MCD schools of Class 6 students to connect with them,” she said.AK Jha, head of school at Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said his school has sent out letters to the postal address of students, who remained incommunicado. “We have managed to get in contact with 94% of our students ever since the online learning resumed after the summer break in July. We made several efforts such as sending staff members to their postal addresses and also sent letters to their permanent addresses in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan as well. Despite all efforts, around 100 class 6 students are still out of contact,” he said.According to the principals, a majority of students who cannot be reached out are those who have shifted from MCD schools to Delhi government schools in class 6. “Either their phone numbers were not working or had changed. Around 30% of such students are yet to be traced ” said principal of government senior secondary school in Patel Nagar.Every year, around 1,00,000 students move from civic bodies run schools to Delhi government schools in class 6. MCD schools in Delhi offer education till class 5. Due to the prevailing pandemic this year, the induction of such students (around one lakh) happened online on the basis of names sent by municipal schools. The students and their parents could not visit the schools personally for the admission process unlike previous years.A senior official in Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia’s office, who wished not to be named, said, “Our teachers are making extra efforts to trace students. Overall 20-30% Class 6 students who have been shifted from MCD schools are still out of contact. Overall hardly 5-10% students will be there who are still not in touch.”Among those students who could not get in touch with their schools were the twins of a daily wage labourer Sukhdev Singh from north east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar. Singh said that he had lost his phone in February and could not afford to buy a new one after that. “I have been out of work since March and that’s why I could not buy a phone. We had left for our village in Bihar when the lockdown was announced in March. We returned earlier this month. I only got to know that my sons were transferred to Delhi government school after completing Class 5 from an MCD school after some teachers of their new school visited our home last week. We have now collected their books from the school,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/door-to-door-visits-public-announcements-delhi-govt-schools-making-extra-efforts-to-reach-out-to-students/story-yZ2U3fD2fUMhGtYQ5xWYfJ.html
31-08-2020||Delhi||Weekly markets trial to be on in Delhi till September 6||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday extended the functioning of weekly markets on a trial basis till September 6 in the national capital, officials in the Delhi government said.In an order issued on August 30, acting chief secretary Satya Gopal said that after reviewing the current coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, it was decided that one weekly market per day, per zone will be allowed to function in the city on a trial basis further for a week from August 31 to September 6. Weekly markets. which were closed since March 23, have been permitted to function from 4 pm to 10 pm. Not more than two buyers are allowed to deal at any stall at one time. On August 21, DDMA had allowed such markets to open on a trial basis. One market, per day per municipal zone was started for one week from August 24-30. The authorities directed officials concerned to ensure strict implementation of anti-Covid-19 measures, including social distancing and mandatory use of face mask at these markets.Larger gatherings will continue to be prohibited and authorities concerned have appointed a ‘Weekly Market Officer’ to ensure strict compliance of the standard operating procedures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weekly-markets-extended-in-delhi-till-september-6/story-LSGBVJMamyYU8dlQGdgcBP.html
31-08-2020||Pune||Nine arrested in Satara for kidnapping 23-year-old from Pune||Nine men have been arrested by the Pune police for kidnapping a 23-year-old woman. The woman was rescued within hours on Saturday night.The nine people have been identified as Dattatray Ramchandra Bhoite (34); Sandeep Kisan Jadhav (28); Akshay Krushna Dikshit (26); Rahul Balasaheb Barkade (27); Sagar Anil Kolekar (23); Mangesh Rajaram Khandjode (18); Shubham Navnath Barkade (20); Mangesh Ramesh Shinde (21) and Kiran Dilip Babar (23), all residents of Satara, according to the police.A complaint had been lodged by the woman’s 27-year-old colleague who was also kidnapped and later released, according to his complaint. The woman was standing with the colleague near ICC Tower located along Senapati Bapat road in Pune at 7:30pm on Saturday, when the men arrived in Maruti Suzuki Ertiga car with a registration number from Satara, according to the police.The men identified themselves as police officials and forced the two of them inside the car, according to the complaint. However, the men released the complainant near Katraj ghat and drove towards Satara.The complainant approached the police immediately and the police tracked and followed the car to Satara toll plaza. The car was stopped and the men were arrested in the early hours of Sunday at the toll plaza, according to the police. The girl was found and rescued from the car. “We swiftly deployed nakabandi and alerted the neighbouring units. One of the units intercepted the vehicle and that is why we could track them immediately,” said Pankaj Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-4, Pune. Two of the men who shoved them inside the car had identified themselves as police officials and have claimed to be home guards, according to the police.The police did not reveal the reason for the kidnapping.A case under Sections 170 personating a public servant), 363 (kidnapping), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Chatuhshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nine-arrested-in-satara-for-kidnapping-23-year-old-from-pune/story-1FGBBgmAW00fhTkhKdQ9VM.html
31-08-2020||Pune||Two injured as four vehicles ram into each other on Pune-Mumbai Expressway||Two people have been injured after four vehicles rammed into each other on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway on Sunday morning.While two of the four vehicles were private cars, one was a tempo and the other was a gypsy of the Indian Army. All the vehicles were headed towards Mumbai, according to the highway control room official. Police inspector Sujata Tanaawade of Rasayani police station was among the officials who visited the spot. The injured were rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. “There were two men in the Army gypsy. One of them has minor injuries, but the second one has some injuries on his head and was rushed to MGM hospital. The officials had taken the injured away and started the process of decongesting,” said assistant sub-inspector Namdev Doke of Rasayani police station. “In the Bhatan tunnel, the Gypsy was hit from the right rear side by a Maruti Swift car which led to the Gypsy drifting from lane 1 to lane 3. On lane 3, there was a Mahindra car which then rammed into the drifting Gypsy. The Mahindra car was followed by a truck which was followed by a small milk tempo that rammed into the truck. However, nobody else was injured besides the two in the Gypsy,” said ASI Doke.The damage to the vehicles is being recorded in an accident report at Rasayani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-injured-as-four-vehicles-ram-into-each-other-on-pune-mumbai-expressway/story-dXTmWDN6bW3SO8nIpR1BVM.html
