04-04-2020||Kabul||IS leader behind Kabul gurdwara attack arrested||Afghan forces have arrested the leader of the country’s Islamic State group affiliate and the mastermind behind the attack on a gurdwara last month that killed 25 worshippers, authorities said Saturday.The National Directorate of Security (NDS) said in a statement that Aslam Farooqi, also known as Abdullah Orakzai, had been arrested along with 19 other men in a “complex operation”.Speaking on condition of anonymity, an NDS official told AFP that Farooqi was the mastermind behind an IS-claimed attack on a Sikh temple in Kabul last month that killed at least 25 people.Known as Islamic State in the Khorasan (IS-K), the Afghan IS branch has been on its back foot in recent months following continued operations by US forces and separately by the Taliban.In November, Afghan officials said IS-K had been completely defeated in Nangarhar, one of the key eastern provinces where they first sought to establish a stronghold in 2015.In the years since, they have claimed responsibility for a string of horrific bombings across Afghanistan.In its statement, the NDS said Farooqi had admitted to having links with “regional intelligence agencies”—a clear reference to Pakistan, which Afghanistan routinely blames for supporting jihadists and helping the Taliban.Islamabad denies it does so.US Forces-Afghanistan did not immediately respond to a query about Farooqi’s arrest. — AFP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/is-leader-behind-kabul-gurdwara-attack-arrested-65587
04-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||When Nawanshahr hospital docs surprised coronavirus patient with birthday treat||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, April 4In a heartening gesture, the medical team at the Civil Hospital here on Saturday planned a surprise birthday treat for a child undergoing treatment for coronavirus.Eighteen patients, including 14 from the family of deceased Baldev Singh, are admitted to the hospital since March 20. This was the 15th day for them to be in the hospital after the sudden and tragic death of family patriarch and the doctors thought that a small gesture from their side would perhaps cheer things up a bit.Dr Gurpal Kataria (54), medical specialist, who along with a team of doctors and paramedical staff has been treating the family, said, “This morning while we were taking the samples of the patients, we overheard that one of the four grandchildren of Baldev Singh has birthday today. We sang birthday wishes for the child and quietly planned a small treat in the evening. Since no bakery was open because of curfew, we arranged for some chocolates, packets of sweets and some snacks and went to the ward to give them all a surprise.”The doctor refused to share the name of the patient or pictures clicked by the staff as he said this would be against the protocol. The youngest of the four children admitted here is two year-old while the eldest is 19.Dr Kataria said, “During the last 15 days of stay of the patients at the hospital, we have only tried to keep them upbeat. We have, in fact, been only keeping them engaged and pepped up as the disease does not actually require much of treatment. Since all of them had their mobile phones and chargers and were freely using it, we shared with them the stories and videos of patients getting cured and walking home. We also provided some games to the children so that they remained busy. As they have faced a setback of losing the pillar of their family, we have done our best to provide them a good, calm family atmosphere here. All of them are doing fine and we expecting reports expected tomorrow or day after will come out negative.”A health team worker said they tried their best to keep the family away from all the negative development after the death of Baldev Singh.Also since all the family members of Baldev Singh were taken to isolation ward and their house was locked, the family is also awaiting to go home to be able to take the mortal remains of their elderly from the cremation ground. Harpal Singh, sarpanch of the village, who too is hospitalised, said, “Since the family had expressed a desire that they would themselves lift the mortal remains from the crematorium, the caretaker had been accordingly instructed. They also have planned bhog once they reach home and begin to restart their lives.”Doc had planned family tour to GoaJalandhar-based Dr Gurpal Kataria, who is taking care of 18 patients of Pathlawa village, at Nawanshahr Civil Hospital was to go on a family tour from March 24 to April 3. The tour had been planned especially for the daughter of the doctor Vanya Kataria, who has appeared in Class X examination.“I and my wife, who too is a doctor, had thought that her examination would be over on March 20 and we would go on a family trip before our daughter leaves for Chandigarh for her further studies. But as fate had a different plan for us, we had to cancel the tour as lockdown was being imposed owing to Coronavirus spread. Even before things were coming to this passé, I could foresee it and I got all tickets and hotel bookings cancelled”, said the doctor, who has earlier led the teams for tacking Swine Flu.Dr Kataria said, “I reside at Rama Mandi in Jalandhar while I am posted in Nawanshahr. It became occasional for me to come back home that too late in the night and leave early the next day. Even when I came home, I have stayed away from family so as to keep safe.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/when-nawanshahr-hospital-docs-surprised-coronavirus-patient-with-birthday-treat-65580
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Eight coronavirus positive cases take Punjab’s tally to 65||Punjab reported eight more coronavirus positive cases on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 65.The state health department’s media bulletin says three new cases have been reported from Amritsar, two from SAS Nagar, and one each from Jalandhar, Pathankot and Faridkot.In Amritsar, three family members of a member of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa’s Ragi jatha also tested positive, taking the district’s coronavirus cases to eight. Those tested positive on Saturday include a minor.In Faridkot, a 35-year-old man travel agent was found positive late on Friday evening, following which police closed off Harindra Nagar, where he had his residence and office space.  The patient was admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) on April 2 with coronavirus symptoms.The patient did not travel abroad recently. Authorities have taken swabs from his wife, his four-year-old daughter and his mother for testing, officials said.This is the first case reported in Faridkot.“As part of precaution, we are following all protocols for suspected cases such as contact listing and quarantine of his contacts,” Faridkot civil surgeon Rajinder Kumar said.Punjab government’s media bulletin said the state government had sent 1,824 samples for testing so far, of which 1,520 tested negative. Authorities were awaiting results for 239 cases.Eleven of Punjab’s districts have so far reported cases. The cases include 19 from SBS Nagar, 14 from Mohali, eight from Amritsar, seven from Hoshiarpur, six from Jalandhar, four from Ludhiana, three from Mansa, one each from Patiala, Ropar, Pathankot and Faridkot. Punjab has reported five coronavirus deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eight-coronavirus-positive-cases-take-punjabs-tally-to-65-65574
04-04-2020||---||Coronavirus: Punjab announces Rs 50-lakh cover for frontline cops, sanitation workers||Chandigarh, April 4The Punjab government on Saturday announced special health insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh each for the police personnel and sanitation workers in the frontline of the battle against COVID-19, on the lines of that announced for health workers by the Centre.As an emergency measure to combat COVID-19, the Punjab Cabinet led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh also authorised the Procurement Committed headed by ACS Vini Mahajan to do quick price discovery for all purchases related to COVID-19 management and containment, and make purchases on urgent basis.The Cabinet also allowed the Procurement Committee to procure essential and emergent medical items at prevalent market prices as the same had risen substantially due to widespread demands due to COVID Management.Taking serious note of shutdown of operations by several private hospitals, the Cabinet decided on strict action against such hospitals, with the Chief Minister suggesting that the health department should cancel the licences of hospitals refusing to treat COVID-19 patients. The Council of Ministers, which met through a video link to review the current situation in the state, decided that the arrangements to manage COVID patients should be scaled up gradually to cater to larger number of patients.Contingency plan should be prepared with alternative locations, equipment, and officers to deal with any emergent situation whereby any of the existing arrangements fail/collapse, it was decided.The Health Department earlier informed the Cabinet that once the rapid testing kits and the final guidelines come in from the Government of India, rapid tests will begin in the state to speed up the identification of positive cases. Contact tracing of the Nizamuddin returnees was being done on an aggressive scale and 192 persons from the list of 255 received by the state had already been tested and isolated, the Health Department said.The Cabinet was further informed that there were enough PPEs for the health staff. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sandhu said it 1,000 PPEs each were being made available at each Government hospital.Staggered harvestingThe Chief Minister directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to finalise a comprehensive security plan to ensure smooth procurement of the wheat grain, while directing purchase centres to notify details of procurement arrangements by April 7-8, 2020.Reviewing the state’s preparedness on this count along with his cabinet colleagues, the Chief Minister stressed that the procurement arrangements should be put in place in a manner that every grain of the farmers is procured though in a staggered manner.All purchase centers should cater to COVID preventive measures, and also for food, water, shelter and medical requirements for all those required to be in these centers for procurement of wheat.  Details of procurement arrangements should be notified by April 7-8, 2020, the Council of Ministers decided.To ensure timely payment to the farmers, it has been decided that payments shall be made to the Arhtiyas within 48 hours and they will, in turn, pay the farmers for the produce within the next 48 hours.To stagger harvesting, combines will be allowed to operate through the day, from 6 a.m and 7 p.m. an official spokesperson said after the Cabinet meeting.Further, to ensure smooth and speedy operations, maximum number of labourers shall be permitted for unloading operations at storage sites.Given the need to prevent overcrowding, the state government is working with Arhtiyas and sheller owners to add 3000 purchase centres this year, with coupons to be issued to the farmers and others involved in the process. A total of 1820 purchase centres will be available for procurement.3-month extension for retiring health dept staffThe Chief Minister warned of strict action, including impounding of passports, of those who fail to declare their travel history.To further strengthen the state government’s battle against the unprecedented crisis triggered by the global pandemic, Captain Amarinder also authorised extension for all retiring Health Department employees by three months, as proposed by Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh. A detailed list will be submitted later to the Chief Minister for approval, according to an official spokesperson.This was decided as the death toll due to COVID-19 went up to five, with 57 positive cases being reported in Punjab.The Council of Ministers passed three resolutions thanking various categories of people for their exceptional contribution to the battle against COVID-19. These related to those government employees who had decided to donate a portion of their salaries; all NGOs and religious organizations for playing a pivotal role in persuading people to avoid congregation/gathering, and frontline officers and workers, including police, health staff, sanitation and Anganwadi workers, fighting against the Coronavirus. Cut expenses, depts toldUnderlining the need for generating resources to deal with the COVID-19 medical emergency on priority, Amarinder ordered expenditure cuts by all government departments to meet urgent expenses needed to deal with the current crisis.He has asked all the state departments to submit detailed proposals, by April 8, on expenditure cuts to be made over the next few weeks.“We have to save people, that should be our priority,” said the Chief Minister at the meeting of the Council of Minister, adding that resources have to be made available to Health, Police and other concerned departments directly involved in the current battle, which threatens to be a long one.With no additional revenues coming in, the only way out was to cut expenditure, he stressed, adding that every department would need to make cuts in order to generate revenue for the critical care services.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal earlier told the Cabinet that the state would suffer Rs 5,000 crore in revenue losses in April, and the figure was expected to go up further in the absence of revenue from GST and petroleum taxes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-punjab-announces-rs-50-lakh-cover-for-frontline-cops-sanitation-workers-65572
04-04-2020||Patiala||No time for family for Punjab’s coronavirus heroes||Yuvraj Narang last met his toddler son on March 14. His son had just turned one, in most cultures an important birthday, and his family had waited up so they could cut the cake.Narang, a district epidemiologist, is one of the several people on the frontlines of India’s fight against the coronavirus.The coronavirus pandemic, or COVID-19 as it is officially called, has already torn across some of the most powerful countries of the world---the global tally stands at 10,00,000 infections with a recorded 50,000 deaths.Punjab has so far reported 57 cases with five deaths. India’s tally stands at over 2,500 infections with more than 70 deaths.The pandemic has already put a severe strain on healthcare around the world. As India’s healthcare system faces one of the biggest challenges it has seen in decades, it is doctors like Yuvraj Narang who work almost constantly to battle the deadly virus from consuming their fellow countrymen.The fight means they have make sacrifices---such as not meeting their family for days. Take the case of Sumeet Singh, Patiala’s district nodal officer. Like Narang, Singh’s work keeps him away from his family, in particular, his five-year-old twins. He says the healthcare crisis keeps him working late, and by the time he gets home after 10 pm, his family is usually asleep.For most doctors working on the frontlines, the worry that they are taking home the virus plagues them constantly.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra says he makes sure he washes his hands thoroughly, sanitises his personal items, dumps his work clothes straight into the laundry and takes a hot bath before he does anything else at home.The virus forces doctors to keep their families at a distance---a tragic but necessary fallout.Says Singh: “The risk of carrying the virus in our profession is always there. However, we are taking all the possible precautions and are maintaining a physical distance at our houses also”.  For doctors like Yuvraj Narang, Sumeet Singh and Harish Malhotra, it is a sacrifice worth making.Says Narang: “Of course I miss my son and family, but, in this unprecedented situation, we have one job---to win the battle against coronavirus”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-time-for-family-for-punjabs-coronavirus-heroes-65571
04-04-2020||Amritsar||Coronavirus: Khalistani militant Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar released on parole||Khalistani militant Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar was released from Amritsar Central Jail for six weeks on parole on Saturday.Bhullar---who has been serving a life sentence for his role in the 1993 Delhi blast that killed nine people and wounded several others---was among 529 prisoners who have been released from jail in an attempt to decongest Indian prisons in view on the coronavirus outbreak in the country.The global pandemic has infected over 10,00,000 people with a death toll of over 50,000.In India, the pandemic has claimed 62 people from 2,650 reported infections.Punjab has 57 reported infections with five deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-khalistani-militant-davinder-pal-singh-bhullar-released-on-parole-65562
04-04-2020||Jalandhar||Environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal tests negative for coronavirus||Environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal, who had gone into self-isolation after meeting Padma Shri Awardee Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa before he died of COVID-19, tested negative for coronavirus on Saturday, a senior Punjab government official said.Khalsa, a former Hazoori Raagi, died on April 2, a day after he tested positive for the virus.Special Chief Secretary KBS Sidhu informed in a tweet about the "Big Relief in Doaba Region", saying Baba Seechewal and 16 others have tested negative.Thanking the almighty and his followers, Baba Seechewal said in a video message he came into contact with Khalsa on March 13, after which he went into self-isolation."Later Shahkot Sub Divisional Magistrate and Senior Medical Officer had directed that all those who had come in the contact with Bhai Khalsa should get themselves tested. They had taken my samples and that of my sewadars. We all have tested negative for coronavirus," he said.The environmentalist also made an appeal to the public asking them to maintain social distance and stay indoors during the lockdown to tackle the pandemic.Baba Seechewal, known for his efforts to clean the holy rivulet Kali Bein in Sultanpur Lodhi, where Guru Nanak Dev got enlightenment, was featured by Time Magazine among 30 'Heroes of the Environment' in 2008. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/environmentalist-baba-balbir-singh-seechewal-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-65561
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Nawanshahr doctor stays at the door during rare visit home; daughter is ‘proud’||His last meeting with the family was just a few minutes long—the time it takes to have a cup of tea. And this was sipped outside the front door.Dr Gurpal Kataria is posted at Punjab government hospital in Nawanshahr, a coronavirus hotspot. The front line doctor and his team are taking care of the 18 infected patients admitted at the isolation ward there.The doctor has little time now to visit his family in Jalandhar, 60 km away. He keeps in touch over the phone but the last, brief visit was two weeks back.“I did not enter the home as a precautionary measure, just saw them and then returned on duty,” he says.Kataria's wife is a dentist at the Hoshiarpur civil hospital.“My daughter, who has taken the class 10 exams, always tells me to take care. She also feels proud that her parents are serving people,” he says.Nawanshahr has reported 19 coronavirus cases so far, the highest number from any district in Punjab where the count was 53 on Saturday morning.A 70-year-old patient has died in Nawanshahr. Eighteen others, including a two-and-a-half-year-old child and three women, are in the isolation ward of the civil hospital, waiting for the day their tests results show negative.Kataraia says a major concern is the patients' morale. They often ask doctors about the coronavirus count, worrying how many people have died each day.“For us this is like a place of worship, where we get a sense of satisfaction when we see happiness on the faces of our patients,” says the 54-year-old doctor.“We counsel our patients on a regular basis and tell them there is no need to be scared, and they will be fine. We try to keep them in positive frame of mind and keep their morale high,” Kataria says. “We do not let them feel that they are stuck here.” “When they go back from here, they will certainly remember us,” he says.He says all arrangements are in place at the government hospital to deal with any coronavirus eventuality. Medical teams are on standby, in case there is a spike.Kataria's own team—which includes a microbiologist, a rural medical officer, a pharmacist and a lab technician—stays in houses within the hospital complex.“I and my team are available round the clock here,” he tells PTI over the phone.Kataria got his MD degree from the Amritsar government medical college. His experience at the time of swine flu outbreak in 2009 has helped him in dealing with the coronavirus cases, he says. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-nawanshahr-doctor-stays-at-the-door-during-rare-visit-home-daughter-is-proud-65552
04-04-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur DC meets Army officers, discusses the present situation||Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori met all senior Army officers of Sangrur.During the meeting, DC Thori discussed the present situation and preparedness to tackle COVID-19.“We have been making all the required arrangements. I have met with all Army officers to share the details of our preparations with them. Army officers also shared their details with me” said DC Thori.He also informed that district administration has been making required arrangements to ensure the supply of essential commodities to all residents of the district.“2500 helplines have been working in the district. I have regularly been taking feedback from all senior officers.” Said Thori.About health services, DC said that he had directed the Sangrur civil surgeon to ensure the timely medical health aid to all if anyone faces any problems.“We have been creating isolation wards in various temples, Gurdwaras and Schools. Apart from Isolation wards, we have also created some jails in various schools to lodge locals, found violation curfew. I request all to stay indoors to defeat COVID-19” said DC Thori.Sangrur SSP Dr Sandeep Garg informed that apart from roping in a drone to keep a watch over the city. Their special patrolling teams have been present in all parts of the district.“Since all commodities are reaching at the door of residents, they do not have any resident to come out. We are registering FIRs against all locals, who are violating curfew” said SSP Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-dc-meets-army-officers-discusses-the-present-situation-65548
04-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Now, Tiktok competition in Punjab to spread awareness on coronavirus||Hoshiarpur/Kapurthala, April 4At a time when TikTok is being flooded with funny videos, the District Youth Services Department, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala have thought about using the powerful entertainment application to spread awareness on the coronavirus pandemic.It has announced ‘Best TikToker Competition’ for the people of the age group 15 to 35, having one to three participants and could be about safe hands challenge and other preventive measures that one can take to steer clear of Covid-19.Taking to the Tribune, Preet Kohli, Assitant Director, Youth Services Department, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, said that it’s his own initiative, and he has created a post about the video competition and uploaded it on all the social media platforms and forwarded it in the school groups he is associated with.“To do away with the boredom, people are highly active on TikTok these days. They make funny videos in which you can see husband washing utensils or children doing lip sing of the songs or famous dialogues. After realising this huge craze of TikTok among youngsters, I got this idea of the best video competition and people would get motivated to keep themselves safe”, Kohli said.He further stated that  he has received 20-30 awareness videos in which people are cleaning their door knobs, washing hands, helping poor etc.Not only from Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala but from other districts too. He said that this shows that his post has reached several hundred people.“The last date to send the videos is April 10. After that we will soon declare the results and the top three videos would be honoured with a certificate and a memento”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-tiktok-competition-in-punjab-to-spread-awareness-on-coronavirus-65542
04-04-2020||Ludhiana||Coronavirus: Providing mid-day meals to students at home is difficult for teachers||Although education department has issued instructions to provide food grains of the mid-day meal to the students at their homes and transfer the cost of cooking to their bank accounts amidst this crisis of COVID-19 and no clear roadmap for making this activity practical, it seems this will remain in papers only. In addition to these teachers have also become panic ongoing out amidst such a situation. Firstly, there are no clear instructions on how to make this activity practical, secondly, many schools in the state were already running out of stock of grains and thirdly giving the meager amount of wheat and rice only for the students in this difficult situation seems another cruel joke on the families of the students. According to the instructions issued by the department, each Primary student will be given 1,200 kg of wheat and the same amount of rice which totals 2.400 kg of both the grains. Similarly, the upper primary student will be given 1.800 kg of rice and wheat each, which makes the total quantity of 3.600 kg. Similarly, it was asked to transfer the booking amount of Rs 107.52 to primary students and Rs 161.04 to the upper primary students.The food grains and amount are for 24 days i.e. from March 23, 2020, to April 15, 2020, during which schools are shut due to lockdown.Schools are finding it difficult to make the things practical at this juncture. A principal of a primary school in Ludhiana on the condition of anonymity said that their Mid Day meal account is already running in minus, and they were arranging the food grains on credit from the local stores. “We do not have any stock of food grains with us and it is not possible for us to distribute the same by buying at the stores are already shut. If we manage to buy the food grains also then the problem of delivering them at the doorsteps remains a problem. Students are living in different areas and how can a teacher reach out to these students at their places. In addition to this, transferring the amount in the accounts is also as many new students do not have bank accounts. We have received no clear instructions from the district regarding the disbursal of the food grains and amount", she said.Another teacher from Ludhiana further added that these instructions have created panic among the teachers. They will have to get the curfew passes for going out and since they will not be provided with any safety kit by the department, will it be safe to go outside and what if there is any patient in the family or going in the high-risk areas is another challenge in front of the teachers, she said.Meanwhile, another teacher who went for the distribution of the ration said that during such critical times, it becomes very difficult to give a small number of food grains only for the child. “It makes very difficult for us to make the families understand that it is the food grains to be provided for the students,” he said.DPI, Inderjit Singh when contacted in Thai regard said that the department is doing whatever help they can provide in this difficult time.“Our many teachers are already working as sector officers, and they were helping the students with the help of NGOs and some were helping on their own. It is just that we wanted that students should get their meals on time that these orders were issued. We can provide only for the students and not for the entire family and the families should understand this. Teachers are doing a difficult job in this crisis and it should be acknowledged,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-providing-mid-day-meals-to-students-at-home-is-difficult-for-teachers-65539
04-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur residents felicitate sanitation workers with currency-note garlands||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 4Sangrur residents on Saturday applauded the sanitation workers of local Nagar council for ensuring cleanliness exercise across the city amid Coronavirus pandemic by showering flowers and offering garlands of currency notes to them."All members of our sanitation staff are our real hero’s. They have been collecting waste and cleaning streets even in this hour of crisis when all citizens are compelled to sit indoors. Today I along with local social workers honored members of sanitation staff in various parts of district,” said Anil Kicha, Chairman of Sangrur Market Committee.Kicha along with other Congress leaders, showered flowers on sanitation staff in various parts and also presented garlands.“I have talked to our minister Vijay Inder Singla for special safety kits to all members of sanitation staff and he has assured to me take up the matter with higher authorities of health department," said Kicha while garlanding an employee of NC in Nabha gate area.Jaspal Pali, a local social worker, said that they had been asking locals to cooperate with sanitation staff, who are working round the clock.“Every member of NC staff has been working hard even without required medical equipments. We are proud of them. All residents should help these employees in keeping our city clean,” said Pali.Local Advocate Sumeer Fatta, who also accompanied the social workers, said that apart from honoring the members, they have also been guiding all to maintain social distancing.“We have asked all locals to load their packets of waste into the vehicles of staff at their own because the collection of waste from each house by staff members might also cause infection,” Said Fatta.Punjab PWD and Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, who is local MLA also, said that all NC staff have been working hard.“I hope that with the support of all, we would defeat Covid-19. I request all residents to stay indoors and help our sanitation staff in keeping the city clean,” said Singla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-residents-felicitate-sanitation-workers-with-currency-note-garlands-65534
04-04-2020||Jalandhar||Sukhbir demands Health Minister’s resignation following reports of negligence in Bhai Nirmal Singh case||Amid the reports of medical negligence with Bhai Nirmal Singh, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal on Saturday demanded the resignation of Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.In a tweet, Sukhbir said, “Immediate sacking of negligent Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and strict action against culprits is the need of the hour.”Tagging CM Capt Amarinder Singh in the tweet, Badal said, “How will we tackle the coronavirus pandemic if your government lets victims die with total negligence.”The SAD chief was apparently reacting to reports of an audio clip of the last conversation of Bhai Nirmal Singh with his son and daughter-in-law that has gone viral, wherein he purportedly said the doctors were not attending to him properly.Immediate sacking of negligent Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and strict action against culprits is the need of the hour. How will we tackle #CoronavirusPandemic if your govt lets victims die with total negligence, @capt_amarinder? 2/2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-demands-health-ministers-resignation-following-reports-of-negligence-in-bhai-nirmal-singh-case-65526
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cops’ wives prepare 800 masks, 33,000 ration packets to donate amid coronavirus lockdown||When their husbands are in the field to fight coronavirus, the better halves are ensuring free food distribution to cater to the poor in Punjab's Ropar district.Also, the wives of policemen are making masks at home to handle the pandemic.Over 33,000 meals of dry ration along with 800 masks have been prepared by family members of police officials in last one week at their homes and community centres, said Senior Superintendent of Police of Ropar, Swapan Sharma.The ration packets have been distributed in slum areas, while the masks at every check point by mobile patrolling teams, he said."Together we stand stronger is the message that families of the Ropar policemen are out to convey," Sharma said, adding each family has contributed Rs 500 towards the fight against deadly virus.Women and children have taken upon themselves to make masks and pack ration packets.With policemen on duty for 14-16 hours a day since the lockdown that came into effect on March 23, their families are showing all their support.Out of 100 families that stay in police quarters, about 30 of them have come forward to help. By stitching masks at home, they are doing their bit to ensure safety and health.Spouses, children and even parents are enthusiastically participating to ease the burden on the policemen by making packs out of ration donated by the NGOs and the public, he said."We couldn't think of anything better than making masks to keep our men in khaki safe in these tough times," said Sukhwinder Kaur, 48, wife of Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Jagtar Singh.Shruti, 16, daughter of ASI Chandermohan with the help of her elder and younger sisters is making use of her sewing skills in making masks.ASI Vinod Kumar's wife Praveen Kaur has enlisted the help of her three children to make ration packs for the less fortunate."Lending a helping hand even if little means huge in this time of uncertainty. Also, our children imbibe value of standing with everyone in difficult times with doing as much as they can," she said.Lovepreet Kaur, daughter of ASI Jagir Singh, added: "Making ration packs may not mean much in ordinary times but at moments like these when policemen are overworked each little help counts. I am glad that we are taking off a little of the burden off the shoulders of forces by making use of the time." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cops-wives-prepare-800-masks-33-000-ration-packets-to-donate-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-65518
04-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Former Hazoori Ragi Nirmal Khalsa’s daughter tests positive for coronavirus||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 4Daughter of late Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa has tested positive for coronavirus.She is admitted to a hospital in Jalandhar.Bhai Nirmal Singh's family, including his father, mother, son, daughter-in-law had already been shifted to an isolation ward here. But they were reportedly tested negative.The family is based in Lohian town falling in Shahkot subdivision here. The lanes of the ward in which their residence falls have been sealed since their isolation two days back.Former Hazoori Ragi of the Golden Temple Nirmal Singh Khalsa died of cardiac arrest early morning on Thursday.He had tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. It was the second positive case from the district and the “first corona death”.Singh, who recently returned from abroad, was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital after he complained of breathlessness and dizziness on March 30.      He had come back from abroad in February and later attended many religious events, including accompanying Zakir Hussain, the tabla player, to Golden Temple on February 29.This is a day after Zakir Hussain performed at a jam packed Patiala auditorium as part of the Patiala Heritage Festival on February 27, a day after which he visited Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-hazoori-ragi-nirmal-khalsas-daughter-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-65516
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||3 more Jamaat participants test positive in Punjab’s Mansa||Three more members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who were at the congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz in March, on Saturday tested positive for coronavirus in Punjab, taking their total cases to five.They were reported in Mansa district where they returned from Delhi on March 19. Six people tested negative, said Special Chief Secretary Karan Bir Singh Sidhu.He said one more positive case was reported from Faridkot, the first in the district. The positive case has no travel history but he is in forex business and that is how he might have come in contact with a client from abroad.Sidhu said Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal and 16 others of the area tested negative.Eco warrior Sant Seechewal and the others had recently come in contact with Nirmal Singh Khalsa, former Hazoori Raagi of the Golden Temple, who succumbed to novel coronavirus on Thursday.A day earlier, two members of the Tablighi Jamaat tested positive in Mohali district.Both the patients belonged to Jagatpura village, located just on the outskirts of Chandigarh, an official told IANS.In the worst-affected Mohali district, the Jagatpura area has been totally sealed off after confirmation of Covid-19 outbreak, with mass sampling being done here and Nayagaon area, both located on the periphery of Chandigarh. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-more-jamaat-participants-test-positive-in-punjabs-mansa-65515
04-04-2020||Malerkotla||File FIRs against rumour-mongers: SDM||Patiala SSP to donate Rs 11 lakhPatiala: SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu on Friday announced to pool in Rs11 lakh from his personal finances to be utilised for Covid relief. “The country has been overshadowed by the dark clouds of Covid pandemic, which has not only cast a financial and administrative burden on the government but has also affected the poor. Therefore, I, along with my father and brother, have decided to give Rs11 lakh. The poor are in need of urgent help,” he said. TNSTwo new jails set up in SangrurSangrur: The district administration has created two new open jails to lodge area residents in case of any curfew violation. “We have set up two new open jails in the district at Dhuri Government School and Sunam. If anyone is found violating the curfew norms, he will be arrested immediately,” said Ghanshyam Thori, DC, Sangrur. TNSDhillon group donates Rs 5 croreChandigarh: D-Mart and Dhillon Group on Friday donated Rs5.05 crores to Chief Minister Relief Fund to fight Covid. On March 24, CM Capt Amarinder Singh set up the Covid relief fund and appealed to people to donate generously. The CM, on behalf of the state government, thanked D-Mart and Kewal Singh Dhillon for their contribution. Capt Amarinder appealed to Punjabis to contribute generously and assist the state government in this hour of distress. TNS11 with Tablighi links isolated in KhamanoKhamano: Panic gripped the town after 11 persons, who had taken part in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, were found to be living in Maneli village near here. Although the persons belong to Maharashtra, they had come to organise a ‘jamaat’ here. They have been isolated in the village. The Health Department has decided to test them. The 11 persons belonging to the Muslim community had visited Nizamuddin from March 11 to 13 and later returned to Sanipur near Sirhind. Later, they reached Sanghol and lived there for some days and then went to Maneli. TNS2 Jamaat followers under observationAmritsar: Seven Tablighi Jamaat followers have returned to the city after attending the Markaz in Delhi. The police have located two of them and put them under quarantine. Their health conditions is good, but they had been kept under observation, said DCP Jagmohan Singh. Meanwhile, the Nakodar administration has located five persons who attended the congregation. Three of them arrived in the last week of February for religious functions. Two of them left for abroad, while one left for West Bengal. One from Nakodar, who had attended the congregation, has been quarantined. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/file-firs-against-rumour-mongers-sdm-65157
04-04-2020||Ropar||IIT-Ropar develops low-cost ventilator||Students and faculty of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) here have developed a cost-effective and easy-to-operate ventilator.A team, comprising associate professor Prabhat K Agnihotri, and students Viney Ghai, Ankit Baranwal, Ajinkya V Sirsat (all from the mechanical department) and Neha Yadav (chemistry department), has developed the ventilator which has two ambu bags. This means it can be used for two patients simultaneously.The ventilator cost them only Rs5,000. It finds application in railway coaches which have been turned into isolation wards.Agnihotri said, “As Covid is a respiratory viral infection, the need for ventilators has increased exponentially. The cost of a high-end ventilator is between Rs5 lakh and Rs7 lakh. So there was a need to develop a cheap and easy-to-operate ventilator, especially for rural areas.”With this in mind, he said, IIT-Ropar decided to develop one. “The ventilator we have produced is automated with two ambu bags. The team took a mere two days to develop the ventilator and spent only Rs5,000 on it.”“While developing the automated ambu bag, the team has taken into consideration different sizes of ambu bags used for adults, pediatrics and infants.” Agnihotri said.The team was working on including more functionalities to improve the ventilator, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-ropar-develops-low-cost-ventilator-65155
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Colleges seek release of Rs 1,850 crore dues||Seeking release Rs 1,850 crore, as dues under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme, the Joint Action Committee of 1,650 unaided colleges of Punjab has sought urgent intervention of the state government to bail them out of the crisis amid the Covid lockdown.While Rs 538 crore under the scholarship scheme was pending with the Centre for 2016-2017, Rs 1,310 crore was pending for 2017-2018, 2018-2019 and 2019-2020 with Punjab government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/colleges-seek-release-of-rs-1-850-crore-dues-65145
04-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Unable to get drugs, addict kills himself||A drug addict, Avtar Singh (30), a resident of Mandi Gobindgarh town, committed suicide by jumping into the Bhakra canal near the floating restaurant at Sirhind. His body was recovered from Khanauri town in Patiala district today.Hardeep Singh, brother of the victim, said Avtar Singh was upset as drugs were not available from any quarter since the curfew had been imposed in the town. He said after he left his house on March 28, they got a message on phone that the some clothes were lying on the bank of the Bhakra canal. He said they rushed to the canal and identified his clothes. He said they started searching his body and today they got a call from divers that Avtar’s body had been recovered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unable-to-get-drugs-addict-kills-himself-65144
04-04-2020||Moga||Minor raped in Moga||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a youth in Moga, the police officials confirmed here, today.As per the details, the alleged accused Hardeep Singh, a resident of Bahadur Singh Basti in Moga, entered the house of the victim and raped her.The victim’s mother said when she had gone out to purchase grocery during curfew relaxation, Hardeep entered the house and committed the crime.The police have registered a criminal case under Sections 376 and 450 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-raped-in-moga-65143
04-04-2020||---||Punjab Police keep an eye on curfew violators with drones||Chandigarh, April 3Further tightening the noose around violators of the curfew in the state, the Punjab Police have launched drone surveillance, even as it cracked down heavily on black-marketers and hoarders amid reports of shortages of essential commodities.A total of 62 establishments were raided today and 23 were found to be indulging in black-marketing or hoarding in Gurdaspur (10), Pathankot (4), Kapurthala (4) and Jalandhar (5), with another five challaned in Ferozepur, where penalty will be imposed after due procedure, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed.Giving details of the drone surveillance started on Thursday, the DGP said the drones had so far been deployed in 34 locations across 10 districts of Mohali, Sangrur, Fazilka, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar, Barnala, Jalandhar (Rural), Moga, Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib.Drone surveillance, found to be highly effective in covering large areas for ensuring effective enforcement of curfew and for efficient utilisation of manpower, had, till Friday evening, led to registration of 15 FIRs and impounding of 20 vehicles of the violators.In the past 48 hours, the total number of FIRs registered against violators was nearly 900, with 1,250 persons arrested and 800 vehicles impounded, said the DGP. The maximum of 119 FIRs were registered in Jalandhar City, followed by 93 in Amritsar.Nearly 2,000 persons were taken into custody at the 21 open jails designated for holding curfew violators.Notably, the police have so far registered a total of 1,784 FIRs on count of curfew violations, with the arrest of 2,592 persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-keep-an-eye-on-curfew-violators-with-drones-65142
04-04-2020||---||Admn provides ration to Sanaur ashram||Patiala, April 3A day after a report in The Tribune about stoppage of mandatory supplies to the All-India Pingla Ashram at Sanaur, local NGOs and the district administration today came to the rescue of its over 225 inmates, a majority of them orphaned children, mentally challenged and old-aged.With the imposition of curfew, the ration and cash donations had become limited and inmates were left to fend for themselves.In this regard, members of NGOs, including Samaj Kalyan, and Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh visited the ashram and supplied them ration and assured them regular supplies for the next month as well. “We ensured some supplies last week and will now provide regular ration, sanitisers and disinfectants for the inmates at regular intervals,” he added.The Tribune had reported how the supply of fruits, tea with biscuits had also stopped at the ashram. The ashram also runs a school for children of poor who live in slums. It also takes care of patients who are abandoned by civil hospitals due to unavailability of attendants.“Following the news report, I have received many calls with people assuring to help us financially. I hope the regular financial aid and ration will let the inmates live comfortably. For the past 10 days, local supplies donated by residents everyday had almost stopped and there were no cash donations,” said caretaker of the ashram, Baba Balbir Singh.“Today, the administration and local NGOs have assured us of regular ration and vegetables for the inmates”, he said.“Sometimes, hospitals send us patients having maggots in their wounds. We look after them too,” Baba Balbir Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/admn-provides-ration-to-sanaur-ashram-65141
04-04-2020||---||Rs 53.43 crore grant released to DCs||Chandigarh, April 3The Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management Department has released Rs 53.43 crore at the disposal of all Deputy Commissioners in the state to immediately tackle any exigency arising out of the prevailing Covid-19 crisis.Disclosing this here today, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said the funds released to the DCs had been charged to the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF).Giving the district-wise break-up, the spokesperson said Muktsar had been given Rs 6.75 crore, Amritsar Rs 6 crore besides Rs 5 crore each for Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur followed by Rs 3.50 crore for Faridkot and Rs 3 crore each for Jalandhar and Sangrur.Likewise, Patiala has been given Rs 2.50 crore, Mohali Rs 2.18 crore and Moga Rs 1.90 crore.Similarly, the SBS Nagar district has been given Rs 1.60 crore whereas the districts of Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Ropar and Fazilka have been given Rs 1.50 crore each. Besides, Rs 1.25 crore each has been given to Ferozepur, Pathankot and Barnala followed by Rs 1 crore each for Kapurthala and Bathinda while Rs 75 lakh for Mansa and Rs 50 lakh for Fatehgarh Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-53-43-crore-grant-released-to-dcs-65140
04-04-2020||---||4 firms offer to make low-cost equipment||Chandigarh, April 3In order to counter any Covid-19 contingency, the Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, of the Indian Railways, is in the process of developing and launching indigenous ventilators. Besides, many MSMEs have also shown interest in making the life-saving equipment.The Industries Department is also pursuing the matter with various industrial units to manufacture low-cost ventilators, with four such units already identified and their samples put on fast-track testing.Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said Global SPS, Mohali; S Sajjan Precision, Ludhiana; Andel India, Mohali; and Ceesons Healthcare, Jalandhar, were already working on a mission mode to develop a low-cost ventilator with the help the Department of Industries and Commerce.The vendors are hopeful of launching their product soon after the requisite approval of their prototypes from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), he added.India, by most estimates, has approximately 48,000 ventilators as on date which are being used by hospitals in the treatment of critically ill patients. Due to the increase in the number of coronavirus patients everyday, more such ventilators would be required to counter the probable situation likely to arise due to Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-firms-offer-to-make-low-cost-equipment-65139
04-04-2020||Sangrur||‘Contradictory’ orders baffle bank staff, customers||‘Contradictory’ orders passed by district authorities about the functioning of banks during curfew have caused confusion among employees, who have demanded a proper system across the state to run all banks smoothly. The bank authorities have been struggling to maintain social distancing without required staff to prevent Covid-19.“Many Deputy Commissioners (DCs) have fixed 10 am to 2 pm for public dealing, but some other DCs have said there would not be any public dealing. There are some districts where the authorities have prepared a roster and are allowing the opening of banks on rotation. We are living in one state, but we are compelled to follow different norms, which has created confusion among residents and bank staff,” said Pali Ram Bansal, state general secretary of the Punjab Gramin Bank Officers’ Federation.He has today written a letter to CM Capt Amarinder Singh to implement one set of norms across the state. “After demonetisation, it’s another tough time for bank staff. We do not want to lose our employees and request the CM to look into the matter and run the banks through a state-level authority rather than causing confusion through district-level orders,” he said.During a visit to various banks on Friday, many residents told The Tribune that due to lack of required staff in banks, they faced problems in getting their work done. At many places, residents were seen standing without mandatory distance.“Only police can ensure social distancing. If the Punjab Government wants to allow the opening of banks, it should depute cops as no one listens to bank staff,” said Gurwinder Singh, a local standing near a bank of Sangrur. There were many who said after a mild cough, they were mistaken as suffering from Covid-19 and were pushed away by locals and bank authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contradictory-orders-baffle-bank-staff-customers-65138
04-04-2020||---||No decision yet on extending curfew: CM||Chandigarh, April 3Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday made it clear that any decision on extending the curfew beyond April 14 would depend on the prevailing situation, which he was personally monitoring on a day-to-day basis.The Chief Minister was reacting to reports in a section of media quoting him as saying that he would not lift the curfew, imposed in the light of the Covid-19 crisis. What he had said was that no firm decision or timeline could be committed at this juncture, adding that restrictions would have to continue as long as needed to save lives and the state.“Any decision on lifting or extending the curfew/lockdown in the state will be taken in the light of the situation that exists at that time. It will depend entirely on how things are then,” he said, adding that it was not possible to commit either way at this juncture, when the situation was still evolving.The Chief Minister, at the same time, assured the people of Punjab that his government would continue to take more steps to minimise the hardships suffered by them as a result of the curfew. Already, a lot of essential services that were initially locked down had been restored, he pointed out, citing the examples of banking, postal and courier, harvesting, etc. The necessity for doctors, health staff and regular patients to take curfew passes had also been done away with.It may be recalled that Punjab was the first state in the country to impose a curfew in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-decision-yet-on-extending-curfew-cm-65137
04-04-2020||---||Akal Takht: Only symbolic Baisakhi celebrations||Amritsar, April 3Akal Takht has announced that Baisakhi celebrations would be low key in view of the Covid lockdown. Its officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh announced this after discussing the matter with five high priests through video-conferencing here on Friday.The high priests — including Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, Takht Sri Patna Sahib Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh Gohar, Takht Sri Hazur Sahib Jathedar Giani Kulwant Singh and Takht Sri Damdama Sahib head priest Gurjant Singh — decided that in the wake of Covid threat, organising a large gathering at one place was impossible.Giani Harpreet Singh said Baisakhi be celebrated symbolically by holding a “kirtan” programme, and “akhand path” or “sehaj path” followed by “ardas”.“We appeal to devotees to stay indoors as per the directions of the Health Department. They should listen to Gurbani programme which would be telecast live on TV. The devotees can offer prayers in their homes,” he said.About the attack on a gurdwara in Kabul, Giani Harpreet Singh directed the SGPC to help aggrieved Sikh families in Afghanistan and initiate steps to take care of Sikh shrines there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-only-symbolic-baisakhi-celebrations-65136
04-04-2020||---||10 more test positive, Punjab count 57||Chandigarh, April 3With 10 fresh cases reported today, the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases has reached 57.As per the Health Department’s media bulletin, three cases have been reported from Amritsar, two from SAS Nagar, and one from Ludhiana. Besides, three from Mansa and one from Ropar have tested positive.The persons from Mansa, had returned from the Markaz at Nizamuddin in Delhi and were quarantined at a mosque in Budhlada subdivision for the past some days. They tested positive today.According Amritsar district health officials, the worrying fact was that it was for the first time a Covid positive case had come to light with the patient not having any travel history and it was still uncertain how he contracted the disease. In all, three cases came positive today in Amritsar.According to Amritsar Civil Surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal, two other cases were in contact with Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa who died of a cardiac arrest on Wednesday. He was in the isolation ward at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.She said an elderly relative of former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple and one of his associates was found to be Covid positive. Their reports were received today. The reports of three of his relatives were still awaited while reports of five other associates and relatives were negative. She said areas and houses of the affected persons were quarantined and sanitised.The third patient was a shopkeeper. It is yet to be ascertained how he contracted the deadly virus. This has alarmed the district administration and health authorities here. He has no travel history while no guest from abroad had visited him. “This is apparently the first case of Punjab with no relevant history,” she pointed out. His family members have also been put in quarantine and samples are being taken for testing.Two other cases are from SAS Nagar with history of attending Jamaat event at Delhi. One person from Ludhiana also reported positive and is admitted to a hospital.A 55-year-old resident of Ropar village also tested for Covid at a hospital in Chandigarh today. The patient was admitted to Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, for treatment of hypertension and diabetes. Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said the patient was admitted to GMSH-16 on March 27. Today, he was found suffering from Covid. Giri said there was no travel history of the patient and Health Department officials were tracing his contacts to know about the origin of infection.As per the Health Department, the samples of a total 1,585 suspected cases were sent for testing out of which 1,381 were found negative and reports of 151 were still awaited. Total 57 have been found positive from seven districts. The state has reported five casualities so far. The cases include 19 from SBS Nagar, 12 from Mohali seven from Hoshiarpur, five each from Jalandhar and Amritsar, four from Ludhiana, three from Mansa and one each from Patiala and Ropar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-more-test-positive-punjab-count-57-65135
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Staggered salaries for PSPCL staff||Suffering a loss of Rs25-Rs30 crore daily, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has decided to stagger the payment of salaries to its employees.In a letter issued today, the state power utility said the chairman and managing director and all directors of the corporation would not be paid salary for the month of March. Most other employees would be paid 60 per cent of their salaries now and the remaining 40 per cent by April 20, it said.The only employees who will be paid their salaries in full are the new appointees, Class D employees, Class C employees drawing a grade pay of Rs3,400 and all other employees whose salary is less than Rs30,000.Officials in the PSPCL said the decision was taken as the cash flow in the corporation had stopped because of the relaxation in payment of power bills allowed by the government in the wake of curfew. Also, the payment of power subsidy to the corporation has not been done by the state government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staggered-salaries-for-pspcl-staff-65134
04-04-2020||---||Harivallabh to dedicate event to Hazoori Ragi||Jalandhar, April 3The Shri Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Sangeet Mahasabha today declared that the 145th Shree Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Sammlean shall be dedicated to Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa. The declaration was made by mahasabha president Purnima Beri.As friends and well-wishers recalled his humility and politeness even after getting huge acclaim, they also rued the loss of a scholar with immeasurable knowledge.Teerath Singh Dhillon, a friend for the past 20 years, said Bhai Khalsa’s demise was a great loss to the world of music.Bhai Khalsa spent a brief time at Lohian in Jalandhar, before settling down in Amritsar. Dhillon, his collaborator on several scholarly projects, said, “he was among the handful of people in the state who shareed an equal depth and insight into both the Gurmat Sangeet and Hindustani classical traditions. The first and only Sikh ragi to get a Padma Shri yet, he also learned from Ghulam Ali Sahib and shared a fond friendship with him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harivallabh-to-dedicate-event-to-hazoori-ragi-65133
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||IMTECH to begin testing||In a major boost to increase the testing rate among suspected coronavirus patients, the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) here will take up testing of Covid samples. In the initial phase, IMTECH plans to operationalise capabilities to test 50 to 100 samples a day, which can be subsequently ramped up.With this, IMTECH becomes the first CSIR laboratory in the region and the third in the country after the Centre for Cellular Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, to take up Covid testing.With a limited number of test kits available, India has been testing patients with a travel history and is ranked lowest in terms of testing per million people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/imtech-to-begin-testing-65132
04-04-2020||Nawanshahr||Disrespect shown to Hazoori Ragi: NGO lodges plaint against Verka villagers||Peeved over the disrespect shown to Padam Shri ragi and Covid victim Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa during his last rites at Verka village on Thursday, an NGO has written to the Amritsar Police Commissioner, demanding registration of case against those who were responsible for the act.Activists Parvinder Singh Kitna of Nawanshahr, Kuldeep Singh Khehra of Ludhiana and Dr Amarjit Singh Mann said if no action was taken by the police, they may move the High Court.Minister appeals to publicMohali: Concerned over the opposition of cremation of Padma Shri recipient Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday appealed to people not to panic as cremation of Covid-positive patient’s body did not pose any threat. Sensitising the public, he said the cremation had no adverse effects if protocols were adhered to. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/disrespect-shown-to-hazoori-ragi-ngo-lodges-plaint-against-verka-villagers-65131
04-04-2020||---||Punjab Govt proposes incentives for delayed crop arrival||Chandigarh, April 3The Punjab Government has proposed to give each farmer an incentive of Rs100 per quintal of wheat if they bring their produce to mandis after May 1. In case some farmers bring their produce after May 31, an incentive of Rs200 per quintal will be offered.The incentive is being offered to farmers in order to ensure that they stagger the market arrival of the crop. This will ensure that the principle of social distancing is maintained in mandis, which is becoming a big challenge in view of Covid spread in the state.With the wheat procurement season just a few days ahead, the government has formally sent the proposal to Secretary, Union Ministry of Food, Consumer Affairs and Food Distribution. Principal Secretary, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affair, KAP Sinha told The Tribune they were awaiting a nod from the Centre before the announcement could be made.“While farmers who get the wheat between April 15 and 30 will get the already announced MSP of Rs1,925 per quintal, those who bring their crop in the mandis in May will get Rs2,025 per quintal as MSP. If some farmers are willing to hold their crop till June and bring it for procurement between June 1 and 15, they will get Rs2,125 per quintal as the cost for their produce,” he said.Noted agro-economist from Punjab Agricultural University MS Sidhu said Punjab was the biggest contributor of wheat to the national pool. “The state contributes 37 per cent of wheat in the national pool. With lakhs of farmers, labourers, government officials and commission agents involved in the process of procurement of the crop, the proposal, if approved by the Centre, could help tide over the looming crisis,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-proposes-incentives-for-delayed-crop-arrival-65130
04-04-2020||---||Punjab working out plan to buy wheat from farmers’ doorstep||Chandigarh, April 3The state government is working out a mechanism for procuring wheat from the doorstep of farmers to check overcrowding in grain markets in the wake of the Covid outbreak.It has already postponed wheat procurement, which is likely to start on April 15.RBI releases CCLThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has conceded to a state government’s request for the release of Rs22,936 crore against the cash credit limit (CCL) for April.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday asked the Agriculture and Food Departments to work out ways to procure wheat from villages located more than one to two kms from mandis.Reviewing the harvesting and marketing arrangements through a video-conference with officials of the two departments, the Chief Minister directed them to minimise the exposure of farmers, an official statement said here.No dbt this tmeCapt Amarinder Singh has directed Chief Principal Secretary Suresh Kumar to get rules amended to provide for payment to farmers through arhtiyas, saying that any change in the system, including direct bank transfer (DBT), should be put in abeyance in the current situation.On procurement, an Uber-like system of pooling farmers to distant mandis, on the lines of the suggestion made by Prime Minister Modi, could be considered, Capt Amarinder said, adding he was open to accepting the Chief Secretary’s proposal of arranging for doorstep procurement of the produce.About 50 per cent of villages are located in the vicinity of grain markets. For farmers of living close to mandis, curfew passes can be issued to them. For farmers living far from mandis, the Chief Secretary suggested that the produce would be procured from their homes.The Chief Minister asked Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh to submit a proposal so that a decision could be taken in a couple of days.Capt Amarinder also directed Chief Principal Secretary Suresh Kumar to get rules amended to provide for payment to farmers through arhtiyas, saying that any change in the system, including direct bank transfer, should be put in abeyance in the current circumstances. The system of direct transfer to farmers was to be started from this season.After taking note of reports of hoarding and shortage of essential goods, the Chief Minister set up a committee comprising senior officers to monitor supply of essential items daily. He directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to take action against those found guilty of hoarding goods.The Chief Secretary informed the meeting that supply of essentials was being ensured through smooth movement of truck. The process will be streamlined as more and more trucks would be permitted to bring supplies into the state in the coming days, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-working-out-plan-to-buy-wheat-from-farmers-doorstep-65129
04-04-2020||---||Livid, Shiromani Ragi Sabha announces boycott of Amritsar village||Amritsar, April 3Verka residents have invited criticism for opposing the cremation of former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who passed away after testing positive for Covid.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has appealed to people to be sympathetic towards a person who gets infected with the virus.Also read: NGO lodges plaint against Verka villagersHarivallabh to dedicate event to Bhai Nirmal Singh KhalsaThe Shiromani Ragi Sabha, Golden Temple, Amritsar, has announced to boycott Verka area for any religious occasion.Questioning the role of administration and police, agitating ragis said during the lockdown, if there was a ban of assembly of more than three persons at one place, how could a group of 200 people gather and lock the crematorium in Verka?Sabha president Bhai Onkar Singh said, “If the Verka residents could not spare six-ft land to cremate a humble soul who must have performed “kirtan” and “ardas” at many houses in the locality, we too have no sympathy for them.”SGPC to start akhand pathThe SGPC has announced to hold “akhand path” at Gurdwara Bibeksar Sahib to pray for the departed soul. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the “akhand path” would be held on April 9 followed by a “bhog” on April 11. “We have spoken to his son Amiteshwar Singh in this regard. Only those who were closely associated wtih Bhai Nirmal Singh will attend the ‘bhog’,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/livid-shiromani-ragi-sabha-announces-boycott-of-amritsar-village-65128
04-04-2020||Moga||Get medicines at home via WhatsApp in Moga district||District Magistrate (DM), Moga, Sandeep Hans today said in order to provide medicines to ailing people on their doorsteps, the district administration was providing services through WhatsApp.He said people could place orders for medicines on numbers — 62807-18457, 94789-51322, 98163-04802 and 94187-83145. People would have to send their name, mobile number, and address for the same.The administration has also fixed prices of medicines to ensure that these are not black-marketed in the times of distress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/get-medicines-at-home-via-whatsapp-in-moga-district-65127
04-04-2020||---||Now, use COVA app to order groceries||Chandigarh, April 3Punjab citizens can use state government’s COVA mobile app to place an order for essential items amid the Covid clampdown.With this, the government hopes to reach out to people who have complained that contact numbers of grocery stores provided by the authorities are either invalid or go unanswered. Also, vendors were finding it difficult to deal with the high number of orders.The feature has been built into the app with support from Uengage Services Private Limited, who has not charged a rupee from the government, said Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Governance Reforms and Public Grievances.The added feature in the app will enable vendors to register themselves as suppliers and enlist their delivery executives for curfew passes. This shall also empower the district administration to approve or reject a vendor, and also act as a monitoring authority if a complaint is registered with regard to overpricing or adulteration.The app is already providing citizens with medical advice and authentic information on the number of cases and toll. In case of a large gathering, people can it on the app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-use-cova-app-to-order-groceries-65126
04-04-2020||---||People flouting social distancing norms to face music||Gurdaspur, April 3The Gurdaspur administration has designated the Police Lines of Gurdaspur and Batala police districts as jails and henceforth anyone found not practising social distancing, which doctors claim is mandatory to stem the spread of the Covid, will be lodged there.Issuing the orders today, DC Mohammad Ishfaq asked Gurdaspur SSP Swarandeep Singh and his Batala counterpart Opinderjit Singh Ghuman to ensure that people who were breaking the rule should be sent to these facilities after booking them under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.“I have found that people, particularly those visiting ration shops in the lanes, are the real offenders. They should understand that the Covid outbreak has the potential to spread exponentially if social distancing is not practised. Unfortunately, people are not understanding this, hence forcing me to take the decision,” said the DC.Sources claim despite the Chief Minister’s advisory to his ministers and legislators to stay at home, some of them are accompanying officials wherever ration is to be distributed.“This practice is blatantly wrong. It is just that many of my ilk are more interested in getting their photographs clicked instead of fight the scourge of coronavirus,” said a Gurdaspur-based minister.On Thursday, Sri Hargobindpur Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi was seen distributing food without asking his followers to maintain social distancing norms. Former Batala MLA, Ashwani Sekhri, too could be seen emulating his party colleague.Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa hailed the DC’s decision and added that he had received numerous calls from people of his Assembly seat of Dera Baba Nanak asking him to distribute food items. “I flatly refused. Leave alone practicing social distancing, I have even stopped shaking hands. A smile or a wave has become my substitute for a handshake,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/people-flouting-social-distancing-norms-to-face-music-65125
04-04-2020||---||200 Germans ‘stuck’ in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 3Amid imposition of curfew due to Covid outbreak, around 200 German nationals are stuck in different parts of Punjab.Visiting the state as tourists or meeting their friends, the foreigners are frantically trying to contact the German embassy in New Delhi, to fly them back to their country.Sharing this information with The Tribune, Hendrik Wiethase, a 69-year-old German national, who is held up in Mohali, said there were around 200 German nationals starnded in Punjab. “We have formed a WhatsApp group of the German nationals stranded in Punjab,” he said.He said Corinna Parmar, a German woman who is married to a man from Hoshiarpur, was trying to rope in all stranded nationals in Punjab or elsewhere. “I contacted the German embassy two weeks ago, but they have so far not given an evacuation plan. We are being asked to remain calm and wait,” he said, adding that he was upset over not being flown back.Putting up with his host Jasminder Pal Singh in Sector 79, Mohali, the German national has been in India for the last six months and reached here on March 6, to gather material for his book on Indian cuisine. Till now, he has been to Kerala, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, North-East and is now covering Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, collecting information about his book.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/200-germans-stuck-in-punjab-65124
