05-04-2020||Phagwara||Woman ends her life fearing coronavirus infection in Phagwara||A 60-year-old woman in Phagwara committed suicide by consuming celphos, fearing she had contracted the coronavirus disease, police said on Sunday.                   Santosh Kaur, a resident of Khurampur village, committed suicide after she complained of a throat problem.She feared that she had contracted the coronavirus disease, her family said.Though doctors told her that she was hale and healthy and only suffered from sore throat, she could not get rid of her fears, they said.                 Her relatives further said Santosh feared that her children will be afflicted with the disease and consumed celphos in her room. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-ends-her-life-fearing-coronavirus-infection-in-phagwara-66033
05-04-2020||Kapurthala||Rail Coach Factory Kapurthala manufactures under Rs 10,000 ventilator prototype||Rail Coach Factory (RCF) Kapurthala has manufactured a prototype ventilator “JEEVAN” within a week, which has an original design and will cost much less than what a regular ventilator costs.The under Rs 10,000 costing ventilator awaits final test at ICMR before being cleared for functioning at hospitals amidst the COVID-19 crisis.The ventilator prototype has been conceptualised by General Manager of RCF, Ravinder Gupta, and will now go for final testing at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before being put to production to aid the country and fight against COVID-19.In-house medical professionals of RCF Hospital have tested the unit and given it the go-ahead.Speaking on JEEVAN, Ravinder Gupta, General Manager of RCF, said, “It is an emergency ventilator built as a defiant reply to the curse of COVID. It will be submitted to ICMR for testing and validation and hopefully, it will be a saviour of lives amidst these hard times. The cost will be under Rs 10,000 without the compressor unit. Overall, the cost will still be a fraction of what regular ventilators available in the market cost. It can be used as an emergency ventilator. Production is easy and can be done with locally sourced components. The ventilator is very silent, and it is not reverse engineering, but it is an original design from scratch.”Gupta said a team of engineers from Plant, Mechanical & Electrical Design, IT and a group of medical professionals of RCF hospital and stores dept. have persevered hard for the culmination of the prototype of ventilator.The intellectual property rights relating to the ventilator belong to the RCF.The RCF is preparing the technical documents for perusal of the ICMR. Very soon, the prototype will be sent there for testing as per instructions of the Railway Board.He said the heart of the device is the compressed air container to work the Ambu bag with air without any moving parts like servo motor or piston or link mechanism.It has a microprocessor­ based controller and the circuit has been designed by the RCF team.A valve has been installed to regulate the breathing of the patient whether young or old. This ventilator can be optimised to more compact size by using small size components.The RCF is premier coach production unit which manufactures the German-design LHB coaches.The team under the stewardship of GM of RCF has used in-house capacities to manufacture it.The body has been made from coach components. The argon flow meter is taken from a laser welding machine and the compressor is from an air cooler.Team RCF needed to source just two parts viz. a regulator valve and a micro processor from vendors in Delhi and Noida. In the midst of the lockdown, RCF used emergency transit services to get the two components by road and train.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rail-coach-factory-kapurthala-manufactures-under-rs-10-000-ventilator-prototype-66032
05-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Physically-challenged ANM is Pathlawa’s COVID hero||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 5“Shuru ch tan thora dar lagga si. Par asi himmat nahi harde (I was afraid initially, but was never short of courage),” says 42-year-old Parmila Devi who have been traversing homes at Pathlawa even before Baldev Singh tested positive of coronavirus.For the past over a month, come hail or sunshine, Devi is off to the village – which was the first COVID hotspot of Jalandhar.A mother of two, with one leg affected by polio, the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) knows residents of hundreds of homes at Pathalwa like the back of her hand. Reaching out and apprising the villagers by putting her life at great risk, Devi had been at the forefront of the campaign against COVID much before the sanitisers or masks trickled down to health workers at grassroots.As a precaution, she has been keeping a distance from her family and her two children.Among the first to reach out to Baldev Singh’s family much before he tested positive, Devi who has been working with the health department for the past 12 years, says this has been among the most challenging assignments she has been tasked with.Deputed at the Pathlawa centre, she has been taking care of her family of four. While her husband is also polio-affected, she is the only one venturing out of her house.The trickiest part of her job? “Ensuring my sons stay unaffected from the disease,” she says.To ensure her sons, aged 8 and 15, are not infected, she has been maintaining social distance at home. “I don’t come and hug them, nor can meet them. I keep away. Just to be on the safe side. Of course food has to be cooked. But barring that my engagement with my family is minimal. As long as I stay on the job, it shall continue to be so,” she added.Isn’t she scared? “It was tricky at first. We had to convince villagers a lot in the beginning. There was misinformation and many didn’t understand about COVID. But things began to be streamlined and villagers and villagers also understand now. The most challenging part was convincing them to stay maintain social distancing after we leave. Eventually they began taking the initiative themselves. With Pathlawa slowly coming back to normal, I’m now deputed at Paddi Matwali village.”Sharing her dreams for her family she says, “I work on contractual basis and we sometimes don’t even know at what time we will come back. The only hope is that we will be regularised soon so that there we can bring more quality into our lives and pitch in more to support the family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/physically-challenged-anm-is-pathlawas-covid-hero-66028
05-04-2020||New Delhi||Coronavirus: Harbhajan Singh, wife Geeta to feed 5,000 families in Jalandhar||Ace India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh has pledged to feed 5000 under-privileged families in his native Jalandhar, who are suffering due to the COVID-19 pandemic which has infected over a million people globally and wreaked havoc on the economy.The contagion has already killed more than 70 people with 3000 plus being tested positive in India."By Blessings of Almighty, Geeta and I pledge to distribute ration to 5000 families residing in Jalandhar, who are struggling to feed their families during these difficult times. We will continue to help and support our fellow citizens in whichever way we can lessen the burden of struggle," Harbhajan said.Satnam waheguru.. bas Himmat hosla dena 🙏🙏 @Geeta_Basra and I pledge to distribute ration to 5000 families from today 🙏🙏 May waheguru bless us all pic.twitter.com/s8PDS9yet1  Asked how is he coordinating from Mumbai, the star spinner said: "I used to live in Daulatpuri earlier. My close friends today completed distribution of dry ration to 500 families in that area. I have personally spoken to DC (Punjab Police) Jalandhar. My team of friends will be following his instructions and accordingly food packets will be distributed."Also read: Yuvraj Singh pledges to donate Rs 50 lakh in fight against coronavirus pandemicThe 39-year-old said that he will continue to feed the people who are homeless and jobless until normalcy returns."We are distributing 5 kg of rice, flour, oil and other essential cooking ingredients. This endeavor will continue for the time being," Harbhajan said."I am still very attached to Jalandhar as I divide my time between Mumbai and Jalandhar. A part of me resides there and I can't see my own people suffer. Cricket has given me a lot and this is the least I could do."I wanted to ensure that if I am able to help, it should reach people directly and thanks to Punjab Police and my childhood friends, we have started off well. But a lot of work still needs to be done," the 'Turbanator' added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-harbhajan-singh-wife-geeta-to-feed-5-000-families-in-jalandhar-66023
05-04-2020||Minna Zutshi||Vet varsity at Ludhiana starts online classes||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 5Guru Angad Dev Veterinary & Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) has initiated online teaching for the students of different colleges.Regular Online Teaching, as per the finalised schedule/time table, will start from April 6. The lecture schedule and timetable for the next two months have been finalised. The colleges that will have Online Teaching include Veterinary Science College (Ludhiana and Rampura Phul), Dairy Science & Technology College, College of Fisheries and College of Animal Biotechnology.The Online Teaching is conducted through Zoom Cloud Meeting programme. Students have been informed via e-mail and WhatsApp groups through their class in-charge.Initially, a trial run was done which was successful. During the trial run almost cent percent students, including NRIs and students from other states, participated in online classes. Students and their parents have applauded the vet varsity efforts as revealed by Dr AS Nanda, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU.The GADVASU authorities have also started online meetings for discussing the ongoing situation as well as other issues related with administration and farmers’ welfare. The constituent private college, Khalsa College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Amritsar, has also been informed that online classes be started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vet-varsity-at-ludhiana-starts-online-classes-66007
05-04-2020||Sangrur||Crackdown on Punjab private schools seeking fee during lockdown||Punjab Education Department has initiated strict action against private schools for demanding a fee from parents during the ongoing lockdown, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said on Sunday. Despite clear directions from the Punjab government to not seek fee during the lockdown, some private schools had been sending messages to parents.The education department had issued an order on March 23, directing all private schools in the state to reschedule their admissions for 2020-21. The schools were asked to provide a window of at least 30 days for submission of fees after the situation gets normalized. They have also been directed not to charge any late fee or fine from the students for this period. After the issuance of these orders, the education department has regularly been warned schools of strict if they are found violating the order.“But despite repeated instructions, there were reports about some schools which had been asking the parents to pay the fees of their children after the results. We have initiated strict action against La Foundation School, Sangrur, DAV Public School, Bhupindra Road Patiala, Bhupindra International School Patiala, Delhi Public School, Ludhiana, and Mount Litera Zee School, Faridkot,” Singla told The Tribune.Singla said that the Ministry had decided that if it receives any complaint against a school in the future, first, it would get the school locked through a District Magistrate, then it would get an FIR registered against it, after which a reply would be sought from the school management. “In all complaints till today, we have issued show-cause notices and given 7 days to file their reply against the violation. If they fail to give a satisfactory reply, we are going to cancel their affiliation or no objection certificate (NOC). But in future, first, we would get the school locked, file an FIR and then seek their replies,” Singla said.He said that parents from all over the state could lodge complaints directly on his email: vijayindersingla@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crackdown-on-punjab-private-schools-seeking-fee-during-lockdown-66003
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sets up transport control rooms; Amarinder orders 1.85 lakh penalty on black-marketeers||In a series of new measures to ensure smooth supply of essentials to the people, the Punjab Government has set up Transport facilitation controls to maintain uninterrupted movement of trucks etc, carrying such supplies, while deciding to impose Rs. 1.85 lakh penalty against anyone found selling essential items above MRP.While the central transport control room is headed by the State Transport Commission, the facilitation controls rooms in the districts are headed by Secretary and the RTA, according to an official spokesperson.Under orders from Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the Transport Department has also stepped up supplies for other states which are deficient in food grains and other essentials.The outward movement of stocks to deficient states has gone up by almost 50% over the normal, said the spokesperson, adding that nearly 20-25 rakes of wheat/rice containing 54,000-67,500 tonnes are being dispatched daily to the deficient States. The Chief Minister, during the Cabinet meeting on Saturday, gave strict instructions to check the prices of all essential commodities and take strong action against those found hoarding/black-marketing/overcharging. Enforcement teams are working constantly to check overpricing etc and are taking stringent action against those indulging in such malpractices, especially who are selling items on higher rates than the prescribed ones.As many as 15 establishments in Pathankot, 10 in Gurdaspur, 15 in Ferozepur, one in Ludhiana and 11 in SAS Nagar have been raided by the teams and one Gas Agency has been challenged, the cabinet was informed.Meticulous monitoring is, in particular, is done for food items like wheat /atta and rice, dal, cooking oil, masala, vegetables, as well as masks, sanitizers etc. Principal Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies informed the Council of Ministers that constant monitoring is being to ascertainThe difficulties being faced in the maintenance of supply line, besides collecting data from Excise and Taxation Department and establishing networks with retailers like Reliance Fresh, Walmart, Big Bazaar etc. Constant liaison is also being maintained with the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas for uninterrupted supply of essential goods. Further, Nodal Officers of Police and Food and Civil Supplies departments are coordinating and facilitating inter/intrastate movement of essential commodities.The newly formed transport control rooms will help the truck operators and drivers to move their trucks (loaded or empty) anywhere in Punjab for essential commodities’ transportation. These control rooms will liaison with various authorities to ensure that these operators don’t face any problem.They will also help truckers from Punjab who are facing problems anywhere in India by coordinating with the concerned authorities of those states.Similarly, these control rooms will also help the traders, manufacturers of essential commodities based out of Punjab to engage trucks for transportation of essential commodities to its place of consumption, said the spokesperson. The State Control Room has been established at Chandigarh with mobile numbers 9814078544 & 9023459522.In the districts, the control rooms have been set up at Regional Transport Authorities (RTAs) at Amritsar (Amritsar & Tarn Taran) mobile Nos 9814255623 & 8872383600, Bathinda (Bathinda & Mansa) 9779700074 & 7508732655, Faridkot (Faridkot, Muktsar & Moga) 9872676005 & 9914105200, Ferozpur (Ferozepur & Fazilka) 8146852748 & 7889221313, Gurdaspur (Gurdaspur  & Pathankot) 7340701977 & 8288008751, Hoshiarpur  (Hoshiarpur  & SBS Nagar) 9646711100 & 8727049033, Jalandhar (Jalandhar & Kapurthala) 9872413497 & 9815256996, Ludhiana 9888405018 & 8528214311, Patiala (Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib) 8360417470 & 9501032006, SAS Nagar (SAS Nagar & Ropar) 8853400000 & 8427820090 and Sangrur (Sangrur & Barnala) 9814069272 & 9814700505.Goods Vehicle Operators/Drivers can contact these control rooms for assistance related to plying of their vehicles, for food availability and shelter on the routes, said the spokesperson.Meanwhile, as part of the relief operations, 10 lakh food packets comprising each of 10 kg wheat, 2 kg dal and 2 kg sugar have been distributed amongst the people living on the margins and left out of the NFSA domain.Another 1.2 lakh packets have been distributed amongst the migrant population (around 7.5 lakhs) settled in different industrial cities/towns of the State viz. Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Batala. For supply of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders, refilling facility of 5 kg LPG Cylinders is being provided exclusively to migrant workers in Ludhiana through the retail chain and the entire cost is being borne by State Government.Oil companies are being facilitated for uninterrupted supply of Petrol, Diesel & LPG Cylinders by ensuring smooth movement of vehicles. An additional allocation of 2.2LMT wheat & 10,800MT of Channa Dal is also being distributed free of cost to NFSA beneficiaries under PM Garib Kalyana Yojana. Door to door supply is being ensured of vegetables and other grocery items across the state. PUNSUP has been designated as the nodal agency for managing the retail chain for allocation of wheat and rice from FCI and Markfed for allocation of dal from NAFED and supply of edible oil. Sugarfed has notified control rates of sugar at which wholesalers can purchase sugar to feed the retail chains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sets-up-transport-control-rooms-amarinder-orders-1-85-lakh-penalty-on-black-marketeers-66000
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two women die in Punjab, coronavirus fatalities rise to 7||The death toll due to coronavirus rose to seven in Punjab on Sunday after two elderly women succumbed to the infection in the state, an official said.While one of them belonged to Ludhiana, the other was a Pathankot resident.Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Rajesh Kumar said over the phone that a 69-year-old woman died at a private hospital there. The woman, a resident of Shimlapuri area in Ludhiana, was admitted to the hospital in a serious condition on March 31.She was a heart patient and suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes, he said. Earlier, she had gone to Mohali to meet her relatives.The second victim was a 75-year-old woman from Pathankot district, who died at an Amritsar hospital, officials said. Amritsar Civil Surgeon Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said she was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on April 3 after she complained of breathlessness, cough and fever.Meanwhile, three more persons tested positive for the infection in Punjab, taking the total count of confirmed cases to 68 in the state.Among fresh cases was a person from Ludhiana who had attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month, a medical bulletin said.A 44-year-old woman from Barnala district tested positive for the infection despite having no travel history to any COVID-hit area, officials said, adding that his contacts are being traced.A 42-year-old man from Dera Bassi in Mohali contracted coronavirus and was admitted to a Sector 32 hospital in Chandigarh. The maximum 19 cases in the state have been reported from Nawanshahr, followed by Mohali (15), Amritsar (8), Hoshiarpur (7), Jalandhar (6), Ludhiana (5), Mansa (3) and one each in Patiala, Rupnagar, Faridkot,  Barnala and Pathankot, as per the medical bulletin. One patient is critical and is on ventilator support, the medical bulletin said.Of the total 68 patients, seven have died while four have been discharged from hospital.A total of 2,208 samples have been taken so far in the state, of which the 1,711 tested negative for the infection. Reports of 429 are awaited. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-women-die-in-punjab-coronavirus-fatalities-rise-to-7-65996
05-04-2020||Patiala||Coronavirus: Punjab death rate nearly three times higher than national average||The coronavirus death rate in Punjab is about 7.6 per cent—nearly three times higher than the national average of 2.75 per cent.The state reported a total of 65 cases until Saturday. Punjab does not have the highest number of cases, but its death rate is alarmingly among the highest.Among the most-affected states, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu—both have more than 400 cases—the death rate is below 5 per cent.The higher percentage of death rate might be an indicator of the dwindling healthcare system in Punjab, warn experts.However, Dr Manjit Singh Bal, former head and professor of Government Medical College Patiala, said that age and immunity of the patient were major factors determining mortality.He said, “We have to consider the age-demographics and immunity level of the people in the respective area to get the exact reason for the high percentage of deaths from COVID-19 in Punjab.”A 42-year-old Ludhiana woman is likely to have died due to the dwindling healthcare system. She was moved to Patiala Civil Hospital due to the lack of ventilators in Ludhiana. It took hours to reach Patiala and her condition deteriorated because she could not access the breathing equipment.Activist and former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Dr Pyare Lal Garg, said the government had taken “good” measures but it should provide more powers to the Civil Surgeon instead to the Deputy Commissioner because “we are admist a health crisis”.“Civil Surgeon would have referred the patient to a private hospital in the Ludhiana immediately,” said Garg.Punjab Health Minister, Balbir Singh Sidhu, said that three out of five deaths in the state were that of aged people. He said patients who died due to the virus had co-morbid conditions. Sidhu said that the other major factor was that cases were not diagnosed at an early stage. He said, “Bhai Nirmal Singh came to the hospital very late. Similarly, the 42-year-old Ludhiana resident, who died at Patiala, was diagnosed with COVID-19 only in the last stage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-punjab-death-rate-nearly-three-times-higher-than-national-average-65964
05-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Without PPE kits, health staff in Amritsar hesitate to go near patients||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4Senior officials hesitate to go near Covid patients due to the lack of personal protective equipment (PPE), which has resulted in poor medical services, said the staff at government medical college here.They said it was demoralising for junior doctors and other paramedical staff.Despite announcements by the state government and the local MP to issue funds for providing masks, sanitisers and PPE kits, the medical staff has been facing a shortage of protective gear.On Friday, nurses and other paramedical staff staged a protest to highlight the issue. “We are being told that except for doctors, no other employee needs masks and PPE kits in the isolation ward. This is discrimination as nurses have to give medicines to patients. Besides, they also serve them food,” a nurse said.Another nurse said, “Food for patients comes from the hospital kitchen. But, they never provide any utensils. They send packets of milk, which has to be boiled and served in glasses. We have been getting Rs9,000 per month for the past 12 years. We have been spending from our pockets to buy disposable utensils.” She asked why doctors could not provide masks and kits to the employees who were treating patients.The medical employees also complained that while the regular staff were reluctant to go near patients, the contractual staff members were forced to take care of patients without providing proper gear. Meanwhile, members of the Jago Punjab Organisation distributed masks and sanitisers among nurses on Saturday.At a meeting, Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni asked the medical college Principal, Medical Superintendent and senior officials to lead the fight against coronavirus, so that junior employees feel motivated. Soni asked the Principal to call senior doctors and instruct them to visit wards. “If we run away now, we will lose the fight,” he said.‘Hospitals face shortage of equipment’Tarn Taran: Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal, former state president of the PCMS Specialist Doctors’ Association and in-charge Aam Aadmi Party, in a press note issued here on Saturday, said that the doctors treating coronavirus patients were short of protective equipment. Dr Sohal said it was a matter of great concern that shortage of personal protective equipment was one of the key reasons that had led to doctors and healthcare workers getting infected in some places. He alleged that there was a shortage of ventilators and ICU beds in the state and the staff was forced to knock the door of courts for the required facilities according to the World Health Organisation norms. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/without-ppe-kits-health-staff-in-amritsar-hesitate-to-go-near-patients-65716
05-04-2020||---||Controversial Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri arrested in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 4Controversial Hindu Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri was arrested by the rural police for making communal and objectionable remarks against the Tablighi Jamaat community on a social platform here on late Friday evening.The case was registered following an anonymous complaint received in the complaint box for allegedly hurting the sentiments of people and thereby creating law and order problem.SSP, Amritsar rural, Vikram Jeet Duggal, said he made some objectionable remarks on his Facebook account. The matter was investigated by Jandiala SHO Rashpal Singh and a case under Sections 115, 153-A, 295-A and 505 (2) of the IPC was registered against him. Subsequently, he was nabbed from his residence.He was produced before the duty magistrate on Friday evening and sent to Hoshiarpur jail. Ranjit Singh, personal assistant to Suri, however, termed it as a false and fabricated case. He said the said Facebook account did not belong to Suri. “How can the police register an FIR on the basis of a suggestion box complaint and without proper investigation?” he asked, adding that the police did not even bother to record the statement of Suri. He said it was a fabricated case to harass him and his family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/controversial-shiv-sena-leader-sudhir-suri-arrested-in-amritsar-65712
05-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Pandemic brings forth humane side of cops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4When a large number of NGOs and individuals are helping the needy in these testing times, many heart-warming stories of cops are also surfacing, where they are seen serving the poor and destitute.Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, CP‘Cops working 24x7’The police force works 24X7 to ensure the implementation of curfew restrictions and avoid spreading of the deadly virus in the population. The cops are now instrumental in providing relief material to the poor and deprived people alsoThey are providing food and medicines to the needy by even spending from their own pockets. People may criticise them for not giving them liberty from going on roads. But they are braving rising hot conditions on roads to keep people safe from this deadly virus that has claimed thousands of lives all over the world.An elderly couple in Thatha village was in utter disbelief, when cops knocked their doors after knowing about their plight. The couple was living with their two grandchildren in a two-room house, where they had kept a couple of buffaloes also, which was their only source of income. “The lockdown dwindled our income while we were short of food after a couple of days of the curfew,” they said. It is now a routine for Constable Jaswinder Singh, a police officer deployed in the village, to visit them and ask for anything they need. The constable provides them with grocery and vegetables.In the same village, the cops found a lonely elderly lady Dipo. “I was completely moved to see her plight and immediately decided to do something for her,” said Harpal Singh, SHO Lopoke police station. “I make it a point to visit the village on a regular basis to take care of her,” he said.“These are just two instances from a village. My men are going beyond their call of duty for helping people in need. In Manwala area, a village police officer Sharanjit Singh took an elderly woman to hospital and provided her medicines after spending money from his own pocket,” said Vikram Jeet Duggal, SSP, Amritsar, Rural. Similarly, another cop helped a family whose newly borne child needed immediate care. The cops took them to hospital and ensured his proper treatment.ASI Jaswant Singh distributes ‘langar’ to the needy on a daily basis since the imposition of curfew restrictions. He spares time from his lunch break for the purpose. He appealed to the people in his village to prepare food which he could distribute among the needy on the road. “Many people came forward and contributed their bit in this effort,” he said. Similarly, inspector Neeraj Kumar, SHO, Rambagh police station, is distributing ration in the areas belonging to economically weaker sections of society. “I urged people in my contacts to arrange grocery for the poor in these testing times,” he said.These incidents have brought forth the humane face of cops who otherwise remain in news for all wrong reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pandemic-brings-forth-humane-side-of-cops-65710
05-04-2020||---||More exemptions for farming, allied activities||New Delhi, April 4The Centre is worried that exemptions to ensure farmers do not suffer from any adverse fallout of the nationwide lockdown are not percolating to field agencies.Lockdown BluesGovt has announced more relaxations for the sectorThese include shops of agri machinery, spares and repairTruck repair shops on highways and tea industry, including plantationHarvesting can be delayed till April 20, farmers toldHome Minister Amit Shah is monitoring this aspect on which depends the future of farmers and agriculture, say sources. The Ministry of Home Affairs has issued the fourth addendum to its notification, invoking the Disaster Management Act as per which shops of agricultural machinery, its spares (including supply chain) and repairs and shops for truck repairs on highways, preferably at fuel pumps, can remain open to facilitate transportation of farm produce. Besides, the tea industry, including plantations, can function with a maximum of 50 per cent workers.The ministry says it is the responsibility of the head of the organisation or an establishment to ensure the practice of social distancing norms and proper hygiene.The government advisory on precautions for harvesting and threshing of rabi crops and post-harvest, storage and marketing of farm produce also says farmers may delay wheat harvesting till April 20 without incurring any significant losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-exemptions-for-farming-allied-activities-65816
05-04-2020||Muktsar||Cops help in Muslim man’s burial||Help real estate sector, govt urgedChandigarh: The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) has urged the state government to come up with a revival package for the real estate sector. CREDAI Punjab president Jagjit Singh Majha said real estate was the largest employer after agriculture, supporting 269 industries that could play a major role in reviving the economy. He said the government should waive interest on pending instalments so that real estate should be in a position to give regular salaries to workers. TNSMLA gives diet packets to playersChandigarh: Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli on Saturday distributed free diet packets among sportspersons on their doorstep in his segment. “My volunteers have launched two helpline numbers. Callers need to give proof that they are sportspersons. Since morning, about 250 packets, comprising six eggs and chicken, have been distributed. The diet will give energy to sportspersons who are unable to practice because of the lockdown,” he said. TNSSanitation staff feted with garlandsSangrur: Residents on Saturday applauded sanitation workers of the local Nagar Council for ensuring cleanliness across the city by showering flowers and offering garlands of currency notes to them amid the Covid pandemic. “The sanitation staff are our real heroes. They have been collecting waste and cleaning streets even in the hour of crisis when all citizens are compelled to stay indoors. I, along with local social workers, honoured them,” said Anil Kicha, chairman of the Sangrur Market Committee. TNSBBMB earns Rs25 crore profitChandigarh: The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has recorded an all-time high transmission system availability of 99.82 per cent during the 2019-20 fiscal, a notch above 99.69 per cent that was achieved during 2018-19. The board has also achieved the highest-ever machine availability of 98.94 per cent during 2019-20 as compared to 97.95 per cent for 2018-19, according to a statement issued here. The BBMB has accrued an additional revenue of Rs25.32 crore during 2019-20. TNSCAPF men to use ‘Aarogya Setu’ appChandigarh: All Central Armed Police Forces personnel have been ordered to download ‘Aarogya Setu’ application on their phones and report compliance to the Ministry of Home Affairs as a part of government’s efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19. Launched a couple of days ago, the app will send automated updates on Covid and alert personnel if they come in contact with any infected person. TNS2-day ‘public curfew’ in AboharAbohar: The city on Saturday wore a deserted look on the first day of 48-hour “public curfew” that was proposed voluntarily by the local Beopar Mandal. Only milk vendors were allowed to reach out to consumers from 7 am to 10 am. Curfew passes were issued to only three NGO volunteers to serve food to the poor in their areas. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-help-in-muslim-mans-burial-65739
05-04-2020||Jalandhar||Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa's son alleges negligence by doctors at Amritsar hospital||While maintaining that the audio doing rounds on social media was his family’s, Amiteshvar Singh, son of deceased Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, today alleged negligence in the treatment of his father.In the audio, Khalsa was reportedly heard saying that he was not being given proper treatment.Matter with CabinetThe issue of alleged negligence of the Health Department in handling the case of the former Hazoori Ragi was raised in Cabinet meeting. Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa sought a probe into the entire matter and the controversy over the denial of cremation at Verka village.Amiteshvar Singh alleged, “He didn’t get proper treatment. He was crying and seeking help. He said there were four doctors on duty, but none attended to him. I want my sister, my uncle and his family be shifted to a private hospital. I don’t want them to meet the same fate. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has told me that he didn’t know about our plight or he would have extended help. He has promised me the best treatment for my family members and expressed grief at my father’s demise.”“Even thermometers and medical supplies were arranged by us. I stayed with my father during his treatment without any protective gear.”Amritsar Civil Surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur said, “As per information received from Government Medical College and Hospital, Bhai Khalsa self-reported himself on March 21 for check-up. At that time, he was not tested or suspected for Covid as he had no travel history and had returned in November. As far as the negligence of the hospital is concerned, only the internal staff can comment about that.”Meanwhile, the issue of alleged negligence of the Health Department in handling the case of the former Hazoori Ragi was raised in Cabinet meeting.Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa raised the issue, while seeking a probe into the entire matter and controversy over the denial of cremation at Verka cremation ground. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni are learnt to have said they were in touch with the family of Bhai Khalsa.Both defended the Health Department. The government has not marked any inquiry into the incident so far.104 contacts isolatedMoga: The district Health Department has examined 104 persons, who attended Anand Karaj on March 15 performed by former Hazoori Ragi Nirmal Singh who died of Covid. A senior official of the administration said all of them tested negative for the virus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhai-nirmal-singh-khalsas-son-alleges-negligence-by-doctors-at-amritsar-hospital-65737
05-04-2020||Ropar||Admn yet to find infection source of Ropar man||The district administration has put 17 persons in home quarantine after they were found to be in contact with a resident of Chatamalil village who was tested positive for Covid-19. Their swab samples have also been sent to the virology laboratory.The administration and health authorities are on their toes to trace the source of infection of the 55-year-old patient as all his contacts were found asymptomatic. The patient, who had been admitted at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, in Chandigarh, with complaints of diabetes and hypertension, was shifted at PGI, Chandigarh, after his test reports confirmed that he was suffering from Covid-19.The authorities have informed a private hospital and Community Health Centre at Kurali and Civil Hospital at Phase 6 in Mohali as the patient had visited there before getting admitted in Chandigarh. He had also attended a medical check-up camp organised in the village on March 13 where several people from abroad along with doctors from CMC, Ludhiana, and Mohali were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/admn-yet-to-find-infection-source-of-ropar-man-65736
05-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Two from Tanda  village die in US||Two NRIs from Gilzian village of Tanda have passed away in New York where the Covid is taking a huge toll on the lives of citizens.The deceased include 58-year-old Balkar Singh and 50-year-old Manjit Singh Khalsa. Villagers said Balkar’s son and daughter had come here a few weeks back and could not return owing to travel restrictions. Both their parents stayed back when the tragedy struck and he fell ill due to the infection. “Khalsa, however, is learnt to be suffering from some other ailments as well which complicated his condition,” said village sarpanch Gurmeet Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-from-tanda-village-die-in-us-65735
05-04-2020||---||Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar released on 6-week parole||Amritsar, April 4Prof Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, a convict in the 1993 Delhi bomb blast case, was released on six-week parole in view of Covid pandemic on Saturday. He was admitted to the psychiatry ward of Government Medical College here.529 inmates freedJail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill said Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar was among 59 inmates sent on six-week parole to decongest the prison. So far, the jail administration has released 529 prisoners and undertrials.Bhullar was awarded death sentence by a TADA court in the bomb blast case in 2001. But his death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment in 2014. He was among eight Sikh prisoners, undergoing sentence for crimes during days of militancy in Punjab, whose names were cleared for special remission by the Centre last year as a humanitarian gesture to mark the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak.Jail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill said Bhullar was among 59 inmates sent on six-week parole to decongest the prison on Saturday. So far, the jail administration has released 529 prisoners and undertrials in view of Covid spread.Bhullar was taken to his house in Ranjit Avenue here under tight security. During the parole period, he would not be allowed to venture out. In case he wants to move out, he would need to taken permission from the authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/devinder-pal-singh-bhullar-released-on-6-week-parole-65734
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||High Court judges to donate Rs 10,000 each||The Punjab and Haryana High Court judges have decided to contribute Rs 10,000 each towards the PM-CARES fund set up to fight the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. This is in addition to contributions being made by the judges at their individual level for safety gear and equipment for the medical staff, among other things.Sources said the judges during a full court meeting convened for the purpose decided to contribute the amount. The High Court as of now has 55 judges, including the Chief Justice. The exact amount gathered so far is not known as the cheques are still being collected. Apart from this, nearly 20 judges are contributing separately for personal protective equipment for the medical fraternity. The cheques are being collected and sent. Justice Rajiv Sharma has also made a contribution of Rs 50,000 towards Haryana COVID-19 Relief Fund. He is also in the process of contributing money to the Red Cross for supplying food items to the needy.The judges belonging to the subordinate judiciary of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, too, are contributing to the cause. All judges of Gurugram sessions division have contributed 20 per cent of their March salary for Haryana relief fund. This is in addition to the individual contribution by some of the judges. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-judges-to-donate-rs-10-000-each-65733
05-04-2020||---||No clarity on home delivery of ration to students, teachers livid||Ludhiana, April 4Although the Education Department has issued instructions to provide foodgrain of mid-day meals to students at their homes and transfer the cost of cooking to their bank accounts, there is no clear roadmap for accomplishing the task and it seems it will remain on paper only. Teachers are upset over the matter, saying it is not practical.There are no clear instructions on how to make it practical. A primary school principal in Ludhiana said their mid-day meal account was already in deficit and they were arranging foodgrain on credit from local stores. “We do not have any stock of foodgrain with us and it is not possible to buy as the stores are already shut. If we manage to buy the grain, then the problem of delivering on the doorsteps surfaces. Students live in different areas. How can a teacher reach out to all of them? We have received no clear instructions from the authorities regarding the disbursal of foodgrain and the amount,” she said.Hardev Singh, president, Democratic Teachers’ Front, Ludhiana, said the instructions had created panic among teachers. They had not been provided any safety kit by the department. Director, Public Instruction, Inderjit Singh said the department was providing whatever help it could in these difficult times.“Many teachers are already working as sector officers and they are helping students with the help of NGOs. We wanted that students should get their meals on time and hence these orders were issued. Teachers are doing a difficult job in this crisis and it should be acknowledged,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-clarity-on-home-delivery-of-ration-to-students-teachers-livid-65732
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ensure quality medical care: Sukhbir to CM||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to ensure that quality medical treatment was provided to Covid-19 patients in government hospitals. He demanded sacking of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni for “failure to provide treatment and protective facilities in civil hospitals and negligence displayed in handling the case of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa”.In a statement, Sukhbir alleged, “The details of the last telephone call of the ragi with his family members have shocked the Sikh community. He disclosed that he was being denied treatment and that no one had attended to him for four hours and even said his last farewell to his family members in utter despair. Later, the family members disclosed that the Amritsar government hospital which had housed Khalsa was unhygienic and nurses did not even have any gloves for protection.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-quality-medical-care-sukhbir-to-cm-65731
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Faridkot, Pathankot report first cases, spread in 11 districts now||With eight fresh cases reported today, the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases has reached 65 in the state. Now, a total of 11 districts are affected with the virus. As per the Health Department, three cases have been reported from Amritsar, two SAS Nagar and one each from Jalandhar, Pathankot and Faridkot.The number of patients from Amritsar increased to eight as three family members of Darshan Singh, a member of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa’s Ragi jatha, were found positive. Darshan Singh had tested positive for corona yesterday. The confirmed family members today included his wife, son Jagpreet Singh and grandson Taalveer Singh.Apart from that for the first time, Faridkot reported its first case. A 35-year-old man, who deals in foreign currency exchange and air tickets, was found positive. After confirmation on Friday late evening, the police sealed all entry and exit points of Harindra Nagar in Faridkot where the residence and the office of this Covid-19 patient are situated. He was admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) on April 2 with symptoms of Covid and the doctors had sent the samples for verification at VRDL, Amritsar. The Health Department is working overtime to assess the route of this virus disease, how and where it caught this patient as he has no travel history in the recent time. The samples of his wife, four-year-old daughter and mother have been collected and sent to Amritsar, officials said. “As part of precaution, we are following all protocols for suspected cases such as contact listing and quarantine of contacts,” Dr Rajinder Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Faridkot, said.As per the Health Department, so far the samples of 1,824 suspected cases were sent for testing, of which 1,520 were found negative and the reports of 239 were awaited. A total of 65 were found positive from 11 districts. The state has reported five casualties so far. With the fresh positive cases, now 11 districts of the state are affected with the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-pathankot-report-first-cases-spread-in-11-districts-now-65730
05-04-2020||Nawanshahr||Doctors surprise patient with birthday treat||Even as some doctors are facing the wrath of people for not providing proper medical care to Covid patients, it is a different story at the Civil Hospital here where the medical team today planned a surprise birthday treat of a child under treatment.Dr Gurpal Kataria (54) said, “This morning, while we were taking samples of patients, we came to know about the birthday of one of the four grandchildren of Baldev Singh. We sang birthday wishes for the child and arranged chocolates, packets of sweet and snacks. The children were elated.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-surprise-patient-with-birthday-treat-65729
05-04-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur health centre staff  ‘missing’, patients harassed||At a time when the Punjab Government claims to have ramped up health facilities, patients were shocked to find staff missing from Dirba Community Health Centre (CHC).Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) has sent a report to senior authorities while Civil Surgeon (CS) has assured to look into the matter. “I have some health problems and I came here to get myself examined. But all staff is missing. Initially, I waited for doctors and other staff. But when none came, I inquired from some other patients, who were leaving and they also did not have any clue about the arrival of doctors,” said a patient Karnail Singh.Some other patients, who were also waiting for a doctor, said they also did not have any information whether the doctor and other staff would come or not.“The Punjab CM says there is medical emergency, but hospital is without doctors, really shocking,” said Balwinder Singh, a youngster standing at the gate of CHC. Dirba SDM Manjeet Singh Cheema said he had sent a report about the absence of health department staff to senior authorities. “We would take action against absent staff of the health department as per the directions of senior authorities,” said SDM Cheema.Dirba MLA Harpal Cheema has demanded action.Senior Medical Officer, Dirba, Dr Aarti Pandov said there were six posts of doctor at Dirba CHC, but four were vacant. One doctor has been absent, while only one was available.“When patients came, the doctor, along with other staff, had gone to examine a suspected Covid patient as she is also a part of Rapid Response Team. None has been absent and all are working hard to help patients,” she said.Sangrur CS Dr Raj Kumar said he was unaware about the issue and said that he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-health-centre-staff-missing-patients-harassed-65728
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt to procure wheat in staggered manner||To streamline the procurement of wheat in a staggered manner, the Council of Ministers today decided to increase purchase centres from existing 1,820 to 5,000, by including premises of rice shellers across the state.Each purchase centre will cater to two to three villages, so that there was no crowding. Against the initial plan of collection of wheat from each village, the Cabinet, led by the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, decided to issue tokens with one-day validity to each of the farmers through the arhtiya concerned. The token will have an official hologram to check its misuse.It was discussed in the Cabinet meeting that as Covid-19 positive cases were increasing, the outbreak could peak in the coming weeks. This could necessitate extension of the curfew and strict implementation of social distancing, especially in wake of involvement of large workforce in harvesting and procurement of wheat.The details of procurement arrangements should be notified by April 8, the Council of Ministers decided. To ensure timely payment to farmers, it has been decided that payments shall be made to the arhtiyas within 48 hours and they will, in turn, pay the farmers for the produce within the next 48 hours.To stagger harvesting, combines will be allowed to operate from 6 am and 7 pm, an official spokesperson said after the meeting. Further, to ensure smooth and speedy operations, maximum number of labourers shall be permitted for unloading operations at storage sites. Sufficient stocks of gunny bags, wooden crates and tarpaulins for storage were being arranged to ensure smooth procurement operations, it was pointed out.The Chief Minister directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to finalise a comprehensive security plan to ensure smooth procurement of wheat grain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-procure-wheat-in-staggered-manner-65727
05-04-2020||Jalandhar||For immunity boost, residents turn to organic food products||The fear of Covid is making a large number of people approach organic farmers in the state. The demand for organic vegetables, jaggery made from organically-grown sugarcane and other products like wheat, basmati, pulses and millets has risen. To increase their immunity against the coronavirus, people now have turned to organic products.“Several business class people have approached me and asked me about growing organic vegetables. They say that they don’t want to feel helpless in the future too. Having a strong immune system is the only solution to this Covid problem. So, if they eat healthy, they would have good immunity to deal with such health issues,” said Kamaljit Hayer from Muktsar district who has been doing organic farming for long.The demand has increased so much that the organic farmers from districts like Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr have been seeking permission from the administration to deliver vegetables and jaggery at the doorsteps of the customers.A woman farmer from Hoshiarpur Manjit Kaur said she was getting several calls daily since the lockdown was announced. She used to come to Jalandhar every Sunday to sell organic vegetables. “My customers do not want to buy vegetables or any other products from market. There is a fear that at this point, everyone should eat organic things that are grown without any insecticide or pesticide,” she said adding that customers had been placing bulk orders so that they did not have to go out amid the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-immunity-boost-residents-turn-to-organic-food-products-65726
05-04-2020||---||Cut expenses to prepare war chest, CM tells depts||Chandigarh, April 4To generate resources to deal with Covid-19, the state government has asked all departments to cut expenditure. The departments have been asked to submit detailed proposals by April 8 on where funds can be saved over the next few weeks.May extend CurfewThe CM is learnt to have indicated to his colleagues that the curfew curbs might have to be extended. The cases could peak in May or June or could subside earlier. The trend in the country and the state, as well as the threat of community spread of the infection would be the deciding factors, sources say.“We have to save people. It should be our priority,” said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at a meeting of the council of ministers. He said resources had to be made available to the health, police and other departments directly involved in the current battle, which “threatens to be a long one”.Hospitals shutting shop to face actionWith an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases and apprehensions of community spread, the Cabinet decided to gradually scale up the arrangements to deal with the situation. Taking note of shutdown of operations by several private hospitals, the Cabinet decided to take strict action against such hospitals. Also, licences of hospitals refusing to treat patients will be cancelled.With no additional revenues coming in, the only way out was to cut expenditure, he stressed, adding that every department would need to make cuts in order to generate revenue for the critical care services. Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said the state would suffer Rs5,000 crore in revenue losses in April, and the figure was expected to go up further in the absence of revenue from GST and petroleum taxes.Sources said on the pattern of the PSPCL, the state government could come up with a proposal to stagger the payment of salaries to its employees. The Finance Department is learnt to be working on the financial burden involved in paying salaries to its employees. Any decision in this regard is expected to be taken in the coming days.Besides, the Cabinet authorised the extension for all retiring health officials by three months as proposed by Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh.Capt Amarinder has warned of strict action, including impounding of passports, of those who fail to declare their travel history.He said there could be no compromise on this count and anyone found hiding their travel history from police/health officials would be dealt with strictly. “We will take away their passports too,” he warned.Insurance for cops, sanitation workersThe government has announced special health insurance cover of Rs50 lakh each for the police personnel and sanitation workers in the frontline of the battle against Covid-19 on the lines of Centre's announcement for health workers.Meanwhile, contact tracing of the Nizamuddin returnees was being done on an aggressive scale and 192 persons from the list of 255 received by the state had already been tested and isolated, health officials said. In addition, tracking was being done for all foreign-returned as well as high-risk categories such as healthcare professionals, police etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cut-expenses-to-prepare-war-chest-cm-tells-depts-65725
05-04-2020||---||Don’t switch off all lights: PSPCL ahead of blackout||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has issued an advisory to people to not switch off all lights at 9 pm on Sunday, as appealed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who has given a call for a nine-minute blackout across the country to dispel darkness spread by Covid.Though Punjab will not be affected from the sudden drop and equally sudden rise in demand, the PSPCL recommends residents of the state to keep electrical appliances switched on.The power utility claims that the load reduction will not be much.The PSPCL’s advice is in line with a similar advisory issued by the Power System Operation Corporation Limited (POSOCO), which claims that there would be a total domestic load reduction of 13,000 MW across the country.VK Gupta, a spokesperson for the All-India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF), said the federation wrote to Prime Minister Modi and the Union Ministry of Power, raising concerns arising out of sudden switching off lights.Subsequently, meetings in all states took place to devise a strategy to prevent a possible grid collapse on Sunday night. “The POSOCO on Saturday issued an advisory for reliable and secure system operation on April 5 for nine minutes,” Gupta said.Baldev Singh Sran, PSPCL CMD, said: “Because of the lockdown, the load of Punjab will only be 2,800 to 2,900 MW at 9 pm. It is expected to decrease by 400 MW or so at 9 pm. It is not a major drop. At present, only hydel plants are running in Punjab and their response is faster than thermal plants. The PSPCL has sufficient sources to handle the sudden dip and equally sudden rise in demand through Ranjit Sagar dam and other hydel plants.”A senior PSPCL officer said, “Power engineers are always prepared to perform under difficult situations. They are working round the clock to provide uninterrupted supply.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-switch-off-all-lights-pspcl-ahead-of-blackout-65724
05-04-2020||Gurdaspur||To avoid crowding, leaders shelve ration distribution||Gurdaspur leaders, for whom the Covid had come in handy to further their political ambitions, have quietly stepped back with a majority of them calling off their ‘ration and milk distribution’ functions knowing well that had they gone ahead, social distancing norms could have gone for a six.Local MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra initially had plans to distribute food items from his residence. However, he made an eleventh-hour change and instead went in for ‘mobile distribution’ wherein 25 auto-rickshaws carrying foodgrain leave from his residence early in the morning.Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, too, shelved plans to distribute ration from his residence at Dharowali falling in the Assembly seat of Dera Baba Nanak. “I know crowds can never maintain social distancing norms,” he said.An exception is former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri. In a video, he is seen visiting a crowded area to distribute milk to households.Meanwhile, Gurdaspur SSP Swarandeep Singh toured crowded areas and warned shopkeepers that the police would register FIRs if they continued to flout rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-avoid-crowding-leaders-shelve-ration-distribution-65723
