06-04-2020||---||Take precautions, fight coronavirus with strong will: Nawanshahr man after recovery||Nawanshahr, April 6Fateh Singh (35), son of Baldev Singh, the first victim of COVID-19 in Punjab, has successfully braved the trauma as well as the dreaded disease after being tested positive along with his family members.After recovering from the disease, Fateh Singh has made an emotive appeal to the people of the state from the quarantine ward of the local civil hospital.Fateh Singh tested negative for COVID-19 on April 4 and again tested negative on April 5. Today, he was shifted out of the Isolation Ward housing all COVID-19 patients to the Quarantine Ward. He will discharged soon.In a video message, he has urged the people to meticulously abide by the guidelines issued by the government, health department and the administration regarding precautionary and preventive measures to check spread of the epidemic."Moreover, the strong will power as well as the faith in the Almighty God can help you to swim through the any untoward situation,” said Fateh Singh while sharing his experiences during treatment in the isolation ward.Fateh Singh, a resident of Pathlawa, had been diagnosed as Covid-19 on March 20 and housed in the Isolation Ward of the District Hospital at Nawanshahr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/take-precautions-fight-coronavirus-with-strong-will-nawanshahr-man-after-recovery-66479
06-04-2020||Jalandhar||Anxiety over COVID-19 leads to Phagwara woman’s suicide||Santosh Kaur, a 65-year-old woman, resident of the Khurrampur village in Phagwara, committed suicide over the fear of the coronavirus.The woman committed suicide late on Saturday night after consuming some tablets.Being in depression, her case underlines the impact of COVID-19 on people with underlying mental health issues.Living alone in her house at Khurrampur village, she committed suicide citing fear that she would infect her daughters coming to see her the next morning.Health department had said since she had no COVID symptoms or history – her fear was an illusion.Baljit Kaur, the woman’s daughter who lives in Jalandhar, said, “Kalle television dekh dekh ke ohnan de dimaag de vich baith gay ki menu ho gayi hai. (She became convinced by watching TV alone that she had COVID-19). She had no problem – neither cold, nor cough, nor fever. My father died last year. But she was fine after that. However, for past 4-5 days she started feeling that she got coronavirus. Four of us sisters were going to get her tested the next day. But she got scared we would get it too. That’s what caused her act. She did it to protect us.”Sarpanch of the village, Manjit Singh, said, “Oh baar baar ikko gal khendi si – menu corona ho gaya. Vehem pai gaya si. (She repeatedly kept saying she has got corona. She had got this illusion.)”Manjit said, “Seeing her health and that she was scared, we informed her children. But she was scared they would be infected too. I met her at 8 pm on Saturday. She was fine then, said her fever had healed but had irritation in her throat. However, in the morning we got to know she had committed suicide. In her suicide note she said she was dying of her own free will and her children not be blamed for her death.”Civil Surgeon Kapurthala, Dr Jasmeet Bawa said, “The woman wasn’t a COVID-19 case. She was suffering from anxiety over coronavirus. We had been intimated by the sarpanch that she had anxiety and was suffering from depression. The rapid response team of the health department visited her only on Saturday afternoon and had counseled her. Later we go to know she died.”  The woman has four daughters – none of whom were staying with her. Her daughters—all married—were settled in Phagwara, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur.While her family came to the village after receiving information about her death – her body was cremated at the village last evening.Villagers said her husband had also died last year – after which she had been suffering from depression.SHO Sadar police station Phagwara Amarjit Singh said, “The woman had a fever and a cough. The health teams repeatedly went to her to pacify her and she was also without symptoms of COVID-19. A check up was conducted on Saturday afternoon which was normal. However, she had a fear that she had COVID, due to which she committed suicide.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anxiety-over-covid-19-leads-to-phagwara-womans-suicide-66466
06-04-2020||---||Coronavirus: 34 cases registered in Punjab over fake social media messages||Chandigarh, April 6 Cracking down on spread of rumours and panic in the light of COVID-19 crisis, the Punjab Police have registered 34 cases of fake news on social media, while also taking strong action against those targetting a particular community in an attempt to disturb the state’s peace.As many as 27 of the 34 cases registered between March 21 and April 6, 2020, relate to WhatsApp forwards and misinformation, according to DGP Dinkar Gupta.The police are also taking stern action against attempts to use social media to spread communal strife, he said, adding that a sedition case was registered on Friday against a Ludhiana resident.Among the prominent cases that have come to light is an FB post by a Ludhiana resident, seeking to mislead the people about availability of critical medical equipment, and to spread hatred against the state government. A sedition case has been registered against the person.Fake Tik Tok videos, unsubstantiated audio messages, forwards of provocative and false news are all under the scanner of the Punjab Police, which is keeping an eye on all such attempts.Giving details of some of the key cases registered in the last 17 days, the DGP said 5 cases have been filed in Sangrur and four in Bathinda for crimes relating to spreading fake videos and false audio messages, and creating panic by spreading fake news on WhatsAapp regarding death of a person due to coronavirus.In Patiala, an FIR was filed for spreading fake news regarding deployment of military, said the DGP, adding that Amritsar Rural Police arrested a Shiv Sena leader for trying to foment communal passions through his Facebook post.An FIR has been registered in Police Station Qila Lal Singh in district Batala against the Granthi of village Dalam for announcing that milk should not be procured from Gujjar community.In another such instance, a case has been registered in Adampur against a person who claimed to be immune to COVID 19 and asked people to drink water with onion as a cure against the deadly disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-34-cases-registered-in-punjab-over-fake-social-media-messages-66465
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar develops design of negative pressure room to check spread of COVID-19||The Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar, has developed a design of a negative pressure room (NPR) to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 through air at isolation wards and testing labs, thus protecting the medical staff from getting infected.The design and modelling of the NPR took shape after a group of professors, including that of IIT Ropar, decided to come up with a solution to protect the frontline health staff working at coronavirus isolation wards.“We have come up with a design and modelling of NPR which can be set up at isolation wards and testing laboratories in preventing transmission of viruses,” said IIT Ropar Associate Professor Dhiraj Mahajan. He said South Korea managed to contain the spread of coronavirus to a large extent because of the NPR system.Mahajan said the low-cost NPR will help in protecting the health staff working at isolation wards. Meanwhile, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank appreciated the IIT Ropar team for the invention.“Congratulations to team @IITrpr led by Dhiraj K Mahajan for working out engineering aspects of Negative Pressure Rooms to create facilities for mass screening for Covid-19. It will help to contain the rapid spread of the virus,” the minister said on Twitter. Explaining the concept of negative pressure rooms, Mahajan said they are specially designed isolation rooms in hospitals and medical centres to prevent the transmission of viruses through air by patients.It includes a ventilation system that generates a negative pressure in the room and allows air to flow into the isolation room and escape from the room, carrying away the virus along, he said.“It will prevent spreading of COVID-19 patients’ droplets in the air if they are coughing in the room,” he explained. Mahajan said it will cost Rs 9,000 for setting up a negative pressure room with a dimension of 9X9X8 cubic feet for a patient. It mainly involves exhaust fans, fine grade plastic sheets etc.The IIT professor said inquiries about the NPR design have already been made by officials in West Bengal, adding they would soon make a prototype of the NPR.Mahajan, however, sought help from the Punjab Government in giving them relaxation from curfew restrictions in sourcing necessary equipment for making the NPRs.Meanwhile, another team of researchers at IIT Ropar had developed a low-cost ventilator which can provide oxygen to two patients at a time. “It can be used for automatic compression of Ambu bag used in manual resuscitator,” they said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-ropar-develops-design-of-negative-pressure-room-to-check-spread-of-covid-19-66464
06-04-2020||Patiala||No fear of contagion in cremation and rituals of corona-infected body, say forensic experts||Amid the growing fear of infection from the cremation of COVID-19 infected people, forensic experts said there was no chance of contagion from the cremation — if the protocol was followed.Experts said there was a misconception that coronavirus continued to remain on the ground or in the air following the cremation of the COVID-19 patient.Notably, last week, residents of Verka village in Amritsar district had refused the cremation of Padma Shri recipient and Sikh spiritual singer Nirmal Singh, who died of COVID-19.Experts informed that the main driver of transmission of COVID-19 was only droplets.There is unlikely to be an increased risk of COVID infection — from a dead body — to health workers or family members.The forensic experts say that before the body is taken to the cremation ground, it has already been sanitised by health staff and is taken to the cremation ground — in a double-layered body bag.After the death of the COVID-19 patient, the mouth, nose and wounds — if any — are washed with 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution.Thereafter, the body openings and wounds are dressed with impermeable material to prevent leakage of body fluids.The body then is placed in a leak-proof double-layered body bag. The exterior of the body bag is decontaminated with 1 per cent hypochlorite.Dr DS Bhullar, senior forensic medicine and toxicology expert of Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, said that all the required protocol was being followed, therefore, there was no chance of spread of the virus from the dead body.He said, “The cremation rituals are done after following all the precautions by the health experts, therefore, there is no chance of spread of the virus while cremating a COVID-19 patient.”Commenting on the post-cremation rituals, Bhullar said that people — who attend the cremation and rituals thereafter — have no chance of contagion as coronavirus in the body gets killed after cremation.He said the ashes didn’t pose any risk and can be collected to perform the last rites.Experts informed that viewing of the body by unzipping the face end of the body bag (by the staff using standard precautions) is allowed, for the relatives to see the body for one last time.However, bathing, kissing, hugging of the body should not be allowed.For precaution sake, after the cremation, funeral staff and family members should wash their hands, said forensic experts.Dr Ashok Chanana, Professor, Government Medical College, Amritsar, said that the government had already laid the protocol which was duly followed by the health staff.He said, “People should trust doctors and experts and do not believe in rumours. If there is awareness, people won’t fear about the cremation of the patient.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-fear-of-contagion-in-cremation-and-rituals-of-corona-infected-body-say-forensic-experts-66457
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab urges Centre to provide insurance cover for government officials||The Punjab Cabinet has urged the central government to provide insurance cover to all officers and officials working for the containment of the virus.An official spokesperson said on Monday that the Cabinet, at its meeting on Saturday, demanded that the Union government immediately announce insurance cover for all employees rendering services to keep the spread of coronavirus under check.The Cabinet led by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh reiterated that the insurance cover to these employees would further motivate them to support the state’s endeavour to combat the pandemic with utmost dedication and professional commitment. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-punjab-urges-centre-to-provide-insurance-cover-for-government-officials-66451
06-04-2020||Moga||3 labourers die while cleaning tank at Moga animal feed factory||Three labourers died while cleaning a septic tank at factory in Moga’s Kot-ise-Khan town on Monday, police sources said.The labourers have been identified as Surjit Singh from Nasirpur Jania village, Jaspreet Singh and his brother Satnam Singh, both from Khosa Kotla.Investigations revealed that Sanjeev Kumar Garg, son of a local businessman, owned the factory, Ekam Feed.The 10-feet deep tank contained a mix of various animal feed that had turned into molasses and had begun to emit a poisonous gas, sources said.  Sources said that the labourers were asked to clean the tank without letting out the gas first.  Surjit Singh first entered the tank and when he did not come back, Jaspreet went in looking for him. When neither returned, Satnam went in to pull them out, but he slipped and fell into the tank.Police took the help of locals to pull out the bodies and then sent them to the district hospital for autopsy.Police sources said investigations were still ongoing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-labourers-die-while-cleaning-tank-at-moga-animal-feed-factory-66447
06-04-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur administration sets up Punjab's first COVID-19 Safety Station||In first of its kind initiative, Sangrur district administration has installed a COVID-19 Safety Station (CSS) at the local administrative complex as a pilot project in Punjab.Similar stations will also be set up at grain markets of the district in the coming days.CSS will sanitise each visitor to the office using a four-step process.First, an infrared thermal scanner will record the temperature of the person passing through it. If a person is found having a higher body temperature than normal, he will immediately be sent to 'flu centre' established at the civil hospital.If the temperature is normal, then in the second step, a washbasin has been installed, where taps are foot-operated.In the third step, a concentrated sodium hypochlorite solution will be sprayed on the visitor's body with the help of tiny sprinkles.Finally, a booth has been established which has ceiling fans and hand dryers. Hands and clothes will be dried without using a towel, as the use of a towel by multiple persons could also increase the risk of contamination.“The first project of its kind in the state. In coming days, we would install CSS at all grain markets of the district to prevent the spread of COVID-19 during the forthcoming wheat season. It will sanitize farmers, commission agents, labourers and administrative officials during the wheat procurement season,” said Sangrur DC Ghanshyam Thori.Thori said that the wheat arrival in grain markets is expected from April 10 and Sangrur has a more than 10 per cent share in Punjab's wheat basket.“Presently, there are three models of it, which cost from Rs 1 to 2 lakhs. We are trying to arrange money for this project. CSS could easily sanitize 4-5 persons within a minute," said Thori.The DC said that District Revenue Officer (DRO) Gagandeep Singh has been appointed in-charge of thE project.The president of Sangrur Industrial Chamber (SIC,) Ghanshyam Kansal, said they would fund the installation of two CSS at the offices of Sangrur and Patiala SSPs in coming two-three days.“We have prepared CSS within last 20 working hours after the directions of local DC. We are ready to manufacture more," said Balwinder Jindal, former president of SIC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-administration-sets-up-punjabs-first-covid-19-safety-station-66444
06-04-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: 81-year-old, suffering from diabetes and hypertension, recovers in Mohali||An 81-year-old woman recovered from COVID-19 and was released from Max hospital in Mohali on Monday.The woman suffered from diabetes and hypertension. She also had five stents, mostly used to keep coronary arteries open, placed in her. A resident of Phase 5, she had tested positive in March and had initially been kept in an isolation ward of Civil Hospital, Kharar. The woman was the landlady of a 27-year-old woman who tested positive.The 27-year-old woman is the friend of the 23-year-old woman who was the first to be declared positive in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-81-year-old-suffering-from-diabetes-and-hypertension-recovers-in-mohali-66434
06-04-2020||Lahore||Pak cancels Baisakhi celebrations at Gurdwara Panja Sahib amid Covid-19 crisis||Pakistani authorities have cancelled the Baisakhi celebrations at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Punjab province from April 14, in which around 3,000 Sikhs from India were to participate, due to the coronavirus pandemic in the country, a media report said on Monday.The number of the coronavirus cases in Pakistan on Monday reached 3,277 with the infections in the worst-hit Punjab province approaching 1,500. The deadly virus which originated in China's Wuhan city has infected more than 1.2 million people globally.The Baisakhi celebrations were scheduled to begin at the revered gurdwara in Hasan Abdal city of Punjab province on April 14, Dawn News reported.Now only a symbolic event would be held on the day, it said.Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) Deputy Secretary Shrines Imran Gondal said a meeting of the ETPB and the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbadhank Committee (PSGPC) unanimously decided that there would be no Baisakhi celebrations at the Gurdwara Punja Sahib this year and the scheduled visits of Sikh pilgrims had been cancelled, the report said.The ETPB looks after the holy places of the minority community in the country. Gurdwara Punja Sahib has a handprint of Guru Nanak on a boulder of the shrine.Around 3,000 Sikhs from India and 2,000 from around the world were to participate in the celebrations, the report said.In 2019, over 2,200 Sikhs from India visited Pakistan to celebrate Baisakhi.The Ministry of Religious Affairs has already been informed of the decision, Gondal said, with onward communication for the Foreign Office and the Indian government regarding the development. The Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi would not issue visas to pilgrims this year, it added."We have monitored the situation closely in recent days and worked with government departments, including the PSGPC and other stakeholders. We are committed to following the guidelines set by the federal government to ensure a safe environment for our Sikh pilgrim guests and we would not risk their health amid the global coronavirus outbreak," Gondal said.PSGPC General Secretary Sardar Ameer Singh, a leading organiser, said the decision was made to prevent all risks to public health and safety.Deciding to cancel the event was not easy, he said, as the Sikh community around the world has great emotional, religious and cultural attachment to the event. He added that only symbolic Baisakhi celebrations will be observed at Gurdwara Panja Sahib. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-cancels-baisakhi-celebrations-at-gurdwara-panja-sahib-amid-covid-19-crisis-66427
06-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Kapurthala district gets first COVID-19 positive case-a jamaat member||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, April 6A Tablighi Jamaat member from Kapurthala tested positive for COVID-19 here on Monday, becoming the first case from the district.Previously putting up at a mosque in Kot Karar Khan village, the man was placed under isolation at the Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, on Sunday night.The man had attended the Markaz at Delhi.In all, 33 jamaatis had been placed under quarantine at Kapurthala. Of these, 21 had been placed under quarantine at two mosques at Kot Karar Khan vilage.Ten more jamaatis remain under quarantine at Palahi and one each at Dhaliwal Bet village and Phagwara.Kot Karar Khan village has been sealed by the district administration. The mosques where the jamaatis have been staying have also been sealed.Civil Surgeon, Kapurthala, Dr. Jasmeet Bawa said, "Of the 33 members of the Tablighi Jamaat in Kapurthala, one has tested positive. The remaining 32 have tested negative. We have introduced containment plan at Kot Karar Khan village. Other villages within a radius of 7 to 8 km are also being sealed."While 14 jamaat members had arrived at Kapurthala from Mumbai on March 18, seven had arrived from Delhi on February 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthala-district-gets-first-covid-19-positive-case-a-jamaat-member-66415
06-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Coronavirus: Two women who attended Tablighi meet test positive in Fatehgarh Sahib district||Two women, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus in Fatehgarh Sahib district on Sunday.Dr N.K.aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, said that the throat sample of 30 Tablighi Jamaatis, who are isolated at a hospital in the district, was taken. The reports of the two women came back positive, whereas others tested negative for coronavirus.He said these two women were isolated at Khamano hospital along with nine others. He said they have been admitted to Gian Sagar hospital in Dera Bassi, which has been assigned for treating corona patients in the district.He said that these two women belong to Aurangabad in Maharashtra and after attending the event at Nizzamudin, along with 30 other Jaamatis, they came to Fatehgarh Sahib. He said before reaching Manaili village in Khamano subdivision of the district, 11 Jamaatis remained at village Sanipur near Sirhind town and then travelled to Sanghol village in Khamano subdivision and remained there from 17th to 21st March and then moved to nearby village Manaili. He said on April 3, the health department got the information from intelligence that 11 Jaamatis were staying in Masjid at village Manaili in Khamano subdivision. He said they were isolated at a civil hospital in Khamano and their throat samples were taken.He said last night department got the report that two women Jaamatis are positive, whereas rest are negative. He said at 1 am they were immediately shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Dera Bassi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-two-women-who-attended-tablighi-meet-test-positive-in-fatehgarh-sahib-district-66412
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Four more cases take Mohali's count to 19||Four more people tested positive for coronavirus in Mohali district on Monday, officials said. A 30-year-old man--whose father had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi--   tested positive for coronavirus in Mohali on Monday.Also read: Mohali reports two coronavirus cases in connection with Nizamuddin eventThe man is a resident of Sector 68."He is the son of a 60-year-old man who had tested positive earlier. Two Tablighi Jamaatis are positive, out of 15 traced and now one primary contact has also tested positive," said DC Girish Dayalan.The 60-year-old man had tested positive on April 3 and is admitted to the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said: "We have taken samples of all his family members and only the son tested positive, while the reports of the rest of the family members are negative. We will be shifting him to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur."As per sources, his father had reached Mohali on March 17 and the father-son duo socialised after that.Three other people tested positive, all from the immediate family of a person who was already diagnosed as being infected. Authorities have sealed off the area where they live in Jawaharpur, Derabassi, and have taken swabs of 26 of their contacts. Five people have been cured, authorities said. The total number of infections now stand in Mohali now stand at 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-four-more-cases-take-mohalis-count-to-19-66406
06-04-2020||Ropar||11 more test positive for coronavirus in Punjab; total cases 79||Punjab reported 11 new cases coronavirus on Monday, taking the state's tally to 79, officials said. Ropar, Kapurthala, Mohali, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib districts reported new coronavirus cases.The state has recorded six coronavirus deaths so far.Wife, son of Ropar patient test positiveTwo days after a resident of Chatamali village in Ropar tested positive for COVID-19, his wife (54) and son (16) tested positive for the disease on Sunday.With the latest cases, the total number of coronavirus patients in the district has risen to three. The 55-year-old resident from the village was diagnosed with coronavirus on Friday, after he was admitted to GMCH in Sector 16 in Chandigarh on March 31. The man suffers from diabetes and hypertension.Following this, health authorities sealed villages around Chatamali and collected diagnostic samples of 17 persons, including primary contacts of the patient.On Sunday, the district administration received reports of 15 persons, out of which the wife and son of Chatamali patient tested positive.Ropar deputy commissioner said that the authorities have alerted a private hospital and Community Health Centre at Kurali as well as Civil Hospital in Phase VI of Mohali as the patient had visited these before he was admitted to GMCH. He had also attended a medical check-up camp organised in the village on March 13, where 20 people from abroad, along with doctors from CMC hospital, Ludhiana and Mohali were present.The 20 people from abroad were contacted and they claimed that they did not suffer from symptoms of any kind, added the deputy commissioner.Three people family members of an already diagnosed coronavirus patient tested positive in Dera Bassi on Monday.Man tests positive in Kapurthala A man, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi last month, tested positive for coronavirus in Kapurthala district on Sunday.He was residing at a mosque at Kot Karar Khan village. The village and the mosque have been sealed.Two women who attended Tablighi meet test positive in Fatehgarh Sahib districtTwo women, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus in Fatehgarh Sahib district on Sunday.Dr N.K.aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, said that the throat sample of 30 Tablighi Jamaatis, who are isolated at a hospital in the district, was taken. The reports of the two women came back positive, whereas others tested negative for coronavirus.Suspected COVID-19 patient dies in AmritsarA 65-year-old man, suspected to have had coronavirus, died at Fortis Amritsar on Monday morning."He had been admitted to GNDH Amritsar on March 28-29, where he was diagnosed for pneumonia. As he was not improving, he was tested for COVID-19 and reported negative," Special Chief Secy KBS Sidhu said in a post on Facebook.He moved to Fortis on Saturday, wherein a preliminary test reported him as COVID positive."Another swab has been now obtained and is being tested-- not merely for statistical purposes but also for potentially isolating his contacts, including those in the Government Hospital, Amritsar," said Sindhu.Man whose father attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation tests positive in MohaliA 30-year-old man--whose father had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi--   tested positive for coronavirus in Mohali on Monday, taking the total cases in the district to 16.The man is a resident of Sector 68."He is the son of a 60-year-old man who had tested positive earlier. Two Tablighi Jamaatis are positive, out of 15 traced and now one primary contact has also tested positive," said DC Girish Dayalan.Man who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation tests positive in Ludhiana A man who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation tested positive for COVID-19 in Ludhiana on Monday. With the latest case, the total cases in Ludhiana have increased to six. Out of this, two are related to the Tablighi meet.  81-year-old, suffering from diabetes and hypertension, recovers in MohaliAn 81-year-old woman recovered from COVID-19 and was released from Max hospital in Mohali on Monday.The woman suffered from diabetes and hypertension. She also had five stents, mostly used to keep coronary arteries open, placed in her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-punjab-total-cases-79-66401
06-04-2020||Muktsar||Coronavirus: 13 test negative, 3 to give samples again in Muktsar||While 13 people tested negative for coronavirus, three others have been advised to get tested again after 48 hours in Mukstar on Monday.Fifteen of these people attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, while the other one is a Maulavi, who was quarantined along with them at a local mosque.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-13-test-negative-3-to-give-samples-again-in-muktsar-66396
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Rail Coach Factory Kapurthala develops ventilator||Kapurthala, April 5Having received instructions from the Railway Board, New Delhi, about exploring the possibility of making ventilators in train coaches, the Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, had manufactured a prototype ventilator, ‘Jeevan’, which had an original design and was developed within a week and would cost less than a regular ventilator, said officials.The ventilator prototype has been conceptualised by RCF General Manager Ravinder Gupta. It will now go for final testing at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before being put to production to aid the country’s fight against Covid-19.In-house medical professionals of the RCF Hospital have tested the unit and given it a go-ahead, he said. Ravinder Gupta, GM, RCF, said it was an emergency ventilator built as a defiant reply to the curse of coronavirus.“It will be submitted to the ICMR for testing and validation and hopefully, it will be a savior of lives amid these hard times. The cost will be under Rs 10,000 without the compressor unit. Overall, Its price will still be a fraction of what regular ventilators available in the market cost,” he said.He said it could be used as an emergency ventilator. Production was easy and could be done with locally sourced components. The ventilator was silent and it was not reverse engineering, but an original design from scratch.Gupta said the heart of the device was the compressed air container to work the Ambu bag with air without any moving parts such as servo motor or piston or link mechanism.“It has a microprocessor-based controller and the circuit has been designed by the RCF team. A valve has been installed to regulate the breathing of the patient whether young or old. This ventilator can be optimised to more compact size by using small-size components,” he said.“The body has been made from coach components. The argon flow meter is taken from a laser welding machine and the compressor from an air cooler,” he said, adding that the team of the RCF needed to source just two parts — a regulator valve and a micro processor— from vendors in Delhi and Noida, which they brought using emergency transit services.Gupta said the team of engineers from the plant, mechanical and electrical design and IT and a group of medical professionals of the RCF Hospital and the Stores Department had persevered hard for the culmination of the prototype of the ventilator. The intellectual property rights relating to the ventilator belong to the RCF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rail-coach-factory-kapurthala-develops-ventilator-66118
06-04-2020||---||Quash FIR against Delhi Gurdwara Committee, PM urged||New Delhi, April 5Takht Patna Sahib Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh today requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to quash the FIR registered by the Delhi Government against the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) for providing shelter and food to passengers at Gurdwara Manju ka Tila during the ongoing lockdown.He highlighted the contribution of the committee in fighting Covid-19 and said all passengers had come to the gurdwara on their own. He said the DSGMC had intimated about their stay to the authorities well in time. “The DSGMC served langar to everyone while practicing social distancing,” said the jathedar.He condemned the Delhi Government for filing an FIR against the DSGMC with mala fide intention to defame the religious institution and for equating the Sikh community to the Tablighi Jamaat. He requested the PM to quash the FIR and encourage the DSGMC for providing selfless service to the country during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quash-fir-against-delhi-gurdwara-committee-pm-urged-66185
06-04-2020||Dr Arvind SahniGastroenterologist||Facts regarding Covid-19||IntroductionThe latest name for this virus is SARS-CoV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus 2). Currently, this virus is causing a pandemic. Up to 30 per cent of the cases may be asymptomatic but scientific evidence suggests that they have a significant transmission potential of disease. The transmission of this virus may occur early in course of infection.Identification of chains of transmission and subsequent contact tracing are much more complicated if many infected people remain asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Thus one infected person has the potential to infect several thousand people within a short span of a few days.It is these asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic infected people who may potentially infect their family members and the community at large. The infected patients who are sick, who need hospital care can spread the virus to health care workers.Modes of transmissionThe commonest mode of transmission is by droplet infection. These droplets could spread from an infected person to a distance of approximately 1 to 1.5 metres. This is the basis of social distancing.To break the person-to-person transmission of this virus apart from doing social distancing, it is also important to have a complete lockdown strategy as is being done in our country.When an infected person coughs, different size droplets (usually less than 10 microns) are expelled into the surrounding environment as an aerosol. Scientific experiments have suggested that this SARS-CoV-2 virus may persist for up to 3 hours in the aerosol. This virus can also persist on fomites like cardboard and stainless steel for 24 hours and on plastic for three days. Hence, the need to disinfect these fomites, which are also an important means of spreading the infection.Spectrum of presentationApproximately 80 per cent patients will have mild symptoms, 15 per cent develop pneumonia and 5 per cent will need ICU care.Vulnerable populationElderly people, diabetics, people with underlying heart, lung and kidney diseases and people with weak immune system. However no age is exempt.Drugs and vaccinesThe WHO has begun a trial regarding the efficacy on drugs against this virus. India is one of the countries that is participating in this global trial. The prospects of developing a vaccine on a mass scale are at least one to one and half years away. To reinforce the words of Dr David Nabarro, special envoy to the WHO on CoVID-19, “Respect the virus.”Take home messageLet us all join hands to fight this global health emergency and pandemic. This is a highly infective virus. Practise social distancing and follow the complete lockdown instructions in an effort to break the human-to-human chain of transmission. Do not forget your basics of frequent hand washing with soap and water. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and face with your hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/facts-regarding-covid-19-66049
06-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Action against Punjab schools for seeking fee amid lockdown||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 5The Education Department has initiated strict action against certain private schools in Punjab for demanding fee during the lockdown period.Despite clear instructions from the Punjab Government not to seek fee during the period, some private schools had been sending messages to parents asking them to submit fee. As per information, the department had issued an order on March 23 asking all private schools in the state to reschedule admissions for 2020-21.Told to file replyWe have issued show-cause notices and asked schools to file reply within seven days. In case of unsatisfactory reply, we will cancel affiliation or NOC — Vijay Inder Singla, Education Minister, PunjabThe schools were directed to provide parents a 30-day window for submission of fee once the situation normalised. The schools had further been directed not to charge late fee or fine from students.“Despite repeated instructions, there were reports of some schools asking for fee. We have initiated strict action against La Foundation School, Sangrur; DAV Public School, Bhupindra Road, Patiala; Bhupindra International Public School, Patiala; Delhi Public School, Ludhiana; and Mount Litera Zee School, Faridkot,” said Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla.“We have issued show-cause notices and asked schools to file reply within seven days. In case of unsatisfactory reply, we will cancel their affiliation or the no objection certificate,” he said.In case of future complaints against any school, these would be locked through the District Magistrate and FIRs registered. He said complaints can be filed on his email ID:vijayindersingla@gmail.com.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/action-against-punjab-schools-for-seeking-fee-amid-lockdown-66221
06-04-2020||Gurdaspur||Philanthropist does his bit||Announce, withdraw, repeatMuktsar: Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring found himself in the midst of a controversy. On Sunday, he circulated an audio clip, appealing to sarpanches to make public announcement in villages that the farmers would get bonus for selling wheat in May and June. Within a few minutes, he released another audio to clarify that the state government had just raised the demand in this regard and the previous message should be ignored. Earlier on Tuesday, he had first released an audio clip, saying that a Covid positive patient had been detected in Malout. But within minutes, he released another clip to clarify that the man was just a suspect and his sample had been sent for testing.Passion pays offGurdaspur: Judicial officer Vishesh Kamboj is passionate about photography. His fascination finally paid off with UK-based Caters News Agency requesting him to send pictures clicked by him for which he will be paid. The judge is yet to accept the offer. His forte lies in wildlife photography. He can be regularly spotted wandering in Keshopur wetland. The UK agency particularly liked a picture posted by the judge on social media showing a rose ringed parakeet kissing its mother midair. Kamboj had captured the moment after hours of waiting near mustard fields near his residence in Dala colony here. "It is difficult for me to take time off my judicial duties but since photography has become a passion, it is not possible for me to ignore it," says Kamboj.Initiative beyond CSRFatehgarh Sahib: The local civil hospital finally got a ventilator, which was donated by Jaspal Singh Kandhari, the owner of Coca Cola bottling plant at Nabipur. The move came as a relief for residents of the district in this hour of crisis. During a recent review meeting for preparation of Covid outbreak, the Civil Surgeon had flagged the matter that there was no ventilator in the district. Following this, Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill approached donors. The Kandhari group came forward and delivered one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/philanthropist-does-his-bit-66081
06-04-2020||GS Paul||Footfall dips at Golden Temple, several shrines shut partially||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 5For the first time, the SGPC has partially shut the doors of several historic shrines located inside the Golden Temple and near Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh.Apart from suspending the operations of number of its offices to avoid ‘sangat’ visit, the SGPC has also suspended the ‘akhand path’ roster that were regularly scheduled by the devotees at 15-20 spots inside the Golden Temple complex. Sources said no new bookings were being accepted.As per the SGPC’s roster, there are around 1.4 lakh devotees in the queue to hold this 48-hour ceremony performed by Sikh priests on their behalf at the distinguished four spots – Dukh Bhanjani Beri, Har-ki-Pauri, Gumbad Path and Akal Takht.Similarly, the single window of ‘jodha ghars’ and ‘gathri ghar’ was operational, whereas the rest of them were closed down.Even as these steps were apparently being taken to discourage the devotees from coming to the complex, the SGPC officials were reluctant to accept it.Nonetheless, the doors of Gurdwara Baba Atal Sahib situated to the south of the Golden Temple and Gurdwara Mata Kaulan Sahib, also known as Gurdwara Kaulsar Saheb on its west-side, were today found to be partially closed. Kaulsar is one of the five holy tanks (sarovars) in the holy city.Similar obstruction were placed at the entry points of Gurdwara Ramsar located along the Ramsar sarovar, and Gurdwara Bibeksar Sahib situated on the banks of Bibeksar Sarovar.Nonetheless, the entrance doors of the Golden Temple complex were open, although even as there is a significant drop in the number of devotees.Golden Temple manager Mukhtiar Singh said the footfall of devotees had come down to just two digits since the imposition of curfew.“On the part of the SGPC, there is no restriction on devotees. The doors of ‘guru ghar’ can never be closed. The gates of some of the shrines were partially closed to prevent the entry of stray dogs and cattle,” he said.Meanwhile, Durgiana Temple and Ram Tirath Sthal too were shut down to avoid rush of devotees as a precautionary measure. Durgiana committee president Ramesh Sharma said the entry for devotees was restricted due to the curfew. “To maintain the rituals, we have curtailed the number of priests too,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/footfall-dips-at-golden-temple-several-shrines-shut-partially-66080
06-04-2020||---||Report sought on delay in last rites||Chandigarh, April 5The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes on Sunday decided to investigate the matter of delay in the cremation of Padma Shri awardee Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa. The commission also sought a detailed report from the Deputy Commissioner and Police Commissioner of Amritsar within a week.An official spokesperson said the Punjab SC Comission took a serious note of a news reports that the cremation of the former Hazoori Ragi was delayed following objections raised by Verka villagers. Inder Iqbal Singh Atwal of Ludhiana also filed a complaint in this regard. The commission has directed the Deputy Commissioner and the Police Commissioner of Amritsar to conduct a probe into the matter and submit a report within seven days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/report-sought-on-delay-in-last-rites-66079
06-04-2020||---||Woman delivers baby on roadside||Moga, April 5A woman was forced to deliver a baby on a roadside in Dharamkot town, Moga district, as no doctor was available to attend to her.SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said two policemen on duty called two local women, who helped Jyoti (30) deliver a baby. Her husband Harmesh Kumar, a daily wage earner, said he took Jyoti to the PHC in Dharamkot, but found no doctor there. He then took her to a private hospital, where no one came forward to help them. "Police officials came to our rescue. They also dropped us home," he said.Earlier on January 9, two women -- Amandeep Kaur and Mamta Rani -- gave birth on the floor of the maternity ward in the district hospital here.No doctor attended to them. Nurses and paramedical staff helped the women deliver babies on the floor of the hospital.Unfortunately, Amandeep Kaur's child died of pneumonia later.Dr Rakesh Bali, Senior Medical Officer, Kot-ise-Khan, said the Health Department staff, posted in the primary health centre (PHC) at Dharamkot, were away to Janer village for screening Covid suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-delivers-baby-on-roadside-66077
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi writer Gulzar Singh Sandhu contributes Rs 6 lakh||Minister gives Rs 12 lakh for langarHoshiarpur: Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora has contributed Rs12.02 lakh for relief work. His 20-year-old son Prateek Arora is also working on the ground to distribute relief material. The father-son due is ensuring that langar reaches the needy. Playing a key role in providing cooked food, Guru Ram Das Sahib Ji Langar Sewa Society got support from the minister. He also arranged financial assistance from other sources and handed over Rs25 lakh to the society. Arora said serving the poor in time of need was the duty of every citizen. OC85,000 farmers supply milk to NestleMoga: Nestle has claimed there was no adverse effect of the lockdown on dairy farmers associated with it. Kamal Bir Singh Deol, manager, Fresh Milk Sourcing of Nestle, said the Moga unit of the company was collecting more than 14 lakh liters of milk from 85,000 farmers of Punjab and Rajasthan daily. “The company has made arrangements of transportation of milk by obtaining permits from the district administrations in both states,” he said. TNSEx-councillor distributes cooked foodPatiala: Former councillors started distributing cooked food among the needy on Sunday. Former Patiala councillor Sukhwinder Pal Singh Minta, along with volunteers from the city, said his team distributed cooked food to more than 3,000 families. He said, “No one should sleep on empty stomach.” TNSGovt has failed to serve poor: KhairaMoga: Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira has hit out at CM Capt Amarinder Singh for his ‘failure’ to help poor and needy people in their hour of crisis. He said it has been two weeks since the CM had imposed curfew in Punjab, but he had failed to help them. TNSEx-Commandant donates Rs 5 lakhChandigarh: Ex-Commandant Mohinder Singh on Sunday handed over a demand draft of Rs5 lakh to fight Covid. The amount was handed over to Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Mohinder Singh donated this amount from his pension. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-writer-gulzar-singh-sandhu-contributes-rs-6-lakh-66076
06-04-2020||---||ECHS bills to be cleared on priority||Chandigarh, April 5 Even as government offices are functioning on skeletal staff amid the lockdown to check the Covid spread, defence accounts establishments across the country have been directed to clear all payments related to medical treatment under the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) at the earliest so that the allocated budget for the current fiscal gets fully utilised. According to the orders issued by the Controller General of Defence Accounts on March 30, all subordinate offices have been directed to ensure that all payments related to ECHS are cleared on priority and under no circumstances the allocated funds should be allowed to lapse. According to sources, the funds allocated under the head for medical treatment were Rs 5,199 crore, out of which an expenditure of Rs 4,478 crore has been booked so far. This leaves the organisation with Rs 721 crore that is still be expended. Earlier this month, the Ministry of Defence had stated in Parliament that ECHS, which provides medical facilities to about 55 lakh beneficiaries, owes Rs 1,246 crore to various private hospitals and diagnostic facilities for providing treatment to retired service personnel and their dependents. Low budgetary allocation by the Central government has been a major issue for ECHS for the past few years. Several advisories have also been issued by ECHS authorities to its subscribers to help combat Covid and a few relief measures have been put in place to alleviate any difficulty faced by them.  As many as 52 centres have been identified by ECHS for Covid testing, which includes two each in Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh and one in Chandigarh, sources said. ECHS subscribers have also been allowed to purchase prescription medicines from any chemist, for which they would be reimbursed later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/echs-bills-to-be-cleared-on-priority-66067
06-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fleeing prisoner held,  3 still at large||The district police claimed to have arrested one of the four inmates, who escaped from Central Jail, Ludhiana, by scaling the walls using blankets. The arrested, Aman Kumar, is a resident of Iqbal Nagar, Mandi Gobindgarh. Senior Superintendent of Police Amneet Kondal said a team, led by DSP Amloh Sukhbinder Singh and Mandi Gobindgarh SHO Mohinder Singh, arrested the inmate near Bhadla village.  The SSP said Aman had many FIRs registered against him. He further said that the arrested had  been convicted in two cases. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fleeing-prisoner-held-3-still-at-large-66066
06-04-2020||---||CM assures help to Hazoori Ragi's kin||Chandigarh, April 5Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called up the son and the nephew of former Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh, who died of Covid last week, to extend his condolences. He also assured them of the government’s support in the treatment of family members, who have tested positive for the virus.All Covid patients would be provided proper care in line with the government’s medical protocol, the Chief Minister assured Bhai Nirmal Singh’s son Amiteshwar Singh and nephew Jagpreet Singh.The Health Department would monitor their progress, he said, and asked them to contact him in case they needed any assistance. Capt Amarinder also enquired about the well-being of the members of the family who had tested positive.The Chief Minister termed as “unfortunate” the delay in ragi’s cremation because of unfounded fears of Verka village residents. “I have ordered authorities that no such incident should take place again,” he said.Capt Amarinder said he had asked the Chief Secretary and the DGP to ensure that health and other officials at the district level complied with government instructions and take action against those found violating instructions.Taksalis hit out at govtChandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura on Sunday criticised the Capt Amarinder Singh government for alleged negligence in the treatment of Bhai Nirmal Singh. In the four-minute audio clip, which is being circulated, Bhai Nirmal Singh is heard telling his son Amiteshwar Singh about the poor facilities in the isolation ward and that he may not survive. “The Health Department’s preparedness for Covid has been exposed,” Brahmpura said in a statement. The former MP added, “Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should order an inquiry into the ragi’s death.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-assures-help-to-hazoori-ragis-kin-66064
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Fearing infection, Phagwara woman ends life||Phagwara, April 5An elderly widow, identified as Santosh Kaur (65), suffering from common cold reportedly committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at her residence in Khurampur village on Saturday evening. The police said she took the extreme step as she feared of getting infected by coronavirus.She even asked her daughters not to visit her as a precautionary measure.Punjab Agro Industrial Corporation chairman Joginder Singh Maan visited the village to give condolences to the family. He told this correspondent that the deceased was paranoid of getting infected with the virus. She even wrote a suicide note before taking the extreme step, Maan said.On getting information, a team of doctors, led by Phagwara Senior Medical Officer Dr Kamal Kishore, visited the house of the deceased and medically examined her.When contacted, Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Jasmeet Bawa told this correspondent here on Sunday that the deceased seemed be in depression. When contacted, Phagwara Deputy Superintendent of Police said the deceased had written a suicide note, wherein she stated that she was ending her life of her own accord. The DSP said as per preliminary examination, she showed no symptoms of coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fearing-infection-phagwara-woman-ends-life-66063
06-04-2020||---||Nawanshahr man’s grandson treated, hospital staff cut cake||Nawanshar, April 5The two-year-old grandson of Nawanshahr elderly, who defeated Covid-19, was given a warm send-off by the civil hospital staff here.He was presented a greeting card, a toy car and a teddy bear. To celebrate the recovery of eight people, the health staff cut a cake on the hospital premises. The cake was arranged by the local polic. Out of 12 suspects whose samples were sent yesterday for testing, eight came out negative. There are a total of 18 suspects in the district who have been kept in isolation at the hospital.Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bablani said the most satisfying was the recovery of two-year-old grandson of the 70-year-old Nawanshahr man. The hospital staff had yesterday celebrated his birthday and today he was given a warm send-off, he added. Other members of Baldev Singh’s family who tested negative today include his three granddaughters. Harpal Singh, sarpanch of Pathlawa village, said, “Many of us have recovered and feeling good. “||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nawanshahr-mans-grandson-treated-hospital-staff-cut-cake-66062
06-04-2020||---||Cops to be awarded for exemplary work||Chandigarh, April 5To honour and motivate the police personnel working at the frontline of the battle against Covid-19, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has authorised the DGP to institute a new award for cops doing exceptional work and going beyond the call of duty during the current crisis.DGP Dinkar Gupta said he had chosen ASI (LR) Bikar Singh and constable Sukhjinder Pal Singh of Moga for the ‘DGP’s Honour & Disc for Exemplary Seva to Society’. The two policemen assisted a woman of Moga’s Dharamkot in delivering a baby two days ago after she had been denied admission by many hospitals late at night.In addition, the DGP has also selected SHO Sanjeev Kumar of Amritsar, who has been feeding the poor and hungry with a missionary zeal.Nearly 50,000 policemen are deployed in the field, helping out people, especially the poor, underprivileged, unemployed and homeless people. At times, they also spend out of their pockets to help the needy.In these difficult times, policemen have taken the lead in galvanising and mobilising the community to arrange for food for the less fortunate such as daily wage workers and migrant labourers. The cops are also working in close coordination with NGOs and religious organisations, especially gurdwaras, to ensure that everyone is fed and taken care of. Till date, they have fed over 3.2 crore people in the state which is more than the state’s total population.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-to-be-awarded-for-exemplary-work-66061
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent||19 of 30 Tablighi activists test -ve in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 5At least 19 out of 30 Tablighi Jamaat activists, who were quarantined in the district, have been found negative, whereas the reports of the remaining, who are isolated at Khamano, are awaited, said Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon.He said all these activists were quarantined in Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh, Khamano and Bassi Pathana towns of the district. He said they were all found asymptomatic, but as per directions, they were put under surveillance of the Health Department.He said there was no Covid patient in the district. Of 795 NRIs who came to the district, 641 had completed 14-day home quarantine, while the remaining were isolated at their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/19-of-30-tablighi-activists-test-ve-in-fatehgarh-sahib-66060
06-04-2020||---||Probe Bhai Nirmal Singh's death, says panel||Chandigarh, April 5The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has directed the Punjab Government to form a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to inquire into the allegations of discrimination meted out to former Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh during his treatment at hospital in Amritsar. He died of Covid last week.Also read: CM assures help to Hazoori Ragi's kinFormer SAD legislator Inder Iqbal Singh Atwal on Sunday said the NCSC had issued notices to the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police (DGP) following his complaint to the commission.He also sought action against Amritsar’s Verka village residents who did not allow the cremation of Bhai Nirmal Singh. “In the last telephonic conversation he had with his family, Bhai Nirmal Singh said that he was not attended to for four hours in the hospital and that he had lost all hopes of survival,” Atwal said.He also claimed that at the time of Bhai Nirmal Singh’s cremation, a government teacher, who is a secretary of the Punjab Congress, and his wife, who is a councillor, had locked gates of the Verka cremation. The former legislator said his death had shattered the Sikh Panth, particularly the Dalit community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-bhai-nirmal-singhs-death-says-panel-66059
06-04-2020||---||Coronavirus: Ludhiana woman among 2 die, toll 7||Chandigarh, April 5With two more deaths, the total number of causalities on account of Covid has reached seven in the state. One of the deaths was reported from Ludhiana and the other from Amritsar.Besides, five new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the tally to 70 spread over 12 districts.Of the five cases, two have been reported from Amritsar, and one each from Mohali, Barnala and Ludhiana, the Health Department has said.A 69-year-old Ludhiana woman, who died on Sunday visited her relatives in Mohali last month. On March 24, she developed flu-like symptoms and, on March 31, she returned to Ludhiana and was admitted to Fortis Hospital. She tested positive on April 2 and suffered a cardiac arrest on Sunday. Two of her contacts in Mohali have also tested positive. The second death has been of a 75-year-old woman, who hails from Pathankot. She was admitted to Government Medical College, Amritsar. Meanwhile in Ludhiana, a person linked to Tablighi Jamaat has tested positive in Ludhiana. With this, the total number of positive cases from Ludhiana has reached six. Barnala reported its first Covid case — a 42-year-old woman, who does not have a travel history. Her husband went to Chandigarh last month for two days. He, his daughter and four members of her landlord’s family have been admitted to the isolation ward of Civil Hospital, Barnala. The district administration has sealed the area where the woman lives.In Amritsar, with two more persons testing positive, the count of positive cases has increased to 10. One of them is a man from Chatiwind area.The other is a woman, the wife of an already positive patient from Jaura Fatak area. Her husband is a tailor with no history of travel. These two persons live in densely populated areas.The department has shifted five patients from Government Medical College, Amritsar, to Fortis Escorts. They were shifted on the request by their families. They include Darshan Singh, (a member of Bhai Nirmal Singh’s jatha), his wife, son and grandson. The fifth person to be shifted is the aunt of Bhai Nirmal Singh.As per the department, samples of 2,208 suspected cases were sent for testing so far. Of them, 1,711 samples were found negative and reports of 427 were still awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-ludhiana-woman-among-2-die-toll-7-66058
06-04-2020||---||Sarpanches allowed to issue curfew passes||Chandigarh, April 5 To effectively implement the curfew restrictions in rural areas, the Rural Development and Panchayats Department has allowed sarpanches to issue curfew passes in emergency situations. So far, 3,910 passes have been issued by panchayats. The night passes would be valid from 7 pm to 6 am and a separate pass can be issued to one of the companion with the patients, said Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa. He said WhatsApp groups of all sarpanches had been created by the department under ICI activities in which awareness literature, videos and government orders were shared and fake news and rumors were also countered. Other social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram are also being used by the department to create awareness. Self-help groups in villages are being motivated to make masks, providing them with an opportunity to serve the people and earn money. Under the government decision to empower panchayats to spend up to Rs50,000 per month to provide food and medicine to the poor, 1,752 panchayats have till date spent Rs3,16,552 to provide ration and medicines to the needy. The department is carrying out sanitisation in villages. To date, 3,07,096 liters of sodium hypochlorite provided by Punjab Alkalis and Chemicals Limited have been used for spray in 12,584 villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sarpanches-allowed-to-issue-curfew-passes-66056
06-04-2020||---||Call all-party meet,  Sukhbir tells govt||Chandigarh, April 5Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to call an all-party meeting immediately to resolve issues being faced by people due to the curfew restrictions.In a letter to the CM, Sukhbir said the extended curfew had resulted in a number of problems for the masses, including farmers, health workers, traders and daily wagers.“We need to find solution to these problems immediately before they spiral out of control, leaving behind a trail of destruction in every sector and compounding the sufferings of every segment of society,” he said.Sukhbir further said harvesting and procurement of wheat crop was on the anvil, but there was a huge shortage of labour as well as combine harvesters. “Besides, special arrangements need to be made, including lifting of procured grain, as large gatherings of farmers and traders cannot be allowed,” he said.Speaking about the badly affected supply chain of essential items in the state, Sukhbir said many people were left without food and medicines.“These basic supplies must be restored to every resident to keep them indoors and make this fight effective,” he said, adding the supply of animal feed had also been disrupted and steps should be taken to bring it back on the track.Urges PM to help students in ozSukhbir Badal on Sunday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take up the issue of welfare of Indian students who are facing problems in Australia due to lockdown with his Australian counterpart. He said it was unfortunate that at a time when the students needed help, the Australian PM was asking them to go home. “The Australian government should take note of the positive contribution of Indians living in Australia,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/call-all-party-meet-sukhbir-tells-govt-66055
06-04-2020||---||Traders fined Rs 1.8 lakh for overcharging||Chandigarh, April 5The Food and Civil Supplies Department has imposed a penalty of Rs1.85 lakh on 52 establishments for selling essential items above the marked price. The action comes on the instructions issued by Capt Amarinder Singh in Saturday’s Cabinet meeting.Of the 52 units, 15 each are in Pathankot and Ferozepur, 11 in Mohali, 10 in Gurdaspur and one in Ludhiana. One gas agency has been challaned.The state government has, meanwhile, set up transport facilitation control rooms to maintain uninterrupted movement of trucks carrying essential goods.The control rooms will liaison with the authorities to ensure that truck operators don’t face any problem while transporting goods. They will also help truckers facing problems in other states.The Transport Department has stepped up supplies to states facing shortage of items. The supply of stocks to such states has gone up by almost 50 per cent over the normal. Nearly 20 to 25 rakes of wheat and rice containing 54,000 to 67,500 tonnes are despatched daily to needy states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/traders-fined-rs-1-8-lakh-for-overcharging-66054
06-04-2020||Aman Sood||Wildlife Department to study lockdown impact on ecology||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 5‘Pollution Level Low’Amid gloom, there is a silver lining. Mother Earth seems to have rejuvenated itself. Smog has given way to blue skies, marine life is seeing an increased activity and pollution levels have dropped.Kahan S Pannu, Director, Environment and Climate Change Department While the entire population is reeling under curfew restrictions, the environment is heaving a sigh of relief. The skies are clear. The rivers are breathing. One can have a clear view of the Beas riverbed and see tiny fish, turtles and multi-coloured plants. It seems that the nature has pressed the reset button, with wild animals being sighted in cities in the absence of human presence.“Ever since the imposition of the lockdown, pollution levels have gone down,” said Punjab Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Kuldip Kumar. To ensure that this positive impact of the lockdown on nature goes into record books, Punjab now wants to conduct a comprehensive study.In a letter to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), Environment and Climate Change Department director Kahan Singh Pannu stated that the board wanted “to conduct a detailed study of the current pollution level scenario, status of various pollutants and their impact in reducing the pollution load”.The lockdown has resulted in a drop in the pollution levels across the world. As the pandemic continues to halt industrial activities, it has given people some time to breathe.Punjab Air Quality Index with an average of around 50 is one the longest stretch of days witnessed in the recent past.“Amid gloom and doom, there is a silver lining. Mother Earth seems to have rejuvenated itself. Smog has given way to blue skies, marine life is seeing an increased activity, pollution levels have dropped and animals as well as birds are moving about on their own accord,” said Pannu in the letter dated April 3. “The load of plastic and non-biodegradable waste has reduced,” the letter stated.Kuldip Kumar said they would soon release more gharials into the Beas.The Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of Punjab is around 50. Before the lockdown, the average daily AQI reading was between 120 and 140. An AQI of under 50 is considered to be in the “good category”, which means the air pollution poses little or no risk. While the quality index between 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor and 401 and above is severe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wildlife-department-to-study-lockdown-impact-on-ecology-66053
06-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Gaushalas let cattle loose||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 5Nearly 1,500 cattle at four gaushalas in the city are reportedly staring at starvation due to the shortage of fodder. Caretakers at the gaushalas are not able to arrange enough fodder in view of the curfew restrictions.Depending on a handful of stock, the caretakers rue that before the complete lockdown was ordered, adequate measures should have been put in place for regular supply of fodder. Owing to the crunch, the caretakers have now opened the gates of the gaushalas so that the cows could roam around and look for pasture.Satish Kumar, a caretaker at Radhe Swami Gaushala, Gurunanak Pura, says, “For the past eight days, we have been struggling to feed our cattle. Owing to curfew restrictions, we are not allowed to venture out to arrange fodder.”Looking after over 45 cows, Satish and his wife usually purchase fodder from donations and collect discarded vegetables and fruits from local market. His wife Rajkumari says prior to the lockdown, people residing in the vicinity used to give them leftover food and vegetables. “It’s not the case now since people are not allowed to go out,” she says.On the daily requirement of fodder, Satish says they need at least five quintal of fodder to feed the cows.Similarly, Ravi Kakkar, manager at Pinjar Poll Shelter Home, says this is for the first time that they are experiencing shortage of fodder. “Before curfew, farmers used to deliver fodder every morning at the gaushala, but due to prohibitory orders, they are not able to come,” says Kakkar, who is looking after 1,200 cows at two gaushalas at Bulandpur and Tanda road.In another gaushala at Devi Talab Mandir, caretaker Rajesh Virk says he has been feeding 360 cows with the last month’s stock that will last for a week or two.Deepak Jyoti, a city-based activist, says owing to curfew, local dealers are selling the fodder at high rates. “The fodder that was available earlier at Rs170-200 per quintal is now being sold at Rs230-250 per quintal. The administration needs to immediately take action and ensure uninterrupted supply of fodder at gaushalas,” Jyoti adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gaushalas-let-cattle-loose-66052
06-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Awaiting relief material, farm labourers protest on rooftops||Muktsar/Moga, April 5Poor people, comprising mainly farm labourers, on Sunday banged “thalis” on their rooftops to lodge a protest against the state government “failing” to provide them ration. Such protests were lodged at Khunde Halal, Bhagsar, Bhuttiwala, Khnuna Khurd, Saonke and Dabra villages, said Tarsem Singh Khunde Halal, a farm union leader.Activists of farm and labour unions staged a protest in many villages of Moga district. They demanded ration, medicines, preventive material such as masks and sanitisers. They said they were hit the most due to lockdown.Major Singh, an activist of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, who led the protest at Kaleke village, said landless farm labourers had no access to relief material. “Many of us also faced police brutality. They beat us with sticks if we dare to step out for work in the fields,” he said.He alleged that the ration supply announced by the state government for the poor remained only on paper. The leaders were distributing ration among their workers and supporters, ignoring the poor, he alleged.Activists of labour unions raised slogans against the Chief Minister at Himmatpura, Bhagike, Machike, Rama, Bilaspur, Saidoke, Badhni Kalan, Kussa, Khai, Kaleke, Kishanpura, Kokri, Talwandi Bhangeria and many other villages, while staging protests on the rooftop of their houses.BKU activist Amarjit Singh Saidoke demanded release of pending wages of MNREGA workers and ration at fair price shops.He alleged many industries and companies were terminating the services of workers in Ludhiana, Mangi Gobindgarh, Mohali, Amritsar and other cities. Most of them were hired through contractors and the payments of labour contractors were withheld by the industries.The unions also demanded monetary compensation for the labour class for the lockdown period and sought job security for poor workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/awaiting-relief-material-farm-labourers-protest-on-rooftops-66051
06-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab Govt may use private health infrastructure to combat pandemic||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5As the number of Covid cases rise in Punjab, the government is thinking of following the “Mohali prototype” to ensure adequate healthcare facilities are at its disposal.With the state having a robust private healthcare set-up vis-a-vis the public sector, the government proposes to use provisions under the Disaster Management Act that will allow it to use the private healthcare infrastructure in case of any contingency.This has so far been done in Mohali, where Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan has used the Act to ensure that private hospitals do not shy away from their responsibility during the crisis.Suresh Kumar, Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, told The Tribune that in case of any urgency, this would be adopted across the state.By enforcing Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act, the Mohali administration has procured exclusive or preferential use of amenities (private healthcare facilities) from any authority or person for assisting, protecting or providing relief to the community in response to any disaster-like situation or a disaster.So far, 70 persons have tested positive for Covid and over 2,000 quarantined. Most of the patients are under treatment at government-run hospitals.Government officials have told The Tribune that they have been asking for the inventory (beds and other provisions) from 7,500-odd private hospitals and nursing homes, but they found that the number of beds were being under-reported.The government wants the inventory of beds so that some beds can be set apart and prepared for creating isolation facilities in every public and private hospital. Since the charges to be paid to the private hospitals for these facilities will be on a par with government hospitals, reportedly profiteering motives have prevented medical institutions from coming forward.Most of the private hospitals, which had initially been turning away patients with symptoms of Covid, have now reportedly closed down their OPDs. Government officials believe that almost 80 per cent of the 7,500 odd private hospitals/nursing homes have closed down their OPDs, prompting the Chief Minister to warn them of licence cancellation.‘Mohali prototype’By enforcing Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act, the Mohali administration has procured exclusive or preferential use of amenities (private healthcare facilities) from any authority or person for assisting, protecting or providing relief to the community in response to any disaster-like situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-may-use-private-health-infrastructure-to-combat-pandemic-66050
