10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab to advance summer holidays, promote Classes 5, 8 students||The Punjab Government has decided to advance summer holidays in schools and promote students of Classes 5 and 8 in Punjab School Education Board schools to the next class based on their performance in previous examinations.Summer holidays have been extended from April 11 to May 1, officials said.The decision was taken at the Punjab Cabinet’s meeting held on Friday evening. The Cabinet under Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has decided to extend curfew in the state until May 1.  Coronavirus outbreak in Punjab forced the state government to order a complete lockdown and later impose a curfew last month. Several school examinations have been affected as a result, including board exams.The state’s coronavirus stands at 142 currently, with 10 recorded deaths.The nation’s tally stands over 6,000 infections officially, with close to 200 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-punjab-to-advance-summer-holidays-promote-classes-5-8-students-69293
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet authorises DCs to declare new mandis as needed||The Punjab Cabinet, headed by Capt Amarinder Singh, on Friday authorised the Deputy Commissioners to declare new mandis in their respective districts, as needed, to meet the demands of social distance while ensuring smooth procurement of the grain.These would be in addition to the 3800 mandis already notified this year for procurement operations, disclosed an official spokesperson after a video conference of the Council of Ministers.The Cabinet took stock of the preparations for the harvesting and procurement of wheat, scheduled to begin on April 15. It was decided that the procurement arrangements should be finalised and notified by April 11 so that every grain of the farmers is procured, though in a staggered manner.The state has already decided to extend procurement till June 15 and has sought incentives from the Centre for delayed transportation to the mandis by the farmers in view of the COVID-19 crisis. The Centre is yet to respond to the state’s demand.The Cabinet further noted that the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on procurement of wheat should be widely circulated and publicised so that all protocols, including provision of sanitisers, hand-washing arrangements etc, can be strictly complied with.DGP Dinkar Gupta has already been asked to come out with a comprehensive security plan for the mandis.The Cabinet was informed that while 73 per cent of the state’s requirement for gunny bales had been met already, the remaining shortage of 7.2 lakh bales would be met with PP bags if the West Bengal Government does not open production in time.As of now, West Bengal has only resumed transportation of the 27,000 bales which were ready.ACS Development Vishwajit Khanna said rules had been amended to make payments to farmers through the arhtiyas instead of direct bank transfer that was to be introduced this year.The chief minister had earlier suggested the change in order to maintain continuity and stability in these difficult times. The Mandi Board has already extended the validity of the licenses of the arhtiyas, which were to expire on March 31, till the wheat procurement operations in the state are over.The arhtiyas would be paid within 48 hours of procurement and would, in turn, be required to pay the farmers in the next 48 hours.Khanna informed the Cabinet that the 3718 purchase centres set up in the state included 153 main yards, 283 sub yards, 1430 purchase centres and rice mills.Nearly 137 lakh MT of wheat is expected to arrive in the mandis of which 135 lakh MT would be purchased by government agencies while two lakh MT by the private traders.Khanna said that the Centre has fixed MSP of wheat at Rs 1925 per quintal for the current RMS against Rs 1840 MSP fixed last year.A farmer shall be entitled to take multiple coupons each day or on different days depending on space in order to avoid rush in the mandis. About 27 lakh coupons would be issued by market committees to arthiyas. Farmers with each coupon will be entitled to bring one trolley having about 50 quintal wheat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-authorises-dcs-to-declare-new-mandis-as-needed-69290
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab approves ordinance to bring private hospitals into coronavirus battle||In a major decision, the Punjab Cabinet on Friday approved the Punjab Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Ordinance 2020, to bring the state’s private hospitals under the umbrella of the COVID-19 battle.It was necessary for the private hospitals to join the battle against COVID-19, said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, while chairing a video conference of the Council of Ministers.The Chief Minister has been authorised by the Council of Ministers to approve the final draft of the Bill after its legal vetting.Captain Amarinder said it was important to activate all the resources, in the larger interest of the state, in the light of the current battle, which threatens to be a long-drawn one.The Ordinance will provide for registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner to ensure compliance of clinical standards and protocols and transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man.There would be no undue interference in the day-to-day functioning of these establishments, as per the proposed legislation, which will, to begin with, be applicable to all clinical establishments of 50 beds and above as in the case of Haryana.It is proposed that the Punjab Health Council may be headed by an expert/ professional of national repute instead of a bureaucrat, with at least two other professionals as members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-punjab-approves-ordinance-to-bring-private-hospitals-into-coronavirus-battle-69289
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports another coronavirus case, total stands at 19||A 40-year-old man in Chandigarh tested positive for coronavirus on Friday.The man resides in Sector 37.The city reported its first case on March 18, followed by four more cases on the next day (March 19).The sixth case was reported on March 21 and the seventh case came on March 22.The eighth case was reported on March 26. Seven more cases were reported on March 30, followed by one case on April 1 and one on April 2.There are 19 confirmed cases in Chandigarh, of which 7 have recovered and 12 are still active in hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chandigarh-reports-another-coronavirus-case-total-stands-at-19-69288
10-04-2020||Sangrur||Resident tests positive for coronavirus, Panchayat seals Gaggadpur village||A 65-year-old resident in Gagadpur village tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. Following this, the administration has started testing all in contact with the patient.Panchayats, along with the police, have sealed all entry and exit points of the village.“We got to know that he has tested positive. He had come to Ludhiana through air travel from New Delhi on March 24 and in the same flight, another positive patient had travelled. Since then, he had been under quarantine at his house", said the Sarpanch of Gaggadpur village, Sadha Singh.Another resident, Kulwant Singh, said that since the news of the positive case in their village has spread, there has been panic in not only their village but in surrounding villages also.“We have requested health department authorities to conduct door to door tests and we are extending all required help,” he said.Congress Sunam Halqa in-charge Daman, Thind Bajwa, said that she has started sending the required ration to the village from Saturday morning.“Since the village is the party of Sunam Constituency, it is my duty to make everything available to village residents. I have sent a trailer of ration and would send more, as per the requirements of residents. I am also in touch with all health department authorities for all help”, said Bajwa.Gaggadpur has a population of around 2,500 residents.“I have directed all concern authorities to take all required steps to offer all help to residents,” said Sangrur DC Ghanshyam Thori.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resident-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-panchayat-seals-gaggadpur-village-69287
10-04-2020||Patiala||Amid coronavirus lockdown, Patiala residents protest against shortage of essentials||Amid coronavirus lockdown, angry residents of Nabha block of the district held a protest against Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh for failing to provide ration and other essential items, here, on Friday.The residents raised slogans against the Chief Minister and the Cabinet Minister, Sadhu Singh, who hails from Nabha. The protesters clanked the utensils as a mark of protest. The residents claimed there was no atta and dal in their houses to prepare food, since, several days.One of the residents said: "There is no raw material at our houses. The administration can come and check our houses. We need food to eat, therefore, we are holding the protest."A housewife, who was also protesting, said: "We are abiding by the government orders, but we have run out of ration. We are struggling to have two meals a day. The administration should immediately provide us food to eat."Notably, a few days ago, Nabha residents had hurled stones—at the cavalcade of Cabinet Minister, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot—over the same issue.In the meanwhile, Suba Singh, Sud Divisional Magistrate, Nabha, said that issue had already been addressed by the administration. He said they would be providing cooked food to the residents. “We will conduct a survey in the wards to identify the needy people and start providing them with the cooked food.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-coronavirus-lockdown-%C2%A0patiala%C2%A0residents-protest-against-shortage-of-essentials-69285
10-04-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus cripples Rs 2,000-crore Jalandhar sports industry||With COVID-19 lockdown resulting in a complete halt of trading activities, barring some essential commodities, the over Rs 2,000-crore sports industry of Jalandhar is having a harrowing time as the current situation has forced sport goods manufacturers to defer orders.With the nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, the manufacturers of sports items here are apprehensive about their future going ahead amid indications that the government might decide to further extend the lockdown in view of rising virus cases in several parts of the country.A sports goods manufacturing hub, Jalandhar produces nearly 70 per cent of total India's sports goods and is a leading name in national and international brands of cricket, hockey, football, rugby and fitness range.In terms of the international market, the industry exports material to the UK, Australia, South Africa, Germany, France, Netherlands, New Zealand and others.Alarmed over the situation, the industrialists while supporting the government's move of lockdown said that losses were imminent and the industry would be hit hard.Atul Madan, the owner of century-old Sarve Prakash and Company, Jalandhar, a leading name in Rugby Export in India, said that in the wake of COVID-19, all national and international borders were sealed and it was complete slowdown now."Our export material including footballs, bats, sports accessories for New Zealand and South Africa were lying stuck at Delhi and Bombay Ports. Similarly, not just international sports events like soccer leagues, IPL, other tournaments but those in educational institutions across the country were also staring at an uncertain future as of now," he said, adding that post-COVID-19, the government should provide comfortable liquidity and package to sustain the industry operations.Nitin Mahajan, the owner of AVM Sports and the general secretary of Sports and Toys Exporters Association, said a letter has been written to Principal Secretary to PM PK Mishra and Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal to sanction GST refunds on priority and increase the percentage of Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) licences at least for this year and provide free Export Credit Guarantee Cooperation of India (ECGC) support for import and export to keep business afloat.The association also shared concerns that because sports goods do not come under 'essential items', this particular industry is facing lots of problems."Lack of payment to dealers, distributors, corporates would affect the ability of manufacturers to pay dues to the employees. We have requested that the payments to the manufacturers related to government tenders, orders should be expedited once lockdown ends," Mahajan, whose AVM Sports is famous for cricket bats, cricket equipment and baseballs in India, shared.He also pointed out that schools, colleges, universities have been closed and stadiums might be taken over by the government for makeshift hospitals."As the sports industry is labour oriented, we would want the state government to save local employment and industry. Waiving or deferment of local taxes and minimum electricity charges for a period till the operations start is must," he said.The traders also mentioned that the sports industry was facing around Rs 2 to 3 crore loss in business every day.However, the total loss would be ascertained after the lockdown ends, it said.Rajesh Kharbanda, the managing director of Nivia Sports under the banner of Freewill Sports, said that other than the current crisis, manufacturers were concerned about the welfare of labourers too whom they paid salaries 10-days in advance.Apart from this, he hinted at the possible changes in sports business in terms of consumer behaviour."Community sports like tournaments, gyms, marathons would witness a change because of social distancing. There was a big possibility that now people would prefer individual gym range and sports equipment in their houses like basketball and badminton courts abroad instead of going out. Even face masks would become compulsory to wear in the times to come," he said.Rajan Kohli, the managing director of TK Sports, renowned for Hockey, IPL jerseys for Kings XI Punjab, T-20 matches and Shrey Helmets for Cricket, said that no doubt business would go down but as of now, the concern is that COVID-19 comes under control."The central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was taking the best decisions to counter the pandemic. The business will come and go but right now we should support our country,” he said.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has said the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus should continue while noting that predictions by health experts about the spread of the pandemic are "horrendous and frightening". PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-cripples-rs-2-000-crore-jalandhar-sports-industry-69282
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab government to extend curfew in state till May 1||The Punjab Government on Friday decided to extend the curfew in the state till May 1, a government spokesperson said.The decision, taken at a Cabinet meeting that Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh chaired through video-conference, is meant to check community spread of the coronavirus pandemic, and particularly to prevent overcrowding at the mandis in the light of the upcoming harvest season.Captain Amarinder will convey the decision to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Saturday’s conference with the chief ministers, an official spokesperson said.Citing the grim projections about the spread of the pandemic in the coming weeks, the chief minister said the restrictions were essential so the state’s medical infrastructure was not overburdened.“There was general consensus in the medical community that the lockdown curbs would only delay the spread of the disease,” he said, adding that he hoped there was a cure soon.The Cabinet has decided to set up a multi-disciplinary task force to draw up an exit strategy for gradual easing of the curfew. The task force will have 15 members representing trade, business, industry, agriculture, civil society and health care professionals, and has 10 days to submit its report, officials said.The cabinet also decided to extend school holidays until May 1 and promote students of Classes 5 and 8 to the next class on the basis of previous examinations conducted this year.The Cabinet also approved establishment of a high-powered committee to suggest a road map for state’s economic revival after the coronavirus crisis ends. Punjab Cabinet decided that former Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Ahluwalia will head the committee.The Cabinet also decided to ask the central government to set up an Advance Centre of Virology in Punjab at an estimated investment of Rs 500 crore, with the state government to offer land free of cost for the project.The Cabinet decided to set up a task force under the Principal Secretary, PWD, for quickly upgrading of the state’s health infrastructure to deal with the health crisis.  The health department has been asked to submit a detailed proposal for this, officials said.The development comes as the central government also considers extending its 21-day nationwide lockdown that ends on April 14.  The Punjab Government was the first to impose a statewide lockdown on March 23, a day before the Prime Minister announced the 21-day national lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-to-extend-curfew-in-state-till-may-1-69266
10-04-2020||Sangrur||Coronavirus: Sangrur patient was on pilgrimage; visited multiple mosques, villages||The Sangrur health department has been left scrambling after it was discovered that a 55-year-old man, who tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday night, travelled to various villages and mosques in the district as part of a pilgrimage.The man has been placed under isolation and a massive contract tracing campaign has been launched here.The man belongs to New Delhi and had reached Malerkotla by train on March 4.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshayam Thori said the man visited multiples mosques in different villages. “During preliminary inquiry by officers, it has come to light that from March 4, the patient travelled to Malerkotla, Pohid, Ghungrana, Kila Raipur, Sarian villages. He also visited the Hanfiya Mosque, Ahemdgarh, Nurani Mosque, Ahemdgarh, Dehlij Mohdi Mosque, Dehlij Nurani Mosque and Dehlij Alkarim Mosque,” said Thori.Ahemdgarh Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Vikramjit Singh Panthey said that they had launched a special campaign to trace “outsiders in their area.”“During a visit to Dehlij Kalan Mosque, we found him staying there with some other members of his group. He told us that they had been on a pilgrimage. Initially, all his tests were negative and they were put under quarantine at Mastuana sahib. But last night he tested positive and we have shifted him to the isolation ward,” said the SDM.Panthey said that they had sealed Dehlij village and deputed a team of doctors and police. Samples of other people are being collected. “Apart from conducting tests of all residents, we have also started supplying essential commodities. They do not have any connection with Nizamuddin Markaz as they came from other areas of New Delhi,” said Panthey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-sangrur-patient-was-on-pilgrimage-visited-multiple-mosques-villages-69257
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab ministers dispel fear, attend funeral of Covid-19 victim||Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi went to a Rupnagar village to attend the last rites of the man, officials said. The Covid patient, who was undergoing treatment at the PGI here, had died on Wednesday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ministers-dispel-fear-attend-funeral-of-covid-19-victim-69244
10-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||2 Bathinda men arrested for procuring fake curfew pass, bringing heroin from Delhi on scooter||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 10Amid curfew, two men rode a two-wheeler to Delhi crossing two states to get heroin. They even made a fake curfew pass so that nobody intercepted them on the way.They came back to Bathinda after buying heroin from Delhi, but were nabbed by the STF in the town. However, the police have not been able to recover the fake curfew pass from them.The STF arrested them for carrying 110 gram heroin and registered a case against them at the Thermal police station here. Police have also started a probe as to how did they procure the fake pass.Special Task Force (STF) in-charge Naveen Kumar said SI Kulwinder Singh on Thursday was doing patrolling on the road to Model Town Phase 4 from Ballaram Nagar in the town. In Ballaram Nagar accused Anshul Kumar of Shakti Vihar and Khushpreet Singh of Baba Farid Nagar were standing near their white Scooty holding a white-colour polythene bag.Police checked the polythene bag and found 110 gram heroin in it. They arrested the accused and booked them under the NDPS Act.Police said they had brought the heroin from Delhi and earlier also many cases of drug smuggling had been registered against Anshul.In the investigation, it was found that the accused had gone to Delhi by making a fake pass and come back after purchasing heroin from there. Police have taken them on remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-bathinda-men-arrested-for-procuring-fake-curfew-pass-bringing-heroin-from-delhi-on-scooter-69241
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Dead Mohali woman tests positive; Punjab tally stands at 151 with 11 deaths||Mohali, Pathankot, Sangrur and Jalandhar reported new coronavirus cases on Friday, taking Punjab’s tally to 151.Test results of a 78-year-old woman who died in Mohali on Tuesday confirmed she had the virus.The latest death takes the state's death count to 11.Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said that the Mohali woman suffered from diabetes and hypertension. After her death, her samples were taken and sent to PGIMER in Chandigarh for testing as a precautionary measure.Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, said that the co-morbid patient was brought to the emergency ward of a hospital in Kharar on April 6 and died the next day. According to Dayalan, her body has been cremated as per protocol. All primary contacts of the deceased woman have been traced and their samples sent for testing, he added.More cases in Dera Bassi villageTen more positive cases were reported in Jawharpur, Derabassi---an area authorities have sealed off and are streating as a coronavirus cluster.All 10 have been isolated. The number includes a 6-month-old baby boy. All 10 are family members of the village panch and sarpanch who tested positive in the villageAfter the village became a disease hotspot, Mohali district administration had sealed off the village along with some others as part of its cluster containment strategy.The total coronavirus tally stands in the village is now 32. Pathankot reported eight new cases, and Jalandhar and Sangrur reported one each.Pathankot is new hotspotAfter Dera Bassi and Banga, Pathankot appeared to have emerged as a new hotspot for coronavirus in Punjab. Pathankot reported eight new cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 15.Seven of the eight new cases are from the family of a 75-year-old woman from Sujanpur who died a hospital in Amritsar a few days ago.The eighth case, a woman who earns her living as a domestic help, is unconnected, sparking fears of the possibility of community spread, authorities said.  Also read: Coronavirus: Sangrur patient was on pilgrimage; visited various mosques, villagesJalandhar, Sangrur report casesIn Jalandhar, a 17-year-old boy, the grandson of a 72-year-old woman who tested positive on March 26, also tested positiveThe development came a day after his 47-year-old father also tested positive after he complained of breathing problems.In Sangrur, news that a 55-year-old man who tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday had travelled to various villages and mosques in the district as part of a pilgrimage led to district health authorities scrambling to find everyone he came in contact with, authorities said.The man who is from New Delhi came to Malerkotla by train on March 4.Suspected patient dies in KhararA 27-year-old woman migrant labourer died in Kharar on Friday. It is suspected that she had coronavirus. Papoo Colony in Kharar has been sealed.Meanwhile, the Gram Panchayat in Ropar has announced that if a death takes place in the district due to coronavirus, the body could be cremated at the Ghanauli Shamsham Ghat.  The gram panchayat of vill Ghanauli (Ropar) has taken a great decision & passed a resolution that if any death takes place in the district due to #Covid19, the cremation could be done in Ghanauli Shamshan Ghat. Thanks to the young dynamic educated Sarpanch & whole panchayat. pic.twitter.com/eidqlTXH7p  Highest number of cases in MohaliMohali district continues to have the highest number of cases at 48. Mohali also reported the most cases on Friday at 11. Mohali's followed by SBS Nagar at 19 cases. The state's evening bulletin said of the 3,461 who have been tested so far, tests of 2,972 came back negative.The state's awaiting results for 338 patients and has 120 active cases. Twenty patients have so far been cured. Two people are in serious condition, the bulletin says. Meanwhile, Punjab Police said they had tracked down 20 people who attended last month’s religious congregation at Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin mosque.Police sources said the 20 have been tracked down to Ludhiana’s Raikot and that their swabs have been sent for testing.Four other people who attended the event from the district are already at a government quarantine centre in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-dead-mohali-woman-tests-positive-punjab-tally-stands-at-151-with-11-deaths-69234
10-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Shortage of blood at Civil Hospital in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 9Amid Covid-19 threat, the Civil Hospital is facing acute shortage of blood. The health authorities have appealed to donors and NGOs to come forward to donate blood so that serious patients could be treated. The hospital needs 25 units of blood for cancer and other patients.The hospital authorities brought blood shortage to the notice of Amloh MLA, who assured that volunteers of Gurdarshan Singh Nabha Foundation, an NGO, would donate blood. Till now, volunteers have donated approximately 50 units of blood at the hospital. Dr Kuldeep Singh, SMO, said blood bank was facing shortage of blood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shortage-of-blood-at-civil-hospital-in-fatehgarh-sahib-69013
10-04-2020||Gurdaspur||In self-imposed isolation, SPS Oberoi continues to look after needy||When in Dubai, construction magnate SPS Oberoi used to keep himself so busy that he never knew how the time flew. Even as the businessman was preparing to fly back to his business hub after his recent stay in the country, he got trapped in the lockdown.The philanthropist was in Gurdaspur district to supervise activities of his charitable organisation, ‘Sarbat Da Bhala’, when the curfew was imposed. He immediately drove to his Sector-5, Chandigarh, residence. Since then he has been in self-quarantine and has been managing the affairs of his NGO from his home itself.Oberoi is fond of narrating a quote of US-based best-selling author Mandy Hale. “When you find yourself cocooned in isolation and cannot find your way out of darkness, remember that this is similar to the place where caterpillars go to grow their wings. When I feel low, I turn to the cycle of the caterpillar and butterflies for guidance,” he recounts.The businessman says he is finding himself busier in Chandigarh than what he used to be in Dubai.“These are trying times for humanity. My organisation has been doing its best to mitigate the problems of the people. We have already donated 12 ventilators to different hospitals in Punjab, including two to the Gurdaspur Civil Hospital. We have also distributed ration, including sugar, pulses and rice, in a big way. Throughout the day, I stay in touch with deputy commissioners (DCs) and district police chiefs trying to coordinate the smooth movement of ration and medical equipment. We have now ordered 22 more ventilators based on demands given by DCs,” he said.Oberoi’s organisation, which has offices throughout the country and even in Nepal, has already distributed hundreds of sanitisers to police personnel throughout the state. “Policemen doing duty at checkposts are among the most vulnerable to Covid because they are in touch with people from all walks of life. I have also ordered 13,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and 20,000 masks. These will be given to doctors and paramedical staff,” he added.Oberoi, who is respected all over the world for his philanthropic missions, said it was not an easy time and uncertainty might keep everybody up longer than usual.“It is useful to meet yourself for real and to understand you are lonely but not alone. And to be sure that when everything is over, we will take care of the things that matter with greater consciousness,” he maintained. “Now, relevant is that nobody should suffer and we should fight the Covid scare in unison,” said Oberoi as he readied himself once again to call a DC on his mobile phone. The official was requesting the businessman for additional 100 boxes of sanitisers and the reply he got was what everybody gets-in the affirmative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-self-imposed-isolation-sps-oberoi-continues-to-look-after-needy-69154
10-04-2020||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana police team arrests infected thief, all 17 home quarantined||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana April 9Station House Officer Mohammad Jamil, police post in-charge Kulwant Chand, an ASI and a head constable are among 17 policemen home quarantined by the Health Department after they nabbed a thief who was found to be infected by Covid-19.The judge in whose court the accused was produced has also gone into self-quarantine. On April 6, a police patrol party received information that notorious thieves — Navjot Singh Navi and Sourav Sehgal — were on their way to sell a stolen motorcycle and a cellphone. A naka was laid and the accused were nabbed.Sourav complained of cough and cold. He was taken to the local Civil Hospital and admitted in the corona ward. He tested positive for the infection. “The hospital authorities alerted the police and the entire team was placed under home quarantine as a precautionary measure,” SHO Jamil said.The Health Department will now run tests on the SHO and his team. Sources said the thief had recently visited Jaipur. The police have sealed a street in Ganesh Nagar where he resided. His contacts in the locality have been quarantined. The call details on his phone are being scanned to determine who all he had met in the past few weeks.DCP Akhil Chaudhary said the police station and chowki had been sanitised and the staff members who came in contact with the thieves self-quarantined. Sessions Judge Gurbir Singh said Judicial Magistrate ( First Class) Monica Singh had been advised self-quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-police-team-arrests-infected-thief-all-17-home-quarantined-69066
10-04-2020||---||Private colleges have no cash to pay staff, 1 lakh affected||Chandigarh, April 9There is some more dismal news for over one lakh teaching and non-teaching staff of 1,600 unaided colleges who have not been paid salaries for the last 7 months. The managements of the colleges have now expressed their inability to pay the staff for the lockdown period as well.Citing dire financial conditions due to nonreceipt of Rs 1,850 crore dues under the SC Post Matric Scholarship Scheme for the last four years from the Centre and the state government, the Punjab Unaided Technical Institutions Association (PUTIA) has stated that many of the colleges are already on the verge of closure due to poor fiscal health.“It is a double whammy for us. Already hit by the nonreceipt of dues, the government’s orders that staff must be paid for the lockdown period has come as a further blow. We are in no position to pay,” said PUTIA president Gurmeet Dhaliwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/private-colleges-have-no-cash-to-pay-staff-1-lakh-affected-69064
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Government may enact clinical establishment Act||The Covid-19 outbreak may end Punjab’s wait to get the Clinical Establishment Act as the government is planning to bring an ordinance to end “fleecing” by private doctors. The Act, whose draft is ready, has been hanging fire for the past eight years.The law entailsMandatory registration of all private hospitalsDisplay list of services offered and fee chargedHospitals with more than 100 beds to set up fair price medicine shop and diagnostic centreFree treatment to 20 per cent of OPD patients and 10 per cent of indoor patientsSources say the government is planning to bring an ordinance “The Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration, Regulation& Transparency) Act, 2019” in the Cabinet meeting slated to be held on Friday. The Chief Minister has already announced to take action against private practitioners for shutting down OPDs. The CM, in a TV interview, has confirmed that the government will bring the ordinance on Saturday.With an aim to regulate the functioning of private hospitals in the country, the Union Government had enacted the Clinical Establishment Act 2010, which was adopted by several states. However, instead of adopting the same Act, the then Punjab Government had decided to draft its own and in 2012, constituted a Clinical Establishment Act Drafting Committee.But thanks to the powerful lobby of the private practitioners, the draft was never accepted.After a series of meetings, the committee headed by Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh, had submitted the draft of the Bill to the government in 2013. The draft had important provisions like every private or government hospital has to display the services it offers and mention the fee it charges. Besides, it was also proposed to make it mandatory for all private hospitals to get registered.The draft was not cleared by the Cabinet. The members of the committee had publicly said that the Act was being scuttled by the lobby of big corporate hospitals.After the formation of the Congress government in 2017, the then Health Minister Brahm Mohindra had also announced to implement the Act.In November last year, the state once again posted draft of the Bill on its website and asked for feedback. But once again, the powerful body of private doctors was successful in scuttling the move.Soon after that, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu assured an IMA delegation that their genuine demands would be considered before taking any decision. But the Act could never see light of the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-may-enact-clinical-establishment-act-68980
10-04-2020||Amritsar||Sidhu lauds cops for efficient service||Implement Delhi’s 5-T formula: AAPChandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to immediately implement the 5-T formula adopted by the Kejriwal government in Delhi to deal with the deadly Covid. The party said the new-found formula 5-T stood for testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork and tracking and monitoring, implying immediate test of those infected with the virus and the persons he/she contacted after being infected, followed by his/her timely and safe treatment, close coordination with each other in the team and, proper monitoring by the government. TNSRailways to run 5 more cargo trainsLudhiana: The Northern Railways has announced to run five more parcel cargo express trains between various destinations in the country for faster transportation of essential commodities to deal with the situation created by the Covid threat. The goods intended to be transported would have to be booked before the dates of departure of trains and passenger travel would not be permitted in the exclusive parcel cargo express trains, Railways officials said. OCState buys machines for sample testingChandigarh: In a prompt move to increase the sample testing of suspected Covid-19 patients, five additional RTPCR and four RNA extraction machines have been purchased the Punjab Government. The machines have been installed in two of its Viral Research Diagnostic Labs situated at Government Medical Colleges, Patiala and Amritsar. Now, the capacity of each lab to conduct the sample testing of suspected Covid-19 people has been increased from existing 40 tests per day to 400 tests per day. TNS14 booked for organising functionAbohar: Acting on a tip-off that some persons had assembled at Gurdwara Dukhniwaran in Chak 18F village in Sriganganagar on Wednesday, a police team led by Sub-Inspector Rakesh Swami questioned them for violating the restrictions by organising a ‘satsang’ there. A Health Department team was called for on-the-spot medical examination, after which all were told to spend 14 days in isolation in their homes. OCLaw varsity gives Rs2.42L to PM-CARES fundPatiala: In an endeavour to show solidarity with the nation at this crucial juncture in the aftermath of Covid pandemic, teaching and non-teaching employees of the Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala, have contributed their one day’s salary to PM-CARES fund. The total contribution of the university to the fund amounts to Rs2.42 lakh. University officials said they believed the gesture would instil awareness among students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-lauds-cops-for-efficient-service-68977
10-04-2020||Jalandhar||60 booked for opposing coronavirus victim’s cremation||An FIR was lodged against 60 unidentified residents of Harnamdsapura after they stalled the cremation of the city’s first Covid-19 deceased here today. The victim, a 59-year-old chemist, had died early this morning.The FIR has been lodged under Sections 188, 269, 270, 271, 353, 186, 149 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 1996.The cremation eventually took place at the same cremation ground after a delay of two hours. Apprehensive of the spread of infection in the area due to the cremation, area residents had locked the gate of the crematorium.They obstructed the entry of vehicles. It took the administrative officials two hours to convince the people.Senior officers, including Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar, SDM, and local councillors, were present on the occasion. A team of health officials cremated the body following the guidelines. Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said those who opposed the cremation were being identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/60-booked-for-opposing-coronavirus-victims-cremation-68976
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wearing face masks compulsory in Punjab now||The state government has made wearing of masks compulsory for all. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh gave the go ahead for the implementation of the order, and asked the Health Secretary to issue detailed guidelines in this regard.The CM said homemade masks were also allowed. He also banned any type of religious congregation in the state.Meanwhile, the Health Ministers of four Congress-ruled states of Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry shared the best practices adopted in their states to contain the spread of Covid-19. The interaction was held through a videoconference late last evening.Each state shared its strategy, and apprehending the future spike in cases, agreed upon the need to scale up tracing and testing.Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health Minister, Punjab, said the state had ramped up testing capacity 10 times with the procurement of requisite machines. Punjab intends to launch a rapid testing drive aiming to screen one million people, he said. Gearing up for this, acquisition of 10 lakh rapid testing kits had been approved by the Cabinet and order for requisition of one lakh kits from the ICMR had been placed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wearing-face-masks-compulsory-in-punjab-now-68975
10-04-2020||---||40,000 volunteers roped in to support police||Chandigarh, April 9The state police have roped in volunteers to join the “Dial 112” workforce and lend their support to over 40,000 personnel working on the ground in a bid to scale up its response mechanism and ensure effective monitoring of Covid-19-related relief operations.The scheme has been launched in 10 districts so far on a pilot basis. In all, 4,336 volunteers have already been selected to work closely with the the state police in ensuring delivery of essential services and enforcing the government orders.The districts where this scheme has been launched include Amritsar City (270), Amritsar Rural (83), Bathinda (370), Fazilka (343), Ferozepur (239), Jalandhar City (267), Ludhiana City (1602), Ludhiana Rural (388), SAS Nagar (272) and Patiala (502). The services of the volunteers are also being used in other districts on need basis.State DGP Dinkar Gupta said the Punjab Police had invited volunteers on social media, urging them to supplement the cops’ efforts in these challenging times.The “Dial 112” volunteers are assisting the police in preparation of ration packets and their distribution, traffic regulation and enforcement of curfew, and emergency medical help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/40-000-volunteers-roped-in-to-support-police-68974
10-04-2020||Nawanshahr||Aggressive containment plan in place at Nawanshahr||The first case of Covid-19 in the state was reported from Pathlawa village of Banga on March 19. Soon after, the chain began and as many of 27 of his contacts got infected.How it startedBaldev Singh, a dera man, tested positive for Covid-19 a day after his death on March 18He had skipped quarantine on returning from Germany, ItalyBeing a priest, he came in contact with hundreds of peopleHad attended Hola Mohalla, visited Jalandhar hospitalsHe lived in a family of 15, all had tested positiveAfter a quick spread in the early stage, the disease seems to have got contained in the area as no new positive case from the chain has emerged in the past 15 days.Even before the lockdown was announced, nearly 15 villages around Pathlawa had been sealed and as many as 30,000 residents had been home quarantined.The first patient of this area, Baldev Singh, who had returned from Germany and Italy, was a priest in a dera and had performed kirtan in some houses, besides attending Hola Mohalla at Anandpur Sahib and visiting two hospitals in Jalandhar before his death at Banga. There was a potential threat of the disease getting spread far and wide. But the containment plan somehow worked.The civil and police staff worked round the clock getting feedback from the residents of the cluster through eight dedicated phone lines, forming WhatsApp groups for delegating duties and dispatching rapid response teams in specific pockets.Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani says, “We worked on an aggressive mechanism to ensure that we snapped the chain of perN sons who had come in contact with the deceased. Even before the test reports of the family (a joint family of 15) were to come, we had done the contact tracing and quarantined all of them. Our worst fears came true when all 15 persons in the house came positive and we shifted them all the next day to Nawanshahr hospital following a proper protocol.”What workedin coronavirus chain takenEarmarking the geographical area of infected persons The Deputy Commissioner said, “Our teams then traced all contacts of these 15 members. But by the time, sarpanch, his mother and two co-travellers of Baldev also came positive. Their acquaintances in Garhshankar and Jalandhar also got infected. In Nawanshahr, our teams of ASHA and anganwadi workers began tracking as many as 760 persons in the contacts of positive cases mainly in four villages of Banga.”Simultaneously, teams of 1,100-plus workers were going door-to-door in all 15 villages asking for anyone showing symptoms for the disease. Also, since Baldev had a travel history, we began to track as many as 2,839 people with a recent travel history.“We formed 26 sectors according to the geographic locations of these people. Separate teams had to be engaged to ensuring that they remained quarantined. We ensured regular supplies of essentials to these houses for over two weeks,” Deputy Commissioner said.Dr Gurpal Kataria, medical specialist, Nawanshahr, said, “The sampling of patients too had to be made aggressive at some stages. In all, we took samples of over 400 patients, with over 100 done in one day. We have eight teams of experts for taking samples. As these samples began to turn negative, we eventually slowed down. All this while, our focus remained on how to keep the patients in good spirits. Thankfully, we have begun sending them home after recovery.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aggressive-containment-plan-in-place-at-nawanshahr-68973
10-04-2020||---||Community spread scare in Jalandhar||Chandigarh, April 9The last 24 hours have once again proved worrisome for the state with 24 new cases being reported, taking the tally to 130. In all, 20 cases were reported yesterday, which means of the total cases so far, around 35 per cent have surfaced in the last two days in the state.Besides, one death was reported from Barnala. As per the state’s media bulletin, seven cases have been reported from SAS Nagar, six from Mansa, four each from Ludhiana and Jalandhar and one each from Muktsar, Barnala and Sangrur.Mansa district, from where the first case of Covid-19 was reported recently, today reported six more confirmed cases thereby taking the total count of infected patients to 11 in the district. All new cases were in contact of the five already tested positive persons in the district. The district police have sealed the residential areas where the positive cases were found.Apart from this, three fresh cases were reported in Jalandhar district. The bigger worry for the district is that at least four of the total five new cases in the past 48 hours are totally unconnected to each other, indicating community spread in the district. With health authorities confirming there was neither any travel history nor any positive contact of these new cases as yet, this might be an indication of community breakout in the city.The three new patients reported today are a 65-year-old woman, a resident of Bhairon Bazar, a 42-year-old woman, a resident of Purani Sabzi Mandi and a 53-year-old man from Maqsudan. The man from Maqsudan was serving as a technician at Sacred Hospital in Jalandhar. A containment plan has been implemented at the hospital.Meanwhile, four new cases tested positive in Ludhiana district today. It includes the son of a deceased patient, who was the first to die in Ludhiana due to Covid-19. Meanwhile, another 24-year-old man, who was involved in a theft case, tested positive. The third positive case is of a 15-year-old nephew of a positive patient who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi. The fourth positive case is from Ramgarh village, Jagraon, who also took part in the Tablighi Jamaat gathering.In Sangrur, the first case was reported as a 65-year-old resident of Gagadpur village has tested positive. The patient had travelled by air from New Delhi on March 24. He was asymptomatic, but his report has come positive. He had been under quarantine at his house. Besides, a 52-year-old woman from a village in Barnala district who was admitted at Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, and later died yesterday, was also Covid-19 positive.As per the department, so far, samples of 3,192 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 2,777 samples were found negative and reports of 285 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/community-spread-scare-in-jalandhar-68972
10-04-2020||---||Jallianwala facelift project stalled, fresh deadline June 15||Amritsar, April 9The restoration and renovation work of Jallianwala Bagh has been stalled and the authorities have pushed the deadline of the project to June 15.Earlier, the first phase of the project was targeted to be completed by the first week of April ahead of the commemoration of 101th year of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was expected to be the chief guest on the occasion.A board has been put up restricting the entry of visitors till June 15. Earlier, the entry to the bagh was restricted till April 12.MP Shwait Malik, who is also a member of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, said the project had been stalled for sometime in the wake of Covid outbreak.“We have no option but to shelve the renovation work in adherence to the social distancing norm. We didn’t want huddling of labourers, hence the decision. PM Modi would have been the chief guest at the 101th anniversary programme, but it was not meant to be. Now, we expect the project to be completed by mid-June,” he said.The work of restoration and allied services worth Rs19.36 crore is being carried out by the Union Ministry of Culture under the supervision of Archaeological Survey of India. It is being executed by National Buildings Construction Corporation (India) Ltd.A new exit point with a 15-feet-wide gate has been made. The old structure around the martyrs’ well has been replaced with a new structure having glass walls on its surroundings for giving a clear view of inside the well. Besides, a 50-seat auditorium on the first floor is being revamped with 3-D projection system to showcase a documentary film.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-facelift-project-stalled-fresh-deadline-june-15-68971
10-04-2020||---||Jakhar pitches for Central aid||Chandigarh, April 9Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar has asked the Centre to come forward to assist the state, saying that the ongoing lockdown had adversely affected its economy.Besides releasing the GST dues of the state, other financial help should also be provided without any delay so that benefit could be transferred to the needy.Jakhar demanded that the Union Government should reduce its expenses and put a full-stop on official foreign tours. Likewise, he also appealed that the Central Vista project of Rs 20,000 crore be put off since Parliament could do its work even at the present historic building. He said the huge allocations earmarked for the project should be used to provide financial security to migrant workers, laborers, farmers, small and micro-enterprises.He said the state was working hard to tackle the coronavirus crisis and all necessary steps were being taken to ensure that people get the least hassle during this critical period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jakhar-pitches-for-central-aid-68970
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Release pay,  minister tells pvt schools||Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Thursday asked private schools to not stop salaries of their staff.An official press release said the department had directed all private schools to release full salaries to their employees during the lockdown period. The minister asked the schools to follow the rules and regulations laid under “The Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutional Act”.Singla said no school could demand fee from students on the pretext of online classes during the lockdown period. The Education Department has also released an order under which all schools have been restricted from demanding fee. He added that the schools should also not charge transportation fees and for books from students for the next academic session till the situation normalises. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-pay-minister-tells-pvt-schools-68969
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab rehabs witness 11,633 new enrolments since lockdown||The ongoing lockdown due to Covid-19 is proving to be a blessing in disguise for Punjab’s fight against the drug menace.As many as 830 addicts have made a beeline on a daily average to government and private de-addiction centres since March 23 when curfew was effectively imposed in the state.‘cops aiding addicts’The police have facilitated the registration of new addicts. With a complete lockdown in place, the supply line of drugs has dried up completely. This forced many addicts to approach the police.— Dinkar Gupta, DGPWith highly restricted movement and police presence everywhere, peddlers and smugglers could not continue the flow of drugs to addicts, who came in droves to drug-addiction centres.From March 23 to April 5, the out-patient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) centres had registered 11,633 new cases. “This has taken the footfall to OOAT centres to almost 2.5 lakh, which is close to the estimated number of drug addicts in Punjab as per various surveys,” said DGP Dinkar Gupta.“The Punjab Police have facilitated the registration of new addicts. With a complete lockdown in place, the supply line of drugs has dried up completely. This led many addicts to approach police or health officials through helpline 112 and 104 or through the village sapranch or municipal councillors for help for admission at a de-addiction centre,” Gupta added.News reports from various places in the state in the past few days have shown heavy rush at de-addiction centres. “As many as 5,659 addicts were registered at government-run OOAT centres and another 5,974 were registered at private clinics,” Gupta said.Such heavy has been the rush that the government had to relax rules regarding permission for home doses. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Punjab Government on Sunday permitted 198 OOAT clinics, 35 government de-addiction centres and 108 licensed private de-addiction centres to provide take-home medicines. The dose of buprenorphine and naloxone is being provided for two weeks after an assessment by psychiatrists.Tarn Taran SSP Dhurv Dahiya and Amritsar SSP Vikramjit Singh Duggal said the police provided a humane touch to addicts as anyone who wanted help was encouraged for de-addiction, “We have marked circles outside OOAT centres to maintain social distancing as is the requirement due to the threat of Covid,” said SSP Dhurv Dahiya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-rehabs-witness-11-633-new-enrolments-since-lockdown-68968
10-04-2020||---||Doctors at wits’ end in tackling isolated persons||Chandigarh, April 9With more Covid-positive cases being reported and shifted to isolation wards almost daily, managing many of these patients has become a rather difficult task for doctors and other medical staff.Games, music at isolation centresThe State Control Room issued directions to all DCs for allowing recreational activities at isolation centres. These include individual indoor games, television, use of mobile phones, arrangement of music, books, newspapers and magazines.As of now, 102 persons are in different isolation wards across the state, with maximum patients in Mohali, followed by Nawanshahr and Ludhiana.The two women patients in Mohali, who had to be forcibly taken away from their house last month after they refused to get themselves screened, had initially declined to be tested. “They proved to be rather difficult during the course of their treatment. They had refused to be screened, but after testing, were found to be Covid-positive. The administration was forced to register a case against them. Even after their successful treatment, they have been quarantined at a private hospital here, rather than being home quarantined,” said Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner Mohali.Mohali, which is the new hotspot of the pandemic in the state, with 37 confirmed cases (five cured and one fatality), has 31 in the isolation wards.Talking to The Tribune, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the patients are prone to fear psychosis initially. “It is up to the doctors to build their trust. Slowly, upon our repeated assurances, they start cooperating,” he said, adding that as of now all 31 confirmed cases were in the isolation ward set up at a private hospital near Banur.Dr Harinder Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Nawanshahr, who is overseeing the treatment of the patients there, said they now had eight patients in the isolation wards. “Initially, the first few days were difficult. The patients would swing between extreme anger and helplessness, asking the staff to let them go. It took a lot of cajoling and counselling by a psychiatrist on a regular basis, for the patients to accept that they had contracted a deadly disease,” he said.Additional Deputy Commissioner, Nawanshahr, Aditya Uppal, said though the isolation ward did not have a television set, they arranged for a bluetooth speaker and allowed the family to use mobile phones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-at-wits-end-in-tackling-isolated-persons-68967
10-04-2020||Anirudh Gupta||On guard, Ferozepur heaves a sigh of relief||Ferozepur, April 9It is nothing short of ironical that the very factors which rendered Ferozepur district a laggard have come to the aid of the authorities in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Blessing in disguiseNo corona-positive case has been reported till date in this sleepy border district, which shares an international boundary with Pakistan, besides borders with Rajasthan and Haryana.Ferozepur neither boasts of any major industry, nor does it have a sizeable population of NRIs. Most of the visitors comprise small-time traders and government officials. Moreover, the density of population is also far less as compared to other districts. In the last census, this district was amongst the few in the country where the population graph had come down.As per information, a total of 702 people belonging to this district were identified with history of foreign travel out of which 511 number had been traced and quarantined at home, said Kulwant Singh Deputy Commissioner, adding that efforts were on to track down the remaining few.The DC said that that in order to keep this district corona-free, all possible measures were being taken. DC said that 17 persons who had come in contact with one Corona positive case reported in neighboring Faridkot, have been home quarantined. DC further said out of these 17 persons, 11 belonged to city and 6 to cantonment, adding that though none of them had any symptoms though, still they are under observation of the health department.Bhupinder Singh, SSP said that all the inter-state borders and the borders with other district have been totally sealed and curfew has been implemented effectively so as to prevent any occurrence of this decease here. SSP said that Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs) have been constituted to deal with any eventuality. It is pertinent to mention here that no ventilator was available in any of the government hospital in this district and only one of the private hospital had five ventilators for a total population of around 10 Lakhs, which remains a matter of concern.Meanwhile, almost 70 NGOs are working tirelessly to provide food and shelter to poor and needy families. The DC said the licences of two vegetable vendors have been cancelled for overcharging and the administration was keeping a close tab on any exorbitant charges by traders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-guard-ferozepur-heaves-a-sigh-of-relief-68966
10-04-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Donations dry up, gaushalas say release cow cess funds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9With donations drying up due to the lockdown and no funds coming from the urban local bodies, fodder crisis is looming large over most of the 510 gaushalas, which shelter nearly 4 lakh cows.Most of the gaushalas are run by NGOs and are given daily assistance by the ULB concerned, ranging from Rs 15 to Rs 30 per animal.As per estimates, the daily requirement of fodder at the gaushalas is around 8,000 tonnes. Compared to a few gaushalas located in larger cities like Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala and Bathinda, which are still getting fodder or cash from locals, shelters located on the outskirts of the urban areas are in dire straits. The shortage of fodder has led to increase in the prices.“The government should release the funds collected as cow cess to the gaushalas. It would help in overcoming the crisis,” Vakil Chand Goel, state secretary, Punjab Gaushala Mahasangh. Keemti Bhagat, former chairman of the Gau Sewa Commission, said, “The government has collected Rs 75 crore as cow cess. It is public money, but the government had been holding on to it.”Enquiries at gaushalas reveal that restricted movement has led to the shortage of fodder. “The government should issue more curfew passes for the movement of fodder from villages to urban areas,” said Goel.Bhupinder, who is involved in running of Shri Gopal Gau Sewa Samiti in Kharar, said, “Against the price of Rs 130 per quintal, we are getting fodder for Rs 250 per quintal. With less donations now, it is becoming difficult to sustain.” Sunder Dass Dhamija from Ludhiana, chairman of Govind Gau Dham, said, “Due to fund crunch, we are buying fodder on credit.” In Jalandhar too, the shortage of fodder has badly affected the gaushalas. As per official record, nearly Rs 34 crore collected by urban local bodies as cow cess since 2016 has not been fully unutilised. Of this, only Rs 25 crore had been distributed for feeding cattle till July. Cow cess is also being collected by the Excise and Taxation and Transport Departments.Sachin Sharma, chairman, Punjab Gau Sewa Commission, claimed that with the start of harvest season, the problem of fodder would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/donations-dry-up-gaushalas-say-release-cow-cess-funds-68965
10-04-2020||Jalandhar||Congress leaders in quarantine after death of activist’s father||Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry and his father senior Congress leader Avtar Henry today placed themselves in a 14-day self-quarantine after the 59-year-old Ayurvedic chemist tested positive last night and died today.The son of the chemist, Deepak Kumar, is a block president of the Congress. The father-son duo had been active in ration distribution in various areas of the city during which Deepak came in contact with many other leaders. Both Avtar Henry and his family, as well as over six other Congress functionaries placed themselves under precautionary quarantine after they received the news.Bawa said the step was taken to set an example of social responsibility.Deepak had met Bawa on March 30 concerning an issue regarding ration disbursal.Bawa said, “I had met the son of the person who tested positive on March 30. Though there was no direct contact with his father, we have placed ourselves in self-quarantine. At least four or five Congress councillors as well as party workers have also placed themselves under quarantine.”Bawa said, “Deepak had been very active in ration disbursal for Covid-affected and needy. He was doing this in his personal capacity for which he had our support.”He said, “Community transmission seems inevitable in the country as positive cases today show that it has begun.”Councillors who have placed themselves in quarantine include Deepak Sharda, Om Parkash, Mike Khosla among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leaders-in-quarantine-after-death-of-activists-father-68964
10-04-2020||Ropar||Ropar village gets ration as panches threaten to resign||Twenty four hours after the members of Kotla Nihang village panchayat issued a threat to officials of the District Panchayat and Rural Development Department, the latter reached the village and distributed packets of dry ration among 180 families of migrant labourers.After seeing the futility in visiting the office of Block Development Panchayat Officer, Ropar, to get ration for poor, village sarpanch Pritpal Kaur held a meeting of panchayat members on Wednesday and announced that she, along with other panchayat members, would resign in case there was further delay in distribution of ration among the poor of her village.Talking to The Tribune, the sarpanch said the state government had promised a bag of dry ration, including wheat flour, pulses and sugar, to poor to protect them from starvation during lockdown. In all, 180 families of migrant labourers, besides 650 families with BPL cards were identified, she said.Kaur said locals had been arranging ‘langar’ for the needy since March 22, but post 17 days of lockdown, it came difficult for the residents as well. Therefore, the panchayat members decided to lodge a protest by resigning from their posts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-village-gets-ration-as-panches-threaten-to-resign-68963
10-04-2020||---||Store owner in Mansa booked for overcharging||Mansa, April 9The district police on Thursday booked an owner and manager of Aadhar super market for allegedly fleecing customers amid the curfew restrictions.SSP Narinder Bhargav said, “Complainant Balkaran Singh Balli, an advocate, said he purchased some items from Aadhar super market on April 8 at a price which was way higher than the MRP mentioned on the article. Acting on his complaint, we initiated action against the owner and manager of the store.”The SSP said: “A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC has been registered against the owner and manager of Aadhar super market. ”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/store-owner-in-mansa-booked-for-overcharging-68962
10-04-2020||Moga||Moga administration comes up with micro-level plan||To prepare and encourage locals to fight the Covid pandemic, the district administration has started putting up posters of micro-level containment plan for containing local-level transmission of the deadly virus. The objective is to dispel the Covid fear from the minds of people.According to the plan, the entire village will be declared as a containment zone and a buffer zone will also be created around it if any person is tested positive.The district administration will decide the perimeter of the containment area. It will create defined entry and exit points in the affected areas, while all other passages will be sealed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-administration-comes-up-with-micro-level-plan-68961
