19-04-2020||---||Domes of Kartarpur gurdwara damaged by storm, repaired; Pak orders probe||New Delhi, April 19The Pakistan government on Sunday repaired all the five domes of Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara that had toppled following a storm on Saturday night.There were no reports of injuries as the gurdwara was closed temporarily due to the Covid epidemic. Pakistan will also conduct a probe into the incident which has raised allegations of poor workmanship and materials.Confirming the repairing of the domes, the Pakistan Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PGPC) condemned the negative propaganda on this issue.Both the PGPC and the Pakistan government sought to emphasise that the repairs were carried out within a few hours. The Indian media had highlighted the falling-off of the domes and alleged that inferior material was used in their construction.Pakistan High Commission here indicated that not much should be read into it as it was quirk of nature. The incident happened due to the extremely bad weather but the structure was restored within a matter of hours, it pointed out.Pakistan, however, sidestepped the issue of the quality of material used in the construction of the dome on grounds that an inquiry into their collapse will be conducted. “The matter has been addressed before the Religious Affairs Minister Noorul Haq Qadri with a request for an inquiry,” said reports quoting Minister of Science and Technology Fawad Chaudhry.India had officially taken up the issue of collapse of domes and said the damage to the structures in the gurdwara have caused great consternation to the members of the Sikh community.“Their strong sense of faith and devotion to the holy site must be fully understood and appreciated. India has urged Pakistan that in deference to the sentiments of the Sikh community, the deficiencies which led to the damage to the newly constructed structures be urgently rectified and remedied,” said sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/domes-of-kartarpur-gurdwara-damaged-by-storm-repaired-pak-orders-probe-73347
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM announces no relaxation in curfew till May 3; no special concessions for Ramzan||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday ruled out any relaxation in the curfew in the state, except as needed to ensure COVID-19 free procurement of wheat, till May 3, when he will again review the situation.Capt Amarinder ordered strict enforcement of the curfew in all districts by the DCs, with no relaxation or concessions whatsoever even during the Ramzan period beginning this week.He also made it clear that no special curfew passes should be issued to the people on account of Ramzan.The chief minister directed the DCs to take firm steps to ensure that there is no crowding at the grocery and other shops selling essentials at this time, and all norms of social distancing are strictly adhered to.The chief minister took the decision after reviewing the current situation with senior officers from the administration and police department.The decision assumes significance in the backdrop of various relaxations given by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for non-containment zones in the country, effective April 20.However, taking into consideration the ground situation, the chief minister is of the firm view that there should be no relaxation, except already announced by his government with respect to harvesting and procurement operations, as well as those relating to operations of certain industries/brick kilns and construction activity, which are housing migrant labourers or have them on-site, according to an official spokesperson.Amid concerns that the hygiene conditions were not up to the mark in the Mandis, the chief minister has also ordered a health audit of these centres, where 1.85 lakh metric tonnes of wheat is expected to arrive till June, when the procurement will come to an end. This will infuse around Rs 35,000 crore, including the CCL payment of Rs 26,000 crore received from the Centre, into the state economy, thus giving it the much-needed support for fighting the COVID-19 battle effectively.An official spokesperson said the chief minister made it clear that all efforts should be focused, at the moment, on saving lives and on ensuring that the procurement operations are conducted smoothly and in a Covid free environment.Any decision on the way forward would be taken after May 3, taking into account the situation prevailing then and the report of the expert committee set up to formulate the state’s exit strategy. The committee is expected to submit its report this week.Meanwhile, acting on the directives of the chief minister, DCs across the state are issuing separate notifications to maintain strict curfew restrictions in their respective districts.Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code,1860, as per these notifications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-announces-no-relaxation-in-curfew-till-may-3-no-special-concessions-for-ramzan-73339
19-04-2020||Karam Prakash ||Coronavirus: After 15 positive cases in a day, Patiala Health Department starts rapid testing||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 19Alarmed by the major spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in a single day, the Health Department has already started rapid antibody testing in the district.In fact, after district reported 15 positive cases in a single day, on Saturday, the District Health Department has decided to conduct around 150 rapid antibody testing on Sunday for speedy detection of COVID-19-positive cases. In the first phase of rapid testing, the District Health Department will conduct testing at three containment Zones: Safabadi Gate, Books Market and old grain market area in Rajpura. The move to go rapid testing came just within 12 hours after district saw a huge spike in a number of cases.  Of 15 cases on Saturday, nine were close contacts of book trader while six contacts were of Rajpura lady who was tested positive on Friday. The district has already reported 26 cases so far.Health experts informed that the Health Department had been conducting RT-PCR test, earlier, in which throat swab was taken. However, in antibodies’ tests, they will be taking blood as a sample and detect the body's response to the virus. Experts informed that rapid antibodies‘ test is less expensive and the results come in 20-30 minutes, while RT PCR test takes 10-12 hours. Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra informed that they had received 700 Rapid Testing Kits to conduct mass testing. He said: “We will start the Rapid testing in three containment areas of the district to stem the spread. We are leaving no stone unturned to break the chain of the coronavirus.”In one of the containment zones — Books market area — all the 26 samples tested negative, however, testing is still underway in other areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-after-15-positive-cases-in-a-day-patiala-health-department-starts-rapid-testing-73337
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVA app alerts users about closest coronavirus-positive patients||A unique in-built feature in the COVA app is helping the people of Punjab stay safe, by allowing them to check the distance from the nearest COVID-19 positive person, and also alerting the district administration if a quarantined patient or suspect moves beyond 100 meters of her/his base location.While the feature is helping the authorities enforce quarantine restrictions, it is also enabling the people of the state to keep themselves and their family members/friends etc safe through a self-control mechanism.By geotagging the positive patients, the App helps the district administration trace locations that the positive individual has visited during the last few days. If the Bluetooth is switched on for mobile phones with COVA, the App will alert the citizen on coming in the Bluetooth range of a person suspected or positive with COVID-19. This also helps the Health Department and the district administration trace the contact history of positive patients.For the App to be effective, therefore, the GPS location and Bluetooth need to be switched on for the mobile phones of the patients, according to Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Governance Reforms and Public Grievances.Further, the COVA dashboard enables the district administration to track the quarantined individuals and monitor their movements away from their base location. These mobile numbers can also be used by the Telcom providers to track movement if the location or Bluetooth is disabled. The telco companies send hourly reports to the Department of Health on breaches in each district. Notably, the COVA App has had more than 10 lakh downloads till now and is enabling the citizens as well as the government officials to effectively execute lockdown and social distancing norms, while making available access to essentials and other important services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cova-app-alerts-users-about-closest-coronavirus-positive-patients-73336
19-04-2020||Sangrur||800 gm heroin worth crores seized; two arrested, one absconding||The Special Task Force (STF) against drugs in Sangrur on Sunday claimed to have arrested two persons with 800 gm heroin worth crores.Another accomplice of the accused fled while the STF has been conducting further investigations.While sharing details, DSP STF, Patiala, Harwinder Singh Cheema informed that on a tipoff, a team of Sangrur STF under the supervision of its in charge inspector Ravinder Bhalla laid a barricade near Lakhewal village last night and  arrested two persons.“The arrested include Kulwinder Singh and Sarbjit Singh and both were travelling in a Swift car. Our STF team seized 800 gm heroin from their vehicle. Another accomplice Saipy Singh, who was following them in a Scorpio car, fled after leaving his vehicle,” said DSP Cheema.Cheema further informed that the accused had brought the seized heroin from some unidentified persons of Kurukshetra of Haryana and they were going to supply it to their customers in Sangrur district.“We are conducting detailed investigations to ascertain how they succeeded in bringing heroin from other state to Punjab during curfew,” said DSP Cheema.STF Sangrur in charge Ravinder Bhalla said during preliminary investigations it has come to light that accused used to pool money to purchase heroin and later they shared the profit among them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/800-gm-heroin-worth-crores-seized-two-arrested-one-absconding-73329
19-04-2020||Sangrur||Punjab government extends suspension of toll plazas till May 3||Public Works Department, Punjab on Sunday extended the suspension period of tolling operations at all state toll plazas till May 3.PWD Minister Punjab, Vijay Inder Singla, who is Sangrur MLA also confirmed that Punjab government’s decision to extend the suspension of toll plazas.“On March 27, the toll operations were stopped till, earlier, to set the limit of lockdown but now the toll plazas will remain closed till May 3 as the nationwide lockdown has also been extended to control the spread of coronavirus", said Singla.Singla said that as many as 23 toll plazas are operational under the state government in Punjab.However, the toll plazas under NHAI will be resuming toll collection from April 20 onwards following the orders of union government where commuters will have to pay the tax.The PWD minister said that besides providing free passage, the toll plazas operational under state government will continue providing langar (free food) to the drivers till May 3.He added the roadside 'dhabas' and restaurants were shut due to the lockdown, but the state government will ensure availability of cooked meals to the drivers of the emergency supply vehicles.“Orders in this regard have already been sent to concerned parties by the public works department. It is a crucial time for the nation due to the spread of COVID-19 and the decision would ensure hassle-free movement of emergency vehicles in the state,” said Singla.The cabinet minister informed that the state government has pressed all the required services to curb the contamination of the virus.He said that the emergency services are being delivered at the doorsteps of the citizens in Punjab.He appealed the people to stay inside their home to stay safe from coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-extends-suspension-of-toll-plazas-till-may-3-73328
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab allows sand mining, stone crushing from April 20||Sand and gravel mining and stone crushing have been permitted as part of the construction-related activities in Punjab from Monday, according to the state home department.Also in view of the new academic session, shops dealing in the distribution of books to school and college students have also been allowed to operate, as per an official release here.In view of approaching summer season, the sale of air-conditioners, air-coolers, fans and their repair shops have also been brought under the ambit of essential goods or services and have been allowed to remain open and operate.In line with the Centre's guidelines, industrial activity is allowed in the state's rural areas, provided that the operators of industries, employing ten or more persons, should make all arrangements for the stay or transport of workers.'Dhabas' have also been allowed to remain open but they will serve only packed food, the statement said.However, any activity in the containment zones would continue to be banned, it said.The state government has authorised the District Magistrates to exercise due diligence in regulating timings of various establishments including industries and other permitted activity depending upon local requirements and norms of social distancing, the release said.These directions have been issued for the implementation of the government of India's revised COVID-19 containment guidelines.Mohali, Jalandhar, SBS Nagar and Pathankot districts have been declared as coronavirus hotspots in Punjab.    According to instructions issued to all the Deputy Commissioners by the state home department, construction-related activities like stone crushers, sand and gravel mining have been permitted.“Even though it is not specifically mentioned in the (Centre's) guidelines, it is implied that the related activities in terms of stone crushers, mining of sand and gravel and its transport, sale outlets of cement, steel etc, are also to be permitted. Their working norms can be regulated,” as per instructions.The Centre in its revised guidelines to states for containment of COVID-19 has allowed construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings, water supply and sanitation, renewable energy projects, a continuation of works in construction projects within the municipal limits.A Punjab government release said that it was decided that state would follow complete curfew till May 3 and the prevailing practice of requiring a curfew pass for movement during curfew shall continue.The release further said the rule for setting up a containment zone is the discovery of two or more confirmed cases of COVID-19 in a locality.The zone is to be set-up by district authorities based on the number of cases, their geographical distribution and feasibility of sealing the area, it further said.The containment zone can accordingly be starting from a locality to a colony, sector (village), single or multiple wards or the entire city itself, the release further said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-allows-sand-mining-stone-crushing-from-april-20-73318
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Over 26,000 drug addicts join Punjab de-addiction programme during curfew||A break in supply of drugs in curfew-bound Punjab has given an impetus to the state's de-addiction measures, with over 26,000 drug addicts joining the government-run de-addiction programme.Punjab has been reeling under the drug menace for years and the recent lockdown due to coronavirus and the subsequent curfew in the state has broken the supply chain of narcotics to the state.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that on the directives of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, a special campaign is being launched to register new patients under the de-addiction programme in the state.  "During the curfew period, more than 26,000 patients have been registered," he said.As per the data available with the state health department, 4.14 lakh addicts were registered with it. These included 1.55 lakh at OutPatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres, 2.15 lakh in de-addiction centres and more than 30,000 in rehabilitation centres before the lockdown.Now the figure is 4.40 lakh, an increase of 26,000 patients in OOAT centres, the data reveals.  The highest increase is in Ludhiana 2,600, followed by Moga 2,200, Mohali 1,800, Patiala 1,600 and Sangrur 1,300. Giving relief to those fighting addiction, 198 OOAT clinics, 35 Government De-Addiction Centers and 108 Licensed private De-addiction centers have been allowed to give the dose of buprenorphine and naloxone drugs to registered patients after being evaluated by a psychiatrist.Sidhu said that in case of non-availability of therapeutic services, the patient is likely to leave treatment which can be fatal for the patient. "Considering the circumstances, the take home dose is now extended for 21 days. The medicine is being released to the patient only after the advice of the psychiatrist," he said.These centres have been strictly instructed to maintain social distancing while providing the treatment.     Patients are being sensitised that coronavirus is dangerous and if they have high fever, dry cough and difficulty in breathing, they should contact the nearest health centre.He said that during this time of curfew and lockdown, the government has taken special initiative for the treatment and care of patients suffering from drug addiction so that maximum number of young people can get help.He said panchayats, social service organisations and youth welfare clubs were being approached to encourage such patients to come to their respective centres and clinics so that the misguided youth could be cured.Officials said the positive effect of the curfew-cum-lockdown in Punjab is that every day 1200 new drug addicts are joining the OutPatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres across the state.They said scarce availability of illicit drugs due to the coronavirus lockdown has forced drug addicts to get enrolled for treatment at government and private-run centres. Additional DGP-cum-Chief of Special Task Force on Drugs, Harpreet Singh Sidhu said, "Owing to curfew as well as lockdown, the supply chain of drugs has been further constricted. Due to non-availability addicts are visiting drug de-addiction centres resulting in a significant increase in the number of patients." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-26-000-drug-addicts-join-punjab-de-addiction-programme-during-curfew-73313
19-04-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: With 61 cases in Mohali, operation of additional activities will not be allowed||Keeping in view the rising number of positive COVID-19 cases in Mohali the district administration has decided to not allow operation of additional activities from April 20 in view of the curfew restrictions.District Magistrate, Girish Dayalan, while in exercise of powers conferred under Section-144 of CrPC has ordered that the curfew imposed in the district shall remain in force and “operation of any additional activities (not already allowed under previous orders/ exemptions) shall not take place without specific exemptions granted by this office”, which shall be determined based on the objectives of the essential nature of the activity, the mitigation of hardship to the public and ensuring continuity of government business.Dayalan said that stricter measures have been enforced keeping in view the emergent nature and potential magnitude of the pandemic and for the purpose of ensuring health and safety of human life.Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code,1860, he added.It is pertinent to mention, here, that revised guidelines have been issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, which has allowed certain additional activities to be opened in the country from April 20.But, it has also been categorically stated that these guidelines shall not be applied to containment zones created in “Hotspots” i.e. areas of a large outbreak of COVID-19 or clusters with a significant spread of coronavirus as determined by guidelines of the central government.The DC said that as of now the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district is 61 which was highest in the Punjab state.He said the district shares its border with the Chandigarh and the states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.He said a considerable number of people travel to Mohali and back from Chandigarh and these states because of either their workplace or residence being located here.In such circumstances, where the district has not yet reached a stage of 14 days without a positive case and has the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases in Punjab, the threat of the pandemic spreading can yet not be ruled out, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-with-61-cases-in-mohali-operation-of-additional-activities-will-not-be-allowed-73307
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||10 new coronavirus cases in a day take Punjab tally to 238||With 10 more cases — six from Jalandhar and four from SAS Nagar district —  being reported on Sunday, the total number of coronavirus patients in Punjab has gone up to 244. An infant and a senior citizen were among Mohali’s four new coronavirus cases, all relatives of an employee at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research who recently tested positive.The 26-year-old wife of the PGI employee and his month-old, a 60-year-old woman and a 19-year-old man all tested positive on Sunday, officials said.  They are all residents of Nayagaon. The employee, a sanitation worker, was among two people on PGI’s payroll to be diagnosed with the infection recently.His wife and daughter have been admitted to PGI, while the other two are currently at Gian Sagar Hospital.The development takes Mohali’s tally to 61, with 53 active cases and two deaths.Punjab has reported 16 deathsMohali is the district with the highest number of cases in Punjab and two reported deaths.Punjab government has since identified 17 hotspots in the state---Mohali being the first in the list---to ramp its containment strategy. The state also imposed a curfew until May 3.The central government meanwhile named four districts in the state---Mohali, SBS Nagar, Jalandhar and Pathankot---among 170 read zones in the country.Meanwhile, seven people tested negative in Muktsar. The district has only one case so far---an 18-year-old resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut who had come to a local mosque on March 18 after attending last month’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi tested positive on April 8.He is currently being treated at a local hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-new-coronavirus-cases-in-a-day-take-punjab-tally-to-238-73291
19-04-2020||Jasvinder Kaur||The lost story of Made in Amritsar||Around 200 years ago, as Maharaja Ranjit Singh, aided by his legendary French generals, was consolidating his kingdom, the latter were introducing Europe to rich North Indian textiles. At the heart of this trade was Amritsar, the undisputed food capital of North India today, but a major centre for textiles in the distant past.Amritsar, for many centuries, has in one way or the other been associated with textiles, either as a producer or as a trading centre. In fact, it became a centre of production of shawls and was at the forefront of exporting them to Europe during Ranjit Singh’s rule.Kashmir became a part of the Sikh kingdom in 1819 after Ranjit Singh invaded it. Shortly afterwards, in 1822, Ranjit Singh hired men from Napoleon’s army — Jean-Francois Allard and Jean-Batiste Ventura — as his generals. By 1835, these generals were exporting shawls to Europe, and Amritsar had become the centre of the Kashmiri shawl trade.Weavers and dyers from Kashmir settled in the plains and hills of Punjab during this period. One of the factors that pushed them to do so was famine. As a result, Kashmiri colonies were established in places like Amritsar and Ludhiana in present-day Punjab and Nurpur and Tiloknath in what is now Kangra in Himachal Pradesh.Shawls made in Amritsar — jamavar or kani and amli — were of high quality. Writing in 1872, Baden Powell mentions that shawls from Amritsar were close in quality to Kashmiri shawls. The striped shawls were called jamavar or kitraz, and were popular in Iran and Turkey. These were made by the complicated kani technique. As these were used to make jamas, the word jamavar was also used for them. The amli shawls, on the other hand, were embroidered Kashmiri shawls.A complex weaveWeaving of kani shawls in the early 19th-century Kashmir was a slow and laborious process. A single shawl could take up to 18 months or more. Owing to their high demand, a method was devised to weave the shawl in pieces on two or more looms. This way, the shawl was made in much less time. These pieces were then handed over to the rafugar or darner. He would join them with such precision that it was hard to tell. William Moorcroft, an English explorer, mentioned this in his writing in 1821 and called it a recent innovation. He undertook a detailed study of the shawl industry between 1820 and 1823, and wrote an account that has been preserved at the India Office Library, now part of the British Library, London.Early 19th century saw the beginning of the amli or embroidered shawls. These were introduced in Kashmir at the instigation of Khwaja Yusaf, an Armenian, who came to Kashmir in 1803 as an agent of the Constantinople Trading Company. He saw a chance to produce the embroidered shawls in a much shorter time than kani or jamavar. Since these shawls didn’t fall into the category of woven shawls, he was also able to escape the duties levied on kani shawls. His company thus made huge profits and ushered in embroidered shawls. This also pushed the demand for plain pashmina shawls which were then used as a base for amli shawls.By the third quarter of the 19th century, the important centres of weaving plain pashmina were not only in Kashmir but also in Ludhiana and Amritsar, the holy city being a formidable manufacturer. At an art exhibition held in Lahore in 1864, shawls — pashmina, amli, and kani or jamavar — from Kashmir, Amritsar and Delhi were exhibited.Ever-expandingWith time, the shawl industry declined and the carpet industry came up to fill the gap. Trade in carpets rose partly on the ruins of the pashmina shawl trade. By 1911, Amritsar was exporting carpets worth Rs5 lakh; it picked up a steady pace after the Great Depression. Among other things made in Amritsar were different styles of embroideries. Powell, in 1872, writes about Lahore and Amritsar as the centres for gold embroidery or salma work. Amritsar was also producing some of the finest phulkaris, some of which were even exported to America.During the British Raj, the most important item of import were piece goods, and Amritsar was trading in silk and woollen cloth. Silk trade centre was located at Batti Hattan. It was later shifted to Katra Ahluwalia, which, in turn, became the centre of trading in piece goods. Sant Ram Reshamwala was one of the importers of silk from Europe.The fabric imported in early 20th century did not just include pure silk, but also artificial silk from Japan, Italy and France. It was cheaper and came in attractive colours. In the 1930s, majority of silk was imported from Japan, so much so that many firms from Amritsar opened offices in Japan. From Europe, cottons with European motifs like roses were imported.From Amritsar, the fabrics made inroads into other parts of Punjab. They became popular with women, who used them to make suits and dupattas. The designs, patterns and textures were different from what was available locally. Women here knew them by various names like Lady Minton (probably Lady Hamilton), Malaysia, Dil-ki-pyaas, Aap-ka-nasha, Do-ghorae-di-boski (probably from China), Shangai (probably from Shanghai). The most famous among these was the Do-ghorae-di-boski or double horse boski from China. The brand still sells on alibaba.com.Fashion fabricsIn Punjab, another interesting fabric that came from abroad and became very popular among women was the one used for making parachutes. Known as ‘parachute cloth’, it was not sold as continuous yardage, but in pieces. The stitched parachute would probably be opened up and sold in triangular pieces or chattrian (umbrellas) about 6-7 feet wide and 10 feet long.These were probably the surplus parachutes that were allowed to be sold after World War II got over in 1945. In the initial years of the war, the material used for making parachutes was silk. After America joined the war by the end of 1941, the Allies used parachutes made of nylon as they were unable to import silk from Japan.In Britain, there are many stories of women making their wedding dresses, blouses, petticoats with the RAF parachute material. These were white, lime green and sometimes orange in colour. It was, however, not an easy material to get as it was illegal to obtain it while the war was on. Even the used parachute had to be turned in to the authorities for investigation. Women in England used any material available to them during the war for their wedding dresses, whether it was parachute silk or blackout material, which had been duly bleached.Many of the fashion fabrics that were used by women in Punjab before India got Independence were used as a base for doing salma or gota work. Velvet, another popular fabric, was used not only for garments but also for palangposh (bedcover) or other household articles like cushions. All the fabrics sold during the British Raj were available at shops in big cities. And Amritsar, being a trading centre, played an important part in the textile trade and in distributing it to other parts of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/the-lost-story-of-made-in-amritsar-73271
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Salute covid warriors: Punjab Congress||Public prosecutors donate Rs12 lakhLudhiana: Public prosecutors working across Punjab have contributed Rs12.89 lakh to the Chief Minister Covid-19 Relief Fund. Director (Prosecution) Vijay Singla said that apart public prosecutors, the entire staff working in the Department of Prosecution and Litigation contributed to the relief fund. Officers and staff from Ludhiana contributed Rs1.34 lakh, Jalandhar staff Rs1.29 lakh and Patiala Rs1.12 lakh. TNSVarsity pitches in with Rs14.25 lakhBathinda: Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), Bathinda, has donated Rs14.25 lakh to the Chief Minister Covid-19 Relief Fund. Mohan Paul Singh Ishar, MRSPTU Vice-Chancellor, thanked all officials and employees for their contribution for the service to humanity in the crisis. TNSNFL donates 3,000 masksBathinda: A team of officials of National Fertilisers Limited (NFL) provided 3,000 masks to fight Covid-19 in Bathinda. A team of NFL officials met DC B Srinivasan and SSP Nanak Singh and 3,000 masks to them. TNSPanchayat Dept provides 3 lakh masksChandigarh: The Rural Development and Panchayat Department, Punjab, has provided three lakh masks to government departments which were made by women self-help groups under the National Rural Livelihood Mission. Rural Development Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa lauded the efforts of women groups. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/salute-covid-warriors-punjab-congress-72972
19-04-2020||Patiala||Police to help trace movement of Covid-hit||Finding itself in a fix over Covid-positive patients hiding their travel history during the lockdown, the Health Department is compelled to take help of the police to trace their past movement.In one such incident, a social worker in Patiala — who tested positive for Covid — initially hid his movement to Zirakpur during curfew to help his friend, a book trader. But on the insistence of the Health Department, he had to give in and revealed his friend’s name. On testing later, he also came out positive for Covid. The Patiala Health Department said that they had been facing a huge problem because the patients were not revealing their movements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-to-help-trace-movement-of-covid-hit-72969
19-04-2020||---||In testing times, 4 youths help needy get books||Muktsar, April 18As schools have started online classes amid curfew and students sitting at home don’t have new books, a group of four youths here has started arranging them online.Sarbjit Singh, one of the group members, said, “We have prepared a Google form. Those who need or want to donate books have to upload information. Then we give them the address of a person who can donate books. The needy person can go there and collect them.”He said, “We are not flouting any curfew order. We give the contact number of a person who is resides nearby or simply tell the needy to wait. As of now, we have provided books to 15 persons. However, if the administration issues us curfew passes, we can definitely help more students.”Notably, the youths had in 2017 formed an NGO ‘Raddi to Education’. They sold old newspapers to fund tuition classes and buy notebooks for needy students. Besides, they used to provide old books to students at an office made at the local bus stand. Meanwhile, principal of a government school said, “If some youngsters are trying to help out needy students with the use of technology, the administration should also support them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-testing-times-4-youths-help-needy-get-books-72968
19-04-2020||Amritsar||No PPE kits, Amritsar medical staff threaten strike||Medical officers and pharmacists at dispensaries in rural areas today boycotted duties after media in Pakistan reported that two women among the 41 Pakistani nationals repatriated from India two days ago had tested positive for Covid.However, they resumed work later and said if they were not provided safety equipment by Tuesday, they would boycott all Covid-related duties.The employees said medical professionals from rural areas were assigned special duties at the International Check Post, Attari, airport, Golden Temple and Durgiana Temple as a part of rapid response teams to identify suspected cases.Leader of the Rural Pharmacy Officers’ Association Navjot Kaur said, “The pharmacy officers who had handled 41 Pakistani nationals are now worried as they did not have N95 masks and PPE kits with them. We are daily coming in direct contact with potential carriers at different places.” The pharmacists also said they were working on contract for the past 14 years and their services should be regularised.Dr Rahul, Rural Medical Officer, said, “The government guidelines say screening teams do not need PPE kits. However, when we go to different areas as rapid response teams, large number of people gather there. In view of the problems faced by ground staff, the policymakers must amend the guidelines.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-ppe-kits-amritsar-medical-staff-threaten-strike-72967
19-04-2020||Gurdaspur||Administration clarifies on goof-up, denies protest at cremation||Under pressure from the kin of Sansar Singh, the Covid-positive patient hailing from Bhaini Paswal village of the district who died in an Amritsar hospital on Thursday, the administration has gone on an overdrive to tell the public that “the cremation went off peacefully.”Kin laud authoritiesThe administration on Saturday came out with a press note on behalf of Inderjit Singh, son of deceased Sansar Singh. The press note sent to reporters on their e-mail IDs claimed “the administration did a commendable job and that the family was pained at wrong reporting wherein it was mentioned that villagers protested at the cremation site.”On Thursday, around 8 pm, just an hour before the body of Sansar was to be cremated, mediapersons received a message from the Public Relations Department on the basis of which reporters filed their copies. The message, which was sent on a social media platform, read: “Positive patient(s) of village Bhaini Paswal block Kahnuwan Gurdaspur cremation process will start on near 9pm today.” (Quoted as received)The message was sans any punctuation marks which completely distorted the meaning. Reporters thought the cremation process was ‘blocked’ and filed stories based on the message. The man who had typed the message inadvertently had prefixed the word ‘block’ with Kahunwan instead of suffixing it. “What he actually meant was that the cremation of the positive patient will start at 9 pm. However, by prefixing the word ‘block’ with Kahnuwan, he messed up things. This, in turn, created the impression that somebody, or some protesters, were trying to block the cremation,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/administration-clarifies-on-goof-up-denies-protest-at-cremation-72966
19-04-2020||Amritsar||Help pilgrims return home: Akal Takht to govt||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has asked the Centre and state governments to facilitate the transportation of about 4,000 pilgrims stranded at Hazoor Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, and nearly 90 Sikh pilgrims stranded in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. All hail from Punjab.They had gone to pay obeisance at the Nanded gurdwara when the nationwide lockdown was enforced to prevent the spread of Covid-19.When no help from the authorities, some of the pilgrims started their journey back home and they managed to reach Indore.Some of the pilgrims approached the office of the Akal Takht Secretariat, seeking Jathedar’s intervention.The Jathedar said the stranded pilgrims had no shelter over their heads, while food was in short supply. He called upon the Centre and state governments to act fast on moral grounds and help the pilgrims return home. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/help-pilgrims-return-home-akal-takht-to-govt-72965
19-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Couple held for misleading post||Abohar, April 18The police on Saturday arrested a couple for claiming on Facebook that they had made a medicine to cure Covid-19. They made the claim in a video clip.The accused, Pradeep Kumar Kukreja and his wife Kanchan, were booked under Section 201 of the IPC and Section 51 B of the Disaster Management Act. They run astrology and Vastu shastra centres here and in Ludhiana.The clip was deleted on the direction from the police. The couple was later released on bail.The police also arrested a farmer, identified as Jeetpal Singh of Himmatpura village, for allegedly uploading the distorted version of Gurbani on social media. He has been booked under Sections 295-A and 504 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/couple-held-for-misleading-post-72964
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||15 cases in a day, focus now on Patiala||With 15 new cases in a day, Patiala district seems to be emerging as a hotspot for Covid-19. It is the highest number of cases reported in a single day in any district of Punjab.Across the state, 23 new cases were reported over the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 234. The state also reported two deaths, including that of an ACP in Ludhiana. With this, the toll has reached 16.According to media bulletin issued by the state government, apart from 15 cases in Patiala, six cases were reported from Jalandhar, and one each from Gurdaspur and SAS Nagar. The district Health Department in Patiala said the spike in the number of cases was from a single source of a social worker, from whom the book trader contracted the virus.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said that of the 15 new cases in the district, nine persons (including neighbours and friends) were related to the book trader, including neighbours and friends, and six to a 60-year-old Rajpura woman who is already a Covid-19 patient.“The book market in Patiala and ward number 16 near the old grain market in Rajpura have already been converted into containment zones. As many as 23,975 families were screened on Saturday,” Dr Malhotra said.The department said no local source of virus could be traced. It said both the social worker and the book trader had made several visits out of the city during the lockdown.Meanwhile, a private hospital in Rajpura was sealed after the 60-year-old woman tested positive in Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Friday. She was admitted to the private hospital before she was shifted to Rajindra Hospital. She was not kept under isolation at the private hospital in spite of being symptomatic. In Jalandhar, where six new cases have been reported, the tally has touched 41. The new cases include that of relatives of a 70-year-old man of Basti Danishmandan; he tested positive on Tuesday.They include his sister’s 34-year-old daughter, her 45-year-old husband and their 17-year-old son. The 70-year-old man is the father of a mediaperson, who had earlier tested positive. So far, samples of 6,167 suspected cases have been sent for testing. Of them, 5,354 samples have tested negative and reports of 579 are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/15-cases-in-a-day-focus-now-on-patiala-72963
19-04-2020||Moga||97-year-old on mission to stitch masks||A 97-year old woman, Gurdev Kaur Dhaliwal, a resident of Moga city, is using her time to stitch cloth masks at her house for needy people.Helping handGurdev Kaur Dhaliwal, a resident of Moga, makes masks on a 75-year-old hand-held sewing machineHer blurry vision does not thwart her from making masks for needy peopleShe makes at least 200 masks a day which are distributed among vegetable sellers, poor labourers and needy peopleShe is making the masks on a 75-year-old hand-held sewing machine, which her in-laws had imported for her from Singapore after her wedding.Even her blurry vision does not thwart her from making masks for needy people.Her daughter-in-law, Amarjit Kaur Dhaliwal, makes tea for the nonagenarian early in the morning and then helps her on a walker to the bathroom to take bath, change her clothes and then offer prayers. After that, Gurdev Kaur makes face masks throughout the day.She makes at least 200 masks a day which are distributed among vegetable sellers, poor labourers and needy people.When the lockdown was imposed by the state government last month, local sellers (chemist shops) started selling maks at exorbitant prices.After learning about the “black marketing” of masks and lack of awareness among the poor, Gurdev Kaur decided to prepare face masks and distribute them among the needy free of cost.“Now, many people have started coming to my house to get free masks,” Amarjit Kaur told local mediapersons.For the past few days, some of her neighbours have started giving her clothes to prepare masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/97-year-old-on-mission-to-stitch-masks-72962
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Capt lashes out at Harsimrat’s claims on relief from Centre||Hitting out at Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal for trying to “mislead” the people, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday categorically rejected her claims of Central relief being provided to the state for fighting Covid.“Your information is absolutely incorrect,” said Capt Amarinder in response to Harsimrat’s series of tweets in which she claimed that “Punjab received funds and grains to deal with the Covid crisis”.“The state has received absolutely no money from the Central government in its fight against Covid,” said the Chief Minister, terming Harsimrat’s remarks as another manifestation of “her compulsive habit of lying and being ill-informed” about even the basic facts relating to her own state.Asking her to cross-check her facts, the Chief Minister said instead of using her office as a Central minister to help out her own state, Harsimrat was shamelessly indulging in petty politics.“What are you doing sitting there if you can’t fight for Punjab and its people,” the Chief Minister asked Harsimrat, lashing out at her for trying to undermine the state government’s efforts instead of supporting it.Nailing Harsimrat’s lies, the Chief Minister pointed out that the Rs2,366 crore referred to by her on the GST count was Punjab’s money, in lieu of the GST owed to the state against arrears. And even there, Rs4,400 crore of the state’s money was still pending with the government, he added.“You couldn’t even get our own pending arrears released, leave alone get us the much-needed relief package to fight the Covid battle,” he quipped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-lashes-out-at-harsimrats-claims-on-relief-from-centre-72961
19-04-2020||Faridkot||Six workers walk 120 km to reach home||Six labourers from Machaki Mal Singh village of Faridkot, along with a two-year-old, reached home on Saturday after travelling 120 km by foot.They had gone to harvest the cumin crop in Jaisalmer district of Rajasthan on March 12. After about 10 days of their work, the farmer owners told them to go home.Stuck in a village of Jaisalmer, we waited for some transportation to reach home for the next 20 days. Finally, we started our journey by foot on April 12, walking alongside a railway line, said Bhupinder Singh, one of the labourers.After three days of walking and covering about 120 km, they reached Ramdevra town of Jaisalmer. They established contact with their village panchayat members at Machaki Mal Singh on April 15, requesting them to arrange some vehicle.The panchayat approached the Faridkot DC to issue passes for them. On Saturday, a tempo for cargo delivery transported them from Ramdevra to Faridkot, covering 600 km.After reaching Faridkot, they have been put up at a government school in the village where a team of doctors will examine them before allowing them entry into their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-workers-walk-120-km-to-reach-home-72960
19-04-2020||Ropar||Post Hola Mohalla, Ropar administration on guard||The district administration, particularly the health authorities, have been on their toes since it came to light that Baldev Singh of Pathlawa village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district had stayed at Anandpur Sahib for three days during Hola Mohalla festival. Baldev died on March 18 due to Covid.Villages sealedThe district administration locked down the entire Anandpur Sahib town on March 20 and 21 to conduct door-to-door survey of 4,000 housesFortunately, no such case was found in the townThe panchayats of 454 villages sealed the borders of their villages on March 30 and 31 to keep a check on virus spreadFearing large-scale infection due to it, the district administration locked down the entire Anandpur Sahib town on March 20 and 21 to conduct door-to-door health survey of 4,000 houses. Fortunately, no such case was found in the town.Besides, motivated by the district police authorities, panchayats of 454 villages also sealed the borders of their villages on March 30 and 31 to keep a check on virus spread.This relief, however, did not last long as a 55-year-old resident of Chatamali village near Morinda was found suffering from Covid on April 3 at a hospital in Chandigarh.Later, his wife and son were also found Covid-positive. While the man died on April 8, his wife and son were admitted at Gian Sagar Medical Centre at Banur. Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said noneof the three infected family members had any travel history and the source of infection was yet to be traced.As a containment plan, the Chatamali village and the neighbouring villages of Chatamala, Dhyanpura, Behdali, Dhangrali, Khairpur, Bamnara and Akbarpur were sealed.The health authorities checked 9,656 people and samples of 19 people who came in contact with the patients were sent to virology laboratory.Currently, as many as 504 persons were kept under quarantine. Giri said while two of the total 61 samples taken in the district were found positive, the report of three was awaited and remaining 56 were found negative. Samples of the first case from Chatamali were taken at Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-hola-mohalla-ropar-administration-on-guard-72959
19-04-2020||Nakodar||Rs 300 crore for equipment in Punjab||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal today said the state government was spending Rs 300 crore for the purchase of medical equipment to combat Covid.Addressing the gathering during the dedication of Covid virus tertiary care centre here at Billa Chuharmi near Nakodar, the minister, accompanied by Lok Sabha MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh and MLAs Pargat Singh and Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, said that state government led by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has no dearth of funds to combat the pandemic. He said that medical equipment worth Rs100 crore each were being purchased during April, May and June.Manpreet Badal assured the people of the state that every effort would be made to provide succour to people in this hour of crisis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-300-crore-for-equipment-in-punjab-72958
19-04-2020||Muktsar/Moga||Muktsar farmers seek relief for crop damage||Farmers fear 70-80 per cent damage to their ripened wheat due to hailstorm on Friday in Muktsar district. Notably, hailstorm in the evening and rain accompanied by speedy winds in the night destroyed crops in nearly a dozen villages in the Lambi block.“We have suffered a huge loss due to hailstorm just when the wheat crop was ready for harvest,” said Charanjit Singh, a former sarpanch of Vanwala village. “The tehsildar, along with other officials, visited our village in the evening,” he added.Meanwhile, some farmers demanded immediate compensation from the state government, saying that otherwise, they won’t be able to sow the next crop. “We were already under debt. The crop loss has exacerbated our situation. The state government should start the process of crop loss verification and disburse compensation,” they said.Jalour Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Muktsar, said, “The hailstorm has damaged wheat in 10 villages. Our officials have visited the fields and are preparing a report so that verification of crop loss starts. The late-sown crop has not suffered much damage. Further, there was rain in some other villages as well, but luckily, no loss was reported anywhere else.”Avtar Singh, District Revenue Officer, Muktsar, said, “We are ready to begin verification. The orders are expected to be passed by evening.”MK Aravind Kumar, DC, Muktsar, said, “Only a few villages are affected in Lambi. I have sought a report in this regard to issue orders for a girdawari.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-farmers-seek-relief-for-crop-damage-72957
19-04-2020||Manav Mander||Ludhiana ACP succumbs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 18Ludhiana Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) Anil Kumar Kohli, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 13, died on Saturday. The 52-year-old officer was admitted to SPS Hospital here on April 8. His condition deteriorated and he was put on ventilator on April 11. Punjab loses covid warrior Having tested negative for Covid initially, a second test showed he had been infected. As his condition worsened, the Punjab Government decided on plasma therapy and arranged for a donor. But the ACP died before the treatment could begin. “He was healthy and did not have any pre-existing ailment,” said Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.Kohli was on duty at Ludhiana’s busy Sabzi Mandi in March. He fell ill in the beginning of April. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled the death. “Sad to share that we had lost Gurmail Singh Kanungo yesterday & ACP Anil Kohli in Ludhiana to #Covid19 today. In this moment of crisis, losing our Corona Warriors is a big loss for the State. I join their families in this time of grief. Rest assured Punjab will stand by them (sic),” he said on Twitter.“Our brother officer Anil Kohli, ACP Ludhiana, lost his battle against #Covid-19 today afternoon. Anil served Punjab Police and the people of Punjab for over 30 years. May his soul RIP. Our prayers are with his family, relatives...” DGP Dinkar Gupta tweeted.Three of ACP’s close contacts — his wife, a sub-inspector posted at Basti Jodhewal and a constable — have also tested positive for Covid-19.Hailing from Jalandhar, Kohli joined the Punjab Police as Assistant Sub-Inspector. He was posted in Ludhiana ahead of the Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-acp-succumbs-73117
19-04-2020||Khanna||SHO shifted for ‘stripping 3 at Khanna’||The police today initiated a departmental inquiry and ordered immediate transfer of Khanna Sadar SHO Baljinder Singh, who was accused of stripping three persons at his police station last year.Action against the SHO was ordered by DGP Dinkar Gupta after a preliminary inquiry by IGP of Ludhiana Range Jaskaran Singh prima facie found the allegations true. A video of the incident had gone viral recently.Gupta said while the SHO had been transferred with immediate effect to Ferozepur Range, a regular departmental inquiry had also been initiated against him.The fact-finding inquiry was assigned to Jaskaran Singh by the DGP on April 16 after the objectionable video clip went viral on the social media. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sho-shifted-for-stripping-3-at-khanna-73064
