01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Diploma exams to allow Covid-19 positive students||The State Department of Collegiate and Technical Education has decided to allow students who test positive for Covid-19 to appear for the Diploma examinations scheduled to be held from September 9th to 28th.  In the Standard Operating Procedure released, the department stated that "The colleges/examination centres must make necessary arrangements to allow such students or those with Covid like symptoms to write the exams in a separate room." Meanwhile, the department instructed the college principals to ensure PPE kits for invigilators who would be assigned for those isolated examination rooms. "The answer scripts of the Covid -19 positive students should be kept separately and should not be touched by anyone for 24 hours," reads the instructions. As per the guidelines, exam centres authorities have been told not to spray sanitiser on answer scripts, students have to be present at the exam centre one hour before the exams, faculties with Covid-19 like symptoms should not be deputed to exam work, hand sanitisers must be carried by students and candidates with Covid-10 like symptoms or those tested positive must communicate the same to principals of the respective colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/diploma-exams-to-allow-covid-19-positive-students-880770.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||JEE Main exam to start from September 1||After the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) was successfully conducted by allowing even those tested positive for Covid-19 to write the test, it's now time for those appearing for Joint Entrance Test (JEE-Main) to face the challenge starting from Tuesday. The JEE Main scheduled to be held from September 1 to 6 is also allowing the Covid-19 positive candidates to appear for the test and according to official sources, the necessary arrangements have been made for such candidates. "As it is the online computer-based test, the supervisors will monitor the test wearing PPE kits and separate isolation rooms have been arranged for such students," explained the official. However, the centres assigned to conduct the test have not received any details about Covid-19 positive candidates so far.  From Karnataka, as many as 40,000 candidates are appearing for the test at over 33 centres across the state, of which 25,000 are appearing in Bengaluru centres. To maintain social distancing, candidates are allowed to enter the exam hall from 7 am, for the test slated to be held from 10 am in two shifts.  The candidates must carry their own transparent water bottles and diabetic candidates can carry necessary essentials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jee-main-exam-to-start-from-september-1-880771.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minister Shashikala Jolle tests Covid-19 positive||Women and Child Welfare Minister Shashikala Jolle tested positive for Covid-19 and is in home isolation at her house at Examba town in Chikkodi taluk. In a tweet on late Monday, Jolle confirmed that she has tested positive for Covid-19 and would remain in home isolation for 14 days.  She has asked her primary and secondary contacts to get themselves tested. Jolle informed that her health condition was normal and would soon return to normal service of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-shashikala-jolle-tests-covid-19-positive-880802.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Anti-CAA protest: 416 people depose before magistrate, Udupi DC||As many as 416 people have deposed before the magistrate and Udupi DC G Jagadeesha, who is heading a magisterial inquiry into the police firing that took place during the anti-CAA protest in Mangaluru. The police firing during the protest had claimed the lives of Nausheen and Jaleel when the anti-CAA protest turned violent on December 19, 2019. The government had then ordered for a magisterial inquiry and had appointed the Udupi DC as presiding officer. The final hearing as a part of inquiry was held on Tuesday, at the AC’s court hall in Mini Vidhana Soudha in Mangaluru, wherein 45 general public, 13 police personnel, then DC deposed. Then the DC appeared via video conference and gave his statement on the incident. In addition, three doctors who had given FSL reports too appeared before the magistrate as a part of the inquiry. The police personnel and public have submitted documents, video clippings of the incident. ACP K U Belliappa submitted a few more documents on behalf of the Police Commissioner, said Udupi DC G Jagadeesha to mediapersons. He said all the documents and video clippings furnished by the people, officials will be verified before preparing a final report to be submitted to the state government. “The state government has given us time till September 20, for submitting the report. I will make an effort to submit the report within the timeframe fixed by the government.” Udupi DC clarified that no documents and video clippings will be accepted from the public on the incident after this final hearing. To ensure that all are given an opportunity, he had appealed to the eye witnesses and those with evidence or any information about the incident to depose before him well in advance. As per the government order, the last date for submitting the report on the incident was before March 23. Owing to Covid-19 induced lockdown, the hearing could not be held since March and the government too extended the deadline. The first hearing was held on January 7, where 14 people had appeared before the magistrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anti-caa-protest-416-people-depose-before-magistrate-udupi-dc-880979.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Eshwarappa, Shashikala Jolle test positive for Covid-19||Two more ministers, K S Eshwarappa and Shashikala Jolle tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. "I tested positive for Covid-19 today. I do not have any health problems. For now, based on doctors’ advice, I am undergoing treatment in hospital,” Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister Eshwarappa said in a tweet, expressing confidence that he would recover soon “with all your blessings and wishes.” Women and Child Welfare Minister Shashikala Jolle who tested positive for Covid-19 is in isolation at her residence in Examba town in Chikkodi taluk. In a tweet late on Monday, Shashikala confirmed that she had tested positive for Covid-19 and would remain in home isolation for 14 days. She has asked her primary and secondary contacts to get themselves tested. In the past, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa tested Covid-19 positive along with members of his Cabinet including Tourism Minister C T Ravi, Forest Minister Anand Singh and Agriculture Minister B C Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eshwarappa-shashikala-jolle-test-positive-for-covid-19-881205.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Govt plans Rs 39 crore aid for mutts under financial stress||The B S Yediyurappa administration is planning to give Rs 1 crore each to 39 different mutts that are under financial stress due to Covid-19 lockdown.  “A proposal has been sent to the Finance Department to release Rs 1 crore each to 39 mutts. We expected the funds to be released soon,” Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said.  The aid to mutts comes after the government reallocated Rs 60 crore to various temples, which the Congress-JD(S) coalition had originally earmarked for 39 select mutts. These are the same mutts that will now get Rs 1 crore each, sources said. In his 2019-20 budget, the then CM H D Kumaraswamy had announced financial aid to the Siddaganga Mutt, Sonnenahalli Spatikapuri Maha Samsthana, Sri Renukananda Swami Narayanaguru Mahasamsthana Mutt, Murugha Mutt, among others.  In the 2020-21 budget, Yediyurappa has earmarked Rs 30 crore to various mutts, but without specifying which one would get how much. From this allocation, the government has already released Rs 1 crore to Sri Raghavendra Mutt in Udugani village of Shikaripura taluk, Shivamogga, which Yediyurappa represents.  Another Rs 26 crore has been provided for the upkeep of temples and other religious institutions. “It is planned to take Rs 10 crore from this to provide Rs 39 crore to mutts,” a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-plans-rs-39-crore-aid-for-mutts-under-financial-stress-881207.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||153 Covid positive women deliver healthy babies||Health department officials said, 153 Covid positive women have delivered healthy babies in Mysuru district, since the Covid crisis set in. Dr G Malathi, in-charge of the exclusive Covid Maternity Hospital, that operates at Srimathi Lakshmidevamma Shankara Shetty Maternity Hospital in VV Mohalla in the city, said that since June 20, 225 pregnant women, who tested positive for Covid have been admitted and all of them have recovered. “None of the 153 babies, delivered at the Covid Maternity Hospital, were positive for Covid. Two babies died, but it was due to other reasons. Some of the patients were pregnant women from Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Kodagu districts also,” she said. “Initially, no private hospital was admitting pregnant women as their managements feared the spread of infection. At this juncture, we admitted Covid positive women and treated them, besides delivering the babies. After Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru, Mysuru has the credit of treating the highest number of Covid positive pregnant women. There are 18 pregnant women, under treatment in the Covid Maternity Hospital, at present,” Dr Malathi said. The doctor said, out of the 153 deliveries, 107 were during the night and 63 were normal deliveries. “There are 11 nurses and four D Group employees in the hospital. A few doctors visit and provide consultation to the patients at different times. Our staff are striving day and night to treat the pregnant women. They also instill confidence among the women and conduct the deliveries successfully,” she said. Sharanya (name changed), a Covid positive woman, who delivered a baby, said, “I was shattered when I learnt that I tested positive for Covid. More than myself, I was worried about my baby in the womb. I used to cry, thinking of my baby, which had not yet arrived to the outer world. Now, I am happy that I delivered a healthy baby. Thanks to the doctors and staff of the Covid Maternity Hospital.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/153-covid-positive-women-deliver-healthy-babies-881218.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ranganathittu bird sanctuary opens for visitors||Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary that remained closed since a month, was opened for the public from Tuesday. As the employees at the bird sanctuary had tested positive for Covid-19, the sanctuary was closed to the public from August 6. The bird sanctuary received around 90 visitors on Tuesday. Some, even went enjoyed boat ride. A sink tank has been constructed at the entrance of the bird sanctuary and the visitors are made to wash their hands and legs, before entering the sanctuary. Sanitisers have been placed at several places. Wearing masks is compulsory to enter the sanctuary, according to the Range Forest Officer K Surendra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ranganathittu-bird-sanctuary-opens-for-visitors-881219.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Priest trampled to death by wild jumbo||A priest was trampled to death by a wild jumbo at Kollahalli on the outskirts of the town, in the early hours of Tuesday. Astik Bhat (52), the priest who used to perform puja at temples, is the deceased. According to sources, he had come out of his house to attend to nature's call at around 5.30 am, when the wild elephant attacked him and trampled him. He died on the spot. The post mortem of the priest was conducted at the Crawford Hospital. He is survived by his wife and a daughter. MLA H K Kumaraswamy, deputy commissioner R Girish, ZP CEO Paramesh, assistant commissioner M Girish Nandan and tahsildar Manjunath visited the spot. They distributed a compensation cheque for Rs 2 lakh to the kin of the deceased. The MLA said the remaining compensation of Rs 5 lakh would be presented soon. Elected representatives, members of farmers' associations and others held a protest on the Bengaluru-Mangaluru national highway, demanding that the government find a permanent solution to the wild jumbo menace in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/priest-trampled-to-death-by-wild-jumbo-881220.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government forms team to study online liquor sale||Karnataka has formed a team of officials to study the pros and cons of selling liquor online, Excise Minister H Nagesh said on Tuesday. The minister added that the government was seriously pursuing the plan to allow alcoholic drinks to be delivered home.  “For online sale of liquor, a team of senior officers has been formed to visit places where the system has been implemented. The team will study the pros and cons, and look at whether or not it is successful and satisfactory. If it is, then we can do it,” he said.  At least half-a-dozen states, including Kerala and Maharashtra, have allowed online delivery of liquor.  Nagesh said wide consultation was required for the system to be launched in the state. “Service charge will be levied and consumers will have to be ready to pay it. Also, there is opposition from the wine merchants’ association. We will have to bring them on board as well,” the minister said.  “Once our team of officers submits a report, we will get the chief minister’s opinion and take a decision,” Nagesh said.  Under Unlock 4.0 starting September 1, Karnataka allowed bars, pubs and restaurants to serve liquor along with food at 50% seating capacity. After a complete shutdown of liquor sales in March following the first Covid-19 lockdown, the state government allowed sale of liquor in May through MRP outlets. This was followed by permission for clubs, bars and restaurants to clear their stock, while later that month, pubs with RVB (Retail Vend of Beer) were also allowed to clear their stock. “Now that it is business as usual in clubs, pubs, bars and restaurants, we expect a daily revenue of about Rs 80 crore,” Nagesh said.  According to government data, the excise revenue at the end of August is Rs 7,580 crores, lower than Rs 9,131 crores in the corresponding period last year. But revenues are rising, having gone up from Rs 1,387 cr in May toRs 7,580 crores now.  The excise revenue target for 2020-21 fiscal is Rs 22,700 crores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-forms-team-to-study-online-liquor-sale-881221.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rangayana puts resources to good use to benefit students||Rich in resources, creativity and talent, but hit hard by the Covid crisis, Rangayana, which depends on people’s participation as audience, has come up with a novel initiative to reach out to school students, on a concept that is also relevant. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has agreed to extend his support to the initiative. Addanda C Cariappa, Director of Rangayana, said, “We have talented artistes and technicians, but due to the lockdown and subsequent guidelines, in view of checking the spread of Covid-19, we could not stage any play since March. Last week, we successfully staged ‘Kusumabaale’ of Devanuru Mahadeva as a ‘Vachabhinaya’ experiment. This is an innovative form of theatre, where there are all ingredients, except movement and interaction of artistes, in view of following the Covid guidelines.” Cariappa said, “Following the ‘Vachabhinaya’ of ‘Kusumabaale’, we thought of adopting ‘Bommanahalliya Kindarijogi’, the famous children’s poem by Kuvempu, top the new format. It is relevant now, as rats in the poem, a Kannada adaptation of ‘Pied Piper of Hamelin’, is a symbol of an enemy of humanity, trying to snatch away all available food items, leading to starvation. Coronavirus is a world pandemic, threatening humanity”. “Kuvempu penned ‘Bommanahalliya Kindarijogi’ as a teenager in 1923. It was adopted to theatre by Rangayana with B V Karanth as director. It was first staged in April, 1989. Kindarijogi is a symbol of God or saviour. At present, doctors, healthcare professionals and government officials are our saviours, as Covid warriors. The theme is, we should trust and regard our saviours. In the story, after getting the favour, people betray Kindarijogi. So, they face the consequences,” Cariappa said. He said, the ‘Vachabhinaya’ of ‘Bommanahalliya Kindarijogi’ is a re-creation of the production of the late B V Karanth, sans movement on the stage and interaction between artistes. “All actors will be seated in the setting, around the musicians, as music is given more stress, in this experiment. Otherwise, musicians will be usually in a pit or in the background. The play will be released in two parts of 30 minutes each. Schools can get the soft copy of the video production, both episodes, from Rangayana,” he said. Cariappa said that he recently met Education Minister Suresh Kumar and submitted a memorandum, briefing about the initiative. “The minister endorsed our initiative and extended support to reach the production to all schoolchildren. The video will be available on the website of Rangayana http://www.rangayana.org and also on YouTube and the Facebook of Rangayana. Even downloadable format will be available for those from places where internet network is weak,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rangayana-puts-resources-to-good-use-to-benefit-students-881222.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||IMD predicts moderate rain this week||Mysuru city and parts of the district received heavy rain, accompanied by thunder and lightning on Monday night, bringing respite from the sultry weather. It started pouring around 1 am and the downpour continued for more than an hour, accompanied by thunder and lightning. As predicted by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa, Organic Farming Research Centre, Naganahalli, it rained heavily on September 1. The weatherman has also predicted rain for another week. As per the forecast, cloudy sky, moderate rainfall is expected from September 2 to 6, in Mysuru district. The day temperature is expected to be around 31 degree Celsius and night temperature around 21 degree Celsius. The relative humidity in the morning is expected to be 81% to 83% and afternoon humidity in the range 75% to 77%. Though the month of August in Mysuru started with heavy downpour for a few days, the last week recorded 33.2 degree Celsius, the highest temperature in August in the last one decade. August 29 (Friday) recorded 33.2 degree Celsius, the highest in the last one decade. The previous highest was on August 24, 2012, which 33.5 degree Celsius. However, good rain on Monday night brought respite among the people. The IMD has predicted moderate rain for another week, ranging from 12 mm to 20 mm. It may be mentioned that Mysuru region received heavy rainfall on September 24, in 2019. Heavy rain pounded parts of Mandya district. More than 300 trees were uprooted, electricity poles and transformers collapsed, due to heavy rain in Malavalli taluk. The rain that started at 12 midnight, poured till the morning. Heavy rain were reported from parts of Chamarajanagar and Hassan districts also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/imd-predicts-moderate-rain-this-week-881223.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||South Western Railway cops bust illegal e-ticket booking racket||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) of the South Western Railway (SWR) has busted a cross-border criminal network involved in booking railway tickets through an illegal software, and extorting higher fare from passengers. In September last year, the intelligence agencies alerted about the use of an illegal software for bypassing the IRCTC and bank security systems deployed in booking Tatkal tickets throughout India. After multiple raids by SWR Railway Protection Force sleuths, a suspect was arrested in Bengaluru. He provided the lead about the mastermind of illegal software business who deployed a software to bypass the IRCTC Tatkal system and even bank OTP. The RPF team arrested him at Kendrapara in Odisha in January2020. During the interrogation, it came to light that he was having Pakistan-based softwares for hacking device applications of Isro, Railways, and other government organisations. The investigation unearthed a network of around 25,000 hackers and touts. The touts brought demand to sellers, who would use the hacking codes for gaining access to the system for booking Tatkal tickets. Panel developers would give sellers the access to the software on monthly charges. These panel developers report to financial and technical administrators whose main job was to maintain the servers hosted in foreign countries. Illegal money generated is suspected to be used in terror funding, making illegal documents for hostile foreign nations, money laundering through crypto currency, and other crimes. More than 100 panel developers and software sellers were arrested during the nationwide raids. Director General of the RPF has awarded a commendation certificate to SWR principal chief security commissioner and Bengaluru divisional security commissioner for the persistent work to apprehend the touts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/south-western-railway-cops-bust-illegal-e-ticket-booking-racket-881239.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Mallikarjun Kharge, Siddaramaiah bemoan Pranab Mukherjee going to RSS event in 2018||Senior Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and Siddaramaiah on Tuesday bemoaned later former President Pranab Mukherjee’s decision to attend an event organised by the RSS, the BJP’s ideological parent. In June 2018, Mukherjee addressed the Tritiya Varsh Varg event held at the RSS’ headquarters in Nagpur. “He was a genius in that he had a grip on so many issues. He was also the go-to person. For example, there were some 50 groups of ministers that he chaired because of his ability to easily answer questions and consult everyone before deciding on things. I don’t understand why such a genius, during his final years, went to the RSS office,” Kharge lamented. “I wanted to convey this to him if I had the chance to meet him in person,” said Kharge, who served as a minister along with Mukherjee in the Manmohan Singh government. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah concurred with Kharge. “It’s a big mystery to me,” he said. “Having spent a long career in the Congress and soon after leaving the presidency, he addressed a conference of the RSS, the organisation that killed Mahatma Gandhi. In my personal opinion, he shouldn't have gone.” Both Kharge and Siddaramaiah were speaking at a condolence meet organised by the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). Former union minister KH Muniyappa, former minister Dinesh Gundu Rao, KPCC working presidents Saleem Ahmed and Eshwar Khandre among others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mallikarjun-kharge-siddaramaiah-bemoan-pranab-mukherjee-going-to-rss-event-in-2018-881076.html
01-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Ex-PM H D Deve Gowda backs internal quota||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Tuesday said all states should provide internal reservation for SCs, STs and OBCs. In a statement, Gowda welcomed the Supreme Court’s stand allowing states to create sub-categories among social groups for reservation. “This will be a game-changer across the nation,” Gowda said. “It deepens the idea of justice, and allows the truly oppressed and powerless to benefit from the provisions of affirmative action that our humane and progressive Constitution offers.” That the SCs, STs and OBCs are a homogenous group was an assumption, the JD(S) patriarch said. “...in reality they are very vibrant and diverse. Inequalities within the groups with regard to affirmative action had become apparent in the recent decades. It had to be corrected. Now that it has happened, I wholeheartedly welcome this judgement,” Gowda said, urging all states to implement internal reservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ex-pm-h-d-deve-gowda-backs-internal-quota-881148.html
01-09-2020||National||Karnataka, Maharashtra & Andhra Pradesh account for 45% of new Covid-19 cases: MoHFW||The Union Health Ministry on Monday said just three states — Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka — accounted for more than 45% of all new cases, with half of the new deaths in the last 24 hours also from these states. Out of the 971 deaths, as many as 490 were in these states, which also recorded more than 35,800 fresh cases. Taking Tamil Nadu into consideration, the number goes past the 42,300 (54% of total cases) mark out of more than 78,500 new cases, as per data. India has registered 78,512 cases in the last 24 hours (Sunday, 30th August). Seven states have contributed to 70% of such cases. Of these, the maximum caseload (almost 21%) came from Maharashtra followed by Andhra Pradesh (13.5%), Karnataka (11.27%), Tamil Nadu (8.27%) and Uttar Pradesh (8.27%).  “This was always to be expected given India’s weak public health system.  At this point, the virus is pretty much out of control and there is no possibility of reversing the extent of its spread. This epidemic will come to an end only when the virus has run its natural course, after which it will become endemic,” Ramanan Laxminarayan, Director, Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, Washington DC, told DH. With the disease spreading into the hinterland, the Centre has decided to deploy high level central teams to Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, and Odisha which are seeing a sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and reporting high mortality. Of these four states, Uttar Pradesh has the maximum number of active cases pegged at 54,666, followed by Odisha (27,219), Chhattisgarh (13,520) and Jharkhand, which has 11,577 active cases. Asked why the numbers are on a decline in Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai but not in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh or Karnataka, Laxinarayanan said, “The disease has run its course in the cities but it has not yet spread throughout these states.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-maharashtra-andhra-pradesh-account-for-45-of-new-covid-19-cases-mohfw-880719.html
01-09-2020||National||Japan pledges soft loan of over Rs 3,460 crore to help India deal with Covid-19 pandemic||Japan on Monday pledged a soft loan of over Rs 3460 crore and another grant of Rs 69 crore to help India deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The soft loan will support reforms in the health sector in addition to controlling the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, the Embassy of Japan in New Delhi stated. Japan’s grant aid will help the Government of India procure oxygen concentrators for treatment of critical Covid-19 patients in the hospitals. Tokyo’s envoy to New Delhi, Satoshi Suzuki, exchanged notes with C S Mohapatra, additional secretary in the Ministry of Finance of the Government of India, pledging the loan on behalf of the Japanese Government at an interest rate of 0.01% per annum. “This financial support will support the implementation of health and medical policy by the Government of India and will lead to the development of hospitals equipped with ICUs and infection prevention and management facilities, which are undersupplied in India,” the Embassy of Japan in New Delhi stated. “It is also expected to lead to the enhancement of telemedicine using digital technology in numerous villages across India.” Japan expressed hope that its “Covid-19 Crisis Response Emergency Support Loan” to India would contribute to the recovery and stability of the society and economy as well as to sustainable development of the country, in addition to controlling the pandemic.   The loan has a redemption period of 15 years with a grace period of four years. Suzuki and Mohapatra on Monday also exchanged notes on Japan’s grant aid under Official Development Assistance to support procuring oxygen concentrators for hospitals in India. “This programme will provide Oxygen Generators to the Government of India. (The) Oxygen Generators can be employed for the treatment of COVID-19 patients under critical conditions,” the Embassy of Japan in New Delhi stated. “This programme will lead to the strengthening of India’s infectious disease countermeasures, as well as her health and medical systems.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/japan-pledges-soft-loan-of-over-rs-3460-crore-to-help-india-deal-with-covid-19-pandemic-880726.html
01-09-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee: The president who could never be prime minister||A quintessential party loyalist and the trusted Man Friday of three Congress prime ministers, Pranab Mukherjee's climb up the political ladder stopped just short of his ambition to occupy 7 Race Course Road, instead sending him to the Rashtrapati Bhavan as the country’s first citizen. Mukherjee, India’s 13th president, Congress’ troubleshooter through the decades and one of the country’s most respected politicians, died on Monday after a 21-day illness and five decades in public life. He was 84. A people’s person till the end, ‘Citizen Mukherjee’ used Twitter to communicate to the world that he had tested positive for COVID-19 on August 10. It was his last post, and his last words to the public. Demonstrating his ability to quickly adapt to situations as they arose, Mukherjee was at ease with the new mode of communication. Twitter was a platform he used often, to express his condolences on the death of leaders and friends, greet people on festivals or wish them on their birthdays. Some politicians don’t fade into the background. And so it was with the scholarly Mukherjee too. He remained a presence to contend with even after he demitted the office of president, often making headlines as he attended book launches and delivered lectures. It was a life of many firsts and accomplishments for the West Bengal-born politician, famed for his encyclopaedic memory, razor sharp intellect and deep insights into issues. In 1982, he became India’s youngest finance minister when he was just 47. In the years that followed, he served as India’s minister for External Affairs, Defence, Finance and Commerce and was the first Indian president to have done so. Mukherjee managed the rare distinction of serving three prime ministers as minister -- Indira Gandhi, P V Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh –  ever the Congress’ trusted Man Friday as it evolved over the decades. Mukherjee was also India’s only non-prime minister who was leader of the Lok Sabha for eight years. He was also leader of the Rajya Sabha from 1980-85. There were other landmarks in a remarkable political career, which started in 1969 as a Rajya Sabha member for the Bangla Congress which subsequently merged with the Congress. When he became president in 2012, Mukherjee was heading 24 of 39 GOMs (groups of ministers). Between 2004-2012, he chaired 95 GOMs. Mukherjee was famous in political circles as a consensus builder. He inspired trust among leaders across the political spectrum, an asset that proved handy at the time of his election as president. It was a many splendoured political career, which ended at the presidential palace. But the prime minister’s post eluded him, even though it was a position he openly aspired for. In his book “The Coalition Years”, Mukherjee acknowledged that he had hoped to get the post in May 2004 after then Congress president Sonia Gandhi herself declined the position. “Finally she named Dr Manmohan Singh as her choice and he accepted. The prevalent expectation was that I would be the next choice for prime minister after Sonia Gandhi declined,” Mukherjee wrote, admitting that he had initially refused to join the cabinet of Manmohan Singh who had been his junior in the past but agreed when Sonia Gandhi insisted. Mukherjee remained the UPA’s chief crisis manager through its tumultuous years, starting 2004 until he became president on July 25, 2012. Born on December 11, 1935 in the small village of Mirati in West Bengal’s Birbhum district, Mukherjee received early lessons in life from his freedom fighter parents. His father, a Congress leader, endured great financial hardship and was sent to jail several times for his role in the freedom struggle. The roots were strong and never forgotten, taking him back often from the corridors of power to his village during Durga Puja, even when he became president. Photographs of Mukherjee, performing prayers in a traditional dhoti, made it to the public domain through his years as minister and president. In 2015, he lost his wife Suvra Mukherjee. He is survived by his two sons Indrajit and Abhijit, and daughter Sharmistha, who was by his side during important events of his president years. Mukherjee, who served in the Rajya Sabha for five terms and in the Lok Sabha twice and was one of India’s longest serving parliamentarians, became a member of the Congress Parliamentary Party when the Bangla Congress merged with the Congress in 1971. Though he occupied various positions in the government, Mukherjee was elected to the Lok Sabha for the first time only in 2004 when he won from West Bengal’s Jangipur constituency. He had lost the previous two Lok Sabha  contests -- from Malda in 1977 and Bolpur in 1980. With his vast knowledge of post independence political history and governance, Mukherjee remained a key figure and active participant in shaping the course of India's development. He served as member of the Congress Working Committee, the highest decision-making body of the party, for 23 years until becoming president in 2012 and was often called in to trouble shoot for the party. Mukherjee's meeting with Henry Kissinger in 2004 altered the course of Indo-US strategic partnership. In 2005, when he was defence minister, the new framework for US-India defence relations was signed.   From 2004-2012, Mukherjee played a key role in critical decisions of the Manmohan Singh-led government on issues such as Right to Information, food security as well as the setting up of the UIDAI and the Metro Rail project. He was also known as one of the chief architects of the post-Congress era of Indian politics, playing an active role in galvanising the outside support which the Congress offered to the United Front governments led by then prime minister H D Deve Gowda and later I K Gujral. Most of his political life spent as a committed Congress member -- except for a brief spell between 1987 and 1988 when he was out of the party -- was fairly non-controversial. But in June 2018, a year after he demitted office, Mukherjee triggered huge controversy by visiting the RSS headquarters in Nagpur and delivering a valedictory address there. In 2019, he was conferred India’s highest civilian honour Bharat Ratna by the BJP government, a development that became a subject of intense political debate. Ending his political career as president of India, he left his mark on the highest office of the land too. Mukherjee’s tenure as president will stand out for the tough stance he took on mercy petitions. Of the 34 mercy petitions presented to him, he rejected 30. He will be remembered for the steps he took to make the Rashtrapati Bhavan closer to the people. He opened it up for the public and made a museum. The Durbar Hall was refurbished with Mukherjee ensuring during his presidency that events were held under its lofty dome. The library was renovated as well with researchers getting access to its extensive catalogue of books. Besides, he opened the gates of the presidential palace for writers, artists, innovators, scientists and students through an in-residency programme The keen intellectual with an avid interest in history, international relations and parliamentary processes has gone. And with him, one more witness to India’s growth story and evolution through the decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-the-president-who-could-never-be-prime-minister-880754.html
01-09-2020||National||We hope judges' press conference was the first and the last one: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday rejected advocate Prashant Bhushan's bid to rake up four senior-most judges press conference of January 12, 2018, to justify his allegations against sitting and retired judges. "We hope it was the first and the last occasion that the judges have gone to press, and God gives the wisdom to protect its dignity by an internal mechanism, particularly, when allegations made, if any, publicly cannot be met by sufferer judges. It would cause suffering to them till eternity," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said. Justice Mishra was himself in the eye of a storm after the press conference where four senior-most judges, including Justice Ranjan Gogoi, aired their concern for posting sensitive cases to particular benches. Justice Gogoi cited the instance of Mumbai judge, B H Loya's death case before a bench led by Justice Mishra, who subsequently withdrew from the case. In its judgement giving Re one as fine to Bhushan, the court said truth can be the defence to the judges also, but they are bound by their judicial norms, ethics, and code of conduct.   Similarly, the code of conduct for advocates is equally applicable to the lawyers also, being part of the system, the court added.   "The judges have to express their opinion by their judgements, and they cannot enter into public debate or go to press. It is very easy to make any allegation against them. Judges have to be the silent sufferer of such allegations, and they cannot counter such allegations publicly by going on public platforms, newspapers or media," the bench said. The court said if a scathing attack is made on the judges, it would become difficult for them to work fearlessly and with the objectivity of approach to the issues. The judgment can be criticized. However, motives to the Judges need not be attributed, as it brings the administration of justice into disrepute.   Similarly, retired judges also had a right to live with dignity and they were not supposed to be answering each and every allegations and enter into public debate, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-hope-judges-press-conference-was-the-first-and-the-last-one-sc-880772.html
01-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Prashant Bhushan case: 'Time you enjoy wasting is not wasted time'||Activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday said he would pay Re one fine imposed by the Supreme Court in the contempt case for his tweets, but also indicated he would file a review plea against the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-prashant-bhushan-case-time-you-enjoy-wasting-is-not-wasted-time-880773.html
01-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 1||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 36 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 37,58,764 as of September 1 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 66,376   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  27,74,801  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-1-880775.html
01-09-2020||National||Postponed twice, JEE exams get underway as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in India||After widespread protests, the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for admissions to top engineering colleges in the country began on Tuesday amid unprecedented physical distancing measures to prevent spread of Covid-19. As many as 8.58 lakh students have applied for the examinations which had to be postponed twice in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Elaborate arrangements were made at 660 centres where students appeared in two shifts for the examinations, which had kicked up a political row over the government decision to go ahead with the process despite sharp increase in Covid-19 infections across the country. “JEE Exam was conducted smoothly all over the country. I would like to thank all the state governments and officials of the National Testing Agency for the smooth conduct of the examination,” Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare said. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had also reached out to chief ministers of several states urging them to help students and the conducting organisations in getting through the exams smoothly. The JEE exams will be held over 12 shifts instead of eight and will continue till September 6. Earlier, the National Testing Agency was planning to have 1.32 lakh candidates write the exams in one shift, but the number has now been reduced to 85,000. Additionally, the agency has procured over 10 lakh masks and pairs of gloves which were being over to students when they enter the exam hall. Sanitiser bottles were also be made available at all exam halls, and students have been asked to bring their own sanitiser bottles as well. Earlier, the Supreme Court had dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the JEE and NEET exams, saying a “precious year” of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on. Based on the results of the JEE-Mains Paper 1 and Paper 2, the top 2.45 lakh candidates will be eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam, which is a one-stop exam to get admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). JEE-Advanced is scheduled to take place on September 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/postponed-twice-jee-exams-get-underway-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-in-india-880799.html
01-09-2020||National||Bombay High Court refuses to stay JEE Main examination||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to stay the JEE Main examination, but said any student residing in flood-hit parts of Maharashtra's Vidarbha region who cannot reach the exam centre or reaches late can apply to the National Testing Agency to seek a re-examination. A division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said the National Testing Agency (NTA) shall consider such applications and decide accordingly, after checking the veracity of the same. The engineering Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main began at 9 am across the country on Tuesday. "The situation is grim in several districts due to flood. Students should not suffer for no fault on their part, the bench said. The court said any aggrieved student can file an application to the NTA via their centre coordinator. "The National Testing Agency shall then decide on the application after consulting with the district collector concerned within a period of 15 days, the court ordered. Earlier, the high court on Monday took cognisance of a letter written to it by Nitesh Bawankar, a resident of Bhandara district, raising concern over how students will reach the exam centres to appear for the JEE amid the flood situation. Bawankar sought postponement of the exam for students residing in flood-hit parts of Nagpur, Amravati, Akola, Chandrapur, Gondia and Gadchiroli districts. Due to floods, students from these areas will find it difficult to appear for the JEE Main examination, he said. The court on Monday directed the Union government, Maharashtra government, National Testing Agency and collectors of these districts to consider postponing the JEE-Main for students from flood-affected areas who would be unable to reach the centres to appear for the exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-high-court-refuses-to-stay-jee-main-examination-880855.html
01-09-2020||National||BJP flagged 44 ‘rival’ Facebook pages before 2019 polls, 14 removed: Report||Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had flagged 44 Facebook India pages claiming that they carried posts “not in line with facts” and were “in violation of expected standards”. DH independently could not verify the report. The official account of the Bhim Army ‘We Hate BJP’, some unofficial Congress-supporting pages, and a page named ‘The Truth of Gujarat’ sharing mostly Alt News fact checks were among the pages reported by the BJP. Reportedly, Facebook pages in support of journalists Ravish Kumar and Vinod Dua were also taken down. Ahead of the 2019 general elections, Facebook claimed to have removed 687 pages and accounts connected to individuals associated with the Congress party's IT cell as part of the company's action to crack down on fake accounts. As per the report, BJP also asked Facebook India to re-instate 17 deleted pages and “monetise” two right-leaning news websites — ‘The Chaupal’ and ‘OpIndia’, letting the pages receive advertising revenue for their content. All the 17 pages that were re-instated on BJP’s request currently share content almost exclusively from Postcard News. However, none of these pages is directly connected to any particular political party. Vikas Pandey, the founder of ‘The Chaupal’, told the publication that since Facebook revoked its monetisation in March 2019, his site has not been allowed monetisation benefits. In January this year, Postcard News founder Mahesh Vikram Hegde blamed the Muslim community for planting a bomb in Mangalore International Airport, which was later found to be a false allegation. In 2018, Hegde was reportedly arrested on charges of promoting communal enmity and outraging religious sentiments by posting “fake news”. Commenting in support of the BJP, Facebook’s head of public policy, Ankhi Das also reportedly opposed to banning a BJP politician from the platform for Islamophobic posts.  The Congress general secretary KC Venugopal has also written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg twice, asking what steps were being taken on repeated allegations about the global social media giant's India unit being biased towards the ruling BJP. The Congress' letter to Zuckerberg came over an article in Time magazine, which the Opposition party claimed "revealed" more information and "evidence of biases and a quid pro quo relationship" of Facebook India with the BJP. “Public Policy team, also comprising politics and government outreach members, were the first point of contact for all political parties during the 2019 elections. During campaigning, several parties escalated issues being faced by their official and support pages. Our internal process requires these escalations to be flagged to various specialist teams who decide and enforce these escalations. Global election teams help drive decisions along with content policy teams which oversee enforcement on the basis of the community standards, as well as the operations team which oversees enforcement. Just like other stakeholders such as civil society, media or government institutions, all political parties can flag the issues they are facing with us,” a Facebook spokesperson told the publication. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-flagged-44-rival-facebook-pages-before-2019-polls-14-removed-report-880857.html
01-09-2020||National||Supreme Court allows telecom companies to pay AGR dues within 10 years||In a huge relief to Telecom compnaies Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel, Tata Teleservices and others, the Supreme Court on Tuesday granted them 10 years' time to pay AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues of over Rs 1.47 crore in "the interest of the economy and the consumers". The court made it clear that there should not be any re-assessment or dispute over the demand raised by the Union government. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah said that it is to be ensured that the dues are paid in total. The concession is granted only on the condition that the dues should be paid punctually within the time stipulated by this court. Even a single default will attract the dues along with interest, penalty and interest on penalty at the rate specified in the agreement, the court said. It asked the National Company Law Tribunal to decide the issue of sale of spectrum held by several companies such as RCom and others, which faced insolvency proceedings.  In its judgement, the court granted significant concession to the companies, in terms of time to clear the dues as original direction issued in October, 2019 provided just three months for it, considering "financial stress and the banking sector's involvement". The court said the first installment of 10% of AGR dues must be paid by March 31, 2021 and remaining in equal installments in subsequent years. "Various companies through Managing Director/Chairman or other authorised officer, to furnish an undertaking within four weeks, to make payment of arrears as per the order," it said. The court said the Telecom companies will have to face contempt proceedings and also have to pay penalty in case of default in payment of annual installment. The Centre has sought 20 years long window for the Telecom companies to clear over Rs 1.47 lakh crore dues saying such a decision was taken in view of its cascading effect on economy, loss of direct and indirect employment, adverse impact on digital economy and to prevent the sector from going haywire. The cash-strapped companies have supported the Union government's move, claiming they would be forced to wind up if no relief was provided to them. After the October 24, 2019 Supreme Court judgement, about 15 Telecom companies were asked to clear more than Rs 1.47 lakh crore, including licence fees, spectrum uses charges, interest and penalties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-allows-telecom-companies-to-pay-agr-dues-within-10-years-880872.html
01-09-2020||National||Loan moratorium extendable up to two years, Centre, RBI tell Supreme Court||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the six-month loan moratorium period, announced in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, was extendable upto two years. Appearing for the Centre and RBI, the law officers sought time to decide upon the issue of interest on accrued interest being charged by the banks during the moratorium. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah allowed his plea and put the matter for consideration on Wednesday. In his submission, he said we are in the process of identifying the distressed sectors to vary the benefits as per the effect of the since the GDP was also down by 23%. He also said an affidavit has been filed on issue of charging interest which may be considered by the court. In an affidavit, the Finance Ministry said besides concessions in the rate of interest, the framework under RBI’s circulars issued on August 6, 2020 also permits lenders to allow moratorium of up to two years, the irrespective of current six month period ending on August 31.  "This extended moratorium becomes part of an individualised solution for a borrower and is made available along with other interventions. The RBI framework is specific to the situation arising out of the pandemic. Thus, a borrower, who is fearful of being in default as on September one and becoming an NPA soon thereafter, could continue to avail moratorium as a part of the resolution plan implemented in terms of the above circular," it said. Hearing a PIL by Gajendra Sharma, the court had on August 26 pulled up the Union government for "hiding behind the RBI" and asked it to take decisions, independent of RBI, on charging interest on loans and interest on interest on six-month loan moratorium, ending on August 31. The RBI issued circulars on March 27, April 17 and May 23 for an initial three-month moratorium period on loan repayment which was subsequently stood extended till August 31. The measure was announced as a relief to the people after the nationwide lockdown was imposed since March 25 to contain Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/loan-moratorium-extendable-up-to-two-years-centre-rbi-tell-supreme-court-880878.html
01-09-2020||National||Covid-19 tally in India climbs to 36,91,166||With 69,921 people testing positive for coronavirus infection, India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 36,91,166, while recoveries surged to 28,39,882 on Tuesday pushing the recovery rate to 76.94 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 65,288 with 819 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.77 per cent. There are 7,85,996 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 21.29 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,33,24,834 samples have been tested up to August 31 with 10,16,920 samples being tested on Monday.   Of the 819 fresh deaths, 184 are from Maharashtra, 113 from Karnataka, 91 from Tamil Nadu, 85 from Andhra Pradesh, 63 from Uttar Pradesh, 52 from West Bengal, 49 from Punjab, 20 from Madhya Pradesh, 18 from Delhi, 14 from Gujarat, 13 from Rajasthan ,12 from Uttarakhand, 10 each from Assam, Odisha and Tripura. Nine fatalities each have been reported from Goa, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir, eight from Chhattisgarh, seven each from Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala and Puducherry, four each from Bihar and Chandigarh, three from Himachal Pradesh while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered one fatality. Of the total 65,228 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 24,583 followed by 7,322 in Tamil Nadu, 5,702 in Karnataka, 4,444 in Delhi, 3,969 in Andhra Pradesh, 3,486 in Uttar Pradesh, 3,228 in West Bengal, 3,020 in Gujarat,and 1,453 in Punjab. So far, 1,394 people have died of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, 1,056 in Rajasthan, 836 in Telangana, 703 in Jammu and Kashmir, 689 in Haryana, 582 in Bihar, 492 in Odisha, 417 in Jharkhand, 306 in Assam, 294 in Kerala, 277 in Chhattisgarh and 269 in Uttarakhand. Puducherry has registered 228 fatalities, Goa 192, Tripura 113, Chandigarh 56, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 46, Himachal Pradesh 38, Ladakh 34, Manipur 28, Meghalaya 10, Nagaland nine, Arunachal Pradesh seven, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tally-in-india-climbs-to-3691166-880888.html
01-09-2020||National||Covid-19 tally in India climbs to 36.9 lakh with nearly 70,000 new cases||With 69,921 people testing positive for coronavirus infection, India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 36,91,166, while recoveries surged to 28,39,882 on Tuesday pushing the recovery rate to 76.94 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 65,288 with 819 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.77 per cent. There are 7,85,996 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 21.29 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,33,24,834 samples have been tested up to August 31 with 10,16,920 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tally-in-india-climbs-to-369-lakh-with-nearly-70000-new-cases-880936.html
01-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 surge eases slightly as millions take exams, pubs reopen||India's tally of coronavirus infections surged to nearly 3.7 million on Tuesday, as millions of masked students sat for college admission exams after the government refused to defer them. India, the world's third most affected country by the pandemic after the United States and Brazil, reported 69,921 new coronavirus infections on Tuesday, the lowest in six days. It took the overall number of cases to 3.69 million, while the death toll from Covid-19 rose by 819 to 65,288. On Sunday, India reported 78,761 new cases, the world's biggest, single-day tally. More than two million masked students filed into exam centres across India on Tuesday to take tests for admission to medical and engineering schools, with physical distancing norms, hand sanitisation stations and temperature checks in place. The federal government had declined to defer the tests - already postponed twice this year — despite growing pressure from some students and opposition parties who feared rising infections as well as difficulty travelling to exam centres due to virus-linked curbs on transport. "If (the exam) is delayed, our whole year will be wasted ... we don't have any option," a student appearing for the tests in the eastern city of Kolkata told the India Today news channel. "So whatever maximum precautions we can take, which we are all following, I think it's fine," she said. In an effort to avert more serious economic damage, India recently relaxed more restrictions and has announced that urban metro trains can resume services from September 7. India's economy shrank by nearly a quarter in April-June, data showed on Monday, much more than forecast and pointing to longer than expected time for recovery. In the southern city of Bengaluru, thousands of pubs were set to serve alcohol to customers starting from Tuesday following a nearly six-month gap, with strict social distancing norms and 50 per cent seating capacity, a senior excise official told Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-surge-eases-slightly-as-millions-take-exams-pubs-reopen-880944.html
01-09-2020||National||India leads global rise in new weekly Covid-19 cases, while deaths down: WHO||India reported the most new Covid-19 cases of any country in the past week, its nearly half a million fresh infections pushing the global tally up by 1 per cent, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Tuesday. Overall global new deaths in the past seven days fell by 3 per cent compared to the previous week, the WHO reported, adding that overall new infections around the world rose by 1.8 million. The respiratory disease is also spreading in the Americas, which continues to account for more than half of reported cases and deaths worldwide, although there have been slight decreases in some areas, WHO said in its latest update. Peru, Mexico, Colombia and Argentina have seen "increasing trends", it said. Spain, Russia, France, and Ukraine reported the highest number of new cases in Europe in the week to Aug. 30, with a resurgence in Spain matching peaks seen last March and April, the UN agency said. New cases in Italy jumped by 85 per cent, it said. "South-East Asia has reported the largest week-on-week increase, largely due to increased case detections in India," the WHO said. "India has reported nearly 500,000 new cases in the past seven days, a 9 per cent increase compared to the previous seven days and the highest numbers of new cases globally." In Africa, cases in Ethiopia reached "new highs", while South Africa - which has the fifth most infections globally and the highest number on the vast continent - has continued a downward trend, it said. Several previous hotspots - including Ghana, Kenya, Gabon and Madagascar - have recorded fewer new cases, the WHO said, adding: "...the figures should be interpreted cautiously as they may be affected by many factors, including the current testing capacity and strategy, and delays in reporting." Rates have fluctuated in the WHO's eastern Mediterranean region, with the latest highest case numbers seen in Iraq, Iran, Morocco, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, it said. More than 25.44 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally since the new coronavirus emerged in China late last year and 847,965​ have died, according to a Reuters tally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-leads-global-rise-in-new-weekly-covid-19-cases-while-deaths-down-who-880951.html
01-09-2020||National||Former President Pranab Mukherjee cremated with full state honours||Former President Pranab Mukherjee was cremated with full state honours at the Lodhi Road electric crematorium on Tuesday afternoon in the presence of family members and amid strict Covid-19 protocol. His son Abhijit performed the final rites accompanied by a 21-gun military salute. Only close family members were allowed to enter the crematorium and those handling the mortal remains of Mukherjee wore personal protection equipment as the former President had tested positive for Covid-19. As per the Covid-19 protocol, Mukherjee’s mortal remains were brought to the crematorium in a van instead of a gun carriage, as is the protocol for state funerals. The Union Cabinet, at a special meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, condoled the death of Mukherjee and hailed him as a distinguished leader with unparalleled experience and a tall statesman. “Mukherjee has left his imprint on our national life. In his death the country has lost a distinguished national leader, accomplished Parliamentarian and a tall statesman,” read a resolution adopted by the Cabinet. Earlier Tuesday morning, Mukherjee’s mortal remains were brought to his 10, Rajaji Road residence where President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, former prime minister Manmohan Singh, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi among other offered their last respect. At the residence too, Covid-19 protocols were followed and the coffin carrying Mukherjee’s mortal remains were kept in a separate room closed by a glass door. Dignitaries and well wishers offered floral tributes and placed wreaths to a photograph of the former President in a separate room. Modi was the only dignitary who walked up to the room where mortal remains were kept to have a final look at the departed leader. Mukherjee’s sons Abhjit and Indrajit and daughter Sharmistha are expected to travel to Haridwar on Tuesday night to immerse the ashes in river Ganga. Advice to son Abhijit: “Don’t be vengeful towards anyone, circumstances are always temporary,” was Mukherjee’s final advice to his son Abhjit who was with him in his final days. Abhijit said that he had plans to turn his father’s ancestral home in West Bengal into a museum and library. Abhijit, a former Lok Sabha member, wanted the government to release a postal stamp remembering the former President, if they have plans to honour his memory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-cremated-with-full-state-honours-880952.html
01-09-2020||National||Chinese embassy says Indian troops illegally trespassed LAC, reports claim India now in control of South Pangong area||The Chinese embassy in India has released a statement saying Indian troops illegally trespassed LAC again at southern bank of Pangong Tso and near the Reqin Pass on August 31 and conducted "flagrant provocations." It also said, "China made solemn representations to India, urged them to control and restrain frontline troops." Another round of military talks to ease escalating tension triggered by the fresh confrontation between the two sides on the southern bank of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh was held on Tuesday. The two sides held talks for around six hours on Monday as well but no concrete outcome emerged from the engagement, the sources said. They said a sizeable number of Chinese troops attempted to occupy the area in a bid to open a new front as the two sides continue to hold talks to resolve the three-and-half-month-long border row. The two sides were earlier engaged in a confrontation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso lake but it was for the first time such an incident occurred on its southern bank, they said. Following the Chinese attempt, the Indian Army significantly strengthened its presence on a number of "strategic heights" around the Pangong lake besides further bolstering its presence in the area. There have been reports that China has deployed J-20 long-range fighter jets and several other key assets in strategically located Hotan airbase, which is around 310 km from eastern Ladakh. In the last three months, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The fresh attempt by China to change the status quo in the Pangong lake area is the first major incident in the area after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-embassy-says-indian-troops-illegally-trespassed-lac-reports-claim-india-now-in-control-of-south-pangong-area-880954.html
01-09-2020||National||India, China hold Brigade Commander-level talks in eastern Ladakh||India and China on Tuesday held another round of military talks to ease escalating tension triggered by a fresh confrontation between the two sides on the southern bank of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh, government sources said. The Brigade Commander-level talks began at 10 am in Chushul on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh with a specific agenda to discuss the situation around the Pangong lake, they said, adding the meeting is underway. On Monday, the Indian Army said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. The two sides held talks for around six hours on Monday as well but no concrete outcome emerged from the engagement, the sources said. They said a sizeable number of Chinese troops attempted to occupy the area in a bid to open a new front as the two sides continue to hold talks to resolve the three-and-half-month-long border row. The two sides were earlier engaged in a confrontation on the northern bank of Pangong lake but it was for the first time such an incident occurred on its southern bank, they said. Following the Chinese attempt, the Indian Army has significantly strengthened its presence on a number of "strategic heights" around the Pangong lake besides further bolstering its presence in the area. A battalion of the Special Frontier Force was also deployed in the area. It is learnt that Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane reviewed the overall situation in eastern Ladakh at a high-level meeting in the Army headquarters. The sources said the Indian Air Force (IAF) has also been told to enhance its surveillance on increasing Chinese air activities along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. There have been reports that China has deployed J-20 long-range fighter jets and several other key assets in strategically located Hotan airbase which is around 310 km from eastern Ladakh. In the last three months, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The fresh attempt by China to change the status quo in the Pangong lake area is the first major incident in the area after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. China also suffered casualties but is yet to make the details public. According to an American intelligence report, it was 35. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-hold-brigade-commander-level-talks-in-eastern-ladakh-880958.html
01-09-2020||National||UNSC reform talks being 'held hostage', used as 'convenient smokescreen' by some nations: India||The intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council reform are being "held hostage" and used as a "convenient smokescreen" by countries that do not wish to see any changes in the most powerful UN organ, India has said, demanding tangible action to achieve the long-delayed reforms. India also underlined that it will take steps to see how the goal can be realised in the next session of the UN General Assembly. India's Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador K Nagaraj Naidu, on Monday wrote a letter to President of the 74th Session of the General Assembly, Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, expressing New Delhi's strong disappointment over the decision regarding roll-over of the intergovernmental negotiations (IGN) on UNSC reforms into the next session of the General Assembly that begins this month. India has maintained that the roll-over decision must "capture clearly" the tangible progress made in the two IGN meetings held earlier this year. India underscored that one of the areas in which clear progress was made during the year was the increasing support among member states for the Common African Position as well as for the urgent need for transparency and application of the General Assembly's rules of procedure to the IGN. Naidu expressed India's disappointment that the current draft roll-over text “has fallen well short of capturing the progress” in the two IGN meetings held this year, particularly in the areas of the growing support for the Common African Position and other important issues. "However, strangely enough, instead of reflecting the views of 'pro-Reformists' like India and others, by putting a draft roll-over decision in this fashion, it is actually providing the 'pro-Reformists' with a Hobson's choice. This is indeed unfortunate," he said. India also strongly criticised that there has been practically no progress in IGN discussions on reform of the most powerful UN organ over the last decade. Naidu said not only are the discussions dubbed as informal, no attempt has been made to capture the discussions, ongoing since 2009, in a single consolidated text for negotiations. "In effect, after more than a decade, there has been no tangible progress at all. In fact, the IGN process has become a convenient smokescreen to hide behind for those who do not wish to see any reform in the Security Council," Naidu wrote. "Consequently, there is a need to ensure that the IGN process is not held hostage, procedurally and substantially, by those who do not wish to bring about reform in the Security Council. If this happens, and there are indications that this is already happening, those who demand reform will be forced to look for other ways to achieve the same end outside the IGN process," he said in the letter. Naidu underscored India’s "abiding commitment" to reformed multilateralism, saying that to strengthen this in the UN, India will “continue to voice its strong support for tangible action towards an expanded and reformed Security Council that reflects today’s world and realities". "We will also take steps to see how we can realise these goals in the 75th session of the UNGA,” he said. Muhammad-Bande had placed under silence procedure until the evening of August 31 the draft decision entitled ‘Question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council and other matters related to the Security Council’, regarding the roll-over of the Intergovernmental Negotiations into the 75th Session of the General Assembly that begins this month. The silence procedure concluded without objections, implying the adoption of the draft roll-over decision. Naidu said in the letter that while India was not breaking the silence, its letter should be circulated to all UN member states as “official explanation” of position of India on the draft roll-over decision. Naidu also wrote separately to Muhammad-Bande on behalf of the G4 group -- Brazil, Germany, Japan and India -- on the roll-over decision, raising similar concerns. India will join the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member for a two-year term beginning January 1, 2021. India has been at the forefront of the years-long efforts to reform the Security Council saying it rightly deserves a place as a permanent member of the Council, which in its current form does not represent the geo-political realities of the 21st century. Naidu also highlighted that the Non-Aligned Movement comprising 120 member states expressed support at the “highest level” for the Common African Position. Other key groupings such as the G4, L.69 and the African Group have also expressed support for greater representation of Africa in a reformed and expanded Security Council. Naidu said India is “fully and unequivocally in support of greater African representation in the UN Security Council and will continue to be vocal in our support for Africa."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unsc-reform-talks-being-held-hostage-used-as-convenient-smokescreen-by-some-nations-india-880977.html
01-09-2020||National||Asaram bragged about political connection during arrest, recounts IPS officer in new book||Self-styled 'godman' Asaram, sentenced to life in prison for raping a teenager, bragged about his political connections while being taken into custody and told an officer he would receive orders from his superiors to not carry out the arrest, says an IPS officer who led the investigation.   The 79-year-old was arrested in August 2013 and convicted almost five years later in April 2018 on charges of raping a teen student of his ashram.         "Taking Asaram Bapu into custody was a challenging task and the toughest part of the entire course of the case. Despite all odds, it was done,” Ajay Pal Lamba, who was posted as Deputy Commissioner of Police-West in Jodhpur in 2013, told PTI.         Lamba has penned his experience of the case in a book titled “Gunning for the GODMAN - The true story behind Asaram Bapu's conviction”, recalling the hardship and challenges he and his team faced during the investigation and the trial.         The book, co-authored by Sanjeev Mathur and published by HarperCollins Publishers, will be released virtually on September 5. Lamba said he, his team members, witnesses and even lawyers received threats during the investigation and trial. Asaram was arrested by a team from the Jodhpur police from his ashram in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, on August 31, 2013 and taken to Jodhpur via Delhi by air.         According to Lamba, it was while the team was talking to Asaram in his ashram before his arrest that he boasted about his political connections and told a police officer, “Soon you will receive orders from your superiors that you cannot arrest me.”   However, Asaram panicked when the officer switched off his mobile phone in front of him, Lamba, a 2005-batch IPS office presently posted as Additional Commissioner of Police in Jaipur, recounted.       Two members of the investigation team were deputed to stay at the ashram as Asaram's followers to collect evidence.          "It was discovered that he had some kind of sex addiction and demanded a new nubile girl every night,” Lamba writes in the book, referring to the claim of some individuals associated with Asaram.         The girls were made to believe by Asaram's aides that they were sick and must "surrender" to him if they wanted to be cured, he said.          It is claimed that members of Asaram's ashram management, especially the matron of the Chhindwara ashram, Shilpi, were always on the lookout for underage and attractive girls studying or staying at the ashram who could be brainwashed into believing that the accused was "god incarnate and that they were his chosen ones".          “The girls were made to feel inadequate or sick, and convinced that their cure lay with Baba Asaram. They were told that they must surrender to him totally if they wanted to be remedied of their ills,” Lamba said.           He said the young girls, usually from poor families, were either "paid off" later or threatened with dire consequences if they say a word about their ordeal.           “There was parental pressure too. They were, therefore, not in favour of taking any legal action against the accused,” he said in the book.            Lamba narrated in detail his experience of questioning Asaram when he was brought to Jodhpur and lodged in a police guest house.    “’Baba, tu yeh bata ki yeh sab kya kar dala tune. Jaldi bata.' I asked him in a gruff voice, with contempt in my eyes. (Baba, you tell me why you did all this. Tell me quickly) What he said in response astounded me. 'Galti kar di… galti kar di maine (I made a mistake… I made a mistake).          “That was exactly where I wanted him. My plan had succeeded. I knew that it would now be easy to make him confess to his crime and to corroborate the allegations against him,” the officer said in the book.           Lamba said he meticulously selected every single member in his team, those with expertise in areas such as forensic science, legal matters and interrogation. They comprised both young and experienced officers with high integrity and reliability to be able to take the case to a logical conclusion.  He claimed that Gujarat police, which was investigating the case against Asaram's son Narayan Sai, had revealed that an accused in that case planned to kill woman officer Chanchal by blowing up her vehicle with an IED.  “In the wake of such disclosures, Chanchal had to be provided additional armed guards round the clock even when she was later transferred to Bhilwara district,” he said.  The officer told PTI that he held regular media briefings to make sure that no speculative news was generated. This proved to be a crucial factor, particularly during his arrest.  “I decided to write the book to give a first-hand account of the investigation and the challenges in the high-profile case. It tells about the importance of planning, teamwork, leadership qualities which are essential to execute a task,” he said.         Asaram was sentenced to life in jail till natural death by a Jodhpur court on April 25, 2018. The court awarded 20 years imprisonment to two co-accused, including Chhindwara ashram matron Shilpi, and acquitted two others, Shiva and Prakash.         The teenaged victim from Shahajahanpur in Uttar Pradesh, who was studying at Asaram ashram, had accused him of raping her on the night of August 15, 2013.  An FIR was lodged with a police station in Delhi and was transferred to Jodhpur for investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asaram-bragged-about-political-connection-during-arrest-recounts-ips-officer-in-new-book-880983.html
01-09-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee's death huge loss for Sino-India friendship: China||China on Tuesday paid rich tributes to former president Pranab Mukherjee, saying he was a veteran statesman and his death is a huge loss for India-China friendship. The 84-year-old veteran politician died after he suffered a septic shock on Sunday. He died of a cardiac arrest on Monday evening in a hospital in New Delhi following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. "Former President Mukherjee was a veteran statesman of India. In his 50 years in politics, he made positive contributions to China-India relations," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing here, replying to a question. Referring to Chinese President Xi Jinping's visit to India in 2014 and his meeting with Mukherjee, she said after the meeting the two countries issued a joint statement on building closer development partnership. "It is a heavy loss for China-India friendship and to India. We express deep condolences over his passing and extend sincere sympathies to the Indian government and his family," Hua said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjees-death-huge-loss-for-sino-india-friendship-china-880992.html
01-09-2020||National||More special trains being planned, state govts being consulted: Rail Ministry||As part of Unlock 4.0, the Ministry of Railways on Tuesday announced that more special trains will be operated soon. "More special trains are being planned. State governments are being consulted," the railway spokesperson said in statement. Though railways did not say how many trains will be planned, sources said that 120 additional special fixed time table trains, beginning with 100 trains, will be operated soon. "Additional special trains will be operated in routes where demand for tickets are high," said an official in the railways. The railways is likely to make announcement about the number of trains to be started in a couple of days, said the official. At present the national transporter is operating 30 Special Rajdhani and 200 regular fixed time table trains connecting important destinations of the country. The regular train services were cancelled since March 25 as part of the government strategy to fight against Covid-19 pandemic. The Indian Railways had announced last month that that all regular passenger trains remain suspended until further order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-special-trains-being-planned-state-govts-being-consulted-rail-ministry-881017.html
01-09-2020||National||High Court directs Indian railways to assist students with disabilities to travel to Delhi for Delhi University exams||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed the Ministry of Railways to ensure that all students with disabilities who need to travel to the national capital to appear in physical exams being held by Delhi University are provided confirmed tickets. The court said it needs to be ensured that the students belonging to the persons with disabilities (PWD) category do not miss the chance to appear in the second round of final year examinations, which will be held in physical mode from September 14. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said that in view of the limited number of trains running currently, effort shall be made to provide them confirmed tickets. It said students can book tickets in waiting list and inform the Railways two days in advance. The court also asked DU to file an affidavit stating the number of students who have registered for the second phase of exams. The university will also mention in the affidavit as to when the results of both the phases can be declared. It listed the matter for further hearing on September 22. Advocate Jagjit Singh, representing the ministry, said the Railways already gives concession to several categories of PWDs including those with visual and speech impairment. He said the procedure to avail the concession is set out.  The court asked senior advocate S K Rungta, representing petitioner National Federation of Blind, to provide a list of PWD students who propose to travel to Delhi from far off places.  The high court was hearing pleas by law student Prateek Sharma and NFB seeking to set up effective mechanisms PWD students so that educational instructions can be transmitted to them properly and teaching material is provided to them through online mode of teaching during the Covid-19 pandemic. The online OBE for final year undergraduate students commenced from August 10 and will end on August 31. The students who will be left out of online exams will be given an opportunity to appear in physical examinations, to be held from September 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-court-directs-indian-railways-to-assist-students-with-disabilities-to-travel-to-delhi-for-delhi-university-exams-881030.html
01-09-2020||National||Despite economic struggles, Indian toymakers pledge to achieve PM Narendra Modi's vision||Indian toymakers have pledged to stand firm to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for India to become a global hub for toy manufacturing. Under the All India Toys Federation (AITF), toy retailers, wholesalers, and manufacturers nationwide hope to rise above the current economic difficulties to achieve this goal. "We are happy and encouraged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaking about the toy industry. Modi said India should become the global hub for toy manufacturing, but it would take some more time to achieve that", said Abdullah Sharif, Vice President of All India Toys Federation (AITF). Modi had shared this vision in the latest edition of Mann Ki Baat, a monthly public monologue dedicated to the country. The episode, which aired on Sunday, saw him acknowledge the importance of the sector and its dedicated workforce. "India is home to several toy clusters and thousands of artisans who produce indigenous toys. These toys don't only have cultural connect, but also help build psycho-motor and life-skills among children at an early age," said Modi. The Indian toy industry is currently struggling with a large-scale slump in demand and issues stemming from economic uncertainties. The current Covid-19 pandemic caused a shortage in the supply of toys to the Indian market. "We also hope that the government gives us some more time to gain a certification from the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), a requirement from today, September 1. For this, we need an additional 18-24 months to ensure that all micro, small, and medium toy enterprises can rise to this challenge," Sharif added. From September 1, all toy manufacturers and importers need a valid BIS licence to continue to manufacture and import new toys. The AITF is apprehensive that toy MSMEs, facing a financial crunch, would not be able to adhere to these standards right away. "We fear that such measures can hinder PM Modi's vision, causing smaller units to shut down. We'd be left with only big MNCs, who will sell expensive branded toys in their store chains," Sharif said. The federation has proposed a Scheme II for toys. "In such a scheme, we request BIS accredited labs to test our goods up to BIS standards rather than leaving us to set up such labs on our own. We also need an overhaul in terms of investments in tooling, moulds, and new talent in toy design and development." "Very few domestic and nearly none of the foreign toy manufacturers have been able to apply for the required BIS certification, due to multiple clauses. The standards include quality requirements, the onus to set up testing labs, and the process's time-consuming length. Collaborating with existing labs will help them focus on building a toy arsenal for the depleted Indian market." The current process to get a BIS certification is a time-consuming process, where manufacturers need to wait for 120 days. For foreign manufacturers, this time frame goes up to 180 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-economic-struggles-indian-toymakers-pledge-to-achieve-pm-narendra-modis-vision-881035.html
01-09-2020||National||Meghalaya reports 65 new Covid-19 cases; tally at 2,433||Two elderly persons, who tested positive for Covid-19 have also died due to comorbidity issues, pushing the coronavirus death toll to 12 in the state, he said. Of the 65 new cases, 52 were reported from East Khasi Hills district, 5 cases from West Garo Hills, 4 cases from East Garo Hills and 2 cases each from South Garo Hills and Ribhoi district, Health Services Director Aman War said. Seventy-three other patients were cured of the disease, taking the total number of Covid-19 recoveries in the state to 1,235, War said. Meghalaya currently has 1,186 active Covid-19 cases, he said. East Khasi Hills district, of which state capital Shillong is a part, has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases at 839 of which 209 are armed forces personnel, War said. Over 84,000 samples have been tested till date for Covid-19, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meghalaya-reports-65-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-2433-881036.html
01-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally nears 37 lakh; recovery rate 76.94%||With 69,921 people testing positive for coronavirus infection on Tuesday, India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 36,91,166, while recoveries surged to 28,39,882, pushing the recovery rate to 76.94 per cent, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll, meanwhile, climbed to 65,288 with 819 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined further and now stands at 1.77 per cent. There are 7,85,996 active cases which constitute 21.29 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative 4,33,24,834 samples have been tested up to August 31, 10,16,920 of them on Monday. Of the 819 fresh deaths, 184 were reported from Maharashtra, 113 from Karnataka, 91 from Tamil Nadu, 85 from Andhra Pradesh, 63 from Uttar Pradesh, 52 from West Bengal, 49 from Punjab, 20 from Madhya Pradesh, 18 from Delhi, 14 from Gujarat, 13 from Rajasthan,12 from Uttarakhand, and 10 each from Assam, Odisha and Tripura. Nine fatalities each have been reported from Goa, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir, eight from Chhattisgarh, seven each from Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala and Puducherry, four each from Bihar and Chandigarh, three from Himachal Pradesh, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered one fatality. Of the total 65,228 deaths till date, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 24,583, followed by 7,322 in Tamil Nadu, 5,702 in Karnataka, 4,444 in Delhi, 3,969 in Andhra Pradesh, 3,486 in Uttar Pradesh, 3,228 in West Bengal, 3,020 in Gujarat, and 1,453 in Punjab. So far, 1,394 people have died of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, 1,056 in Rajasthan, 836 in Telangana, 703 in Jammu and Kashmir, 689 in Haryana, 582 in Bihar, 492 in Odisha, 417 in Jharkhand, 306 in Assam, 294 in Kerala, 277 in Chhattisgarh and 269 in Uttarakhand. Puducherry has registered 228 fatalities, Goa 192, Tripura 113, Chandigarh 56, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 46, Himachal Pradesh 38, Ladakh 34, Manipur 28, Meghalaya 10, Nagaland nine, Arunachal Pradesh seven, Sikkim three, and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two each. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 7,92,541 till date and has 1,94,399 active cases presently, followed by Andhra Pradesh with 4,34,771 total cases till now and 1,00,276 active cases presently, Karnataka with 3,42,423 total cases and 87,254 active cases, Uttar Pradesh with 2,30,414 total cases and 54,788 active cases and Tamil Nadu with 4,28,041 total cases and 52,578 active cases. Telangana has so far reported 1,27,697 infections and has 31,699 active cases at present. Odisha has reported 1,03,536 cases and has 25,758 active cases while West Bengal has registered 1,62,778 total cases and has 25,280 active cases. Bihar has reported 1,36,457 total Covid-19 cases and has 16,335 active cases of the infection currently, Gujarat has recorded 96,300 cases and has 15,524 active cases presently, Delhi has so far witnessed 1,74,748 infections and has 14,626 active cases as on date, Madhya Pradesh has registered 63,965 total cases and 13,914 active cases presently, and Rajasthan saw 81,693 cases so far and has 13,825 active cases at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-nears-37-lakh-recovery-rate-7694-881037.html
01-09-2020||National||Ramachandra Guha to come out with new book on cricket||Historian Ramachandra Guha will come out with a book on cricket in November, which will trace the entire arc of the game in India, across all levels at which it is played and also present vivid portraits of local heroes, provincial icons, and international stars. "The Commonwealth of Cricket: A Lifelong Love Affair with the Most Subtle and Sophisticated Game Known to Humankind" will be co-published by HarperCollins India and William Collins UK. Publisher Udayan Mitra acquired the book in India and Arabella Pike, William Collins Publishing Director, acquired UK and Commonwealth rights (excluding India), according to a statement. When Guha began following the game in the early 1960s, India was utterly marginal to the world of cricket: the country still hadn't won a Test match overseas; by the time he joined the Board of Control for Cricket in India, 50 years later, India had become world cricket's sole superpower, the publishers said. "The Commonwealth of Cricket" is a first-person account of this transformation and blends memoir, anecdote, reportage and political critique. Mitra says this is the story of how Guha has engaged over nearly six decades with an endlessly fascinating game - as a player, a spectator, a fan, a writer, and a cricket administrator. "The narrative is as enchanting as the spin of Bishan Singh Bedi and EAS Prasanna, as charming as the batting of Gundappa Viswanath or Vijay Hazare; it transports us out of our present miseries into a magic world where on a lazy afternoon the willow meets leather, making the loveliest sound in the world," he says. According to Pike, the book is a "beautifully crafted memoir of Guha's lifelong passion for cricket and a story that will enchant all who love this greatest of games". Currently distinguished University Professor at Krea University, Guha has authored books like "The Unquiet Woods", "India after Gandhi", and a two-volume biography of Mahatma Gandhi. Guha has also written quite a few books on cricket - "A Corner of a Foreign Field", "The Picador Book of Cricket", "Spin and Other Turns", "Wickets in the East".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramachandra-guha-to-come-out-with-new-book-on-cricket-881047.html
01-09-2020||National||Proceedings over, judge to start writing Babri mosque demolition case verdict||The special judge hearing the Babri mosque demolition case will on Wednesday start writing the judgment, expected to be pronounced by the end of this month. The proceedings in the case at the CBI court here ended Tuesday with the advocates for some of 32 accused presenting their oral arguments. Judge S K Yadav said he will start the dictation of the judgment from Wednesday. The accused in the decades-old include case include former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh and BJP leaders Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar and Sakshi Maharaj. Prosecution agency CBI led about 350 witnesses and produced about 600 documents against the accused. The CBI judge is trying to deliver the judgment by the end of this month to meet the deadline fixed by the Supreme Court. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by "kar sevaks" who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple. The land dispute over the site was settled last year by the Supreme Court, which allowed the construction of a Ram temple. The court also directed that an alternative site should be allotted in Ayodhya for the construction of a mosque. The groundbreaking ceremony for the temple took place on August 5 with Prime Minister Narendra Modi participating in a bhoomi pujan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proceedings-over-judge-to-start-writing-babri-mosque-demolition-case-verdict-881051.html
01-09-2020||National||Suresh Raina leaves IPL after relatives killed in attack at home||Former India batsman Suresh Raina told Tuesday how he left preparations for the Indian Premier League tournament after an attack on his family in which an uncle and a cousin died. Chennai Super Kings cited "personal reasons" when Raina, who retired from international cricket last month, left the team base in Dubai at the weekend. It has since been revealed that his family was attacked in Punjab state a few days before and Raina said in a series of Twitter comments that the events were "beyond horrible". "My uncle was slaughtered to death" and a cousin died in hospital on Monday. Raina said his aunt was still "very, very critical" in hospital. According to Indian police, Raina's 58-year-old uncle, Ashok Kumar, and his family were attacked at night while they slept on the terrace of their house. Raina demanded a tougher inquiry. "We at least deserve to know who did this heinous act to them," he said. "Those criminals should not be spared to commit more crimes." Raina's sudden departure, which coincided with two Chennai players testing positive for coronavirus, sparked rumours that the senior batsman had left because of virus concerns. Another media story said he was unhappy with his hotel room and the team's industrialist owner N. Srinivasan was quoted as criticising the player. However, Srinivasan said his comments were taken out of context and backed Raina saying his "contribution to CSK is second to none and it is unfortunate that people are trying to put two and two together to drive a wedge." "These boys, they're family. They've been family for over a decade now. When I said 'cricketers are like prima donnas', it wasn't in a negative sense," but as the lead singer in an opera, he told the Times of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suresh-raina-leaves-ipl-after-relatives-killed-in-attack-at-home-881061.html
01-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally: The lion’s share of five states||Five big states including Karnataka have emerged as new worries on the Covid-19 front as they account for the lion’s shares of the new coronavirus cases in India as well as deaths. In the last 24 hours, Maharashtra (11,852), Andhra Pradesh (10,004), Karnataka (6,495), Tamil Nadu (5,956) and Uttar Pradesh (4,782). Together they account for 56% of the confirmed Covid-19 cases. They also contribute 65.4% of India’s Covid-19 deaths in the same period. As many as 536 deaths out of 819 recorded in the last 24 hours came from Maharashtra (184), Karnataka (113), Tamil Nadu (91), Andhra Pradesh (85) and Uttar Pradesh (63). "This is expected as India is a large country with a 1.3 billion population. As Covid-19 now spreads to smaller towns and villages with less robust health care facilities, we face the real challenge both in terms of mortality and economic indicators. The overall success will depend on how well we balance the two extreme entities of saving lives and livelihood," Abdul Ghafur, a Chennai-based specialist on infectious diseases, associated with Apollo Cancer Institute told DH. Going by the Union Health Ministry, there were 69,921 new cases on Tuesday, pushing the total caseload close to 37 lakh mark. The death toll stands at 65,288. Gaffur argued that with respect to India’s population size, the spread of the disease is much less compared to other countries. “If one calculates cases per million or death per million, the rates are far lower than most other countries. India has one of the lowest cases per million (2,424) and deaths per million (44) compared to the global average of 3,161 and 107.2 respectively," he said. The increase in new Covid-19 cases corresponds to an increase in the test. India's cumulative tests for detection of Covid-19 have crossed 4.3 crore so far, of which 1.22 crore were conducted in the last two weeks. Three states - Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra - account for nearly 34% of the total tests, the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-the-lion-s-share-of-five-states-881068.html
01-09-2020||National||One dies by suicide every four minutes in India; Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka among top five states||Every four minutes, a distraught person died by suicide in India, which has reported a 3.4% increase in people taking their own lives in 2019. And, five states -- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka -- alone account for 49.5% of the suicides in the country. Altogether, 1,39,123 people, including 41,493 women and 17 transgenders, took their own lives last year compared to 1,34,516 in 2018. While the number of suicides in the country had decreased in 2016 (1.31 lakh) and 2017 (1.29 lakh), the numbers have shown an increase in the past two years. In 2015, the figures stood at 1.33 lakh. In 1967 when the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) started collating reports on suicides, there were 38,829 suicides, including 16,192 women. According to the 'Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India 2019' report, Maharashtra had the highest number of suicides at 18,916 followed by Tamil Nadu (13,493) and West Bengal (12,665). Madhya Pradesh with 12,457 and Karnataka with 11,288 cases were the other states in the top five. Among the 53 mega cities with over 10 lakh population, Chennai (2,461), Delhi City (2,423), Bengaluru (2,081) and Mumbai (1,229) have reported higher numbers of suicides. These four cities together have reported almost 36.6% (22,390) of the total suicides. Bengaluru City has shown a slight decline during 2019 over 2018 when 2,082 suicides were reported. Chennai has shown an increase of 17.1% (from 2,102 suicides to 2,461 suicides), Mumbai 4.7% (from 1,174 suicides to 1,229 suicides) and Delhi City has observed an increase of 2.3% (from 2,369 suicides to 2,423 suicides) "Each suicide is a personal tragedy that prematurely takes the life of an individual and has a continuing ripple effect, dramatically affecting the lives of families, friends and communities," the report said. Since 2008, 15.98 lakh people have taken their lives owing to various reasons like family problems, illness, career problems, sense of isolation, abuse, violence, family problems, mental disorders, addiction to alcohol, financial loss and chronic pain among others. The 2019 figures also reinforce the trend that the poorest sections of the society take the extreme step the most. Two-third of the total suicides in the country in 2019 were by those with an annual income of less than Rs one lakh, which meant the victims earned less than Rs 8,300 a month. Last year saw 92,083 people (66.18% of 1.39 lakh) with an annual income less than Rs one lakh died by suicide. Among the poorest victims, Tamil Nadu had the highest number of suicides at 9,723 followed by West Bengal 9,636, Karnataka (7,029) and Maharashtra (4,521). While the 2019 figure for such people is more than that of 2018 (88,986 or 66.2%) and 2017 (84,934 or 65.4%), it has not crossed the 2016 numbers when India recorded 92,732 (70.8%) such incidents. When it comes to people having an income of Rs one lakh to Rs five lakh, there were 41,497 people who took their own life while there were 4,824 with an annual income between Rs five lakh and ten lakh who died by suicide. The number of people with more than Rs 10 lakh annual income was 1,089 with West Bengal topping the list with 218 cases followed by Telangana (180) and Haryana (152). Karnataka had 24 such cases. When it comes to educational status, the number of people with higher qualifications was very less. Only 335 professionals, including MBAs, committed suicide in 2019 compared to 403 in the previous year. However, the number of graduates and above rose to 5,185 from 4,447 and 4,027 in 2018 and 2017 respectively. Those who had studied between Class VIII and Class X had the highest number at 32427 (31,757 in 2018) followed by 27,323 (26,252) in Class V-VII category, 22,469 (23,048) in Class 1-IV and 17,588 (17,026) with no education at all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-dies-by-suicide-every-four-minutes-in-india-maharashtra-tamil-nadu-karnataka-among-top-five-states-881077.html
01-09-2020||National||Ladakh, Lakshadweep join ration card portability network||Ladakh and Lakshadweep have joined ration card portability scheme 'One Nation-One Ration Card', taking the total number of states and union territories linked with the scheme to 26, a food ministry statement said. Under the scheme, eligible beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) would be able to avail their entitled foodgrains from any Fair Price Shop (FPS), also called ration shops, in the country using the same ration card. The integration of Ladakh and Lakshadweep with the national portability network was approved recently in a review meeting chaired by Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Remaining states are targeted to be integrated in the scheme by March 2021. "Both the UTs (Ladakh and Lakshadweep) have completed the trial and testing of national portability transactions with other states/UTs in the national cluster," the statement said. With this, a total of 26 states/UTs are now seamlessly connected with each other under the 'One Nation-One Ration Card' plan and would benefit about 65 crore people, it said. Now, ration card holders in these states/UTs can access their quota of foodgrains at a subsidised rate from any FPS of their choice with effect from September 1, it added. The ministry said ration card portability will benefit those who frequently change their place of dwelling in search of temporary jobs. They now have an option of lifting their entitled quota of foodgrains from any FPS of their choice anywhere in the country by using their same/existing ration card with biometric/Aadhaar based authentication on an electronic Point of Sale (ePoS) device installed at the FPS, it added. There are more than 81 crore ration card holders under NFSA and each beneficiary is entitled for 5 kg foodgrains at a subsidised rate of Rs 1-3 per kg a month. The other 24 states/UTs which have joined the ration card portability network are -- Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-lakshadweep-join-ration-card-portability-network-881078.html
01-09-2020||National||Three labour codes to be tabled in Monsoon session of Parliament||Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar on Tuesday said remaining three labour codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational safety and health will be tabled in the ensuing Monsoon session of the Parliament. "The three codes would come in the Monsoon session of the Parliament which is scheduled to begin on September 14. We have circulated draft rules of the Code on Wages which would also be finalised soon," Gangwar said addressing a virtual FICCI conference on ' Code on Wages: Safeguarding Rights of Lakhs of Essential Services Workers'. The minister also asked the FICCI participants to consolidate their suggestions on the labour codes especially 'Wage' and sent that to his ministry for effective implementation of the labour laws in the country. The central government has been working to concise 44 central labour laws into four broad codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational health & safety (OCH). The Code on Wages was approved by the Parliament last year. The draft rules on the code were circulated for feedback. Once those are notified, it would become the law of the land. The remaining three codes on industrial relations, social security and OCH were introduced in Lok Sabha last year and then sent for scrutiny of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour. The committee has submitted its report on the remaining three codes. Now the three codes would be pushed for passage in the Parliament during the Monsoon session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-labour-codes-to-be-tabled-in-monsoon-session-of-parliament-881090.html
01-09-2020||National||Mask use, social distancing may prevent 2 lakh Covid-19 deaths in India: Study||Widespread mask use and data-driven social distancing measures in India may help prevent over 200,000 Covid-19-related deaths in India by December 1, according to a modelling study which shows the disease will continue to pose a major public health threat in the country. The study by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in the US suggests that there is an opportunity to further limit the toll of Covid-19 in India. It highlights the critical need for people to comply with face mask use, social distancing, and other Covid-19 prevention guidelines as advised by the public health authorities. "India's epidemic is far from over, as a large proportion of the population is still susceptible," IHME Director, Christopher Murray, said in a statement. "In fact, our modelling shows there is a wide range of potential outcomes, depending on the actions that governments and individuals take today, tomorrow, and into the near future. Mask-wearing and social distancing are crucial to mitigate the spread of the virus," Murray explained. Reacting to the findings of the modelling study, Gautam Menon, Professor, Departments of Physics and Biology, Ashoka University in Haryana said it is certainly true that mask wearing and distancing measures will significantly slow the progress of the disease while protecting vulnerable populations. "My first view is that the IHME model predicts a peak in infections only by early to mid-December, peak numbers of close to 6 million new infections per day and total deaths of about 500,000 in the 'no intervention' scenario," Menon told PTI. However, he noted that these numbers appear inflated compared to other estimates and models which suggest a peak that should happen well before mid-December. "Given that, the estimate of lives saved (in the study) may be on the excessive side," Menon noted. The researchers in the IHME study noted that India's response to Covid-19 has produced some significant successes that highlight the opportunity to limit the pandemic's toll in the country. Giving the example of some urban areas, including Delhi, they explained that containment measures which include intensive contact tracing, widespread testing, mask-wearing, and social distancing mandates have helped reduce the spread of the virus. Their modelling study found that, in the best-case scenario, India can expect approximately 291,145 total Covid-19 deaths by December 1, up from 60,000 in late August. This scenario assumes that face mask usage increases to near-universal (95 per cent) levels and that six-week, state-level lockdowns are re-imposed if the daily death rate exceeds 8 per million in the states. On the other hand, if lockdown restrictions continue to ease up and face mask usage remains at current levels, India can expect approximately 492,380 total deaths by December 1, according to the study. In this scenario, the researchers said, 13 states would each have over 10,000 total Covid-19 deaths by that time, while currently only Maharashtra has crossed this threshold. "India is at a tipping point. If hospitals in those states are unable to accommodate everyone needing Covid-19 care, the result will be more deaths and greater long-term harm to state and local economies," Murray said. The researchers said until there is a widely available vaccine against Covid-19, much of India’s population remains susceptible to the disease. "Monitoring trends state-by-state, encouraging mask use, continuing social distancing and hygiene precautions, and using state-level or district-level lockdowns if needed can help save lives and minimise the impact of the pandemic on India's health and economy," the researchers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mask-use-social-distancing-may-prevent-2-lakh-covid-19-deaths-in-india-study-881098.html
01-09-2020||National||Piyush Goyal asks railway officials to provide incentive to contractors for early completion of works||Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday asked railway officials to explore the possibility of offering incentives to contractors engaged in the Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC) project, if they complete the works before the stipulated time frames. The Minister, who reviewed the progress of the DFC, also asked the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation India Limited (DFCCIL),agency which is executing the freight corridors, to set up a dashboard for real time 'Km by Km' project monitoring and follow up action by railway officials so that issues and solutions may be resolved on an urgent basis. Provision of dashboard will help in resolution of all contract implementation matters on an urgent basis and would also act as Institutional mechanism for resolving contract related issues through the dashboard, the Minister said. In the meeting, which was attended by top railway officials, Goyal also asked DFFCIL management team and the contractors to take all possible steps to speed up the pace of works on all the sections of the Western and Eastern freight corridors. The Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFCs) is one of the largest rail infrastructure projects a (total length of 3360 route km) undertaken by the Government of India with the investment of Rs 81,459 crores. While the original deadline for completion of these DFCs was December 2021, the Railways recently said it has extended it to June 2022 due to Covid-19 pandemic. The DFC is the exclusive corridor for transportation of goods, and once constructed will decongest the railways' network by moving 70% of goods train to these two corridors. As of July, 56% of Western Dedicated Freight Corridor and 60 % of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor was completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piyush-goyal-asks-railway-officials-to-provide-incentive-to-contractors-for-early-completion-of-works-881106.html
01-09-2020||National||4.33 cr Covid-19 tests conducted so far, 1.22 cr tests done in last 2 weeks: Centre||India's cumulative tests for detection of Covid-19 have crossed 4.3 crore so far, of which 1.22 crore were conducted in the last two weeks, the Union Health Ministry said. Three states -- Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra -- account for nearly 34 per cent of the total tests, it said. India's daily testing capacity has crossed 10 lakh and the tests per million too have seen a sharp increase, reaching 31,394, the ministry highlighted Twenty-two states and Union Territories have tests per million better than the national average. A total of 10,16,920 tests were conducted in 24 hours on Monday taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of coronavirus infection in the country to 4,33,24,834. The guiding principle within the Centre-led strategy of 'test, track and treat' has been aggressive testing by the states and Union Territories. Sustained high levels of testing lead to early diagnosis and enhanced recoveries, the health ministry said, adding that 1,22,66,514 tests were done just in the last two weeks. "States and UTs are progressively increasing their testing capacity. The states contributing the maximum to the overall number of tests include Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. These three states account for nearly 34 per cent of the total testing," the ministry underscored. There has been sustained growth in the average weekly numbers of tests. It has increased by four times since the first week of January. Expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country have given it a substantial boost. "The tests per million have also seen a sharp increase to 31,394," the ministry said, adding Goa, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are reporting the maximum number of tests in a day. Goa's tests per million stand at 1,30,091, followed by Delhi with 85,923 tests, Andhra Pradesh 65,078, Tamil Nadu 59,923, Assam 44,404, Karnataka 44,061, Punjab 34,815 and Maharashtra 32,723, according to the data shared by the ministry. With 69,921 people testing positive for coronavirus infection, India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 36,91,166, while the death toll climbed to 65,288 with 819 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/433-cr-covid-19-tests-conducted-so-far-122-cr-tests-done-in-last-2-weeks-centre-881107.html
01-09-2020||National||From the Newsroom: SC gives Telecom companies 10 years time to pay AGR dues||In your evening brief, From The Newsroom, Supreme Court gives telecom companies 10 years to pay adjusted gross revenue dues that they owe the government; former President Pranab Mukherjee who passed away yesterday was cremated today; The Chinese embassy in India has released a statement saying Indian troops illegally trespassed LAC again at the southern bank of Pangong Tso. Here are the top stories of the day, September 1, 2020: In a huge relief to telecom companies such as Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel, Tata Teleservices, and others, the Supreme Court on Tuesday granted them 10 years time to pay adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra asked the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to decide the issue of sale of spectrum of insolvent companies. Former President Pranab Mukherjee was cremated with full state honours at the Lodhi road electric crematorium on Tuesday afternoon. His son Abhijit Mukherjee performed his last rites. Mukherjee's family and relatives paid their last respects clad in PPE kits while conforming to Covid-19 safeguards. The Chinese embassy in India has released a statement saying Indian troops illegally trespassed LAC again at the southern bank of Pangong Tso and near the Reqin Pass on August 31 and conducted "flagrant provocations." The statement further reads: "What India has done, runs counter to the efforts made by both sides over a period of time to ease and cool down the situation on the ground." It also said, "China made solemn representations to India, urged them to control and restrain frontline troops." The Indian economy has shrunk, in absolute terms, back to the size it had last seen 22 quarters ago when Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken reigns of governing the country. In the June quarter of 2020, as the Indian economy saw record contraction, the size of quarterly gross domestic product shrunk to Rs 26.9 lakh crore. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the six-month loan moratorium period, announced in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, was extendable up to two years. Appearing for the Centre and RBI, the law officers sought time to decide upon the issue of interest on accrued interest being charged by the banks during the moratorium. India's factory activity grew in August for the first time in five months as the easing of lockdown restrictions spurred a rebound in domestic demand, a private business survey showed on Tuesday, though firms continued to cut jobs. But the bounce is unlikely to signal a quick turnaround in the Indian economy, which contracted at its steepest pace on record of 23.9 per cent annually last quarter. It was expected to remain in recession this year, a Reuters poll showed on Friday. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sc-gives-telecom-companies-10-years-time-to-pay-agr-dues-881116.html
01-09-2020||National||India likely to host Quad Foreign Ministers' meet amid border stand-off with China||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is likely to host his counterparts from the United States, Japan and Australia in New Delhi within the next few months to give a fillip to the Quad – a coalition the four democratic nations forged to counter communist China in Indo-Pacific. “There’s going to be (a) meeting of the Quad, a ministerial meeting with the Quad this fall in Delhi – that’s the intention anyway – in person,” Stephen Biegun, US Deputy Secretary of State, said during a webinar. Jaishankar will host US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne for the conclave of the Quad, along with Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi or whoever replaces him in case of a change of guard following appointment of the successor of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who recently resigned. A source in New Delhi said that if the US Secretary of State and the Foreign Ministers of Japan and Australia could not come for the conclave in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the External Affairs Minister might join them through video conference to hold a virtual meet. The meeting of the Quad Foreign Ministers is being planned amid China’s growing belligerence, not only along its disputed boundary with India, but also in South China Sea, East China Sea and elsewhere in Indo-Pacific. India, US, Australia and Japan had first launched the 'quad' in 2007, but the initiative had fizzled out very soon. The four nations, however, re-launched the 'quad' in Manila in November 2017 – ostensibly to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter expansionist moves of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The senior diplomats of the four nations had several meetings ever since the quad was re-launched. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers when US Secretary of State hosted his counterparts from Japan, Australia and India on the side-line of the United Nations General Assembly in September 2019. Biegun noted that while the US was keen to make India an important part of its Indo-Pacific vision, New Delhi too showed “willingness to break out of really what was decades of neutrality” and realized that it could no longer remain a “passive player” in the region. He was speaking at the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum, which took place virtually. Despite joining US, Japan and Australia to relaunch the 'quad', India in 2018 called for an inclusive Indo-Pacific – obviously just to ensure that it does not appear overtly adversarial to China and derail the process to mend the bilateral ties, which had hit a new low over the 72-day-long military stand-off at Doklam Plateau in Bhutan in June-August, 2017. New Delhi, however, now seems to have renewed interests in Quad, particularly in the wake of the aggressive moves by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to alter the status quo along the disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh since April-May this year. The Indian Army too deployed additional troops in response to the Chinese PLA’s moves along the Line of Actual Control or the de facto boundary between the two nations, resulting in a stand-off, which could not be resolved so far despite several rounds of talks between the diplomats and the senior military commanders. “I’d say this Quad concept has really helped India find a place in the Indo-Pacific – in the larger Indo-Pacific theatre,” the US Deputy Secretary of State said late on Monday. “It is also obviously indeed in our interest to have India as a partner”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-host-quad-foreign-ministers-meet-amid-border-stand-off-with-china-881124.html
01-09-2020||National||Maharashtra: AIMIM, Sena workers face off near temple in Aurangabad||Shiv Sena and AIMIM workers on Tuesday came face to face near a temple in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city after local MP Imtiaz Jaleel called for opening the places of worship as part of the easing of lockdown. Jaleel, state chief of the All India Majlis-e- Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), had said he would visit the Khadkeshwar temple on Tuesday afternoon and submit the authorities a memorandum seeking that it be opened. He had also said that he would offer namaz at Shahgunj mosque here on Wednesday. After Jaleel made the announcement, Shiv Sena leaders including Chandrakant Khaire and Ambadas Danve also reached the spot. Jaleel, however, did not turn up following a request by the administration, a police official said. Workers from both AIMIM and Sena came face to face near the temple but were turned away by the police, said city police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad. No permission has been given yet to open the places of worship, and action would be taken against those who violate the ban, he added. Jaleel told PTI that the Sena-led state government must open the places of worship as coronavirus-related restrictions in most other sectors have been eased. "We will wait for another two days, and if no concrete steps are taken by the government, we will head to the temple again," he warned. Hitting back, Sena's Khaire, a former MP, said, "We don't need the AIMIM to open our temples. We will do it after the government issues orders. If Jaleel comes, he will find us here again." District chief of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) Suhas Dashrathe, who also reached the temple to offer prayers, accused both the Sena and AIMIM of indulging in political stunts on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-aimim-sena-workers-face-off-near-temple-in-aurangabad-881126.html
01-09-2020||National||Indian Army deployed along LAC as Chinese troops make second 'provocative action' to change status quo||Turning the tables for the first time since the Sino-Indian stand-off began in eastern Ladakh in May, Indian Army troops have positioned themselves at least on four dominating heights on the southern banks of the Pangong lake to keep an eye on some of the People’s Liberation Army positions, even as PLA troops made a second “provocative action” to change the status quo. “On August 31, even as the ground commanders of the two sides were in discussions to de-escalate the situation, the Chinese troops again engaged in provocative action. Due to the timely defensive action, the Indian side was able to prevent these attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. While the outcome of the Brigadier level meeting at Chushul for the second successive day remained inconclusive, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at a high-level review meeting in the capital on Tuesday told the armed forces to fortify their positions and defend the territory. The second flag meeting between ground commanders took place in the wake of a second Chinese provocative action on August 31, which was thwarted once again by the Indian troops. This happened a day after the PLA troops made their first attempt to alter the status quo on the Line of Actual Control. Sources said alert Indian soldiers outranked the Chinese as they climbed to the ridge line at an elevation of 16000 ft on southern banks of the 135 km boomerang shaped lake within three hours to occupy the heights from where they can keep an eye on the Spanggur gap and Spanggur garrison near Chushul. The quick action cornered the PLA troops who were on the slopes as they lost the dominating heights. The Chinese did something very similar on the northern banks of the Pangong Tso that witnessed a face-off between the Indian and PLA soldiers in May. After mutually agreeing on disengagement from the Finger 4 area, the PLA moved out of the base camp but kept the troops on the ridgeline to watch out for any Indian movement. While tensions were running high in the area after Indian troops foiled the two Chinese attempts to occupy the heights, Indian Army sources said there were no physical fights between the troops. The sources also denied any incident of firing. At the review meeting, the Director General of Military Operation gave a detailed presentation on the Ladakh scenario and shared various options on how the situation might unfold in the coming days. The forces have been instructed to maintain a high operational alert. The review took place a day before Singh leaves for Moscow on a three-day visit to attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Defence Ministers’ meeting during his visit. While the Chinese Defence Minister will also be attending the SCO meet, no bilateral talk is scheduled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-deployed-along-lac-as-chinese-troops-make-second-provocative-action-to-change-status-quo-881127.html
01-09-2020||National||Seven people dead in three road accidents in Rajasthan||Seven people died and three more were injured in three separate road accidents in Rajasthan's Pali and Jodhpur districts, police said on Tuesday. A truck overturned in Pali district's Jaitaran police station area on Tuesday, leaving two people dead, they said. They were identified as Tejaram Gurjar (20) and Sohan Lal (18), the police added. Two people were killed and two more injured on Monday night after being hit by a truck in Pali's Transport Nagar area, they said, adding that the injured were undergoing treatment. In Jodhpur, a car rammed into a truck near the Asop area on Monday night, killing three people and injuring one. The deceased were identified as Rafiq Mohammad, Alladeen and Aziz, the police said. The victims were on their way to Bhopalgarh from Nagaur, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-people-dead-in-three-road-accidents-in-rajasthan-881131.html
01-09-2020||National||Maharashtra, Karnataka top farmers suicide tally||Maharashtra and Karnataka continued to remain on top of farmers' suicide tally in 2019 even as the latest government data claims that such incidents have marginally decreased. The year 2019 witnessed 10,281 suicides by farmers and agricultural workers, a decline from 10,349 in 2018 and 10,665 in 2017. There were 11,379 such suicides in 2016. According to the 'Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India 2019' report released by the National Crimes Record Bureau (NCRB), there 5,957 farmers/cultivators and 4,324 agricultural labourers died by suicide last year, accounting for 7.4% of total suicides victims (1,39,123) in the country. The data showed that the number of farmers who took their own lives have increased in the last year compared to the 2018 figure of 5,763 while the number of agricultural labourers, in this case, has decreased from 4,586. Out of 5,957, farmer/cultivator suicides, a total of 5,563 were men while 394 were women. Out of 4,324 suicides committed by agricultural labourers, 3,749 were men and 575 were women. However, these numbers could be higher as West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Delhi, Lakshadweep and Puducherry have reported zero suicides of farmers as well as agricultural labourers. Like the last couple of years, this time too the NCRB does not provide reasons for the suicides. The NCRB said this data depicts only the profession of persons who have committed suicide and has no linkage whatsoever to the cause of suicide. Among the states, Maharashtra has the highest number of farmer and agricultural workers dying by suicide at 3,927, which was an increase from 3,594 reported in 2018. The state had reported 3,701 suicides in 2017 and 3,661 in 2016 Karnataka witnessed a decline in the number of the suicide of people engaged in the agricultural sector. While in 2018, the state witnessed 2,405 suicides, last year saw 1,992 farmers and agricultural labourers taking their own lives. Karnataka had 2,079 such suicides in 2017 and 2,160 in 2016. At least seven states, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, have more agricultural labourers dying by suicide compared to farmers. In Gujarat, where 118 people engaged in the farming sector took their own lives, only three were farmers while the rest were agricultural labourers. While in Tamil Nadu, 421 agricultural workers and six farmers took the extreme step. In Kerala, 128 out of 150 suicides were that of agricultural labourers. Madhya Pradesh had 399 labourers and 142 farmers committing suicide while the figure for Chhattisgarh was 266 and 233 respectively. Haryana reported that not a single farmer died by suicide while 291 agricultural labourers took the extreme step. All India Kisan Sabha Joint Secretary Vijoo Krishnan said the numbers in the NCRB report did not reflect the actual ground situation. "These numbers are questionable. Many states have shown zero suicides in the farm sector. In other states, there is under-reporting. We can provide the identity and addresses of such people in these states. Despite repeated demands, the government is not listening to farmers' demand for loan waiver and proper minimum support price," Krishnan told DH. "Unless the government accepts that there is distress in the agricultural sector, these distress suicides will not stop. There is no acknowledgement of the distress and that is the reason why there is no solution from the government," he said. On agricultural workers' suicides, Krishnan said the main reason was that there was not enough work for them. Besides, they could not find work through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGA) while many are not paid on time by those who hire them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-karnataka-top-farmers-suicide-tally-881135.html
01-09-2020||National||Domicile certificate only for applying for jobs: J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday said the new domicile certificate was only for applying for jobs and did not confer rights to own land. It also said those holding domicile certificates would not be included in the voters' list in the union territory either. "The domicile certificate is for applying for jobs in Jammu and Kashmir... It does not confer right to buy land," Principal Secretary Revenue Pawan Kotwal told reporters here. He was accompanied by government spokesman Rohit Kansal at the press conference. The officials said those holding domicile certificates would not also be included in the voters' list in the union territory. Kansal said the government has so far issued more than 12.5 lakh domicile certificates. "More than 99 per cent of the domicile certificates have been issued to those who already had the erstwhile Permanent Resident Certificate," he said. Kansal said the government has reduced the time frame for issuance of domicile certificates for PRC holders from 15 days to just five days. "Holding a PRC is enough to get a domicile certificate. There would not be any further verification. This will accelerate the process," he added. Asked about the fake PRCs issued in the past, he said there were separate provisions of laws that deal with that aspect. Kansal said while 11,000 West Pakistan refugees and 12,000 migrants had been issued domicile certificates, around 450 members of the Valmiki community and 10 from the Gurkha community has also availed the document. Kotwal said there were 17 lakh applications and 4.3 lakh are pending as of now. "We have rejected 20,000 applications as well,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domicile-certificate-only-for-applying-for-jobs-jk-881138.html
01-09-2020||National||More sports included for direct recruitment of meritorious sportspersons in govt jobs||Sportspersons competing in tug-of-war, mallakhamb, rugby and basketball are now eligible for direct recruitment in Group C level government posts. These three are among 20 new sports disciplines added to the existing list of 43 for recruitment in the central government. The Ministry of Personnel on Tuesday issued an order in this regard and also include baseball, rugby, basketball and deaf sports among the new entries. The decision came following a proposal from the Department of Sports for inclusion of some more disciplines in the list of 43 sports for recruitment of sportspersons to any Group C post in ministries/departments of government of India. “It has now been decided to accept the recommendation of the Department of Sports,” the order issued by Undersecretary Pradeep Kumar said. Accordingly, it said, the list of sports/games for the purpose of recruitment of sportspersons by the government of India is revised to have 63 sports disciplines. Any sportsperson who has represented a state or the country in national or international competitions in any of the 63 games/sports are eligible for appointment for Group C level posts. Those who have been awarded national awards in physical efficiency under the National Physical Efficiency Drive are also eligible for the appointment to such posts. According to the instructions issued in 2013, "no such appointments can be made unless the candidate is, in all respects, eligible for appointment to the post applied for, and in particular, with regard to age, educational or experience qualifications prescribed under the recruitment rules applicable to the post, except to the extent to which relaxations thereof have been permitted in respect of class/category of persons to which the applicant belongs." Previously, sports disciplines like archery, athletics, atya-patya, badminton, ball-badminton, basketball, billiards and snooker, boxing, bridge, carrom, chess, cricket, cycling, equestrian sports, football, golf, gymnastics (including body building), handball, hockey, ice-skiing, ice-hockey, ice-skating and judo were covered under the scheme. Besides these, kabaddi, karate-DO, kayaking and canoeing, kho-kho, polo, powerlifting, rifle shooting, roller skating, rowing, soft ball, squash, swimming, table tennis, taekwondo, tenni-koit, tennis, volleyball, weightlifting, wrestling and yatching were also in the list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-sports-included-for-direct-recruitment-of-meritorious-sportspersons-in-govt-jobs-881140.html
01-09-2020||National||Facebook is the latest tool used to create social disturbance: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Alleging that some of Facebook employees indulging in abusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and cabinet ministers, IT and Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday said that social media giant is the “latest tool” being used to create “internal divisions and social disturbances” by vested groups. In his strongly-worded letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, the Minister asked the US based firm to come up with country-specific community guidelines for better representation of diverse views. The Minister also said that as a transactional digital platform, Facebook must not only be fair and neutral, but also visibly seen to be so. Prasad sent a letter to the US firm amid the controversy over media reports alleging the social media giant's India unit being biased towards the ruling BJP. "I have been informed that in the run-up to 2019 General Elections in India, there was a concerted effort by Facebook India management to not just delete pages or substantially reduce their reach but also offer no recourse or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of the right-of-centre ideology. I am also aware that dozens of emails written to Facebook management received no response. The above-documented cases of bias and inaction are seemingly a direct outcome of the dominant political beliefs of individuals in your Facebook India team," the Minister said. Questing the outsourcing of fact-checking, the Minister said "How can Facebook outsource responsibility to shady fact-checkers with no credibility?". Noting that some of employees of Facebook abusing the Prime Minister, he said: "it is problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the Prime Minister and senior Cabinet Ministers of India while still working in Facebook India and managing important positions. It is doubly problematic when the bias of individuals becomes an inherent bias of the platform. And it is unacceptable when political biases of individuals impinge on the freedom of speech of millions of people." Flagging the issue of FB employees, the letter said “Individuals working in any organisation may have their individual likes or dislikes, but that must not have any bearing on the public policies and performance of the organisation. It seems from credible media reports that Facebook India team, right from the managing director to other senior officials, is dominated by people who belong to a particular political belief,” the letter says. "I would like to point out that there have also been multiple instances recently where Facebook has been used by anarchic & radical elements whose sole aim is to destroy social order, to recruit people and to assemble them for violence. However, we are yet to see any meaningful action against such elements." he said. Pointing out fact checking outsourced by Facebook to third party fact-checkers, the Minister said,"How can Facebook absolve itself of its responsibility to protect users from misinformation and instead out-source this to shady organisations with no credibility?. " Without taking names, the Minister said that people from a particular “political predisposition have been overwhelmingly defeated in successive free and fair elections. After having lost all democratic legitimacy, they are trying to discredit India’s democratic process by dominating the decision making apparatus of important social media platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-is-the-latest-tool-used-to-create-social-disturbance-ravi-shankar-prasad-881150.html
01-09-2020||National||Covid-19 Unlock 4.0: States where alcohol is served at bars, hotels, pubs||Last week, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued new guidelines for Unlock 4.0, detailing more spheres of society that can be reopened, as the number of active Covid-19 cases continue to be overshadowed by the number of recoveries. Following the MHA guidelines, the states have also announced more relaxations in the coronavirus-induced lockdown.  As the Central govt has permitted bars and pubs to resume, some of the states have allowed serving alcohol in restaurants, clubs and hotels. Here is a list of those states where one can be served liquor in bars: 1)  The West Bengal government has allowed bars in the state to reopen from today, by following social distancing and other Covid-related protocols. Restaurants serving liquor can do so by allowing only 50% of total occupancy at a time and following all Covid-19 guidelines 2) The Karnataka government has allowed bars, pubs, clubs and restaurants in the state to serve liquor with a maximum 50% of their seating capacity filled. There were restrictions on serving liquor since March when the lockdown was enforced first, and until now only takeaways were allowed at these establishments. 3) Goa government has also announced the reopening of bars as a part of Unlock 4.0. 4) Chandigarh government has also allowed hotels and restaurants to serve alcohol to customers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-unlock-40-states-where-alcohol-is-served-at-bars-hotels-pubs-881152.html
01-09-2020||National||Rajnath Singh to leave for Russia on Wednesday to attend SCO meet||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will leave for Russia on Wednesday to attend a crucial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) which is expected to deliberate on regional security scenario, officials said. Besides attending the SCO defence ministers' meeting, Singh will hold talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and several other top military officials with an aim to expedite the implementation of several defence procurement programmes, they said. The SCO defence ministers' meeting is taking place at a time when two of its member countries, India and China, are locked in a bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh. Chinese Defence Minister Gen Wei Fenghe is expected to attend the SCO meeting. Asked about the possibility of a bilateral meeting between Singh and Wei on the sidelines of the SCO event, sources said there is no such plan. It will be Singh's second visit to Moscow since June. He had represented India at the Victory Day Parade in Moscow on June 24 that commemorated the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War. Russia has also invited External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to attend the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10. Singh will leave for India on the evening of September 5, they said Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh for over three-and-half months. Indian Army on Monday said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. The fresh confrontation has further escalated the tension along the Line of Actual Control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-to-leave-for-russia-on-wednesday-to-attend-sco-meet-881155.html
01-09-2020||National||Indira Gandhi introduced Pranab Mukherjee to 'lifestyle' of being a politician in Delhi||It was the 1980s and Pranab Mukherjee, then a minister in the Indira Gandhi cabinet had been wearing the same shirt for three consecutive days until the prime minister herself pointed it out amusingly. Indira Gandhi not just moulded Mukherjee politically but also introduced him to the "lifestyle" of being a politician in the capital, says his long-time friend and journalist Jayanta Ghoshal. "Indira Gandhi used to love him. She once asked him why he hadn't changed his shirt in three days, and when Pranab babu told his wife Suvra Mukherjee about the conversation, she felt vindicated about her complaints that he didn't have a dressing sense. His wife has recounted this incident in her book, 'Indira Gandhi in my Eyes'," says Ghoshal. Mukherjee, the 13th President of India, died at the Army's Research and Referral Hospital here on Monday at the age of 84. The journalist first met Mukherjee in 1985 at the latter's south Kolkata residence as a junior reporter in the Bengali daily 'Bartaman'. Young and enthusiastic, Ghoshal would accompany the politician on each of his trips to various districts in West Bengal, gaining political knowledge on the way. Ghoshal told PTI, "Mrs Gandhi actually moulded him in areas like lifestyle... He was from a village in West Bengal and from a family with extremely humble means." Among other things that Mukherjee learnt to do "the Delhi-way" was his politics. According to Ghoshal, he was never a mass leader, but a "Delhi-style" politician. "He was like Chanakya — a crisis manager, a negotiator.” But, Mukherjee seemed to know where to draw the lines between adopting a new way of life and letting it detach oneself from his roots. His Bengali-ness would come across in his everyday life, like in his newspaper preferences. "...he would read Ananda Bazaar Patrika...that was his first choice. It didn't mean he didn't read English newspapers but he never wanted to leave his Bong identity,” Ghoshal said. A teetotaller, Mukherjee also preferred reading Bengali novels in the quiet of his house over hobnobbing at social gatherings in the Lutyens' circle. “In the media fraternity, we used to say that the foreign ministry was all about 'alcohol and protocol', and then he became the foreign minister...he never even drank a sip of wine. “He was never a person who would go to fancy Delhi parties. Instead, he would come back home and read. I remember seeing a Bengali novel by Tarashankar Bandyopadhyay by his bedside during a visit to his house,” Ghoshal said. It was this knack for reading that was responsible for his "encyclopaedic" memory, recalls Gautam Lahiri, another senior journalist who had his first interaction with Mukherjee in 1982 as a cub reporter. Then the finance minister, Mukherjee had called up Lahiri over a news report he had filed and explained why he thought there was a problem with the story. That was the beginning of a life-long friendship between the two. “I used to travel with him across Bengal as a journalist, and after work, we would chat about politics and history of Bengal. He was like a living Google search — he would always have a ready answer,” the journalist said. Lahiri, who has also written a book on Mukherjee's five-decade-long political career, said he, by nature, was a teacher. "If you asked him a genuine question, then he would reply with all details and perspective, just like a teacher would teach a classroom,” he said. Lahiri's last conversation with Mukherjee was earlier this year when the latter was planning a trip to Bangladesh to visit the ancestral homes of freedom fighters of Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indira-gandhi-introduced-pranab-mukherjee-to-lifestyle-of-being-a-politician-in-delhi-881158.html
01-09-2020||National||Global air passenger traffic falls by 79.8% in July: IATA||Global air passenger traffic was 79.8 per cent less in July this year compared to the corresponding period a year ago, airlines body IATA said on Tuesday. "This was somewhat better than the 86.6% year-over-year decline recorded in June, primarily driven by domestic markets, most notably Russia and China," the International Air Transport Association (IATA) said in a statement. Passenger traffic is measured in revenue passenger kilometres or RPKs, which is calculated by multiplying the number of passengers in a flight to the distance travelled by the flight. “The crisis in demand continued with little respite in July. With essentially four in five air travellers staying home, the industry remains largely paralyzed," said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA's Director General and CEO. The IATA represents some 290 airlines comprising 82 per cent of global air traffic. De Juniac said, "Governments reopening and then closing borders or removing and then re-imposing quarantines do not give many consumers confidence to make travel plans, nor airlines to rebuild schedules." Scheduled domestic passenger flights resumed in India on May 25 this year after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, airlines are allowed to operate only up to 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 this year due to the pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble pacts formed with various countries since July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-air-passenger-traffic-falls-by-798-in-july-iata-881167.html
01-09-2020||National||Over-speeding kills most in India's road accident||Over-speeding is the biggest reason behind maximum road accident deaths in India, says latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. In 2019, a total of 4,37,396 road accidents were recorded across India. In which, 1,54,732 people died and another 4,39,262 injured. The data says, the majority (59.6%) of the road accidents were due to ''over-speeding'' which caused 86,241 deaths and left 2,71,581 people injured. Dangerous or careless driving or the tendency for overtaking contributed to 25.7% of road accidents which led to 42,557 deaths and 1,06,555 injuries, stated the NCRB, which functions under the Union Home Ministry. Only 2.6% of the road accidents were due to poor weather conditions, it added. In 2018, Indian had reported 1,52,780 deaths in road crashes, while the figures stood at 1,50,093 in 2017, it showed. Altogether, in 2019, India reported 4,21,959 accidental deaths under various categories such as road crashes, forces of nature, negligent human conduct, up from 4,11,104 in 2018 and 3,96,584 in 2017, the data showed. According to the statistics, 38 % victims of road accidents were riders of ''two-wheelers'' followed by trucks or lorries, cars and buses which accounted for 14.6 %, 13.7 % and 5.9 % respectively. The data showed that 59.5 %of road accidents were reported in rural areas (2,60,379 cases) and and 40.5 % in urban areas (1,77,017 cases), while 29.9 % (1,30,943 cases out of 4,37,396 cases) were reported near residential areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-speeding-kills-most-in-indias-road-accident-881171.html
01-09-2020||National||Indian Navy to hold mega exercise with Russia in Bay of Bengal on September 4-5||The Indian and Russian navies will hold a mega military exercise in the Bay of Bengal on September 4 and 5 to further bolster their operational interoperability in dealing with emerging security challenges, official sources said on Tuesday. As part of the Indra Navy exercise, a plethora of maritime drills such as gun firing on the surface and aerial targets, tracking exercises and replenishment at sea approaches are planned, they said. The exercise is taking place at a time when India is engaged in a bitter border row with China in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Navy has significantly expanded its presence in the Indian Ocean Region, deploying a plethora of warships and submarines following the border row to send across a message to Beijing as the maritime space around the Malacca Strait is very critical for China's supply chain through sea routes. In July, the Indian Navy carried out a military exercise with a US Navy carrier strike group led by the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Nimitz off the coast of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The USS Nimitz is the world's largest warship. The Indra exercise was earlier planned in Vladivostok in Russia but was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Russian Navy ships Admiral Vinogradov, Admiral Tributs and Boris Butoma along with a fleet of helicopters will be part of the exercise, the sources said. The Indian Navy will deploy Ranvijay (destroyer), Sahyadri (frigate) and Kiltan (corvette) and Shakti (tanker) with integrated helicopters, they said. The sources said the exercise will be “non-contact and at sea only” passage exercise. "The exercise will once again showcase the level of friendship, trust and interoperability between Indian Navy and the Russian Navy," said a source. The Russian naval fleet is visiting the port of Hambantota in Sri Lanka from August 31 to September 3. India-Russia Indra exercises among the armies, navies and air forces of the two countries have been taking place since 2005. In the exercise with the US Navy in July, four frontline warships of the Indian Navy participated. The US carrier strike group was transiting through the Indian Ocean Region on its way from the South China Sea. The US Navy carrier strike group comprises USS Nimitz, Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser USS Princeton and Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyers USS Sterett and USS Ralph Johnson. The Indian Navy carried out similar exercises with the Japanese navy in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-to-hold-mega-exercise-with-russia-in-bay-of-bengal-on-september-4-5-881173.html
01-09-2020||National||SC pulls up Delhi and Maharashtra for failing to respond on migrant workers issue||The Supreme Court on Tuesday pulled up Delhi and Maharashtra governments for not responding to measures undertaken by them for implementation of statutes meant for welfare of migrant workers, saying it seemed they are not interested. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said Maharasthra and Delhi are the states where the maximum number of migrants have come and are working but they have not filed an affidavit in compliance of order passed on July 31, 2019. The court had then specifically directed the states to file affidavit with regard to operation and implementation of three enactments, Inter State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act 1979, Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act 1996 and Unorganized Workers' Social Security Act, 2008. "Although various states have filed their response but Delhi and Maharashtra have not filed their affidavits in compliance," the court said. The bench posted the matter for consideration after two weeks, giving more time to both the states. The court was hearing a Suo Motu matters on problems and miseries faced by migrant workers after the lockdown due to Covid-19. It had earlier passed a slew of directions for free travel and food for the migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-pulls-up-delhi-and-maharashtra-for-failing-to-respond-on-migrant-workers-issue-881195.html
01-09-2020||National||CRPF posts first woman commander Charu Sinha in Kashmir Valley||IPS officer Charu Sinha has become the first woman commander to head the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) formation in the Kashmir Valley, officials said on Tuesday. Sinha, a 1996-batch officer of the Telangana cadre, has been appointed as the Inspector General (IG) of CRPF's Srinagar sector that oversees the deployment of the paramilitary forces' battalions in Srinagar city of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Redefining gender roles & sensitising the force The officer was till now serving as the CRPF IG in Jammu. She earlier headed the CRPF formation in Bihar that includes the deployment of the force in anti-Naxal operations in that state. A few years ago, Sonali Mishra, IPS officer of the 1993-batch Madhya Pradesh cadre, had served as the IG of another paramilitary force, the Border Security Force, in Kashmir. An order issued by the CRPF headquarters on Monday also posted nine other Inspectors General including 1997-batch IPS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre Deepak Ratan to head the Kashmir operations formation of the CRPF in the valley. The Kashmir operations formation oversees the deployment of CRPF battalions in the Kashmir valley except for Srinagar. Ratan will replace IPS officer Rajesh Kumar who has been posted as the IG (Northern sector) in Delhi. The CRPF, country's largest paramilitary force with about 3.25 lakh personnel, has deployed at least 65 battalions for law and order duties and undertaking specialist counter-terrorist operations in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-posts-first-woman-commander-charu-sinha-in-kashmir-valley-881200.html
01-09-2020||National||Netaji Subhas University of Technology to get 2 new campuses: Manish Sisodia||The Netaji Subhas University of Technology (NSUT) will have two new campuses which will add over 400 seats in B.Tech and M.Tech courses, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday. The two new NSUT campuses have been announced by integrating two campuses -- Ch. Brahm Prakash Govt Engg College, Jaffarpur; and Ambedkar Institute of Advanced Communication, Technology, Research, Geeta Colony. "It is expected that after coming under the brand name of NSUT, these institutes will have all-round development in the fields of teaching and research. The growth rate of these institutes was not encouraging despite their existence for more than 12 years. This new development has created 360 additional seats in the BTech course and 72 in the MTech course. "It will also enable the colleges to progress in a more directed manner, considering NSUT's history, academic prowess & partnerships with the industry," Sisodia said. The West Campus at Jaffarpur will specialize in the area of core branches such as Civil, Information Technology, Mechanical Engineering, while the East Campus at Geeta Colony will enhance and cater to the needs in the area of Electronics and Communication Engineering and Computer Science Engineering. "The admission in NSUT is done through JEE (Mains) exam. Now after the integration, admission in these campuses will also be made through JEE exams and therefore, the quality of intake students will improve. "Regular faculty strength at both the Institutes is very disappointing. This problem is due to slow recruitment processes and unfortunate court cases against some recruitments. At present, the above two colleges are meeting their requirement of faculty by utilizing the existing contractual faculty or by engaging guest faculty, Lack of permanent faculty has taken a toll on the quality of technical education," a Delhi government official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/netaji-subhas-university-of-technology-to-get-2-new-campuses-manish-sisodia-881246.html
01-09-2020||National||Crops worth Rs 1,000 crore damaged in Assam flood: Minister||The Assam government on Tuesday informed the Assembly that crops valued at around Rs 1,000 crore were damaged during the flood this year, which has affected 2.8 lakh hectare of farmland across the state. Replying to a query by AGP MLA Pabindra Deka during Question Hour, Agriculture Minister Atul Bora said that a huge amount of crops of different varieties on around 2.8 lakh hectare of land were damaged due to the deluge since April. "The exact amount of loss will be known after the disaster management bodies complete the assessment of the damage. However, we guess the loss will be around Rs 1,000 crore," Bora said. To mitigate the crisis of farmers, three proposals worth Rs 139.64 crore, Rs 45.39 crore and Rs 38.43 crore have been submitted, he added. The government, however, has not taken any decision on waiving loans taken by farmers, Bora said while replying to a separate query by AIUDF MLA Sahab Uddin Ahmed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crops-worth-rs-1000-crore-damaged-in-assam-flood-minister-881256.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||World leaders mourn death of Pranab Mukherjee||Many world leaders on Monday condoled the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee, saying they have lost a true friend who made immense contributions to the strengthening of India's relations with their countries. The 84-year-old veteran politician died after he suffered a septic shock on Sunday. He died of a cardiac arrest on Monday evening following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina expressed sorrow over the demise of Mukherjee, describing him as a "true friend" and recalling his "outstanding and unforgettable" contributions to the country's 1971 Liberation War. "His demise has caused an irreparable loss to the political arena of the sub-continent," Hamid said, describing Mukherjee as a "real and sincere friend" of Bangladesh. He said Mukherjee played a crucial role in mobilising international support for Bangladesh's 1971 independence which "quickened our victory". "I am profoundly saddened by the demise of the former president of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee. My thoughts and prayers are with the family members in this hour of grief," Hasina said. "Pranab Mukherjee was a true friend of Bangladesh. He has always been highly revered and loved by the people of Bangladesh. His steadfast support and contribution in strengthening the relations between the two countries, especially during his tenure as the 13th President of India, will always be remembered with the deepest respect," she said in a statement. Bangladesh has announced one-day national mourning on September 2 as a tribute to Mukherjee. "The national flag will be flown half-mast on that day," said an official statement issued late this evening. Nepal President Bidya Devi Bhandari, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and chairman of the ruling Communist Party of Nepal Pushpakamal Dahal “Prachanda” have expresses their condolences on the demise of Mukherjee. Nepal has lost a good friend, President Bhandari tweeted. "I am deeply saddened by the news of the demise of President of India Pranab Mukherjee," Oli tweeted. He also expressed heartfelt condolences to the people of India and also to the bereaved family. "We remember his contributions in strengthening Nepal-India relations in different capacities of his public life," Oli said. Prachanda said that South Asia has lost an intellectual leader. "I am saddened to hear of the passing of the Fmr. Indian President, Bharatratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He was a statesman par excellence, a writer & a man loved by all. The passion with which he served his nation is unparalleled. My deepest condolences to his family & friends," Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa said in a tweet. Describing Mukherjee as a "true friend of Israel", Israeli President Reuven Rivlin expressed his condolences at the passing away of one of India's most respected politicians, saying he helped strengthen the ties between the two countries. "Israel stands with the people of India and the family of former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee in mourning his passing," Rivlin wrote in a tweet. "A statesman much respected at home and abroad and a true friend of Israel who strengthened the deep ties between our countries and peoples," he added. Mukherjee became the first Indian President to visit Israel in October 2015, setting up the stage for the first visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2017. Rivlin visited India in 2016 at Mukherjee's invitation and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in 2018, leading to the elevation of the bilateral ties to the level of strategic partnership. Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a message of condolences to President of India Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Modi following the death of Mukherjee. "Please accept deep condolences in connection with the demise of the former head of state Pranab Kumar Mukharjee... As a true friend of Russia, he made a significant personal contribution to strengthening the relations of the special and privileged strategic partnership between our countries," Putin said in a statement. "Very sad to learn of Pranab Mukherjee's passing. Through his long career in public service, he contributed much to the U.S.-India relationship, including signing the U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Agreement when he was the Minister of External Affairs. Our condolences to his family," US ambassador to India Ken Juster said in a tweet. "I convey my deepest condolences to the people and government of India, the family and supporters of former President & Indian statesman, Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away today. May he rest in peace," Afghan leader Abdullah Abdullah tweeted. "Sincere condolences to his family and the people of India following the passing of former Indian President Shri Pranab Mukherjee. Mr Mukherjee was a public servant of the highest caliber and his passing is a tremendous loss not only to India but the entire South Asian region," Maldives President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/world-leaders-mourn-death-of-pranab-mukherjee-880764.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||DH Radio | The Lead: Congress' leadership dilemma, a discussion with Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, get to know the leadership issue of the Congress, some history of the party, and listen to the view of Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on the latest development in India's grand old party.  Ahmed: Now, let's talk about India's oldest party, the Congress. Sagar, what's happening in this party currently? Sagar Kulkarni: The Congress is divided on the leadership issue right now. Rahul Gandhi had stepped down as the Congress's president last year after the defeat in the Lok Sabha elections and he had refused calls from Congress leaders to come back to the post, following which Sonia Gandhi was appointed as interim president of the Congress. So to say, Congress doesn't have a full-time president, who can dedicate time to the party. Sonia because of her ill health has been in and out of hospitals and of course because of her age, she cannot be sitting there and meeting people and taking day-to-day decisions, so that was one reason that a group of leaders felt that the party is drifting somewhat and they choose to write to the Congress president, highlighting these issue and asking her to address them. However, this letter was leaked to a newspaper, following which hell broke loose... Sagar: The letter written by the 23 leaders raises issues of weak organisation and calls for organizational polls, so what are your views on it? Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury:  It has nothing to do with the organization. Some of our leaders have put forth questions and have drawn the attention; that they can do and have the right. But the way they put forth it was certainly undesirable. They are all senior leaders of our party and it was opposed by many of us. And it's finished... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-radio-the-lead-congress-leadership-dilemma-a-discussion-with-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-880774.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||President, VP, Prime Minister Modi pay last respects to Pranab Mukherjee||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chiefs of three defence services were among the dignitaries who paid their last respects to former president Pranab Mukherjee on Tuesday morning. Mukherjee's mortal remains were brought to his residence, 10, Rajaji Marg, earlier today from the army hospital where he breathed his last on Monday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria and Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh were among others who paid homage to him. Cremation is scheduled in the afternoon. The union government had on Monday announced a seven-day state mourning as a mark of respect for the former president. Mukherjee, one of India's most respected politicians, died following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. He was 84. A seven-time parliamentarian and recipient of Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honour, he was one of the most admired and respected political figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/president-vp-prime-minister-modi-pay-last-respects-to-pranab-mukherjee-880866.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||Pranab Mukherjee's death huge loss for Sino-India friendship: China||China on Tuesday paid rich tributes to former president Pranab Mukherjee, saying he was a veteran statesman and his death is a huge loss for India-China friendship. The 84-year-old veteran politician died after he suffered a septic shock on Sunday. He died of a cardiac arrest on Monday evening in a hospital in New Delhi following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. "Former President Mukherjee was a veteran statesman of India. In his 50 years in politics, he made positive contributions to China-India relations," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing here, replying to a question. Referring to Chinese President Xi Jinping's visit to India in 2014 and his meeting with Mukherjee, she said after the meeting the two countries issued a joint statement on building closer development partnership. "It is a heavy loss for China, India friendship and to India. We express deep condolences over his passing and extend sincere sympathies to the Indian government and his family,"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pranab-mukherjees-death-huge-loss-for-sino-india-friendship-china-880966.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||Wearing masks people queue up maintaining 6-ft distance to pay tribute to Pranab Mukherjee||Wearing masks and maintaining a six-feet distance, people and political workers cutting across party lines stood in long queues to pay their last respect to former President Pranab Mukherjee at his residence before his last rites on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, the mortal remains of India's 13th president, who died on Monday after a three-week battle with multiple ailments, were taken to his residence from the Army's Research and Referral hospital in a flower-bedecked white vehicle. As the nation observed seven-day mourning in honour of its "Bharat Ratna", a long-time Congress politician and one of India's most respected people in public life, a host of leaders and others visited his 10 Rajaji Marg residence. Congress party workers said that their leaders offered floral tribute at a photo of Mukherjee, and they were able to see his mortal remains from a distance, kept in another room. All those who arrived to catch a glimpse of Mukherjee for one last time and to pay their tribute wore masks, while some also had face shields on. The security staff managing the crowd wore face shields. In view of Covid-19 related protocols, arrangements were made to carry the mortals of the former president in a hearse van instead of a normal gun carriage. Staff members wearing PPE kits put his body in the herse van for the final journey to the Lodi Road crematorium. Mukherjee had tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission to the hospital and was being treated for a lung infection. He suffered a septic shock on Sunday and died of a cardiac arrest at 4.30 pm on Monday. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chiefs of the three defence services and politicians cutting across party lines paid their last respects to the former president at his residence. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief General M M Naravane, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria and Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh visited the late president's home to condole his death. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, BJP chief J P Nadda, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and CPI's D Raja and several Union ministers such as Nirmala Sitharaman and Harsh Vardhan were among those who paid homage to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wearing-masks-people-queue-up-maintaining-6-ft-distance-to-pay-tribute-to-pranab-mukherjee-880995.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||Rajiv Kumar takes over as Election Commissioner||Former bureaucrat Rajiv Kumar on Tuesday assumed charge as the new Election Commissioner. He takes the place vacated by Ashok Lavasa who joins the Asian Development Bank as vice president. Kumar, a retired 1984-batch IAS officer of the Jharkhand cadre, will have a five-year tenure and retire in 2025. He will preside over the next Lok Sabha polls in 2024. According to rules, an election commissioner has six years on the post or till he turns 65, whichever is earlier. Kumar was born in February, 1960. During the span of more than 36 years of service, Kumar has worked in various ministries at the Centre and his state cadre of earlier Bihar and then Jharkhand. He retired as the union finance secretary in February this year and was appointed chairperson of the Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB) on April 29. Despite disruptions due to Covid-19, more than 40 selections were made in just a span of two months through virtual and physical interview process during his short stay at the public sector headhunter. Kumar has also been Establishment Officer, Department of Personnel and Training, and prior to that joint secretary, Department of Expenditure with earlier assignments in Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Ministry of Environment and Forests, as also Education department in the state cadre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajiv-kumar-takes-over-as-election-commissioner-881021.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||'Ruining' of economy began with demonetisation: Rahul Gandhi||The Congress on Tuesday attacked the Centre over the GDP slump, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi alleging that the "ruining" of the economy began with demonetisation and the government thereafter introduced one "erroneous" policy after another. The country's economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 per cent as the coronavirus-related lockdown weighed on the already declining consumer demand and investment. "GDP -23.9. The ruining of the country's economy began with demonetisation. Since then, the government introduced one erroneous policy after another," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also alleged that the government was responsible for the slump in the economy. Rahul Gandhi had spoken of an "economic tsunami" six months ago, while the government announced a package just for "show" and look at the condition now, Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The BJP government has caused the slump in the economy, she alleged. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a tweet in Hindi, "Modi ji, at least now accept that what you hailed as masterstrokes were actually 'disaster strokes' -- demonetisation, faulty GST and lockdown." The GDP contraction is the sharpest contraction since quarterly figures started being published in 1996 and worse than what was expected by most analysts. Chief Economic Adviser K V Subramanian, however, has said the economy is "experiencing a V-shaped recovery" after the lockdown eased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ruining-of-economy-began-with-demonetisation-rahul-gandhi-881050.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||No party can form government in Bihar alone, alliance a reality: Sushil Modi||Confident about the ruling NDA returning to power in Bihar, Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi said on Tuesday that no political party is in a position to form a government alone in the state where 'alliance politics' has become a reality with the BJP, JDU and RJD being three major triangular forces. In an interview to PTI-Bhasha, the senior BJP leader claimed the opposition grand alliance, led by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and known as 'Mahagathbandhan', was nowhere in fight against the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and also lacked credibility. He said the NDA, under the state leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, would contest the elections unitedly and form the government against. "BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party), JDU (Janata Dal-United) and RJD are major triangular forces of Bihar politics and alliance is the state's reality. There should not be any misconception about it. Today, no political party is in a situation to form a government of its own," Modi said. The term of the Bihar legislative assembly is scheduled to end on November 29 and the polls are likely to be held sometime in October-November. Referring to the 2015 assembly polls that the BJP had contested alone and the 2014 Lok Sabha elections fought alone by JDU, Modi said, "The BJP has no misunderstanding about its strength. We are strong and we have an organisation, but we will succeed only when we fight together. The BJP's central leadership is also not under any illusion about it." He said the alliance between the BJP and JDU has been a smooth affair since 1996 and it has provided good governance in the state with robust coordination among alliance partners. "We will contest the next assembly polls unitedly and succeed," Modi said. Asked about the alleged discontent among the NDA partners with the JDU and the LJP (Lok Janshakti Party) targeting each other over a host of issues including holding elections during the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi called it "momentary" and hoped the issue will be resolved soon. "The leadership of all allies are very matured and strong-minded. Everything will be resolved. There will be no split in the BJP-JDU-LJP alliance. We will fight unitedly," he said. Modi, a long-term associate of Chief Minister Kumar, rejected the opposition parties' charge that there was resentment among people over the state government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and floods and also its alleged apathy towards migrant labourers. "The state government turned every crisis into an opportunity. There is no resentment as is being claimed. Today, neither the migrant labourers nor floods are an issue," he said. Modi said there might have been some issues in initial days as no one was fully aware of the then-emerging situation after imposition of lockdown in view of the coronavirus crisis, but the situation was under control after 10 days. Asked whether the BJP would be in a position to lead the alliance in the state in the near future, the senior BJP leader did not give a direct reply. "The place that the BJP has attained in the politics of Bihar today is not below par," he said. Modi said the party has already decided on who will be the chief minister. "Nitish is already there and there are no ifs and buts about his role. We will contest the elections under his leadership. The BJP will ensure the victory of its candidates as well as of the allies," he said. He rejected any notion about the opposition grand alliance being able to put any major challenge against the NDA and said, "They have neither any leadership nor any credibility. There is no credibility of their leadership also. There is not even transparency." "Their entire leadership is immersed into corruption." he alleged while asserting that the opposition alliance "stands nowhere against us". Modi said the NDA has contested five elections against the grand alliance and defeated them every time. "As far as the difference of vote share between the two alliances is concerned, it has been upto 13 per cent (in-state polls). The difference reached 23 per cent in the last Lok Sabha polls. It's a huge difference," he said. Before the 2014 parliamentary polls, the JDU had left the NDA and contested the 2015 Bihar assembly elections in alliance with RJD. The then the grand alliance of RJD, JDU and Congress had formed the government in the state also, but the political scenario changed in 2017 with the JDU returning to the NDA. Modi slammed opposition parties for "ruining" Bihar under their 55 years of rule and said he was challenging them to contest the next elections on issues of 'bijli, sadak and pani' (electricity, roads and water). "Had they performed on these basic issues, we would have taken the state to greater heights," he said while claiming 80 per cent of the promises made by the BJP during the 2015 assembly polls have been already fulfilled. "Be it electricity, roads or water or even agriculture, we have done unprecedented work," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-party-can-form-government-in-bihar-alone-alliance-a-reality-sushil-modi-881071.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||Probe Facebook-BJP links, punish guilty: Rahul Gandhi||Congress on Tuesday stepped up attack on Facebook-WhatsApp with Rahul Gandhi accusing the social networking firm of launching a brazen attack on India’s democracy and social harmony and demanding an immediate investigation into the matter. “International media have fully exposed Facebook's & WhatsApp's brazen assault on India's democracy & social harmony. No one, let alone a foreign company, can be allowed to interfere in our nation's affairs,” the former Congress President said. Rahul demanded an immediate investigation in the two companies and called for punishment if found guilty. Congress accused Facebook of helping BJP achieve its aim of ‘divide and rule’ by manipulating public opinion. “The blasphemous nexus between the BJP and Facebook is for all to witness and must be investigated without delay,” the Congress said in a statement here. The main opposition party said articles in international media have revealed “that Facebook and WhatsApp have been used to ‘fire Mr Modi and BJP’s social media campaign’, (to) spread hate and disharmony within India”. BJP has hit back at the Congress, by levelling counter-allegations that Facebook officials sympathetic to the opposition party of leaking BJP’s letters to the social networking firm. Facebook India officials are scheduled to appear before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, chaired by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, on Wednesday, to respond to news reports in a section of the international media. After the reports alleging nexus between Facebook and BJP appeared last month, Facebook issued a statement saying that it was “open, transparent and non-partisan platform”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/probe-facebook-bjp-links-punish-guilty-rahul-gandhi-881094.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi hits out at govt for ignoring demand for NEET, JEE postponement, delay in SSC results||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that the Modi government has ignored the "genuine concerns" of JEE and NEET aspirants, who have been demanding postponement of the entrance exam, due to its "arrogance" and is jeopardising India's future. Gandhi's attack came on a day the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Mains for admission to engineering colleges began amid stringent precautions and social distancing measures due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Congress party and Gandhi have been supporting the demand by a section for postponement of JEE and NEET exams in the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases. The JEE exam which has been postponed twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic will be held between September 1 and 6. "Modi Government is jeopardising India's future. Arrogance is making them ignore the genuine concerns of the JEE-NEET aspirants as well as the demands of those who took SSC and other exams. Give jobs, not empty slogans," Gandhi said on Twitter. He also used the hashtag "SpeakUpForSSCRailwayStudents" while raising the cause of students who have taken the Staff Selection Commission exams but their results are yet to be out. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also raised the issue. "The SSC and Railways have withheld the results of many examinations for years. Someone's result is stuck, while someone else's exams are delayed," she said. "Till when will the government test the patience of youth, for how long? The government should listen to the youth. The youth need jobs, not speeches," she said in a tweet in Hindi. She called for the declaration of Combined Graduate Level Examination (CGLE) results held by the Staff Selection Commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-at-govt-for-ignoring-demand-for-neet-jee-postponement-delay-in-ssc-results-881101.html
01-09-2020||National Politics||Parliamentary panel to discuss Facebook issue on September 2||Amid a political slugfest over the Facebook issue, a parliamentary panel will meet on Wednesday to discuss alleged misuse of the social media platform. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, headed by senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, has summoned representatives of Facebook and will hear their views "on the subject of safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space," according to the agenda of the meeting. It has also called representatives of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on the same issue. The meeting of the panel was adjourned on Tuesday in view of the national mourning due to the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee. Its agenda for the day was suspension of internet services in several parts of the country. However, panel members were intended to discuss the suspension of internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, a source said. Tharoor's announcement that the panel would like to hear from Facebook about the report published in the Wall Street Journal claiming that the social media platform ignored applying its hate-speech rules to politicians of the BJP in India, evoked strong reaction from BJP members of the panel. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey alleged that the Congress leader has been using the platform to further his and his party's political agenda and even demanded his removal as chairman of the panel. A fresh political slugfest has started on the matter with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday claiming that international media has "exposed" Facebook and WhatsApp's "brazen assault" on India's democracy and social harmony. "No one, let alone a foreign company, can be allowed to interfere in our nation's affairs. They must be investigated immediately and when found guilty, punished," Gandhi tweeted. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday wrote to Mark Zuckerberg accusing the social media platform's employees of supporting people from a political predisposition that lost successive elections, and "abusing" Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers. In a three-page letter to Facebook Chief Executive Zuckerberg, Prasad alleged "bias and inaction" by individuals in Facebook India team on complaints by people supportive of right-of-centre ideology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliamentary-panel-to-discuss-facebook-issue-on-september-2-881214.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Haryana reports highest single-day spike of 1,450 Covid-19 cases||Haryana on Monday reported its highest single-day spike of 1,450 coronavirus cases, which took the infection tally in the state to 64,732, as per a medical bulletin issued on Monday. The total fatalities increased to 689 with seven more deaths, it said. Earlier, Haryana had reported its highest single-day spike of 1,397 coronavirus cases on August 26. Former Haryana minister Krishan Lal Panwar was among the fresh cases. While three fatalities were reported from Sirsa, two deaths were reported from Kaithal. One person each died in Panchkula and Faridabad districts, according to the state health department's daily bulletin. It said that among the districts which reported fresh cases were Panipat (154), Karnal (135), Ambala (114), Gurugram (113), Sonipat (109), Faridabad (103), Hisar (86), Panchkula (78) and Rohtak (73). The bulletin said the number of active cases in the state stands at 11,371 while 52,672 people have been discharged after recovery. It said as of Monday, the state has a recovery rate of 81.37 per cent, 1.06 per cent is the fatality rate while the rate at which infections are doubling is 34 days. Meanwhile, in a tweet on Monday, former Minister Panwar said that his Covid-19 test results had come positive. Panwar, a BJP leader, said he had been extensively touring the Baroda assembly constituency during the last one month. The assembly seat in Sonipat district had fallen vacant in April after the demise of Congress legislator Shri Krishan Hooda. Panwar appealed to party workers and others who came in contact with him during the past few days to get themselves tested. Although the Election Commission is yet to announce a poll date and no party has so far named its candidate, leaders of various parties including the ruling BJP-JJP combine and the Congress have been touring the constituency to woo the voters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-1450-covid-19-cases-880716.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army shells forward areas along LoC in J&K's Rajouri||The Pakistan army on Monday violated ceasefire by resorting to heavy firing and mortar shelling in forward areas along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, officials said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly, they said. "At 2115 hours today, Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Nowshera sector", defence spokesman said. Pakistani rangers also resorted to firing along the International Border (IB) in Jammu frontier, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jks-rajouri-880760.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath asks officials to conduct more Covid-19 tests||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday emphasised on more aggressive testing for Covid-19 till a vaccine is developed. If door-to-door surveys and testing are strengthened, there will be more success against the disease, he said while inaugurating 13 bio-safety level 2 (BSL-2) laboratories in the state through video conferencing. Ten of these labs have been established in state-run medical colleges in Jalaun, Azamgarh, Ambedkarnagar, Saharanpur, Basti, Bahraich, Firozabad, Banda and Badaun districts. The other three labs are set up in private medical colleges in Hapur, Barabanki and Moradabad. Each lab is efficient to conduct 5,000 tests per day. At present, the state is conducting 24,000 tests on every 10 lakh people, the statement said. "The BSL-2 laboratories for RT-PCR testing will be established in every district which will be helpful in the fight against Covid-19 and other vector-borne diseases," it said. Adityanath said deaths due to vector-borne diseases in 2020 have registered a decline by 95 per cent compared to 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-asks-officials-to-conduct-more-covid-19-tests-880766.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Antibodies not universally present in those who recovered from Covid-19: Sero survey||“And only 111 of 208, i.e 53.37 percent were found to be seropositive and 97 study subjects who were tested positive by RT-PCR were seronegative. The caveat of this finding corroborates with the current scientific knowledge that the immune response generated by SARS CoV2 is probably transient in nature and needs to be further investigated through prospective cohort studies,” read the report.  The NCDC stated that the immune response found in Delhi’s population could also be short-lived due to it’s large floating population that navigates between Delhi, Gurugram, and Ghaziabad often.  It also urged other major NCR towns to carry out sero-surveys.  The rate of sero-positivity was 22.83 per cent among the 21,387 people who had been tested in July.  Round 2 of the sero-survey in Delhi was held in August and was conducted by Maulana Azad Medical College. It covered 15,000 people, out of which 29 per cent reported antibodies.  The Delhi government used these findings to suggest that 60 lakh people, from Delhi’s total population of two crores, had developed immunity to the virus.  The NCDC cautions against correlating sero prevelance and natural immunity acquired after being infected by SARS-CoV-2. “In view of meagre scientific evidence available for immune response generated by this novel virus.”  A higher level of sero-postivity was reported in July, amongst BPL category subjects, which was 24.4 per cent as compared to non-BPL category subjects who had sero-positivity of 20.45 percent.  It also noted a correlation between a higher level of sero-postivity and overcrowded spaces. People who resided in overcrowded areas, on average showed sero-positivity of 23.5 per cent as compared to the 19.8 per cent sero-positivity shown by those living in non-overcrowded areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/antibodies-not-universally-present-in-those-who-recovered-from-covid-19-sero-survey-880836.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||J&K reports 17,399 Covid-19 positive cases, 326 deaths in August||While the number of Covid-19 positive cases in J&K was 2,035 on July 31, the number jumped to 37,698 on August 31. The number of deaths also increased from 377 to 703 in the one month period. As per the official data, in August out of 326 deaths 286 were reported from the Kashmir division and 40 from the Jammu division. Similarly, out of 17,339 positive cases, 13,002 were reported from Kashmir while 4,337 from Jammu division. In the first 115 days of the pandemic (from March 8-June 30), 101 Covid-19 related deaths were reported in Jammu and Kashmir including 89 from Kashmir division and 12 from Jammu division. However, from July 1 to July 31, the deaths saw a huge spike with 276 persons becoming victims of the deadly virus. Srinagar district has the highest number of positive coronavirus cases and deaths. The district has reported 9,273 Covid-19 cases and 221 deaths so far. The Kishtwar district in Jammu region has 250 cases and one death, the lowest in the union territory. A senior doctor from J&K Health Department blames the complacency among the Srinagar residents as the main reason for the rise in Covid-19 positive cases in the city. The first case of the Covid-19 in India was reported on January 30, 2020, originating from China.  Slowly, the pandemic spread to various states and union territories including Jammu and Kashmir. Two suspected cases with high virus load were detected and isolated on March 4 in Government Medical College, Jammu. One of them became the first confirmed positive Covid-19 case on March 9. Both individuals had a travel history to Iran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-reports-17399-covid-19-positive-cases-326-deaths-in-august-880844.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Allahabad HC quashes NSA against Dr Kafeel Khan, orders his immediate release||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday quashed the NSA slapped on Kafeel Khan, a Gorakhpur-based doctor, for allegedly delivering an "inflammatory speech" regarding the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), and ordered his immediate release. Khan had been lodged in Mathura jail after being arrested from Mumbai in January this year. Though he was granted bail by the lower court a month later, the state government had slapped the NSA and further extended it for three months a few days back. A division bench comprising Chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Soumitra Dayal Singh, in its judgement, quoted the entire speech of Khan at the AMU in December last year, said that 'a complete reading of the speech prima facie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence'. "The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens....the speech also deprecates any kind of violence...it appears that the District Magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent," the court said. The court also found it strange that Khan had addressed the gathering on December 12, 2019 but at that time the district administration had not found his speech objectionable enough to warrant NSA. "It is only after passing of the bail order by the lower court, the police officials and the district magistrate, Aligarh initiated the process for detaining Khan under the NSA," it said. The court also came down heavily on the authorities for not 'giving effective opportunity to the detenue to represent at earliest'. "It is conveyed to us that no transcript of the speech was supplied to the detenue...such non-supply of material violates a precious fundamental right of a detenue enshrined under Article 22 of the Constitution...on this count also the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan deserves to be set aside," the court said. The opposition slammed the state government for what they alleged "illegal detention" of Khan. "I hope the UP government will immediately release Khan," said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Khan was also an accused in the case of the death of over 60 children owing to lack of oxygen at Gorakhpur Medical College three years back. He was arrested in that matter also and spent nine months in jail before being enlarged on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-quashes-nsa-against-dr-kafeel-khan-orders-his-immediate-release-880853.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Section of Ola, Uber drivers go on strike in Delhi-NCR||A section of drivers working with cab aggregators Ola and Uber went on strike on Tuesday affecting services in some parts of Delhi-NCR as they demanded a fare hike and moratorium on loan repayment. The striking cab drivers will assemble at Mandi House later in the day to press for their demands, including extension of moratorium on EMI payment till December, an increase in fares and withdrawal of speeding violation penalties, said Kamaljeet Singh Gill, the president of the Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi. "The strike has led to unavailability of cabs in many parts of the Delhi-NCR including Greater Noida, Dwarka and Uttam Nagar," Gill said. The strike may pose challenges for commuters, including students who are to appear in the IIT-JEE Mains exam beginning on Tuesday. Taxi drivers of various associations in Delhi-NCR, who work with Ola and Uber, decided to go on strike from Tuesday as their appeals for help did not lead to any action by the government, Gill said. "Due to the acute financial crisis caused by the coronavirus-induced lockdown, drivers are unable to pay their EMIs. The moratorium of loan repayment ended and the banks are already putting pressure on us. Drivers are scared that banks will tow away their vehicles for not paying EMIs," he said. The drivers have also demanded that fares should be hiked and their commission increased by the cab aggregators. Gill said the fare should be fixed by the government instead of the cab aggregators. No reaction was immediately available from Ola or Uber about the impact of the strike on their services. Amid the pandemic, the strike may cause hardships to commuters as Metro train services are yet to resume and public transport buses are running at reduced capacity in view of social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/section-of-ola-uber-drivers-go-on-strike-in-delhi-ncr-880877.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||McLeodganj's iconic Nowrojee & Sons general store to be shut after 160 years||The store owned by the Parsi family is considered one of the oldest shops in Himachal Pradesh, open since the British era. The store-cum-residence has been home to six generations of the family. The legacy ends as the property has been sold and the family is in the midst of winding up the business. Nauzer Nowrojee was considered one of the most popular owners in the family and was also a close friend of the Dalai Lama for 60 years before Nowrojee passed away in 2002.  Nauzer's younger son Parvez Nowrojee was running the store since 2010 with the help of a caretaker. Parvez says selling the store was a tough decision. "Sometimes you have to let go things,"(sic) he said.  Nauzer's elder son Kurush is a tea business owner in West Bengal. Nowrojees manufactured various products such as aerated drinks, mineral water, groceries, bakery products. They also sold wine, tobacco, and even arms and ammunition.  The shop's closure has disappointed local residents. “This store is witness to many a historic event and how the towns of Dharamshala and McLeodganj evolved,” says Prem Sagar, 58, who runs a book shop and tours and travel business opposite the store. “It’s is a sad moment for people like me who were emotionally attached to the store. But change is the law of nature and this is how history is created,” he said. Another resident, Kul Prakash Sharma, 50, said: “We will miss this store that is synonymous with McLeodganj. I have a collection of labels and stickers from this shop. They will now become souvenirs. I’ve heard the wooden structure will be gone soon.” These days, the store sells newspapers and magazines. The wooden structure of the store houses antiques such as Petromax 835 Special, a Germany-made hanging wick lamp. Advertising posters from the British era, Blue Bird toffees, and old wine and beer bottles are also available. Cases of important cigarette brands Passing Show, Craven A, and Number Ten Virginia can be seen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mcleodganjs-iconic-nowrojee-sons-general-store-to-be-shut-after-160-years-880886.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi University's receives highest number of applications in 3 years||The registration process for admission to the Delhi University has ended with over 5.63 lakh aspirants applying online for undergraduate courses, the highest in the last three years. The registration process ended on Monday with the maximum applications being from CBSE students and Delhi residents. A total of 1,83,674 students have applied for postgraduate courses and 34,306 for M.Phil and PhD, according to data available on the varsity's portal. The varsity has received a maximum of 2,85,128 applications from CBSE Board students, followed by 12,272 from the Board of School Education Haryana and 11,521 from the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations. The maximum number of applicants are from Delhi (1,42,526), followed by Uttar Pradesh (66,657) and Haryana (50,701), according to data shared by the varsity. It said 5,63,351 students have registered for undergraduate courses, of which 3,53,171 have made payments, according to data. Of the total applicants, 2,22,399 are from the unreserved category, 69,682 from other backward classes, 42,293 from scheduled castes, 8,624 from scheduled tribes and 10,173 from the economically weaker section (EWS), it said. In the unreserved category, 1,16,482 female candidates have applied for undergraduate courses, as against 1,05,913 male candidates and four from the other category. The Delhi University said 1,46,996 students have made payments for postgraduate courses. Out of the total number of registrations for these courses, 76,536 aspirants are from the unreserved category, 35,115 from other backward classes, 22,020 from scheduled castes, 5,710 from scheduled tribes and 7,615 from EWS, it said. The number of students who have made payments for M.Phil and PhD programmes is 21,699. Of them, 9,130 aspirants are from the unreserved category, 5,523 from other backward classes, 3,512 from scheduled castes, 1,188 from scheduled tribes and 2,346 from EWS, it said. According to official data shared by the varsity, under the sports quota, the maximum applications have been received for football (1,627), followed by athletics (1,621) and basketball (1,420). The admissions under the sports quota will be held on the basis of certificates this year and there will be no trials owing to the pandemic situation. The university this year decided to not hold extra-curricular activities (ECA) admissions, barring those having NCC and NSS certificates, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. But it later said admissions under 12 categories, including music, dance, divinity and yoga, will be held based on certificates. Under the ECA category, the maximum applications were received for NCC (3,876), followed by NSS (1,796) and debate (1,282). Under the PwD (persons with disabilities) category, the maximum applications were those suffering from locomotor disability (496), blindness (452) and low vision (281). The registration for admission to all courses through entrance closed on July 31. However, the registration for admission through merit was open until August 31. Earlier, the last date for registration was July 4 but it was later extended to July 18 and subsequently to July 31 for both merit-based and entrance-based courses. The cut-offs are likely to be announced by mid-September, though there has been no official notification on it. The registration process was delayed owing to the pandemic. Last year, the varsity had received 2,58,388 applications and the figure was 2,78,544 in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-universitys-receives-highest-number-of-applications-in-3-years-880925.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Union Cabinet hails Pranab Mukherjee as tall statesman||The Union Cabinet on Tuesday condoled the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee, hailing him as a distinguished leader with unparalleled experience and a tall statesman. At a meeting here chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Union Cabinet also observed a two-minute silence in the memory of Mukherjee, who breathed his last on Monday. “In his passing away, the country has lost a distinguished leader and an outstanding parliamentarian. Pranab Mukherjee, the 13th President of India, was a man of unparalleled experience in governance who served as Union Foreign, Defence, Commerce and Finance Minister,” read a resolution adopted by the Union Cabinet at a special meeting here. Mukherjee, it said, left his imprint on the national life and in his death the country has lost a distinguished national leader, accomplished Parliamentarian and a tall statesman. “The Cabinet records its deep appreciation of the services of Pranab Mukherjee to the nation and extends its heartfelt condolences to the members of his bereaved family on behalf of the government and the entire nation,” the resolution read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-cabinet-hails-pranab-mukherjee-as-tall-statesman-880945.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: CAF jawan found dead, police suspect Naxal hand||A Chhattisgarh Armed Force head constable, who left from his camp in the state's Naxal-hit Dantewada district on August 28 allegedly without informing anyone, was found dead on Tuesday, a police official said. Police suspect that the head constable, Kaneshwar Netam (32), might have entered Naxals' den in the forest and was killed by them. This is the second such incident in two days in which state police officials suspect the role of Maoists. Netam's body, bearing head injuries, was found on Tuesday morning near a rivulet on a forest route between Bodli and Kademeta villages, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava told PTI. The head constable, belonging to 22nd battalion of the Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF), was transferred to the Bodli camp of his unit from his native district Kanker last month, he said. Netam joined the duty in Bodli on August 25. He left the camp on the evening of August 28 allegedly without informing anyone and did not return, the official said. A search operation was launched by police the next day during which it came to light that he had food at the house of a villager in nearby Ghotiya village and on Sunday, some villagers dropped him near Malewahi camp of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), he said. "However, he did not go inside the camp and ran away from there," the official said. "Prima facie, it seems local militia cadres of Maoists caught hold of him and killed him. It looks like Netam was hit with a blunt object on his head resulting in his death," he said, adding that the exact cause of the death will be known after the autopsy. No Maoist pamphlet or note was recovered from the area in this connection and the police are investigating all possible angles, he said. As per preliminary information, in the past also, Netam allegedly left his camp without informing anyone and remained absent from his duty place for two to three days during his postings in Geedam (Dantewada) and Jagdalpur (Bastar), Pallava said. On Monday, the body of a 59-year-old assistant sub- inspector, who went missing while travelling to his native village in Bijapur district, was found. Police suspect he was also killed by Maoists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-caf-jawan-found-dead-police-suspect-naxal-hand-880975.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath directs officials to speed up development projects||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to speed up development projects and fix Sunday as the day for weekly closure of all markets. At a routine meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, the chief minister directing divisional commissioners to review developmental projects of over Rs 50 crore. "Development projects in the state should be given pace. Agriculture production commissioner, infrastructure and Industrial development commissioner, Additional Chief Secretary and Principal Secretaries should inspect offices," Adityanath said. "All markets should open from 9 am to 9 pm and weekly closure of markets should be fixed on Sundays". The chief minister directed officials to conduct "microanalysis" of Covid-19 situation in Lucknow and Kanpur districts, make "effective plan" and implement it there. Adityanath reiterated that testing facilities should be increased in the state and there should be 1.5 lakh tests daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-directs-officials-to-speed-up-development-projects-880986.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||2 militant hideouts busted along LoC in J&K's Baramulla, arms recovered||Two militant hideouts were busted along the Line of Control (LoC) in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir and a huge cache of arms and ammunition recovered after Army launched a search operation, a Defence spokesperson said on Tuesday. It seems, the modus operandi was to drop arms and ammunition in caches near the LoC so that the overground workers or militants pick the same for carrying out their activities in the hinterland, the spokesperson said. It shows the desperate attempts by Pakistan-based militant groups to infiltrate weapons into Jammu and Kashmir for terror activities with the active connivance of Pakistan Army, he added. Alert troops detected movement of suspicious people along the LoC in Rampur sector of Baramulla district, in north Kashmir on Sunday, defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said. He said the movement was from a village close to the LoC and the suspects crossed into Indian territory. “Due to terrain of thick foliage and weather condition, an alert of likely infiltration attempt was sounded. The Surveillance Grid was beefed up all across the area and along the likely infiltration routes. Ambushes were sited to thwart any attempt of infiltration and surveillance continued throughout the night,” he said. Col Kalia said the next morning, a search of the area was carried out and after an extensive search of seven hours, a huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from well-concealed locations in two hideouts in Rampur Sector. “The cache of arms recovered comprises five AK series rifles (along with six magazines and two sealed boxes with 1,254 rounds of AK ammunition), six pistols (with nine magazines and six rounds), twenty-one grenades, two UBGL grenades and two Kenwood radio-sets with one antenna,” he said. The defence spokesman said the area has villages ahead of the anti-infiltration fence and the suspected modus operandi is to drop war-like stores in caches near the LoC, wherefrom the overground workers or militants would pick the same for further transportation into the hinterland for terror activities. He said similar attempts were made on July 22, when inputs were received regarding likely weapon drop along the LoC ahead of the anti-infiltration fence. “During the search operation in the same sector, one AKS-74U with magazines, five pistols (one with Chinese markings) and magazines, 24 grenades & other warlike stores were recovered,” Col Kalia said. The spokesperson said the modus operandi shows desperate attempts by Pakistan-based militant groups to infiltrate weapons into J-K for terror activities, with the active connivance of Pakistan Army. Robust surveillance and Line of Control domination activities will continue to deny all such misadventures, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-militant-hideouts-busted-along-loc-in-jks-baramulla-arms-recovered-881004.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||MP minister Vishvas Sarang demands dope test for film stars||A Madhya Pradesh minister has written to the Centre demanding that film actors be subject to dope tests like is the case with sportspersons. MP Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang wrote to Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar and expressed concern over news reports of "drug parties" involving film stars, adding such reports were also coming up in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. "Like sportspersons, a rule should be enacted for the dope test of film stars. Any kind of drug parties should be banned. The National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) should conduct dope tests on film stars and people associated with the movie industry from time to time," the minister said in his letter to Javadekar. Those found guilty should be given two year-jail terms as well as a life ban on working in the film industry, Sarang said. Sarang said the youth consider film stars as icons and tend to follow their lifestyle and "increasing prevalence of drugs among film stars" was having a "bad impact on the youth" who were getting "attracted to drugs by being influenced by them (film stars)". Sarang said dope tests started for sportspersons to curb the menace and there is also provision for a two-year jail sentence as well as life bans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-minister-vishvas-sarang-demands-dope-test-for-film-stars-881018.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: HC grants bail to Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita||The Delhi High Court Tuesday granted bail to Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita in a northeast Delhi violence case, saying the police failed to show she instigated women of a particular community or gave hate speech as she was seen in a peaceful agitation which is her fundamental right. The agitation, held against the citizenship law CAA, had been going on for long with print and electronic media present throughout, in addition to the cameras of the police department, but there is no evidence which establishes that the alleged offence took place on Kalita's action, the high court said. The evidence produced constituted statements recorded much belatedly, under section 164 CrPC, though the witnesses allegedly remain present at the spot throughout, the court observed. “Charge sheet has already been filed against the petitioner on June 2. Moreover, I have gone through the inner case diary produced in a sealed cover along with pen drive and found that though her presence is seen in peaceful agitation, which is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution of India, however, failed to produce any material that she in her speech instigated women of a particular community or gave hatred speech due to which precious life of a young man has been sacrificed and property damaged,” Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said in the 21-page judgement. The court granted bail to Kalita on furnishing of a personal bond of Rs 20,000 and a surety of the like amount. It also directed that she will not directly or indirectly influence any witness or tamper with the evidence and not leave the country without the permission of the trial court. Kalita, however, will not be released from jail as she has managed to secure bail in only three of the four cases registered against her. She is yet to secure bail in a case under UAPA. Kalita and another member of the group Natasha Narwal were arrested in the case in May by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder. They have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law - Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case related to the communal violence, for allegedly being part of a "premeditated conspiracy" in the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. In all, four cases have been registered against her, including in relation to the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year and violence in old Delhi''s Daryaganj area during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December last year. The police had earlier told the high court that they do not have the videos of the time when Kalita was allegedly making instigating speeches during the riots incident. It had said that they have the videos of her allegedly instigating people before the riot incidents that took place on February 24 and 25 and also of February 22 and 23 when a large gathering was sitting and protesting outside Jafrabad metro station against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The high court, in its verdict, said Kalita satisfied the triple test which has been upheld by the Supreme Court in Congress leader P Chidambaram’s money laundering case in the manner that she was arrested without even notice under the CrPC and she remained available at her home on May 23 and even provided her phone to the police previously and had also joined the investigation. “Evidently, she did not try to evade arrest or even file for anticipatory bail because she had no reason to believe that she ought to be in custody. The petitioner is a student pursuing her higher education and sufficient standing in society without any possibility of fleeing from justice,” the court noted. Regarding tampering with evidence, the court said the material in relation to her participation in the protests are available with the investigating agency and there is no documentation or evidence of any other nature in her possession. On the third test, influencing witnesses, the court said she was not in a position to influence witnesses in the FIR, which in any event appears to relate to public servants/ police officials. The court said it is settled law that the purpose of incarceration during trial is not punitive and incarceration is to be limited to cases where it is absolutely essential. “In my considered opinion, no prejudice would be caused to the respondent’s investigation by grant of relief to the petitioner, and she would be prevented from suffering further unnecessary harassment, humiliation and unjustified detention. “Moreover, persons similarly placed as the petitioner, as per documents placed on record by the investigating agency, have not been arrested by the investigating agency in the subject FIR, and as such, the continued custody of the petitioner in the subject FIR would serve no purpose,” Justice Kait said. Kalita had challenged a trial court’s order which had dismissed her bail application. Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hc-grants-bail-to-pinjra-tod-member-devangana-kalita-881028.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi High Court holds physical courts after 5-month gap||The legal fraternity gave a mixed response to the commencement of physical hearings by the Delhi High Court on Tuesday, after a gap of more than five months, with several lawyers asking the court that their matters be heard via video conferencing. Two division benches — one of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan and other of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar — and three single judges — Justices Jayant Nath, V K Rao and Yogesh Khanna — held a physical hearing of cases on Tuesday. The same set of division benches and judges will hold the court on Wednesday, September 2; thereafter, on the next two days, it will be another set of division benches and judges. Other division benches and single judges would hold court via video conference as they did on Tuesday. The staff of the respective courts of the Chief Justice, Justice Nath and Justice Rao said that in several matters the lawyers indicated their preference for hearings via video conferencing and urged that their cases be listed on dates when virtual hearings would be held. However, in the separate courts of Justice Sanghi and Justice Khanna, all the matters listed for a physical hearing were conducted without a hitch and no one sought dates for virtual hearings, the respective court staff said. According to the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued for holding physical courts, the high court would be open all five days of the week from September 1, but the judges/benches will sit on a rotation basis. As per the SOP, the entry in the court blocks for the purpose of attending physical hearings will be restricted to only one advocate per party whose case is listed that day and party-in-person who is pursuing his/her case without any legal assistance. Besides, senior counsel engaged by any advocate, registered clerks for delivering bulky case files to advocates and standing or nominated counsel for any of the party or entity whose cases are listed for physical hearing that day will be allowed. Juniors, interns or law students associated with the advocate concerned, a relative of any litigant and non-registered clerks will not be allowed entry in the court blocks, the SOP, issued by the office of Registrar General Manoj Jain, has said. All those who will be permitted entry have to mandatorily wear a mask all times, undergo thermal screening at the designated entry points, sanitise hands at the time of entry, follow social and physical distancing of six feet and adhere to all directions and guidelines issued by the government in respect of the Covid-19 pandemic. In order to ensure strict adherence to the norm of social distancing, seats in each courtroom have been limited to bare minimum and entry time to any court block shall be regulated as per the time slots mentioned in the cause list for different batches of cases. The SOP has also said each batch shall consist of 10 cases and no person shall be permitted entry inside the court blocks before the designated time-slot as per the cause list. "Entry of the first batch to the particular floor of the court block shall take place at 10.00 am. The second batch shall be permitted entry to a designated waiting space inside the court block at 11.15 am and the third batch at 12.15 pm. No person shall be permitted entry inside the court blocks before the designated time slot," it has said. It has also said that medical facilities in the form of an additional ambulance with a complete infrastructure to tackle Covid-19 emergencies shall be stationed during working hours in the high court. There will be an earmarked room in the high court dispensary dedicated as Covid-19 isolation room, to be used as and when any person reflecting coronavirus symptoms is found. He or she will be shifted to the isolation room till he or she is taken to the hospital after which the room will be sanitised, the SOP has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-high-court-holds-physical-courts-after-5-month-gap-881048.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: J&K govt withdraws 50% 'corona tax' on liquor||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday withdrew the additional excise duty of 50 per cent levied on liquor after the outbreak of COVID-19 as a new excise policy for the remainder of 2020-2021 financial year came into force in the Union Territory, a senior government officer said. Excise Commissioner Rajesh Kumar Shavan said the new policy for the first time provides for reservation of 12 per cent to six categories of people, including ex-servicemen, those belonging weaker sections and unemployed youths, in opening bars and restaurants at tourist destinations across the Union Territory. "The additional 50 per cent excise duty on liquor (which was levied in May), commonly known as corona tax, has been withdrawn from today after the implementation of the new excise policy," Shavan told reporters here. He highlighted various features of the policy and said it focused on transparency in the liquor trade, besides boosting revenues through rationalization of duties. In the policy objectives, the government notification among other things said it was meant to rationalise the number of taxes, duties and other levies to optimize revenues for common good and check bootlegging or smuggling of bottled in origin (BIO) brands in the UT from outside. It said the objective is also to provide choice of brands and adequate places for consumption to its consumers and a level-playing field to those in this business. "There was a notion that poor people were not getting representation in the trade which is only meant for rich people. The government has taken a considerate and judicious view and for the first time in the past 70 years reservation is being given to six categories of people who also included specially-abled and Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and other backward classes." According to the notification, 12 per cent of the total liquor vends to be auctioned at any time in future is proposed to be earmarked or set aside for these categories. Within the overall ceiling of 12 per cent quota, each of these six categories may be assigned two per cent of actionable liquor vends. To encourage unemployed youths, the excise commissioner said special concession on license fee would be given to those who wish to open bars and restaurants at tourist places, including Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonmarg, and areas falling under the jurisdiction of tourism development authorities like Mansar and Kishtwar. "There will be transparency in issuance of licenses,” he said, adding there is a provision in the new policy to open new outlets in unserved or under-served areas in the UT. As per the notification, the bars located at tourist places of Sonamarg, Gulmarg, Pahalgam and areas falling under various Tourism Development Authorities shall pay half the amount of prescribed annual license fee subject to review on yearly basis by the authority concerned. Shavan said army and paramilitary forces would get liquor at much cheaper prices as the excise duty and import duty on the Canteen Stores Department (CSD) would be 25 per cent less than that on civil for all types of liquor. “There are 600 companies supplying liquor to the army and paramilitary forces and 80 per cent of the consignments come from outside J&K,” he said. He said there were some high and premier brands which were hitherto not available to the consumers in Jammu and Kashmir, but the government has now decided to encourage import of these brands and has decided to levy 20 per cent tax, instead of 35 per cent on such brands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-jk-govt-withdraws-50-corona-tax-on-liquor-881091.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||E-Stamping service through CSC launched in Himachal Pradesh||E-Stamping service through Common Service Centres (CSC) was launched in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday. Himachal Pradesh is sixth state after Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Assam, and Tripura to get this service through CSC, an Special Purpose Vehicle under Ministry of Electronics and IT. E-stamping is a computer-based application and a secured electronic way of stamping documents, and is a replacement to the earlier prevailing system of physical stamp paper. "Now with the launch of E-stamp service through CSCs in Himachal Pradesh, this service will be available to citizens of the state at their doorsteps, and this will facilitate availability of the service to remotest corner of Himachal Pradesh," said Dinesh Kumar Tyagi, CEO-CSC SPV, while inaugurating the service. He appreciated the efforts of CSCs in the remote hilly areas in Himachal Pradesh providing key services to the grassroots citizens. Vikas Singla, Area Manager-Stock Holding Corporation said "E-Stamps can be generated within minutes and is tamper-proof. Its authenticity can be verified online as each e-stamp generates a unique identification number."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/e-stamping-service-through-csc-launched-in-himachal-pradesh-881097.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Two arrested in connection with grenade attacks in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla||Jammu and Kashmir police on Tuesday arrested two persons allegedly involved in grenade throwing incidents in northern Baramulla district. Police said the duo was affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant outfit. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Baramulla, Abdul Qayoom told reporters that two persons involved in grenade attacks were arrested during nocturnal raids. “During the course of investigation on the basis of human and technical intelligence, two suspects identified as Fayaz Ahamd Kumar alias Narismha, Aqib Shafi Bhat of Baramulla were detained,” he said, adding that they were affiliated with the LeT. The SSP said there are 37 FIRs registered against Kumar alias Narisma and he has been detained seven times under Public Safety Act (PSA) in the past while three FIRs are registered against Bhat. “As per the investigation, their aim was to revive militancy in Baramulla town, which they have been directed by their mentors across the Line of Control. The arrest of the duo is a big success in terms of maintaining peace and tranquility in Baramulla town,” Qayoom added. Meanwhile, Army recovered a cache of arms and ammunition from a hideout in Rampur sector along the LoC in Baramulla district. Defence spokesman, Col Rajesh Kalia, said that the movement of suspicious persons was detected along the LoC in Rampur sector on August 30. Subsequently, he said, on Monday at around 5 pm, search of the area was carried out. “After extensive search for seven hours, a huge cache of arms and ammunition were recovered from well concealed locations in two hideouts in Rampur Sector (of Uri area of Baramulla. “The cache of arms recovered comprises of five AK Series Rifles (along with six magazines & two sealed boxes with 1254 rounds of AK ammunition), six pistols (with nine magazines & six rounds), 21 grenades, two UBGL grenades and two Kenwood radio sets with one antenna,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-arrested-in-connection-with-grenade-attacks-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-baramulla-881110.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Unlock 4: Centre to announce SOP for metro services on Wednesday||The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs will issue standard operating procedures (SOP) for operating metro services on Wednesday (September 2), an official said here. Union Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra chaired a meeting comprising Managing Directors of 15 metro rail corporations on Tuesday. “As informed earlier, Metro Rail operations have been allowed w.e.f. 7th September 2020. The SOPs already circulated were discussed today through VC by D S Mishra, Secretary, MOHUA with MDs of various Metro companies. The suggestions were considered in the VC meeting and accordingly, SOPs are being finalised. MOHUA minister Sh Hardeep S Puri will be announcing SOPs/guidelines in this regard on 2nd September,” ministry spokesperson Rajeev Jain said. While allowing the metro to resume its services from September 7, the Union Home Ministry said the standard operating procedure (SOP) for this will be issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The meeting discussed the broad outline of the guidelines today. It will be finalised after discussing with the Ministry of Home. Wednesday afternoon SOP will be announced, said an official. The Ministry of Housing also asked metro corporations to prepare a list of stations where trains will begin operations in consultation with the state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unlock-4-centre-to-announce-sop-for-metro-services-on-wednesday-881115.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Provide complete charge sheet to Pinjra Tod member Narwal once filed: Delhi HC to police||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed the police to provide the entire charge sheet, once it is filed, to the Pinjra Tod member who is facing allegations in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during the anti-CAA protests in February this year. Justice Vibhu Bakhru directed the police to also provide the women's collective member -- JNU student Natasha Narwal -- all the statements, including those of protected witnesses, that it was relying upon. The statements of the protected witnesses can be suitably redacted to protect their identity, the court said, noting that a statement to this effect was made earlier by Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, who was representing the police. The court also noted that the police has assured it will file the charge sheet on or before September 17. The order came after Narwal's counsel said that her bail application was being withdrawn from the high court and it will be moved before the appropriate trial court after the filing of the charge sheet. "The application is dismissed as withdrawn," the court said. On Monday, August 31, the high court had asked Narwal to consider if she wishes her bail application to be heard after two weeks when a charge sheet is likely to be filed in the case against her. The high court had said that after filing of the charge sheet before the concerned trial court, the bail plea can be filed there. Narwal, who was arrested in May, had challenged a trial court's order denying her bail. She is an accused in three cases under various sections of the IPC and UAPA. “As far as this petitioner (Narwal) is concerned, a charge sheet will be filed within the time given then you will have the entire material with you which this court has with it right now. We are of the prime facie view that there is evidence against you,” the judge had orally said during the hearing on Monday. The judge had also said that till now he has perused 20 per cent of the case diary of the police and was of the prima facie that there is material against Narwal and the material is such which he did not think any court can ignore. Narwal and another member of the group Devangana Kalita were arrested in the case in May this year by the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder. They have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law - Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case related to the communal violence, for allegedly being part of a "premeditated conspiracy" in the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. In all, four cases have been registered against Kalita, including in relation to the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year and violence in old Delhi's Daryaganj area during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December last year. She has got bail in three of the four cases against her. On June 14, a trial court had dismissed bail pleas of Narwal and Kalita on the ground that there was no merit in the applications and that it was amply clear from the charge sheet that the investigation was still pending and it has been filed against other accused persons also. Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/provide-complete-charge-sheet-to-pinjra-tod-member-narwal-once-filed-delhi-hc-to-police-881130.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court directs for restoring Mahakaleshwar temple||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed for restoring original work at Ujjain's Shri Mahakaleshwar temple, having noted continuing erosion of Shivalingam at one of the twelve Jyotirlingas, revered by Hindus as the most sacred abode of Lord Shiva. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari issued a slew of directions for necessary repairs, maintenance, improvement of the temple and removal of encroachment within 500 metres of its periphery. The court directed CBRI, Roorkee to visit the temple, if necessary, and submit a project report as per its proposal given on September 17, 2019 regarding structural stability within six months. The court noted rubbing of curd, ghee, honey on the Shivalingam by the devotees is also a cause of erosion.     "It would be appropriate that only pouring of a limited quantity of pure milk is allowed. Whereas in the traditional puja to be done on behalf of the temple, all pure materials can be used," the court said. The court said no rubbing of the Shivalingam, except during traditional Puja and Archana performed on behalf of the temple, should be done by any devotee. "It has been noted that the deterioration and erosion of Lingam is a continuing process. The photographs of July 2020 indicate that there was further erosion of the Lingam. A patch of Shivlinga towards the side of the deity of Shri Kartikeyan is quite visible. The matter is of grave concern as due to reckless offerings, the Lingam of Omkareshwar Temple was destroyed," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-directs-for-restoring-mahakaleshwar-temple-881156.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||JEE (Main) candidates satisfied over arrangements in Bihar||The Joint Entrance exam (JEE) - Mains for admission to engineering courses in IITs, NITs and centrally funded technical institutions was conducted sucessfully in Bihar on Tuesday with candidates expressing satisfaction over the arrangements in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. In Gaya, candidates Vaishnavi, Satwik, Prakash and Ravindra said that social distancing norm was maintained at the test centres. The examinees stood in queues and were allowed entry into a test centre in a staggered manner, after being sanitised at the gate. Masks were distributed to the aspirants and they were asked to maintain social distancing. All seats were thoroughly sanitised and work stations and keyboards were disinfected before and after each exam shift, officials said. Parents too seemed to be pleased with the arrangements. "The exam was held in accordance with the guidelines issued by the government," they said. A parent said in Purnea, he did not face any problem in taking his daughter to the venue despite the lockdown. An examinee's father said in Patna that his son did not face difficulty in reaching the venue as many buses and auto rickshaws were available. The examination, conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), was held at centres across the state amid elaborate arrangements due to the pandemic. The exam which had been postponed twice in view of the pandemic is scheduled from September 1 to 6. Based on the results of the JEE-Mains Paper 1 and Paper 2, the top 2.45 lakh candidates will be eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam, which is a one-stop exam to get admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). JEE-Advanced is scheduled to take place on September 27. National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), for admission to medical and dental colleges, is scheduled to be held later this month. The Supreme Court had earlier dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams amid a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases, saying a "precious year" of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jee-main-candidates-satisfied-over-arrangements-in-bihar-881192.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Chinese PLA flouts military ethics, makes fresh provocative move during flag meeting to defuse tension||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) flouted basic military ethics and made provocative moves even when its local commander was holding a flag meeting with his Indian Army counterpart on Monday, in order to defuse fresh tension on the south bank of the Pangong Tso (lake). The Indian Army soldiers, however, foiled the Chinese PLA’s latest move to occupy the territory of India, just as they did during the late hours of Saturday and early hours of Sunday.   New Delhi strongly protested repeated provocative moves by the PLA soldiers and asked Beijing to 'discipline and control' the front-line troops of the Chinese Army and restrain them from undertaking provocative actions. The Indian Army on Saturday-Sunday night foiled a fresh attempt by the Chinese  PLA to push the Line of Actual Control (LAC) westwards on the south bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) and occupy more areas of India. The local brigade commander of the Indian Army went for a flag meeting with his counterpart in the Chinese PLA on Monday. But even when the flag meeting was on, the Chinese Army personnel made a fresh move to cross the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – and transgress into the territory of India. The Indian Army soldiers, however, again foiled the Chinese PLA’s attempt with “timely defensive actions”, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stated in New Delhi. “The army commanders hold flag-meetings to de-escalate the situation and basic military ethics require both sides to exercise restraint when such meetings are on,” a source in New Delhi said. “But, since we learnt in Galwan Valley that the PLA had scant regards for military ethics, our troops were alert and ready to deal with any eventuality. That is why they could foil the fresh provocative move by the Chinese.” The Indian Army had lost 21 of its soldiers in a violent face-off with the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley on June 15. The PLA too had suffered casualties, but never made public the number of soldiers injured or killed during the clash. New Delhi had alleged that the PLA soldiers had carried out a “premeditated” attack on the Indian Army officials and personnel when the two sides had been discussing the implementation of the process of disengagement or withdrawal of front-line troops from the LAC as they had mutually agreed earlier.   The flag-meeting between the brigade commanders of the two armies was “stormy” and remained “inconclusive” on Monday. They had another flag-meeting on Tuesday, but it also ended without any outcome. “We expect the Chinese side to sincerely abide by the understanding reached earlier and earnestly work with India to resolve the situation and to restore peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the MEA, said in New Delhi. Beijing on Tuesday accused the Indian Army of illegally crossing the LAC on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso. “Their flagrant provocations again led to tensions,” Hua Chunying, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. The Indian side has severely undermined China's territorial sovereignty, breached bilateral agreements and important consensus, and damaged peace and tranquillity at the border areas, which runs counter to the recent efforts made by both sides for de-escalation of tensions on the ground”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chinese-pla-flouts-military-ethics-makes-fresh-provocative-move-during-flag-meeting-to-defuse-tension-881226.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Militants in Kashmir are facing a shortage of weapons: Army||Stating that militants are facing a shortage of weapons in Kashmir, the Army on Tuesday said that Pakistan is trying to airdrop arms and ammunition close to the Line of Control (LoC) to fuel militancy in the Valley. “The tactics used by Pakistan to smuggle weapons into India have failed and now it is trying to push in weapons by dumping the same in the areas close to the LoC,” GOC of 19 Infantry Division, Baramulla, Major General Varinder Vats told reporters. “Pakistan has tasked the over ground workers (OGWs) who reside in villages close to the LoC to deliver the weapons to militants. But so far all such bids have failed,” he said while referring to the multiple hideouts busted by the army in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district. The GOC said Pakistan is frustrated due to a blockade of infiltration. “The coordination between various security agencies had forced it (Pakistan) to push more advanced weapons into the valley. But the halt in supply-chain has left militants high and dry,” he said and added that in south Kashmir, militants only possess pistols now. General Vats said Pakistan is unrelenting in its effort to push in arms to strengthen militancy in Kashmir “but alert troops along the LoC have been able to defeat the attempts. Earlier, last month J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh also said that militants were facing a huge shortage of arms and ammunition. “Pakistan has been trying to send arms and ammunition to militants through drones (UAVs). We have detected several such incidents in the past,” Singh had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-in-kashmir-are-facing-a-shortage-of-weapons-army-881236.html
01-09-2020||North and Central||Jamia Millia Islamia professor to design mosque in Ayodhya, says aim is to bring everyone together||Jamia Millia Islamia professor S M Akhtar, who has been tasked with designing a mosque that will come up in Ayodhya pursuant to the Supreme Court verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case, has said the entire complex will "bring together the ethos of India and the spirit of Islam". Akhtar said he was recently given the task of designing the complex, which will also house an Indo-Islamic Research Centre, a library and a hospital, and that he would start working on the project very soon. "It is not just a question of designing a masjid. A complex will come up on the land given by the government. The objective of the complex will be to serve humanity. The basic purpose will be to bring together the ethos of India and the spirit of Islam," he told PTI. "The philosophy of Islam or any other religion is to serve humanity and that will be the primary objective. It will solve the purpose of healing the nation. The attempt will be to bring everyone together to serve the society," he said. The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), a trust constituted by the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board for the construction of the mosque on the five-acre plot in Ayodhya, will oversee the work. The Uttar Pradesh government allotted the five-acre plot in Ayodhya's Dhannipur village for the construction of the mosque on the directive of the Supreme Court. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court had on November 9 last year ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site. Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram Temple on August 5. Akhtar, the Head of the Department of Architecture at Jamia Millia Islamia here, said, "Over 1,000 architects have been my students and are spread across the globe, and they can collaborate with me. The option to work on this project will be open for my current students also as it will be a learning experience for them." Akhtar has designed the university's computer centre, its hospital and even the architecture building and has also worked with the Delhi government for drawing up local area plans. He has been consultant for the UNDP-sponsored programme 'Capacity Development of Urban Local Bodies'. Akhtar said due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he would not be able to visit Ayodhya right now, but added that he had visited the site earlier and was "aware of the place".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-millia-islamia-professor-to-design-mosque-in-ayodhya-says-aim-is-to-bring-everyone-together-881253.html
01-09-2020||Opinion||Worst economic crash in years may aid Centre in GST row||The 23.9 percent contraction in Indian GDP for the first quarter of FY21 offers two pointers for the economy. First, the shock from the first phase of the lockdown was deeper than what most estimates had pencilled in. This means the second phase of the lockdown, though sporadic will also extract a deep cut in the second-quarter data. The second pointer is that the Centre shall now be in a stronger position to negotiate with the states on GST compensation.  The first pointer is intuitively obvious and so we shall not spend space on it here. The second one throws up some interesting possibilities.  For the Centre, the GDP data released on Monday is therefore most useful, simply from this perspective. That it will now have to lay out ameliorative strategies to ensure the economy does not suffer a deeper Covid-19 shock is a different perspective altogether.  It can now argue that the cataclysmic dip in the performance of the economy is the clinching evidence to prove that tax collections are going to undershoot every budget target, with or without cess. In the circumstances whatever the Centre can muster is about the best the states should expect to make do with. Remember some of the Opposition-ruled states have threatened to make the issue of Centre reneging on a 14 percent compensation akin to a violation of the Constitution and have decided to move the Supreme Court. (In the GST law, the Centre has agreed to a Constitutional provision that state revenues must grow at 14 percent per annum, else the Centre will make good the difference).  Centre’s position strengthened Even if for the sake of argument the states can prove that there has indeed been a violation of a Constitutional provision, the bleak GDP data will make it most difficult for the Court to pass any strictures against the Centre. The Centre’s legal officers can now argue that there is no space for raising additional resources without further hurting the economy. They shall be able to demonstrate that if the Centre were to borrow the additional sum on its own balance sheet, it will have a strong adverse impact on the debt market. The implication is that the price of the GOI papers would drop (more borrowing means cheaper papers) which would in turn seriously hurt the pricing of the papers of companies too, both private and public. That would create even more strain which may be impossible for the economy to sustain.  Additional borrowing by the states have no such direct corollary for the Indian markets. One of the reasons is because the states come to the markets much less frequently than the Centre does. The other is that the centre has perversely kept their freedom to do so under restrictions, till recently. For instance only one state, Kerala has floated an overseas debt. So the buyers of their debt – domestic and foreign banks and financial institutions do not link their offerings to the pricing of corporate debt. In other words, there shall be no demand that if state papers are so plentiful and cheap, those of the companies should also be cheap.   It implies that even if the states are forced to commit to pay a bit more in the future to make their borrowings sail through, the risks can be adjusted against renewed growth of the economy.  Which then leaves the states with just no option except to accept the offer made by the Centre. Those are either to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation (calculated at Rs 97,000 crore approximately) to be borrowed by the states through concessional issue of debt under a special window to be steered by the Union Finance Ministry, or finance the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore (including the Covid-19-impact portion) through market borrowings by the states at whatever rates they can manage without any support from the Centre.  Actually the states are to quite some extent responsible for their present difficult fiscal position. That they are afraid their borrowing costs would be steep is true. But the costs would be high because of their (mostly) inept handling of the pandemic. By the end of May this year, most of them were chafing against the Union Home Ministry’s national-level guidelines and demanding that those be substituted with their own regulations.  After having got the freedom, several of them subsequently used the equivalent of a hammer, the indiscriminate use of lockdown, to swat the virus. The result was obvious. India is now home to over 36.21 lakh Covid-19 cases and the economy has got hit instead. A painstaking administrative effort to do micro management of the areas with large caseload, something they had accused the Centre of not being capable of doing, was rarely used. It is not surprising that the Centre has again taken away the freedom of the states to announce general lockdowns in its latest Unlock 4 guidelines.  The Covid-19 bill has added about Rs 51,400 crore to the expenses of the 14 most-affected states. Yet in the battle to share the GST tax pool to meet some of those additional costs, the GDP data has moved the political pendulum in favour of the Centre instead.  (The writer is a business journalist and can be reached at s.bhattacharjee@ris.org.in)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/worst-economic-crash-in-years-may-aid-centre-in-gst-row-880861.html
01-09-2020||Opinion||The Pranab Mukherjee-Gandhi family relationship remained complicated to the end||To the Congress’s first family, Pranab Mukherjee was an enigma. Rajiv, Sonia and Rahul Gandhi never had a measure of what to make of him and how much to trust him. That uncertainty addled their relations with the former President whose halcyon years in the Congress were spent under Indira Gandhi’s shadow and patronage. After Indira’s assassination, Mukherjee never recovered his status as the Gandhis’ confidant and adviser although he was never short of positions in the Congress organisation and the government whenever the Congress ruled. Mukherjee’s relations with the Gandhis plummeted to a low after Rajiv Gandhi took over as the Congress president and the Prime Minister. The reasons for his exclusion from Rajiv’s cabinet on December 31, 1984, and his expulsion from the Congress, are archived in the Congress’s chronicles. Mukherjee’s laconic comments, recorded in the second volume of his autobiography, The Turbulent Years: 1980-1996, on the unhappy phase were, “All I can say is that he (Rajiv) made mistakes and so did I. He let others influence him....I let my frustration overtake my patience.” He also cloaked his differences with a younger Rajiv in a policy framework, saying that while Rajiv welcomed foreign investments and the economy’s enlargement, Mukherjee favoured a regulated economy. Mukherjee’s traducers accused him of fostering crony capitalism, a hangover of a ‘regulated’ Socialist economic order. With Sonia, his equation was more complex. He claimed in part three of his memoirs that his “active participation” in the soul-searching Panchmari conclave in 1998 so impressed Sonia Gandhi, the Congress president, that she began consulting him more frequently on policies. That “certain detachment” in their relationship, he said, transformed into “warmth and mutual respect”. Pranab’s artfulness at practising realpolitik was well known to every Congressman. He had helped Indira get rid of AR Antulay when Antulay was the Maharashtra chief minister and the object of a serious economic offence. Likewise, Mukherjee was instrumental in plotting an “unconstitutional coup” against the then Congress head, Sitaram Kesri, on March 5, 1998, and installing Sonia in his place. But history had created such a long gap between Sonia and Mukherjee that try as he did, it was never completely bridged. Early on in her tenure as the Congress president, Sonia drafted Manmohan Singh as the chairperson of the crucial strategy committee, overlooking other contenders such as Mukherjee and Arjun Singh, his peer. Did the appointment presage the developments following the Congress’s historic 2004 victory? Certainly, Mukherjee didn’t think that. In his autobiography – that is telling for revealing his ambition to become Prime Minister more than once – he said the “prevalent expectation” was he would be the occupant of the top job after Sonia declined, based on his “extensive experience” in government. He even pointed out that Singh’s experience was as a civil servant with five years as a “reformist” Finance Minister. Did he have an inkling that he was about to be beaten to the post by alluding to a comparison with Singh? Singh was Sonia’s choice. Mukherjee candidly said there was speculation if he would work under Singh, his junior when he (Mukherjee) was the Finance Minister. He was reluctant until Sonia persuaded him. According to him, she was keen he take the finance minister’s post, but he refused because of his “ideological” differences with Singh. He wanted Home but Sonia selected Defence that she believed would offer him “maximum autonomy”. Having missed the opportunity to head the country’s political executive, Mukherjee glimpsed a chance to get Home after the siege on Mumbai in 2008. Shivraj Patil, the incumbent, was under heavy attack for allegedly not being on top of the job. The optics, caused by his penchant for changing his clothes multiple times during the crisis and appearing personable, worsened the popular perceptions about the UPA government. At an internal meeting, in which P Chidambaram, then in charge of Finance, traduced Patil, Mukherjee intervened and said he tried to “bring down the sentiments” by contending a single individual should not be blamed. The post he hoped for went to Chidambaram, sparking speculation that the Tamil Nadu leader was fronted in the charge against Patil. Mukherjee got Finance. His tenure is associated with the controversial “Vodafone tax” wherein he revisited the Double Tax Avoidance Treaty and insisted all tax payers, domestic and foreign, must be treated on a par. He answered the apprehensions voiced by Sonia, Chidambaram and Kapil Sibal over the negative impact his decision would have on overseas investments in India, saying investments came in where there was profitability and not because of zero tax. The Presidential election of 2012 would be documented in the Congress’s annals for the coup d’etat pulled off by Mukherjee against Sonia once he realised that PM-ship was not his to aspire for. As far as she was concerned, she was annoyed by the constant innuendos in circulation, suggesting that Mukherjee could become the Deputy PM. At a rare press conference she addressed in 2006, she angrily nullified the speculation in response to a question. The long rope she gave Mukherjee was cut short then and there. In the prelude to selecting the UPA’s presidential nominee, Mukherjee still hoped Sonia would choose Singh and make him the PM. Forget the PM’s job, she didn’t even want him as the next Rashtrapati Bhavan occupant. When the message got across, Mukherjee began a discreet campaign among the non-BJP parties to pitch his candidacy. Sonia was considerably weakened two years before the next Lok Sabha polls. The UPA government was mired in corruption charges, the Mukherjee-Chidambaram war was out in the open, the Congress lost state elections, Singh’s credibility had dipped and there were doubts within the Congress over Sonia and Rahul Gandhi’s ability to lead the party to another victory. Sonia’s choice was Hamid Ansari, then the Vice President. She emphasised to Mukherjee he was “indispensable” to the government. His confidants wondered was he that “indispensable” that he was overlooked for prime-ministership and the home minister’s post? Mukherjee won when a majority of the Congress Working Committee members and the regional allies rooted for him. He dealt another fatal blow to the Gandhis when he visited the RSS’s command post in June 2018 – his tenure as President ended in July 2017 – at the invitation of the ‘sarsanghachalak’, Mohanrao Bhagwat, and addressed a gathering. This, when Rahul Gandhi’s tirade against the Sangh was at its strongest. Mukherjee was like a son to Indira. In 1980, when he lost the first election he fought from Bolpur (West Bengal), she summoned him to her residence and reportedly chided him. By the time he left, she saw him off with a basket of fruits. Even during the UPA years, the only portrait hanging on a wall of his office was a glossy, colour-accentuated close-up of him and Indira, intently perusing a document. If the picture is a gauge, Mukherjee couldn’t be truer to himself because his fealty to the Gandhis began and ended with Indira who in 1969 discovered his talent when he successfully managed VK Krishna Menon’s election from Midnapore. With his passing away, an era comes to an end in the Congress, the only survivors being Patil, Buta Singh and Motilal Vora. (Radhika Ramaseshan is a Delhi-based political analyst and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-pranab-mukherjee-gandhi-family-relationship-remained-complicated-to-the-end-881006.html
01-09-2020||South||2,734 new coronavirus cases in Telangana; 9 more deaths||Telangana posted 2,734 new Covid-19 cases and 9 related fatalities, taking the tally of those infected by the virus in the state to 1.27 lakh. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 347, followed by Rangareddy 212, Nalgonda 191, Khammam 161 and Medchal Malkajgiri 121 districts, a government bulletin said on Tuesday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 31. As many as 58,264 samples were tested on August 31. Cumulatively, 14.23 lakh samples have been tested till date. The samples tested per million population was 38,351, the bulletin said. With nine more deaths, the toll rose to 836. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.66 percent, while it was 1.77 percent at the national level. The total number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 so far stood at 95,162 while 31,699 are under treatment. The recovery rate in Telangana was 74.5 percent, while it was 76.94 percent in the country. The number of individuals in home or institutional isolation was 24,598. The state government has appealed to the public in the age group of 20-50, among whom there is a high incidence of coronavirus, not to step out unless absolutely necessary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2734-new-coronavirus-cases-in-telangana-9-more-deaths-880891.html
01-09-2020||South||12 more succumb to Covid-19 in Puducherry, 363 fresh cases reported||Puducherry on Tuesday registered 12 deaths, including two women, due to Covid-19, pushing up the toll in the union territory to 240. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that eight men and two women patients died of the viral infection in hospitals in Puducherry and Yanam regions. With 363 new cases being reported at the end of examination of 1,323 samples, the overall coronavirus hit patients were 14,766 after transferring eight cases to Tamil Nadu, the Director said. He said 341 patients recovered and were discharged during the last 24 hours. Of the total 14,766, there were 4,851 active cases while 9,675 patients recovered and were discharged. The Director said as many as 76,105 samples were tested so far and it was found that 60,051 tested negative and result of examination of remaining samples was awaited. Kumar said the fatality rate and recovery rate were 1.63 percent and 65.52 percent respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/12-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-puducherry-363-fresh-cases-reported-880903.html
01-09-2020||South||28 new cases push Covid-19 tally of Andamans to 3,132; death toll mounts to 46||Twenty-eight new cases pushed the Covid-19 tally of Andaman and Nicobar Islands to 3,132 on Tuesday, while one more fatality took the Union territory's coronavirus death toll to 46, a health official said. Eight of the new patients have travel history, while 20 infections were detected during contact tracing, he said. A 72-year-old Covid-19 patient, who was also suffering from chronic kidney disease, hypertension and diabetes, has died, the official said. The new infections have taken the number of active coronavirus cases in the archipelago to 439, while the total number of recoveries rose to 2,647 as 61 more people were cured of the disease, he said. A total of 32,674 samples have so far been sent for Covid-19 tests, of which 32,470 reports were received and 204 are awaited, the official added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/28-new-cases-push-covid-19-tally-of-andamans-to-3132-death-toll-mounts-to-46-880929.html
01-09-2020||South||Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac's tweet on Vamana irks state BJP||Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac's description of Vamana as a "cheat" has invited the ire of the BJP with the saffron party demanding an apology from the Marxist leader for "insulting" one of the reincarnations of Lord Vishnu. BJP state president K Surendran sought an apology from Isaac for insulting the devotees of Lord Vishnu. In his tweet greeting people on Onam on Monday and announcing the floor price for 14 types of vegetables, Isaac said, "We celebrate Mahabali who did not discriminate by caste or creed, not Vamana who cheated him." "This edition of the harvest festival has something to celebrate. Kerala has announced floor prices for 14 types of vegetables in its drive for self-sufficiency in vegetables," he said. Isaac's tweet did not go down well with Surendran, who said that Vamana being worshipped by crores of devotees is an avatar of Lord Vishnu. Noting that the biggest Onam celebration is being held at Lord Vamana temple at Thrikkakara in Ernakulam district in the state, Surendran said in a Facebook post, "Isaac who insulted Vamana must apologise to devotees of Lord Vishnu." According to legend, Mahabali, a generous king who had once ruled Kerala, was sent to the nether world by Vamana. It is said during his rule, the kingdom became so prosperous that Devas (gods of the Heaven) felt jealous about it as Mahabali belonged to the Asura clan and sent Vamana to end Mahabali's reign in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-finance-minister-thomas-isaacs-tweet-on-vamana-irks-state-bjp-881010.html
01-09-2020||South||DMK to elect new General Secretary and Treasurer on September 9||The General Council of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) will convene for the first time via video conference in its 70 years of existence on September 9 to elect its General Secretary and Treasurer, the number 2 and 3 positions in the pecking order of the party. Elections for the post of General Secretary, the second most powerful position, was necessitated after incumbent K Anbazhagan, a fellow traveller of DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi, died on March 7, 2020. With Treasurer Durai Murugan, the senior-most in the party, expressing his interest to contest for the GS election, a new person has to be elected to his post. DMK’s General Council is the highest policy-making body of the party and members of the GC elect President, General Secretary and Treasurer. The GC meet also comes as the political atmosphere in Tamil Nadu heats up with just eight months to go for the crucial Assembly Elections in the state. While Durai Murugan’s election as General Secretary is almost certain, the contest for Treasurer post is interesting as it has a few claimants. Former Union Minister T R Baalu and former state minister E V Velu, who jumped the ship from AIADMK two decades ago, are likely to express interest to contest for the Treasurer’s post. However, a senior party leader said a consensus will be arrived at before filing of nominations for the post begins. “Most probably, there will be only one nomination for the post of Treasurer as well. A consensus will be arrived at before the nomination begins and the person agreed to by others will file the nomination,” the leader told DH. He also recalled that the DMK has always elected people to the three top posts unanimously. “Even when our current President Stalin was elected as Treasurer in 2008, it was a unanimous election. Now, as President, he will ensure that only one nomination is filed,” the leader added. The GC was to meet in March but was postponed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. There is also a possibility of changes within the organisation being discussed during the GC meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-to-elect-new-general-secretary-and-treasurer-on-september-9-881066.html
01-09-2020||South||Gangster goes to join BJP; flees scene after spotting police||He was a “guest” of the Tamil Nadu unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party, but ran away the moment he spotted police. And the “guest” was none other than a gangster whose name spells terror in parts of the city and had come to a BJP event to join the saffron party. The incident took place on Monday evening in Vandalur on the outskirts of the city and the police came to the venue after receiving information that “Red Hills” Surya was coming to the event. However, an alert Surya fled the scene immediately after spotting the men in khaki. The police, however, arrested six persons who had possessed weapons, from the meeting venue. Sources said Surya is wanted criminal and is allegedly involved in over 50 cases, including those with murder charges. The incident has come as a serious embarrassment for the BJP, which is on a massive recruitment drive in Tamil Nadu, where it hardly has any base. The party has come under severe criticism in the past few weeks for inducting gangsters and those with criminal records and giving them positions. Recently, a party functionary was also held for smuggling banned substance in his car. Monday’s incident shocked many in the Tamil Nadu BJP which is making concerted efforts to project itself as an alternative to the Dravidian parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gangster-goes-to-join-bjp-flees-scene-after-spotting-police-881093.html
01-09-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown relaxation: Public transport service resumes & temples reopen in Tamil Nadu||After five-and-a-half months, Tamil Nadu returned to near normalcy on Tuesday with resumption of public transport and reopening of temples and shopping malls as a slew of relaxations announced by the government came into force. Scrapping of the e-pass system within the state from Tuesday also ensured free flow of movement of people from other districts into capital Chennai and vice-versa. As the temples opened after a gap of about six months, hundreds of people thronged religious places across the state. Hundreds of people stood patiently in long queues for darshan at Sri Meenakshi Amman Temple in Madurai, Sri Brihadeeswara Temple in Thanjavur, Sri Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram, and Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam near Tiruchirapalli. Temple authorities deployed volunteers and security staff to ensure that devotees maintain physical distance while standing in the queues, even as the government banned distribution of vibudhi (sacred ash) and kumkum to the visitors. The devotees were also asked to clean their hands with sanitizers before entering the campus. While wearing masks is a prerequisite for entry into temples, the Brihadeeswara Temple in Thanjavur also collected details of the devotees as a precautionary measure. Since Tuesday was Purnima (full moon day), the crowd swelled as the day progressed. Buses belonging to the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) were seen on the roads for the first time since March 24, when the lockdown came into force in Tamil Nadu, as government-owned vehicles resumed services across the state. In the MTC buses, the government has installed hand sanitizers which the passengers need to use before proceeding to their seats, while the drivers and conductors are given duty only after checking their body temperature. Transport Minister M R Vijayabhaskar, who himself recovered from Covid-19, said bus services will stop at 9 pm and announced that the frequency will be increased if there is demand from the people. “Though buses will run only within districts, we have asked the drivers and conductors to stop the service at the next bus stop of the other district if it is very near. This is just to avoid people walking the 1 or 2 km distance,” he said. Shopping malls across the state also reopened on Tuesday with several safety measures in place. In Chennai’s Phoenix shopping mall, visitors are allowed only after checking their body temperature, while foot-operated sanitizer vending machines were installed to avoid people using their hands. Tamil Nadu had reported a total of 4,28,041 Covid-19 positive cases including 3,68,141 discharges and 7,322 deaths by Tuesday morning. The number of active cases stood at 52,578.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-relaxation-public-transport-service-resumes-temples-reopen-in-tamil-nadu-881095.html
01-09-2020||South||No problem in alliance with AIADMK, says TN BJP chief||There was no problem in BJP's alliance with the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, party's state unit president L Murugan said on Tuesday but wanted the Ministers to stop criticising the combine. Even if his party fought the elections alone, at least 60 MLAs will represent BJP in the assembly after the polls, he said. The BJP was gearing up for the polls and gaining strength in the state while steps were being taken to further strengthen the party, as youths have started supporting it, he told reporters here. "There is no confusion or problem in the alliance (with the AIADMK) in Tamil Nadu. However, the ministers should stop talking and criticising the alliance," Murugan said. His comments come amid a debate surrounding who would lead the alliance in the 2021 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu after state BJP vice-president V P Duraisamy had asserted his party has the right to lead the combine in the polls. AIADMK co-coordinator and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami had a few days ago asserted that his party will lead the alliance in "any polls" in the state and pointed out that the 2019 Lok Sabha elections were fought under its leadership. To a question on cases being registered against BJP leaders, including himself for violation of COVID-19 protocols, Murugan quipped that cases should be registered against ministers, MPs and MLAs. About Tamil film Superstar Rajinikanth, he said being a nationalist and spiritualist, his entry into politics will give more importance in the elections. Queried about the seizure of properties belonging to V K Sasikala, an aide of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, Murugan said the law was taking its own course, adding there was no political vendetta. Earlier, Murugan, along with party vice-president, Vanathi Srinivasan and General Secretary, G K Selvakumar, paid floral tributes to the portrait of former President Pranab Mukherjee at the BJP's district office here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-problem-in-alliance-with-aiadmk-says-tn-bjp-chief-881100.html
01-09-2020||South||Students submit petition seeking NEET's cancellation||In order to draw the attention of the powers, a group of students, belonging to the Students Federation of India, on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to a photograph of former Chief Minister late J Jayalalithaa, seeking cancellation of the NEET. Since Jayalalithaa had opposed the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), the SFI chose to petition to her photograph, as the present ruling AIADMK swear by her name and term the government as 'Amma (mother) Government,' the students said. According to the students, though the present government has passed a resolution in the state assembly against NEET, it has not protested after the Centre announced holding the exam on the date. SFI wanted the Centre to bring back the old method of admission based on Class XII marks, which would also ensure social justice, the students said. After submitting a petition to the district collector K Rajamani, they claimed a girl from the city also committed suicide a few days ago, apparently apprehensive overwriting the NEET. There has been a growing chorus for postponing the exam in view of the rising coronavirus cases. However, the Ministry of Education has clarified it will be held on schedule as any further delay can lead to a zero academic year. It has already been deferred twice in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/students-submit-petition-seeking-neets-cancellation-881132.html
01-09-2020||South||One-fifth of Chennai’s population exposed to Covid-19: Sero-survey||One-fifth of Chennai's 87 lakh plus population has been exposed to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, while around 80 percent of the population is still susceptible to the infection, according to a sero-survey conducted by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC).  The survey conducted in the months of July and August has revealed a “huge variation” in seroprevalence across zones, while showing that infection to case ratio is lower compared to some of the published studies, indicating high testing performance. With a sample size rounded to 12,405, the serosurvey was conducted in 51 of the 200 wards under the GCC limits which were chosen by population proportion to size method after which six streets were chosen from each ward by simple random sampling method. The report says that the infection to fatality ratio is comparable or lower to published studies while noting that around 80 percent of Chennai’s population is still susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Chennai, which is one of the worst-affected cities in the country due to the coronavirus, joins others like Delhi and Pune to conduct sero-surveys to study the prevalence of the virus. At last count on Tuesday evening, Chennai had reported a total of 1,36,697 cases including 1,20,820 discharges and 2,770 deaths. The active cases stood at just 13,107. The samples were tested for IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 using Abbott Architect SARS-CoV IgG CLIA and blood samples from 12,405 individuals from 51 wards covering all the 15 zones were collected. “Of the 12,405 individuals tested, 2673 individuals had evidence of past SARS-CoV-2, with an unweighted seroprevalence of 21.5% (95% CI: 20.8%-22.2%). There is huge variation in seroprevalence across zones ranging between 7.1% in Madhavaram and 44.2% in Tondiarpet,” the survey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-fifth-of-chennai-s-population-exposed-to-covid-19-sero-survey-881146.html
01-09-2020||State||Plasma for two Srinagar Covid-19 patients airlifted from Bengaluru||Two Covid-19 patients in Srinagar received convalescent plasma from a private hospital's plasma bank in Bengaluru on Tuesday as the blood units were airlifted from here at 5 am and reached Srinagar in the afternoon via Delhi. The Head of the Department of Translational Medicine, a surgical pathologist, at HCG hospital here who did not want to be named told DH while one female Covid patient aged 61 (who is related to the doctor) is in Chest Diseases Hospital, the other male Covid patient is 62 and is in Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), both in Srinagar.  "We did find a match in Srinagar but the antibody titers take time and the donors had to come from their respective villages. To buy time, the plasma was airlifted. My aunt was administered the plasma by 3 pm on Tuesday but she is very critical. The other patient in SKIMS is doing better. A nominal charge was levied for the transport. Captain Rahul Srivastava, an IndiGo pilot took, internal approval from the airlines and arranged for the transport," said the doctor.   The plasma units were transported on IndiGo CarGo from Bengaluru to Srinagar via connecting flights. The plasma was first flown from Bengaluru to Delhi followed by the connecting flight from Delhi to Srinagar. The plasma sustained a transit period of over eight hours. Recently, the US FDA authorised the use of plasma therapy in moderate, severe and critically ill Covid patients that can yield results of upto 100%, 80% and 60% respectively. Earlier intervention with plasma therapy in patients would be ideal to save more lives, doctors said.  An IndiGo spokesperson said, "This was a passenger flight and this cargo was carried aboard. Captain Rahul Srivastava coordinated between the doctor and IndiGo to enable this delivery. He did not fly the plane which carried the cargo though. The plasma units were carried on the plane free of charge."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/plasma-for-two-srinagar-covid-19-patients-airlifted-from-bengaluru-881186.html
01-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka faces uphill battle on 2030 development targets||By 2030, Karnataka will have to mobilise Rs 9.87 lakh crore to meet Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) targets, even as the state faces serious challenges in poverty, hunger and gender equality among other areas, a government document has revealed.   According to the 400-page vision document prepared by the government, the state will have to spend Rs 9.87 lakh crore to meet the targets. But if the current spending on SDGs continues, the government will need Rs 1.98 lakh crore more over the next ten years to meet the goals.   There are 17 SDGs that the UN adopted in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure peace and prosperity to all people by 2030. When the Niti Aayog released its SDG India Index for 2019, Karnataka’s score on several parameters was lower compared with 2018. On a scale of 100, Karnataka scored below 49 on poverty, hunger, gender equality, industry innovation & infrastructure and sustainable cities and communities. In 14 other goals, Karnataka is below the national average on some specific indicators.  “Regional disparity across the state is so high that many of the northern Karnataka districts performance is very poor and at par with BIMARU states,” the report states about poverty, adding: “The state average is pulled down due to these extreme variations in the state.” When it comes to hunger, the situation is ‘alarming’ in seven districts and ‘serious’ in seven others, most of them in north Karnataka, according to the report. “In the state, more than 60.9% of children aged 6‐59 months and 45.4% of pregnant women aged 15‐49 years are anaemic. This calls for a multiple thronged strategy...”  Specifically, Karnataka is below the national average when it comes to the percentage of households that have a member covered by a health scheme or insurance, HIV incidence per 1,000 uninfected, the annual dropout rate at secondary education, the ratio of transgender labour force participation against males among others.  “This is a policy document whose implementation is up to the government,” Karnataka State Planning Board deputy chairman BJ Puttaswamy said. “The SDGs will determine the development of the state and the nation. The government should take it seriously.”  The government will have to reprioritise budgetary resources and integrate all programmes and policies to align with the SDGs, the report states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-faces-uphill-battle-on-2030-development-targets-880721.html
01-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shankargouda Patil assumes charge as Karnataka govt's special representative in Delhi||Newly appointed Karnataka Government's Special Representative to Delhi, Shankargouda Patil assumed charge at Karnataka Bhavan here on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, Patil said he wanted to get early clearences to some of pending projects of the state. "Several projects including Mahadayi drinking water scheme and Hubballi-Ankola railway line are awaiting clearence from different central government departments for long. I will work for early clearence of these projects," he said. He also held review meeting with Karnataka Bhavan officials and discussed about state's pending project with the Union Government. Special Resident Commissioner Vijay Ranjan Singh briefed him about the state pending projects at Central Government and its status.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shankargouda-patil-assumes-charge-as-karnataka-govts-special-representative-in-delhi-881083.html
01-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister K S Eshwarappa tests positive for Covid-19||One more Karnataka minister - Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) minister K S Eshwarappa - has tested positive for Covid-19. “I tested positive for Covid-19 today. I do not have any health problems. For now, based on doctors’ advice, I am undergoing treatment in hospital,” Eshwarappa said in a tweet, expressing confidence that he would recover soon “with all your blessings and wishes.” In the past, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had tested Covid-19 positive along with members of his Cabinet including Tourism Minister CT Ravi, Forest Minister Anand Singh and Agriculture Minister BC Patil. On Monday, Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle said she has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under home quarantine. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-k-s-eshwarappa-tests-positive-for-covid-19-881105.html
01-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sudeep distances himself from row over 'drug abuse' in Kannada film industry||Noted Kannada film star Sudeep on Tuesday said he was not aware of the industry being in the grip of drug menace and appealed against its portrayal in negative light based on isolated incidents. "I can only say what I know. I am from the film industry. I really don't know anything about it..," he told reporters days after the Narcotics Control Bureau busted a drug trafficking racket here with the arrest of three people. It had said some "prominent musicians and actors" in Karnataka were under its scanner. The actor, who delivered several hits, said he hardly stepped out of his house once the shooting work was over. "I don't have a large friends circle, so I don't know anything about it," Sudeep, popularly known as Kichcha Sudeep said after his visit to the Siddaganga Math in Tumakuru. The 46-year-old actor appealed to the people not to portray the entire film industry in a negative light based on some isolated incidents as it was a vast field, which has been nurtured by legendary people. Meanwhile, film actor and BJP leader Thara Anuradha submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa highlighting the drug menace taking students and youth of the state into its grip. She insisted that stringent laws such as capital punishment alone can check the problem. Filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh had appeared before the Central Crime Branch police on Monday in response to the summons and was questioned for almost five hours, days after he claimed that many in the industry were into drugs. He also claimed that at least 15 people in the film industry were involved in peddling and consumption of drugs. While many rebutted his claim, a few of them said they have seen people using drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sudeep-distances-himself-from-row-over-drug-abuse-in-kannada-film-industry-881111.html
01-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government forms team to study online liquor sale||Karnataka has formed a team of officials to study the pros and cons of selling liquor online, Excise Minister H Nagesh said Tuesday, adding that the government was seriously pursuing the plan to allow alcoholic drinks to be delivered home. “For online sale of liquor, one team of senior officers has been formed to visit places where the system has been implemented,” Nagesh said. “The team will study the pros and cons, and look at whether or not it is successful and satisfactory. If it is, then we can do it,” he said. At least half-a-dozen states, including Kerala and Maharashtra, have allowed online delivery of liquor. Nagesh said wide consultation was required for the system to be launched in the state. “There’ll be a service charge that will be levied and consumers will have to be ready to pay it. Also, there’s opposition from the wine merchants association. We will have to bring them on board as well,” the minister said. “Once our team of officers submits a report, we will get the chief minister’s opinion and take a decision,” Nagesh said. Under Unlock 4.0 starting September 1, Karnataka allowed bars, pubs and restaurants to serve liquor along with food at 50% seating capacity. After a complete shutdown of liquor sales in March following the first Covid-19 lockdown, the state government allowed sale of liquor in May through MRP outlets. This was followed by permission for clubs, bars and restaurants to clear their stock, while later that month, pubs with RVB (Retail Vend of Beer) were also allowed to clear their stock. “Now that it is business as usual in clubs, pubs, bars and restaurants, we expected a daily revenue of about Rs 80 crore,” Nagesh said. According to government data, the excise revenue at the end of August is Rs 7,580 crore, lower than Rs 9,131 crore in the corresponding period last year. But revenues are rising, having gone up from Rs 1,387 crore in May to Rs 7,580 crore now. The excise revenue target for the 2020-21 fiscal is Rs 22,700 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-forms-team-to-study-online-liquor-sale-881145.html
01-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 9,058 new Covid-19 cases, 135 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported a spike of 9,058 new Covid-19 cases and 135 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 3,51,481 and death toll to 5,837, the Health department said. The day also saw 5,159 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 9,058 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 2,967 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of September 1 evening, cumulatively 3,51,481 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 5,837 deaths and 2,54,626 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 90,999 active cases, 90,237 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 762 are in ICU. As many as 40 out of the total 135 deaths reported on Tuesday were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Mysuru (12), Hassan (11), Shivamogga (10), Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada (7), Ballari, Davangere, Kalaburagi, Koppal and Vijayapura (4), Raichur and Tumakuru (3). Most of the dead were either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI), while contact history of several people was still under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,967, Mysuru (737), Hassan (461), Ballari (393), Dakshina Kannada (352), Tumakuru (327), Davangere (289) and Raichur (245), followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,32,092 infections, followed by Ballari (21,734) and Mysuru (18,686). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban topped the list with 91,180 followed by Ballari (16,325) and Mysuru (12,931). A total of 29,79,477 samples were tested so far, out of which 83,670 were tested on Tuesday alone. Among the samples tested today, 51,987 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-9058-new-covid-19-cases-135-deaths-881202.html
01-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 30 Bills to be tabled in monsoon session||Over 30 bills, including the controversial ordinances on land reforms, APMC and labour laws will be tabled for passage in the upcoming joint session of the legislature scheduled to start on September 21.  During the ten-day session, the Kannada University Bill, Prohibition of Beggary Bill, Electricity Reforms Bill among others are on the cards, along with some 20 ordinances promulgated by the state government since the budget session in March. Opposition parties and activists, meanwhile, have urged the government to reserve the monsoon session for discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic, rather than hastily pushing the reforms, most of which are being prompted by the Centre in order to allow states to borrow more.  Bills with further amendments to laws governing APMC and town & country planning will also be taken up for discussion, sources in Law Department told DH. “We have received 27 Bills till date for passage in the legislature. Up to 35 Bills could be tabled in the upcoming session,” a source said, noting that 26 Bills were tabled in the budget session alone.  A majority of the Bills are linked to reforms mandated by the Centre for allowing states to borrow up to 5% of the GSDP to raise funds for the revenue shortfall caused by the Covid-19 lockdown. Earlier, the borrowing limit for states was capped at 3% of GSDP - equivalent to around Rs 49,000 crore for Karnataka. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah told DH that passing such a large number of laws in haste, without providing enough time for discussion will be an ‘anti-people’ move. “We have learnt that 28 Bills will be placed in the upcoming session. Proceedings will be held only for eight days. Is it possible to discuss all the 28 Bills in such a short duration?” Siddaramaiah said. He is also a member of the business advisory committee of the legislature. Social activist Vinay Sreenivasa urged the government to ensure that the session is used to discuss challenges caused by the pandemic alone. “No new bills should be tabled,” he said, demanding that the government withdraw the ordinances already promulgated. When contacted, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy confirmed that ‘several’ Bills will be discussed in the session.  Several ordinances promulgated by the government have met with opposition from labour unions and farmer groups, who say the ‘reforms’ are not in their best interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-30-bills-to-be-tabled-in-monsoon-session-881210.html
01-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM B S Yediyurappa invites American companies to invest in Karnataka||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said uncertainty around the United States' economic relationship with China, as well as the coronavirus outbreak, provide an opportunity to evaluate the US-India trade and economic relationship, as he pitched the state as an investment destination. "Uncertainty around the US-China economic relationship, as well as the coronavirus outbreak, provide an opportunity to evaluate the US-India trade and economic relationship. This would make India a competitive destination for many US companies," Yediyurappa was quoted as saying in an official release. He said Karnataka has been an attractive investment destination and is one of the most industrially advanced states in India. "Today, Karnataka is a nearly USD 250 billion economy and growing strong. The state has been leading the country in several sectors. The state has traditional strengths in a wide range of industries - such as machine tools, heavy machinery, automobiles, electronics, aerospace & defence, biotechnology," he added. Yediyurappa was addressing a virtual delegation meeting with American business houses to attract trade and investments to the state, organised by the state government in partnership with US-India Business Council (USIBC). The meeting touched upon numerous business opportunities and investments that are available for American investors in Karnataka. The Chief Minister held talks with US industry captains and detailed the huge opportunities in IT, ITES services, machine tooling, manufacturing, aerospace, biotechnology, and engineering design, the release said. Karnataka is the favoured choice for investors and is home to 400 of the Fortune 500 companies in the world. The state is currently ranked second in terms of FDI investments for the period ending March 2020, Yediyurappa said. Keeping the investor-centric approach, our government has launched the New Industrial Policy 2020- 2025, to build a prosperous Karnataka and create large-scale employment opportunities, he said, as he invited US companies to invest across sectors in Karnataka. The virtual delegation meeting was attended by senior state government officials, Ambassador Taranjit Sandhu, Tim Roemer- APCO Executive Director, William Blair CEO Lockheed Martin among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-invites-american-companies-to-invest-in-karnataka-881251.html
01-09-2020||West||Four killed in an accident in Mumbai||At least four persons were killed and four others injured when a speeding car rammed into an eatery in Crawford Market in south Mumbai on Monday night. The accident occurred when a Maruti Esteem car suddenly rammed into the Janata Cafe near Crawford Market. The victims have been identified as one male Nahim, and 3 women: Saroja, Zuneda and one unidentified female. Those injured are:  Mohmmad Juhi, 32,  Nadim Ansari, 40, Kamlesh, 20, and  Mohammad Nadim, 41. They have been admitted to the Sir JJ Hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-killed-in-an-accident-in-mumbai-880722.html
01-09-2020||West||Mild intensity earthquake in Koyna region of Maharashtra||An earthquake of 2.6 magnitude hit the Koyna dam region in Maharashtra's Satara district on Tuesday morning, an official said. There was no report of any casualty or damage to property, the official from the district administration said. "The 2.6 magnitude quake occurred at 7.16 am and its epicentre was eight km from the Koyna dam," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mild-intensity-earthquake-in-koyna-region-of-maharashtra-881000.html
01-09-2020||West||Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar's condition stable: Minister||Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar, who is undergoing treatment for a cardiac ailment, is stable and will be discharged based on doctors' advice, state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Tuesday. Patnekar was admitted to Goa Medical College and Hospital on August 26 after he complained of uneasiness and is being treated for a cardiac ailment. Talking to reporters, Rane said, "I have met him at the hospital. He is stable. He will be given discharge depending on the advice of doctors who are treating him," the minister said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-speaker-rajesh-patnekars-condition-stable-minister-881012.html
01-09-2020||West||Mumbai: Devotees bid farewell to Lord Ganesh in subdued manner||The immersion of idols of Lord Ganesh, which in previous years used to be an elaborate affair at the end of the 10-day Ganpati festival, was being conducted without any fanfare on Tuesday in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. More than 35,000 police personnel were deployed across the city and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation also made arrangements for incident-free immersion of idols on the occasion of 'Anant Chaturdashi', marking the culmination of the 10-day festivities. Till Tuesday noon, a total of 492 Ganesh idols, including 16 from public pandals and 476 installed by residents at home, were immersed at various visarjan points here, an official said. Out of these, 10 idols of the public mandals and 199 idols installed by people at their homes were immersed in artificial lakes set up for the purpose, he said, adding there was no any untoward incident so far during the immersion. Various wings of the police department are manning the streets and the security personnel are also keeping a close warch on the immersion with the help of about 5,000 CCTV cameras, the official said. In a bid to avoid crowding, police have appealed to people to not perform 'aarti' at the visarjan spots before immersion of idols. Instead, people have been asked to perform the ritual at their residences before stepping out, an official said on Monday. Mandals or groups that organise Lord Ganesh festival have been directed to strictly follow Covid-19 norms like maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-devotees-bid-farewell-to-lord-ganesh-in-subdued-manner-881040.html
01-09-2020||West||Gujarat to enact 'Gunda Act' to prosecute habitual criminals||The Vijay Rupani government will enact the 'Gujarat Gunda and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act' to rein in habitual criminals. Under this law, those indulging in anti-social activities or disturbing peace will be given jail terms ranging from seven to 10 years, and fined Rs 50,000, a state government release said on Tuesday. Government officials found abetting such people will face prison terms of not less than three years which may go up to 10 years, the release further informed. Since the state Assembly is not in session, the new law will be made effective by bringing in an ordinance, it said, adding that Chief Minister Rupani will give assent to the ordinance in a cabinet meet scheduled for Wednesday. Gundas, as per this Act, are those who threaten and bully people in personal capacity or in groups, or those engaged in disturbing public order or involved in anti-social activities, said the release. "This Act includes narcotic substances, liquor and drugs-related crimes, capturing property, creating bogus property documents, women trafficking, offences related to POCSO Act, extortion and kidnapping for ransom," it said. Other crimes for which the accused can be tried under this Act include spreading terror among people, engaging in violence for recovering money, illegal transportation of animals, violations of Arms Act and engaging in production, sale and transportation of arms-ammunitions, said the release. Witnesses will be given protection under the new Act, including not revealing their names, the release said, while special courts will be set up and past cases currently pending in normal courts will be transferred in these courts. The Act also empowers courts to attach properties of such anti-social elements, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-to-enact-gunda-act-to-prosecute-habitual-criminals-881043.html
01-09-2020||West||Rescue operations continue in flood-hit Chandrapur district||Even as water started receding in flood-hit areas of Maharashtra's east Vidarbha region, rescue operations continued in low-lying areas of Chandrapur district on Tuesday, an official said. Two teams from the Army were deployed in Pombhurna tehsil and Ladaj village in Brahmapuri for relief and rescue, the district disaster management officer (DDMO) Jitesh Survade said. As many as 150 families are presently being evacuated in Pombhurna and the operation will end on Tuesday as water has started receding, he said. Water discharge from Gosikhurdh Dam, which was 30,000 cumec on Monday, had come down to 5,000 cumec, the official said. While a few places are still inundated, connectivity is gradually being restored, he said. Meanwhile, defence PRO Basantkumar Pande said after successfully rescuing people at Pavni, Dhamni and Gondpimpri as part of Operation KUHI, the Army column has now been requisitioned by the civic administration to rescue people in Brahmapuri tehsil of the district. Army column of Guards Regimental Centre and Engineer Task Force from Pune, under the aegis of UMANG Sub Area, have moved through the night and commenced relief and rescue operations, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rescue-operations-continue-in-flood-hit-chandrapur-district-881059.html
01-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI questions Rhea Chakraborty's parents; NCB, ED probe Bollywood-drug mafia nexus||After 13 days of investigation into the mysterious death of Sushant Singh Rajput, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday for the first time grilled Rhea Chakraborty’s parents even as Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) dug deeper into the angle of Bollywood-drug mafia nexus. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) continued to investigate the money laundering angle. Rhea and her brother Showik have been grilled multiple times by the CBI over the past few days. Their parents Lt Col (retd) Dr Indrajit Chakraborty and Sandhya drove to the DRDO & Air Force office/transit facility at Kalina in Mumbai. Meanwhile, hectic activity was seen at the offices of ED and NCB, both located in the Ballard Estate area of Mumbai. Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya was being grilled by the ED as agencies found out WhatsApp chat between him and Rhea. Some of the Bollywood personalities and politicians are under the scanner of the three premier central agencies, that is looking at various angles into the case. During the interrogation, Rhea and Siddharth Pithani, the flatmate of Sushant, had told the agencies that the actor used to smoke marijuana. They agencies are trying to zero in on the drug mafia that was supplying contraband to the who’s who of the entertainment industry. The NCB has registered the case against Rhea and others under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, including Section 27, which specifies punishment for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance and Section 29, which provides for punishment in case of abetment and criminal conspiracy. NCB director-general Rakesh Asthana held a meeting with top officials of the premier anti-narcotics agency. The NCB is conducting an intensive operation against the illegal import of curated marijuana (bud), which is primarily sourced from the USA and Canada and has huge market demand in Mumbai. In all, 3.5 kg of bud has been seized from foreign post offices based on the specific inputs. “The widespread use and demand of bud in Mumbai region has jacked up the prices in the grey market and it has huge pecuniary gains in the trafficking. The sourcing of the bud is primarily through the Darknet, which gives the layers of the anonymity to the buyers and sellers. The economic transactions in these types of international drug trafficking is based on the cryptocurrency dealings,” NCB’s deputy director of operations KPS Malhotra said. The operations in Mumbai had found the links with Goa and one person F. Ahmed, a resident of Calangute, Goa has been intercepted, who works in a prominent resort as driver. It has further been learnt that F. Ahmed was supplying the bud to some prominent receiver at Bangalore, who has linkages with Page 3 celebrities. In the operations at Delhi, the source of the bud was found to be the USA. The consignee of the contraband was based in Delhi, but was misguided by his contact at Mumbai that some legal stuff is being procured from the USA and the same was further to be collected by Mumbai based persons, whose search is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-questions-rhea-chakrabortys-parents-ncb-ed-probe-bollywood-drug-mafia-nexus-881104.html
01-09-2020||West||Vijay Rupani govt to bring 'Gujarat Gunda and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act'||The Vijay Rupani led BJP government on Tuesday said that it is proposing a new law named ''Gujarat Gunda and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act'' which will be introduced in the state through an ordinance after discussion in the coming state cabinet meeting. The new law, as announced, is to rein in habitual offenders who will be dealt with stringent punishments ranging from seven years to ten years jail term. "The Gujarat Gunda and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act will tighten the leash on anti-social elements who are a hindrance in the state’s progress. This act will introduce strict laws against people who are involved in the illegal trade of alcohol, gambling, cow-slaughter, human and child trafficking, sale of counterfeit medicines, sale of substances like drugs, kidnapping, transport and sale of illegal weapons etc," the government said in a release. The proposed ordinance has provisions for people involved in anti-social activities or found planning to engage in such acts, seven years to ten years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs50,000. The release states that "government officials/public servants if found abetting such people will face a prison term no less than 3 years and up to 10 years." The government has also made provisions in the ordinance for 6-month imprisonment without penalty and a fine of Rs.10,000 for any act committed by "thugs in violation of the rules of the Act." Thugs, the statement says, are defined as "those who threaten and bully people individually or in groups, or those engaged in the destruction of public properties. Such people will be punished under this law." The Gunda Act will include cases of narcotics drugs, alcohol, activities such as counterfeit property documents or claiming land through dubious means or abetting in the illegal acquisition of land among others. Offences like prostitution, cases under the Child Protection Act, Gambling Prevention Act, attempts to resort to violence and disrupt harmony, spreading panic and terror among people, kidnapping for ransom, engaging in physical violence for recovering money, illegal transportation of animals, violations of the Arms Act and engaging in production, sale and transportation of arms and ammunition will also be included under "The Gujarat Gunda and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act’." Special courts will be set up to try these cases. "Cases will proceed and come to a definite result even if the accused cannot be physically present for the hearing, on account of being accused in multiple offences and cannot be produced in the special courts during the hearing. People violating the provisions of this act will face a prison term of up to 1 year and a fine up to Rs.5000. The property of the thugs will be confiscated by the District Magistrate in case the property accumulated by thugs is liable to be investigated. If required, they can also appoint a property administrator for the same," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vijay-rupani-govt-to-bring-gujarat-gunda-and-anti-social-activities-prevention-act-881121.html
01-09-2020||West||Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra cross eight lakh-mark||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 15,765 fresh cases of coronavirus infection, taking the case tally in the state to 8,08,306, said a health official. With 320 new fatalities being recorded, the death toll due to the pandemic reached 24,903. The number of active cases in the state is 1,98,523. 10,978 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered cases to 5,84,537. The state capital Mumbai recorded 1,142 new cases and 35 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city thus rose to 1,46,947 and death toll to 7,693. The number of active cases in the megapolis is 20,067. Pune city reported 1,738 new cases along with 40 deaths. The total number of cases in Pune city rose to 1,02,849, and death toll stood at 2,579, the official said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 8,08,306, New cases 15,765, Death toll 24,903, Recoveries 5,84,537, Active cases 1,98,523 and people tested so far 42,11,752.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-cross-eight-lakh-mark-881231.html
