02-09-2020||First Edit||All is well, but matter has not ended||Both the Supreme Court, which proceeded suo moto against activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court, and the lawyer, who denied he had committed any contempt, have reasons to be vindicated by the way the case has ended, for the time being. The court found Bhushan guilty of the charge and punished him. Bhushan accepted the punishment, still maintaining that he had done no wrong. The court had sought an apology from him which he was not ready to proffer, telling the court he was ready to accept any punishment it imposed on him. He has now accepted the punishment, and thus stuck to his position, without accepting the ruling that he is guilty. By making the token payment of Re 1 that the court prescribed, he was only submitting to the authority of the court, which in any case he had not challenged, and which any citizen of the country has to accept and respect.  Though the case before the three-judge bench has concluded, the issue has not found closure. Bhushan has decided to go in for a review petition in the court. There was an informed and extensive public debate on the issues involved in the case after the Supreme Court took up the case. That showed wide support for Bhushan’s position and recognition of the need to refrain from a literal and narrow interpretation of the contempt of court provisions from jurists, lawyers and others. It also engendered a healthy discussion on the role and status of the judiciary. Delivering the punishment to Bhushan, the court said that “both the tweets, coupled with averments in the reply affidavit, are capable of shaking the confidence of the public in the institution as a whole”. The view may not be readily shared.  It would have enhanced the prestige of the court if it had ignored the tweets that mentioned the court, former chief justices and the present Chief Justice of India (CJI). Contempt of court provisions are at best vague and found their place in the statute book when the idea of citizens’ rights was not as strong as it is now. In the jurisprudence of all modern democracies, the rights of citizens are held more important than the privileges of institutions of State. So, most democracies consider freedom of speech more important than the protective privileges of institutions like courts and parliament which are decided and enforced by these very same institutions. Though both the court and Bhushan stuck to their positions and Bhushan has accepted the punishment, he may claim a moral victory after the entire episode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/all-is-well-but-matter-has-not-ended-881284.html
02-09-2020||First Edit||Scale of shrinkage in GDP worrying||The decline in economic activity, reflected in the fall in GDP during the first quarter of the current financial year, has turned out to be much worse than expected. A 23.9% contraction of the economy sets a poor record and shows that the nationwide lockdown which was in place in April and May has taken the economy back to the 2014 level, erasing the gains made since then. The actual damage could be much more, because the available figures are provisional as all data could not be collected during the lockdown days. The informal economy, which forms a major part of the economy and affects the lives of large numbers of people, has taken a most serious blow. There are no reliable estimates of its performance and when that too is added, the overall picture is likely to become bleak and dismal.  All sectors of the economy, except agriculture and allied activities, had a free fall. Private consumption spending, which supports much of the GDP growth, fell by 26.7% as all non-essential and discretionary spending was avoided by consumers. Investment activity and exports, which contribute to a major part of the economy, fell by 47% and 20% respectively. Among all the sectors, construction was hit the most, shrinking by as much as 50%. Services, which cover trade, hospitality and transport, were down by 47%, followed by manufacturing’s 39% contraction. Sectors which saw less damage were financial services and power as they saw only single digit declines. Public administration, defence and other services also declined by more than 10%. The only green patch was the agriculture sector, which grew by 3.4% with a good rabi harvest. There is the prospect of a good kharif harvest, too, which augurs well for the sector, though there are worries about the impact of uneven rainfall in some key farming regions.  But the prospects for the other sectors, and thus for the economy, are not promising even with relaxation in the lockdown and the reopening of many areas. There is some pick up in some sectors. But the pandemic is spreading, and so economic activities will continue to be constrained and businesses, households and individuals will be averse to spending. The only remedial measure that can help seems to be increased government spending, which can boost demand and send growth impulses across the economy. The fiscal deficit target for the whole year has been exceeded in just the first four months and government revenues are shrinking. But the government will have to find ways and means to increase expenditure, as that seems to be the only way out of the present economic circumstances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/scale-of-shrinkage-in-gdp-worrying-881661.html
02-09-2020||In Perspective||NEP 2020: Disregarding a fundamental right||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 proposes ‘universalisation’ of education for all children from the age of three to 18 years.  But one finds no reference in the entire document to education already being a Fundamental Right as per the Right to Education (RTE) Act, at least for children between six and fourteen years of age.  Also, there is a single reference in the NEP to ‘free and compulsory education’, just in passing.  Ambarish Rai, national convener of the Right to Education Forum points out,  “The final policy talks about universalisation of school education from 3-18 years, without making it a legal right. Hence there is no mandatory mechanism for the union and state governments to make it a reality”. “Without the RTE Act, universalisation will be very difficult,” he says. One would have thought that an extension of the Fundamental Right to the ages from 3–18 years was what could be considered an improvement over the already existing RTE Act.  The NEP is mostly about the school, its infrastructure, curriculum and intra-classroom pedagogy, etc.  Not that these are not important, but it is as though the economic, political and societal contexts in which the child and the school are located have no bearing on the outcomes of education.  One fails to find a single reference in the entire document to ‘child labour’, or ‘child marriage’ as factors impeding a child’s education.  The question that is not analysed in the policy is why after more than ten years of the RTE Act, making education a justiciable Fundamental Right, more than two crore children are still out of school and only 12% schools have fulfilled RTE norms.  Should not the reasons for this failure have been analysed so that corresponding corrective steps could have been suggested? Two overall initiatives to bring back all drop-outs and retain them have been outlined, which is “to provide effective and sufficient infrastructure so that all students have access to safe and engaging school education” and providing “regular trained teachers at each stage”.  Will mere pious statements as the above solve the problem, when most studies do not say that these are the main reasons why children drop out? Do the solutions proposed address the root causes? There is also talk of engaging “counsellors or well-trained social workers” to continuously engage with students, their parents and communities to ensure that all children are in school.  But can this be a substitute for the “lack of effective enforcement mechanisms at grassroots level to make claims on the State to fulfil its Constitutional duty of ensuring the Right to Education” and demand legal accountability from the system? This is what Florian Matthey-Prakash in his book, “The Right to Education in India”, says is impeding fulfilment of the Right to Education.  Also, a PIL in the Supreme Court by the Akhil Delhi Prathmik Shikshal Sangh questioned the lack of accountability in the system for implementing the RTE Act, as approximately 3.68 crore children were out of school as of 2015-16.  The final order in this PIL has not made it clear whether the Fundamental Right ensured by the RTE Act is genuinely justiciable.  As per newspaper reports, while a Bench headed by Chief Justice Dipak Mishra said “This is a very, very good petition,” in January 2018, a Bench headed by Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi, dismissed the same petition in November 2018, saying, “Don’t expect miracles. India is a huge, huge country…”.  Should not the NEP have examined the extant grievance redressal mechanisms under the RTE Act available at the panchayath and municipal levels and at the level of the State Commissions for Protection of Child Rights to enable better access to justice for those denied their rights under the RTE Act? Another aspirational statement in the NEP is to “universalize” ECCE and ensure that every Anganwadi has “a well-ventilated, well-designed, child-friendly and well-constructed building with an enriched learning environment”.  But how is it that studies point out that over 3 lakh anganwadi centres still don’t have proper toilets and over 1.5 lakh lack potable drinking water as of December 2019, though there is already a Supreme Court ruling of 28th November 2001 in the Right to Food case that ECCE should be universalized? The SC directed that every habitation should have a functional Anganwadi and that ICDS services should be extended to all children up to the age of six years.  Do we have an analysis of what went wrong and why this has remained a distant dream almost twenty years later? A fresh measure being proposed in the NEP is to make all children learn at least one vocation from class six through secondary school.  Making all children learn a vocation is debatable if some are capable of taking up academic tertiary education.  But when secondary education is not being made compulsory and the Child Labour Act allows children of 15 to 18 years to discontinue education and enter the workforce without any skills, how will these children gain the proposed vocational skills?  There is no point trying to catch them and skill them later in life while hordes continue to enter the labour market without skills.  What is necessary is to ensure children do not enter the labour market without gaining certified vocational skills by the time they are 18 years, if they have less capability for academics.  But this requires that secondary education for children between 15 to 18 years in both the vocational and academic streams is first made compulsory and the Child Labour Act is amended to ban all work by children under 18 years. A complete abdication of a rights-based approach and sidelining of the RTE Act is what is woven tacitly into the entire NEP 2020 document.  (The writer is Executive Trustee of CIVIC Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/nep-2020-disregarding-a-fundamental-right-881286.html
02-09-2020||In Perspective||Revisiting construction methods||Earthquakes don’t kill people, the collapse of buildings do. Similarly, coronavirus will not kill as many people as the collapse of the economic structure will. Just like we build earthquake-resistant buildings, we need to build more resilient economies. The pandemic has offered us that chance. Consider what has happened to the construction sector. Millions of workers depending on it for their livelihood were disposed of. They made their long walks to freedom, many dying on the way. One shudders to see those pictures. Could this have been avoided?  Consider what have we done with our construction techniques to damage our resilience irreparably. India’s climate and geography does not need cement and glass construction. In fact, for thousands of years, we had been living in perfectly ecological connectedness making our houses with locally available materials--stone, lime, wood, mud and so on. These houses are climatically more responsive and far more resilient. While cement or a glass house becomes hot during summers and cold during winters, regionally sourced materials do the opposite. Building houses is an art we had perfected for thousands of years. The architectural wisdom, even of small huts, was invaluable. The designs were human-centric, not building centric. Cement and glass entered our society because they were useful in making tall towers quickly. None of these two factors was important for small towns and rural India. Yet, they were imposed on us. This imposition was an epistemic attack on our way of life. It was done by designing a new vocabulary to alter our aspirations. Remember our primary school textbooks in schools, and the drawing of ‘pucca’ and a ‘kutcha’ house? Cement houses were termed as pucca houses, and the value judgment was created. Ashis Nandy says that colonisation does not happen when a society territorially dominates the other. He says colonisation happens when the colonised start thinking like the coloniser. Values of coloniser become value of colonised. This unplugs the colonised from their own roots, heritage, culture and wisdom. This marks the beginning of a long period of violence, which over time manifests in short horrific instances. Something similar is happening in rural construction. For instance, the kitchen in most households traditionally is a space allocated on the outside, an open verandah. The spatial organization allowed for more gatherings to take place in a village. People would eat, sleep and spend time together outside the house. New constructions have drawn people inside, disconnecting them from each other and their environment. This room-centric rather than community-centric design of rural households that prevents people from accessing their own social fabric. Women remain inside, and men create walls. A more horrific result is the loss of rural jobs and deterioration in the life of construction workers in cities. Decades of alienation from their own wisdom pushes them to depravity. A good part of India has been a craft-centric society. People would build their own homes and decorate them with hand. Cement and glass are western expressions. In our obsession to embrace modernisation, we threw away all that we had, irreversibly. Government laws exacerbated this further. I am helping design a small, community school in a village in western UP. The government does not recognise a structure unless a ‘pucca’ slab is cast for the roof. All our donation fund was spent on buying and making cement. This knocks out any possibility of creativity and local knowledge to flourish. Government housing schemes often do not allow for bamboo or local-material construction in many parts of India. The skill to make these ingenious houses is dying. Ours is a 5000-year old, unbroken history. This continuity was possible because it was a decentralized culture. Monopolies of ideas and products damage vast, sustainable ways of living. The entire discipline of agricultural science in India is designed with an aim to achieve scale and growth. Indian agriculture has historically relied on small farms and innovative techniques of manure, crop-rotation and irrigation. Albert Howard’s book Agriculture Testament reminds us of agricultural wisdom of this country existing barely a hundred years ago. Right now, as Vandana Shiva will tell you, how we have become alien to it and are importing the concept of ‘organic’ foods. Large scale agriculture was a western expression that assumed a monopoly. Just like it has led to exodus of millions of farmers to spend lives of destitution in cities, so has the western expression of cement and glass. Let us recognize there is a sea of difference between economic mobility and uprooting. And the first step towards setting our house in order is to find ways to prevent such uprooting. Post-pandemic world needs to recognize this; that people need to find their livelihoods in and around their roots. This can be achieved by decentralizing construction sector. Imagine if we localise construction techniques. It will suddenly infuse new life in creative employment in villages. Masons and contractors, who are losing their native skills and wisdom will go back to it. They will be better able to source the material available around them in plenty rather than depend on cement and glass companies. They will build ecologically sustainable houses which are not only climatically more comfortable, but also which enable co-creation. A new vocabulary of dwelling creativity can be unlocked. Village and small town construction must encourage and celebrate local material construction. It will revive prospects for jobs More importantly, we can recalibrate their inferiority against cities. Growing up without a sense of pride with one’s own identity is one of the worst inflicted violence, and most fundamental causes for long run decline in economy and culture. One of the principal disagreements of Gandhi and Nehru had been on their views of Indian villages. We have taken up Nehru’s view uncritically. It may be the time to listen to what Gandhi said. His ideas grew under the wake of British rule. For us, it may be under the wake of coronavirus’ rule. (The writer is a practising, community architect in Ahmedabad and Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/revisiting-construction-methods-881663.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Prices of Udupi Mallige rise||The prices of Udupi Mallige or Shankarapura Mallige has witnessed an increase, bringing smiles on the face of growers. The Covid-19 induced lockdown had a negative impact on the sale of jasmine and farmers had incurred a huge loss. The price had crashed from Rs 100 to Rs 50 for one ‘Atti’ (four chendus make one atti) of jasmine in the previous months. The price has been increasing steadily for the past few days and on Tuesday, it jumped to Rs 1,250. It had even touched Rs 1,500 per atti on Sunday. On August 29, an atti of jasmine fetched Rs 1,050, while it was Rs 950 on August 28, Rs 730 on August 27, Rs 560 on August 26, according to the Udupi Mallige app. Amid lockdown restrictions, sellers had suspended the sale of jasmine. Post lockdown, with few ceremonies being conducted, the prices of jasmine have increased, a jasmine seller, Mohammed Arif from Katpadi, said. The production of jasmine is less during monsoon. However, jaaji mallige production increases during monsoon. The price of jaaji mallige too had touched Rs 250 per atti. On Tuesday, it was Rs 150 per atti. The demand for jaaji mallige is less when compared to Udupi mallige, said Shankarapura Mallige farmer Ronald Castellino. “The rates of Shankarapura Mallige had declined from March after the authorities laid restrictions for large gatherings, temple fairs and the sale completely stopped from March 23. An atti of jasmine was sold for Rs 600 before March 20 and the price declined to Rs 150 on March 21,” a farmer said. Despite zero demand, farmers could not remain quiet without plucking flowers. “We have to pluck the flowers daily to avoid pest menace. If we fail to pluck the buds, the pests start eating the buds and later start damaging the tender leaves, thus affecting its growth,” the farmer added. As jasmine cultivation is still an unorganised sector, the price of Udupi Mallige is decided daily through auction by a group of jasmine growers and agents at Shankarpura katte. The yield in the jasmine plants during summer is ten times more than the yield in winter and monsoon, said farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prices-of-udupi-mallige-rise-881375.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||3 arrested for online lottery fraud in Kollegal||The Kollegal town police have taken into custody three persons involved in an online lottery fraud at Santhebeedhi on Tuesday evening. Police arrested Shivakumar, Kumar and Manjunath, who are residents of the town. Based on a tip-off that the trio were selling single-number online lottery tickets for a Kerala-based lottery scheme in the town, they conducted a raid and took them into custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-arrested-for-online-lottery-fraud-in-kollegal-881525.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Narcotic drug is part of terrorism: Pratap Simha||MP Pratap Simha on Wednesday said that narcotic drugs are a part of terrorism and it destroys the nation. Speaking to reporters here, he said, the drugs are not limited to the only film industry but is spread everywhere. Drugs destroy the nation and there is a need for a campaign to eradicate the menace, he said. He refused to comment on the statements issued by former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy that money from drug mafia was used to topple JD(S)-Congress coalition government. The MP said, “It is a baseless allegation. There should be some relevant documents before levelling any allegations.” BJP MLC A H Vishwanath demanded the state government to follow Punjab government, which took concrete steps to end drug addiction among youth. He recommended sending a team comprising psychologists, police officials, social activists, representatives of non-government organisations and ministers, to Punjab to study the measures taken to curb drugs.  Vishwanath also demanded to disclose the names of the accused involved in drug mafia. No one should be spared, he said. Vishwanath too denied to comment on Kumaraswamy’s statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/narcotic-drug-is-part-of-terrorism-pratap-simha-881648.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Vidyagama' receives good response; gains popularity||The Education Department's initiative, ‘Vidyagama’, to keep government and aided school students on education track, during the Covid-19 crisis, is receiving good response in the district. The initiative is gaining popularity among students and parents. Vidyagama, a continuous learning plan for students studying in government and aided schools, is introduced to ensure education for students who have no technology-based gadgets to attend online classes. The respective teacher, also mentor, visits the neighbourhood of the students and conducts a variety of activities and also clear doubts of students on various topics. Vidyagama is a guidance and skill development programme. The schools have created small groups of students and the mentor visits them. Shamanna, a parent of Bilikere, whose son is in class VI, said, "The new initiative is helpful for students, as well as parents. It was difficult for me to procure e-gadgets for my son’s online classes. Now, a teacher visits the area and conducts activities. The system saved me from borrowing money. The initiative keeps students on the academic track." Sandesh, son of Shamanna said that he was worried about his classes. “I had no clarity about school. Now, our teacher visits my area and keeps us informed about academic activities. The new system is better than staying idle at home,” he opined.    Anitha, a teacher of an aided school, said that initially, it was difficult to conduct activities and could not manage students. "Now, the system is working smoothly and the students are showing interest to attend the sessions, as more activities are conducted. The students are told to watch classes on Doordarshan TV channel and if they have any doubt, we will clear them during the session,” she said. The students are grouped, based on the classes and guided to continue self-learning at home with the learning materials provided. Initially, a few parents were reluctant to send their children. But, the mentors managed to convince them, by explaining the safety measures. Deputy Director for Public Instructions (DDPI) Panduranga said that Vidyagama is receiving good response across the district. "The mentors visit children at their neighbourhood as many times as possible in a week and observe their progress in learning and co-curricular activities. The children are gathering in community centres, religious places, anganwadi centres and following the norms of social distancing. Initially, a few teachers faced difficulty. Now, the system is implemented effectively," he said.   State Project Director of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan M Deepa visited a few schools in rural Mysuru and interacted with the children. As many as 1.90 lakh students are participating in ‘Vidyagama’, the DDPI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vidyagama-receives-good-response-gains-popularity-881649.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||2kg gold robbed from police constable’s house||Thieves have robbed 2 kg gold jewels from the house of a police head constable, Vanajakshi, attached to the City Crime Records Bureau (CCRB) in the city recently. The incident took place when Vanajakshi, along with her husband Vijaykumar, a businessman, visited a hospital to admit her mother-in-law as she was suffering from health issues. The couple had left the house at 10 pm and returned at 3 am. The couple found the valuables missing from the locker and cupboard.  According to sources, Vijaykumar’s relatives had kept gold at their house and Vanajakshi had brought the gold from bank locker. According to the police, the thieves gained entry from balcony to enter the house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2kg-gold-robbed-from-police-constable-s-house-881650.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC gets chairman||Holalkere MLA M Chandrappa has assumed charge as the chairman of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC).  The MLA visited the KSRTC central office on KH Road for assuming the office. Corporation’s Managing Director Shivayogi C Kalasad and other officers were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-gets-chairman-881674.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||MBBS exams deferred to October||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences has decided to postpone the MBBS examinations, scheduled to be held in September, following the request by the students’ association in view of Covid-19 pandemic. A circular issued by the Registrar (evaluation) of the university said, “The examinations, which are scheduled to be held from September 15, have been rescheduled to October. The exams will begin from October 13.” The circular also states that the fee notification and time table will be hosted on the website at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mbbs-exams-deferred-to-october-881679.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||More debt on the cards for Yediyurappa government||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has vowed in public that he would borrow in order to fund development works, and the government seems headed towards more debt in the midst of a financial crisis.  In order to meet the GST compensation shortfall, the state government has picked an option that requires borrowing Rs 11,324 crore. Also, the government will be able to borrow an additional 1% of its GSDP, which translates into Rs 18,036 crore.  Karnataka’s total liabilities for 2020-21 fiscal is estimated to be Rs 3.68 lakh crore. This includes Rs 52,918 crore that Yediyurappa said in his budget speech will be borrowed. Now, the government will look to borrowing an additional Rs 29,360 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/more-debt-on-the-cards-for-yediyurappa-government-881684.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||High court reserves order on NLSIU domicile quota||The Karnataka High Court has reserved its orders on a bunch of petitions challenging domicile reservation in National Law School India University (NLSIU). The court has been hearing three petitions challenging the 25% domicile reservation in the NLSIU. The state government has claimed that of the total 800 graduates during the past decade only 33 students have enrolled in the state bar. Summing up the arguments, Advocate General (AG) Pabhuling K Navadgi made this oral submission before the division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna. The AG further stated that the NLSIU can only be termed as an institution of excellence and not as an institution of eminence. During the hearings, the state had also argued that a horizontal reservation for domiciles would ensure that a portion of local talent graduating from the institution is retained in the state. The state had also submitted that students from other states, after graduating from NLSIU, will most certainly not opt to practice in the state. The state has also contended that the NLSIU Act has been passed by the state legislature and the government has been assisting the institution financially in addition to providing the land. The petition challenged the provisions in the National Law School of India (Amendment) Act 2020. The Act was published in the official gazette on April 27, 2020. The Act provides 25% horizontal institutional preference for students from any recognised institution in Karnataka, for at least a period of 10 years preceding the qualifying examination date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/high-court-reserves-order-on-nlsiu-domicile-quota-881686.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Solar energy to pump water in Madanthyar gram panchayat||A solar-powered pump set was installed for pumping water from borewell for public consumption at Harabe in Madanthyar gram panchayat of Belthangady taluk. In fact, this is the first gram panchayat in Dakshina Kannada to install a solar-powered pump set. The project was implemented under the 15th Finance Commission at a cost of Rs 4.53 lakh. Using solar energy, water will be pumped to the 50,000-litre water tank situated a few meters away from the borewell. For 300-foot deep borwell, five hp 25 stage capacity DC motor has been installed to supply water. To harness solar energy, 300 ah 16 panels have been installed. Selco is maintaining the solar panels for five years. The gram panchayat was spending nearly Rs 18,000 as electricity bill for water supply per month. In addition, Rs 35,000 to Rs 40,000 was incurred annually for the maintenance of the pump sets. Further, disruption in power supply was affecting water supply, PDO Nagesh M told DH. The solar panels are situated five feet above the ground level. To check theft and damages to the solar panels, the gram panchayat is planning to lay a solar-protected fence around the panels and a sum of Rs 25,000 has been earmarked for the purpose. Madanthyar gram panchayat has installed water meters to all the connections. Simputer is used for the collection of water bill. As soon as the water bill is generated, the message reaches the consumer. Water is supplied to the 32 households at Harabe every day between 6 am and 8 am, said the PDO. It takes three-and-a-half hours to fill the tank, using solar energy. MLA Harish Poonja inaugurated the system and said GPs, by harnessing solar energy for supplying water, will help in saving electricity. Selco should take up a campaign in this regard, he added. MLC Prathap Simha said, “Gram panchayats can become self-sufficient in energy by harnessing solar energy which is available in abundance.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/solar-energy-to-pump-water-in-madanthyar-gram-panchayat-881701.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa should reject Centre's proposal to avail loan: Khader||Mangalore MLA and former minister MLA U T Khader urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to reject the Centre’s proposal to avail a loan. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the Centre could not provide any immediate relief to states demanding their GST compensation dues and had asked states to raise loans to meet their needs. It is the right of every state to demand GST dues. The Centre had promised that it will pay GST compensation to states in past, said Khader. The finance minister who blamed god for her inability to handle the economic crisis should resign immediately, he demanded. He said the GDP of the country had fallen to 3% from 8 to 9% even before the Covid-19 pandemic in India. Asking states to take loans instead of giving its share of GST dues is not right. It shows that the government had failed in managing financial issues. The MLA said GST which was planned during the UPA tenure, is the best tax reform, but it is being implemented badly by the BJP government.   The state’s GST share for the past four months is Rs 13,740 crore. “Why should the state government borrow money instead of seeking its rightful GST share? Let the Centre borrow money from Reserve Bank of India and pay GST compensation to states. He urged all MPs from Karnataka to stage a dharna in front of the Parliament seeking GST share. When the Centre can waive loans borrowed by corporates, why can’t they pay GST compensation to states? The Central government should clarify about RBI’s Rs 1.76 lakh crore surplus transfer with details on how it was spent, he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-should-reject-centres-proposal-to-avail-loan-khader-881414.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress will raise Bengaluru violence issue in assembly: Siddaramaiah||Demanding fair probe into last month's violence in the city, Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said the Congress will raise the issue during the upcoming monsoon session of the state legislature. The former chief minister, who was under Covid-19 treatment when the incident happened, on Wednesday, visited D J Halli and adjoining areas where rioters were involved in arson on August 11 night. "I urge the government that the inquiry has to happen as soon as possible, it should be fair and the guilty should be punished," Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters here, he said whoever it is and however big they are, if they are guilty they should be punished. Innocent people should not be punished. Further pointing out that he has demanded constitution of a judicial commission to probe into the incident, for the truth to come out, Siddaramaiah said, "even today I demand for a judicial commission headed by a sitting high court judge." "... we will raise the issue (Bengaluru violence) in the assembly," he said in response to a question. Monsoon session of the legislature will be held from September 21 to September 30. The violence was unleashed by hundreds of people over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of Pulakeshinagar Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. The MLAs residence and a police station at D J Halli were torched by rioters, who also set on fire many police and private vehicles, besides looting the belongings of the legislator and his sister. More than 300 people have been arrested in connection with the violence and investigation is on. Also retired judge Justice H S Kempanna has been appointed as the "Claim Commissioner" for assessment of damages caused during the violence and to recover the costs from the culprits. Responding to a query about the alleged involvement of some Congress corporators behind the incident, Siddaramaiah asked unless it is proved or there is evidence how can someone be blamed. He said, "I don't want to talk about any party... the inquiry is still in the preliminary stage, we cannot say such things like BJP leaders and Home Minister are doing at this stage." Siddaramaiah said he feels that if the police had announced Naveen's arrest to the mob immediately, mostly this level of violence wouldn't have happened. Asserting that only guilty should be punished, he said, "according to some there are innocents among those arrested... during the investigation if there is no evidence against them they should be released. Innocents should not be punished, they should not be sent to jail."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-will-raise-bengaluru-violence-issue-in-assembly-siddaramaiah-881558.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Pranab Mukherjee agreed with RSS’ nationalism: BJP||The BJP on Wednesday took potshots at Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and Siddaramaiah who lamented late former president Pranab Mukherjee’s participation at an RSS event.  “BJP is amused by the Congress party’s discomfiture,” party spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said.  Mukherjee had two messages to convey, one to the Congress and another to the RSS, Karnik said. “To the Congress, Dr Mukherjee meant to tell in no uncertain terms that he is sick and fed up of the politics of minority appeasement, practising pseudo-secularism, running down the cultural heritage of the country in the name of secularism and absence of national character in the country’s oldest political party.” Karnik added, “To the RSS, Dr Mukherjee meant to tell categorically that he agreed with the RSS ideology of nationalism; inculcating national character in each and every individual and training the people to undertake service activities at times of national disaster selflessly,” he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pranab-mukherjee-agreed-with-rss-nationalism-bjp-881680.html
02-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Cabinet expansion unlikely before monsoon session||Several ministerial aspirants might have to wait longer as Cabinet expansion/reshuffle seemed “very unlikely” before the upcoming monsoon session of the legislature, according to BJP leaders. Reports of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s visit to Delhi ahead of the session starting September 21, had triggered interest over the Cabinet expansion. Three rebels of the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition, who became MLCs recently are waiting in the wings for a Cabinet berth, with eight-time MLA Umesh Katti and another MLC C P Yogeeshwar among the hopefuls. However, a petition against inducting the MLCs MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar and A H Vishwanath into the Cabinet before the High Court has cast a cloud over their ministerial prospects, generating interest among other BJP legislators vying for a berth. A senior BJP leader told DH that Cabinet expansion will not take place before the session. “Indications are that new ministers will be sworn-in in October,” he said. Another ministerial aspirant noted that legislators were not keen on taking charge right before the session, and were willing to wait till it was over. The Cabinet expansion delay, despite the brewing discontentment among few legislators, has also added fuel to rumours of possible leadership change by the end of 2020. “The recent notice by High Court to the state government, governor and chief minister on public interest litigation over inducting Nagaraj, Shankar and Vishwanath, will also be a challenge for the CM,” sources said. The prospects of Vishwanath making it to the Cabinet is virtually zero after his recent remark on Tipu Sultan, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cabinet-expansion-unlikely-before-monsoon-session-881689.html
02-09-2020||Main Article||Pakistan is losing friends||Pakistan might be reeling under debt and the flagship China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) might be facing serious problems, but when it comes to Sino-Pakistan relations, rhetoric is all that matters. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his Pakistani counterpart, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, met in the South China island province of Hainan last week and grandly proclaimed that “the joint construction of the belt and road should be accelerated to bring more benefits to the two peoples.” At a time when there are serious doubts about the viability of the CPEC projects, it was important for the two nations to send out a message that all’s well. This $62 billion flagship project of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s vanity agenda, the Belt and Road Initiative, is critical for the overall health of the Sino-Pakistan engagement, which otherwise is just fuelled by their anti-India foreign policy frameworks. Xi’s likely visit to Pakistan, deferred from earlier this year, has only added a sense of urgency to this dynamic. China has been forced to pump in some more money and Pakistan has been forced to take on more debt only to sustain the façade of a productive economic engagement between the two nations. Amidst increased delays and funding crunch, Pakistan has had to roll back several projects and China has complained of security concerns and inept administration. But then, there is always the India factor to tide over these mundane matters. And so the second round of China-Pakistan foreign ministers’ strategic dialogue saw the Pakistani side briefing “the Chinese side on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, including its concerns, position and current urgent issues” and the Chinese side reiterating “that the Kashmir issue is a dispute left over from history between India and Pakistan, which is an objective fact, and that the dispute should be resolved peacefully and properly through the UN Charter, relevant Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements. China opposes any unilateral actions that complicate the situation.” China has been trying to raise the Kashmir issue at the United Nations Security Council at the behest of Pakistan since last August, when India revoked Article 370, but has been repeatedly rebuffed by other powers. Yet, it has not given up, if only to show Islamabad how much Beijing cares about it. In their joint statement, China underscored once again that Pakistan was “its staunchest partner in the region” and it would “firmly support” the country “in safeguarding its territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence” and in “striving for a better external security environment.” China’s growing salience in Pakistani foreign policy calculus can also be gauged by the recent deterioration in Saudi-Pakistan ties. Earlier this month, Pakistan took a loan from China to repay a $1 billion Saudi loan that was called in after Islamabad tried to pile up pressure on Saudi Arabia to mobilise the Islamic world on the issue of Kashmir. Riyadh had helped Islamabad with a $6.2 billion package in 2018 to tide over a serious economic crisis. But Pakistan’s Kashmir obsession led to a serious disagreement when Saudi Arabia declined to entertain Islamabad’s call for convening a special session of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on Kashmir. Then, this month, against the backdrop of the first anniversary of Article 370’s revocation, Shah Mahmood Qureshi publicly challenged Riyadh, saying “Today, I am telling the OIC to convene the meeting of the council of foreign ministers. If they cannot do it, then I will be compelled to ask the prime minister [Imran Khan] to call a meeting of Islamic countries [Iran, Turkey and Malaysia] that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir.” At a time when fault-lines in the Islamic world are hardening and Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is trying to challenge the Saudi position as the guarantor of the Islamic world, this rant would have certainly rankled in Riyadh. In a damage control exercise soon thereafter, Pakistan’s army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa decided to visit Saudi Arabia on August 17 to placate the Saudi leadership. But more humiliation awaited him when unlike his past visits, he could not meet Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS). These are remarkable developments in a relationship which has been a longstanding one and Saudis have been instrumental in bailing a failed state like Pakistan repeatedly. Given its economic dependence on Riyadh, Pakistan cannot afford to alienate the Saudis. Islamabad is trying to rally China’s support, but it cannot replace what Riyadh has been able to offer. Not surprisingly, Pakistan has begun to backtrack and is trying to mend fences with Saudi Arabia. But it is a sign of the changing geopolitical realities that Riyadh is today keener on its ties with India than with Pakistan. As MBS tries to modernise the Saudi economy by reducing its dependence on oil, close economic ties with a country like India are going to be critical. The UAE-Israel deal, resulting in full diplomatic ties between the two, has further opened up new possibilities in the Middle East. India has been able to leverage its economic heft effectively so far and, in the process, has managed to generate positive diplomatic externalities. While it would be farfetched to suggest that there has been a permanent rupture in Pakistan-Saudi ties, the very fact that Riyadh today doesn’t want to toe the Pakistani line when it comes to its engagement with India is a significant achievement of Indian diplomacy. Pakistan’s reliance on China continues to grow and, with Islamabad bereft of other major partners around the world, Beijing’s control over Pakistan is likely to be total very soon. It is for Pakistan to decide if it is prepared to exist as a glorified colony of China. But as the world changes rapidly, Pakistan’s India obsession has meant that its foreign policy choices will not be governed by the evolving ground realities but by its ideological antipathy towards New Delhi. The times, they are a-changin’, but Pakistan remains trapped in a time warp of its own making. (The writer is Director, Studies & Head, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/pakistan-is-losing-friends-881285.html
02-09-2020||Main Article||GST compensation: Karnataka betrayed||Karnataka is in a financial crisis. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said in his budget speech in March that the state’s financial health is not good. The reasons he enunciated are apt: the tax receivable from the Centre for 2019-20 as part of our devolution share decreased by 23%, or Rs 8887 crore. Moreover, at that point of time, the state hadn’t received its GST compensation of nearly Rs 3000 crore, which by March 31 became Rs 4,314 crore. Thus, for the year 2019-20, the Centre denied the state Rs 13,201 crore of its rightful share. A massive loss due to which many important departments are not getting funds and development has taken a backseat. What led to this? It was purely due to the central government’s inept handling of the economy and its disastrous policies. Managing headlines became more important than an in-depth analysis of what was going on; facts and figures were being manipulated to suit these ends. The GDP calculation methodology was changed to present a rosier picture, to cover up the grim reality. The Central Statistical Organisation’s figures on growing unemployment was suppressed so that it didn’t harm the government’s image before the 2019 elections. Various opinions and reports on the true state of the economy were also suppressed. The foolish decision taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demonetise currency in November 2016 was a monumental blunder in itself. It brought our economy to a grinding halt, ruined commerce, and destroyed jobs. Then in a bid to display bold, decisive leadership, the GST was implemented without preparation and planning and was slammed down the nation’s throat, with multiple slabs, high rates and numerous technical glitches, leaving traders and businesses bewildered. The result: India suffered as tax revenues went down and the Centre’s tax devolution to Karnataka was reduced by Rs 8,887 crore. The state’s own remaining sources of revenues were also badly hit. Finance Commission For Karnataka, the next blow was the 15th Finance Commission (FC)’s recommendations, based on new criteria of income, population, forest area, revenue collection effort, etc. Karnataka became the biggest loser amongst all states. As per the 14th FC, our share was 4.71%; now, as per the 15th FC, it is down to 3.65%. Our share in total devolution has come down by a massive 1.06%. Thus, for the first year of the 15th FC, which is the current financial year 2020-21, out of the Government of India’s total tax divisible pool of Rs 8,55,176 crore, we are getting Rs 31,180 crore. Under the 14th FC, it would have been Rs 39,731 crore. Therefore, our loss is a massive Rs 8,551 crore. So, if you take an average growth of 10% per year, the cumulative loss due to the new criteria for the 5-year period of the 15th FC will be in the range of Rs 55,000 crore. This punishment meted out to Karnataka is mainly due to the fact that we are a performing state and for being effective in controlling our population growth. Thank you very much, Modiji. Worse is the betrayal by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The 15th FC, to offset the loss in devolution and revenue deficit grants, recommended to the Modi government a special grant of Rs 5,495 crore to Karnataka for 2020-21. Shockingly, however, Sitharaman, elected to the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka, rejected the recommendation and denied the state this grant. GST Compensation Since GST is a consumption-based tax, manufacturing states were bound to lose tax revenue. Thus, to bring about equity, the GST Compensation Cess was introduced from which states were to be compensated for the loss of revenue, which was expected to grow at 14% a year for five years. This compensation was to be paid until 2022. Amongst all states, Karnataka was to receive the highest GST compensation. This is because we stood to lose the maximum due to GST implementation. GST compensation received so far: 2017-18 Rs 6,246 crore, 2018-19 Rs 10,800 crore, 2019-20 Rs 18,628 crore. For 2020-21, Karnataka’s GST compensation is estimated to be Rs 31,674 crore. However, the state is yet to receive Rs 13,764 crore to compensate for GST revenue shortfall from April-July, and this is still being discussed in the GST Council. What should have been given automatically every two months has been denied. With an already floundering Indian economy, worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Modi government is attempting to escape its responsibility of paying GST compensation and is trying to shift the burden on to the states. These moves threaten the federal structure of our nation and is an act of betrayal by the Modi government. All the talk of “One Nation, One Tax” and “Cooperative Federalism” have remained mere slogans. The states are losing trust in the Union government. After 2022, when the five-year transition period for GST ends, the compensation amount is going to be zero. This is going to blow a big hole in the state’s revenues. Our projected Revenue Deficit is Rs 30,743 crore in 2022-23 and Rs 46,831 crore in 2023-24. I know it sounds unbelievable, but it is true. What is going to happen to Karnataka? If the GST compensation period is not extended, then Karnataka will go from being a revenue surplus state to being a revenue deficit state. Money will have to be borrowed to even take care of salaries, administration and to service debt, let alone for development activities. Essentially, we will be heading towards bankruptcy. (The writer is Congress MLA and former KPCC president)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/gst-compensation-karnataka-betrayed-881662.html
02-09-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Superintendent of Police recovers from Covid-19||Superintendent of Police (SP) C B Ryshyanth successfully recovers from Covid-19 and discharged from hospital on Wednesday. The SP, who tested positive for the infection on August 18, was isolated at Gopala Gowda Shanthaveri Memorial Hospital. He said that he is healthy and has no Covid-19 symptoms. "The Health Department officials have collected the throat swab again and I am waiting for the report,” he said. Inspector-General of Police (IGP) (Southern Range) Vipul Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police Shivakumar, District Health Officer (DHO) Dr R Venkatesh and police personnel congratulated the SP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-superintendent-of-police-recovers-from-covid-19-881599.html
02-09-2020||National||India calls for permanent removal of J&K issue under 'outdated agenda item' in UNSC||India at the UN has called for permanently removing the issue of Jammu and Kashmir under the “outdated agenda item” of the ‘India-Pakistan question’ from the Security Council’s agenda, saying such "irrational exuberance" has no takers in a dignified world. In a veiled attack on Pakistan, India said that there is a delegation that repeatedly attempts to rebrand itself as contributing to international peace but unfortunately fails to recognise that it is globally known for being the fountainhead of international terror and the hub for terror syndicates. During a virtual informal meeting of the plenary on the annual report of the Security Council, Pakistan’s UN envoy Munir Akram had raked up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and said that the Security Council has also been found lacking in implementing its own resolutions and decisions on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. He added that the Council has met thrice during the last one year to consider the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. India, without naming Pakistan, said in a statement on Monday that “there is a delegation that repeatedly attempts to rebrand itself as contributing to international peace, but unfortunately fails to recognise that it is globally known for being the fountainhead of international terror and the hub for terror syndicates. “This delegation keeps pushing for discussions on an outdated agenda item in the Council, which for all matter needs to be removed from the Council’s agenda permanently. Such irrational exuberance has no takers in a dignified world,” India said on the ‘Report of the Security Council for 2019’. An August 3, 2020 summary statement by the Secretary-General of "matters of which the Security Council is seized” listed ‘The India-Pakistan question’ among those items that have not been considered by the Council at a “formal meeting” during the period from January 1, 2017 to August 1, 2020. The agenda item ‘India-Pakistan question’ was first taken up by the Council at a formal meeting on January 6, 1948 and was last considered on November 5, 1965. Pakistan, backed by its ‘all-weather ally’ China, has been repeatedly seeking to have a discussion on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir in the Security Council. The Council had held closed consultations on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir on August 16 last year after China asked for the "closed consultations" to discuss the matter. That meeting had ended without any outcome. In January this year, China, on behalf of Pakistan, had again made an attempt to raise the Kashmir issue under "other matters" during closed consultations in the Security Council Consultations Room. Then too, China stood alone in the Pakistani corner to get the Security Council to focus on the Kashmir issue. Last month, as India marked the first anniversary of ending the special status to Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation into two union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, Beijing again called for a discussion on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir in the Security Council under 'Any Other Business’. All these meetings ended without any outcome, as many other members of the Security Council have underlined that Jammu and Kashmir is a bilateral matter between India and Pakistan. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti had told PTI that contrary to what Pakistan may claim, Islamabad has not been successful in trying to put Jammu and Kashmir on the UN agenda. “Frankly, the attempt by Pakistan to try and internationalise, what is a bilateral issue, is nothing new,” he had said. Tirumurti had pointed out that contrary to what the Foreign Minister of Pakistan Shah Mehmood Qureshi asserted, “there has been no formal meeting of the Security Council on the India-Pakistan issue even once for the past 55 years, let alone three times!” Pakistan, backed by China, has only been able to bring up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir informally and in closed door meetings under what is called ‘Any Other Business’, a category where literally any item can be brought for discussion by anyone. These meetings have no records and there is no outcome. Tirumurti had pointed out that even UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, in his statement last August, clearly referred to the 1972 bilateral Simla Agreement. “Consequently, Pakistan has been singularly unsuccessful in making any inroads into the UN on Jammu and Kashmir. That is the reality,” Tirumurti had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-calls-for-permanent-removal-of-jk-issue-under-outdated-agenda-item-in-unsc-881271.html
02-09-2020||National||PM Modi to address Leadership Summit of USISPF||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver a keynote address to the third leadership summit of US India Strategic and Partnership Forum (USISPF) on Thursday, organisers announced on Tuesday. "We are honoured that Prime Minister Modi has taken time to address USISPF annual event. It signifies the importance of US-India relations in the current challenging environment,” USISPF president Mukesh Aghi said. "It is a win-win partnership mutually dependent geo-politically, trade, culturally, diplomatically and scientifically. Aggressive and assertive China provides further opportunity for both nations to collaborate and ensure international rule of law prevails," he said after USISPF announced Modi's address to the summit. US Vice President Mike Pence had a fireside on Monday, the first day of the week-long summit titled "US-India Week: Navigating New Challenges". External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also participated in the discussion on Monday. Minister of Railways and Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal also addressed the summit on Tuesday. Being attended by top corporate leaders, government officials and leaders, the summit highlights areas of bilateral cooperation: trade and investment; strategic energy ties; India's position in global supply chains, collaboration in fintech, healthcare, and technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-leadership-summit-of-usispf-881273.html
02-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 2||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 38 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  38,40,083 as of September 2 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  67,390   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  29,01,908  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-2-881313.html
02-09-2020||National||DH Toon | What's he up to, next? GDP at -23.9%||The Indian economy has shrunk, in absolute terms, back to the size it had last seen 22 quarters ago when Narendra Modi took charge as Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-whats-he-up-to-next-gdp-at-239-881314.html
02-09-2020||National||The Lead: Nilesh Shah captures a 360-degree view of the market||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Member of Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Committee and MD of Kotak Mahindra Asset Management company, Nilesh Shah tells us all about the market and more.  Excerpts: Furquan Moharkan: Nilesh, before we on to sector-specific queries, I want to ask you a particular thing: Stock market and macros seems to be moving in two different directions, what is exactly happening? Nilesh Shah: If you look at broad market Sensex, it is about 5-6 % below the all-time high and the GDP is likely to be 5-6% contracting. It will be first weak growth after the 1980s. So one can legitimately say that how can GDP growth and Sensex are not linked. But if you go in detail, there are multiple trends which are visible. A bulk of the Sensex and Nifty movement happened with 15 or 20 stocks. These are the companies which were able to raise capital, which had string balance sheet and where every investor wanted to move during the turmoil. So in some sense, these 15-20 stocks took the lead and moved the Nifty up. We looked at this data on 31st of July about 11,300 was the Nifty level at that point of time and these 15 stocks were trading at 4,500 Nifty, whereas the bottom 30 stocks were trading at 8,000 Nifty. So there was a very wide polarisation between companies and which is where one can see the pain of the economy is reflected in the bottom 35 stocks of Nifty whereas the index is lifted by the top 15 stocks... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-nilesh-shah-captures-a-360-degree-view-of-the-market-881318.html
02-09-2020||National||Aarogya Setu app may not be mandatory for metro commuters: Report||The Metro Rail services are set to resume on September 7 and the government is likely to to announce the guidelines or standard operating procedures for the functioning of the Metros on Wednesday. The Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry held a detailed meeting with the managing directors of various Metro corporations on Tuesday. Standard guidelines for preventing the spread of Covid-19 like maintaining six feet distance from other commuters, wearing masks throughout the journey, no standing in the coaches and longer halts at stations are to be ordered, however,  various metro corporations may revise certain guidelines to area-specific needs.  “The MDs agreed that since some of the Metro Rail commuters may not have smartphones, it won’t be right to make Aarogya Setu mandatory. There would be adequate availability of sanitisers and deployment of security personnel at stations and inside coaches to ensure that social distancing is maintained,” a source told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-app-may-not-be-mandatory-for-metro-commuters-report-881398.html
02-09-2020||National||India secures east border with China after Pangong Tso clash||India has moved troops to its eastern stretch of border with China since clashes erupted between the nuclear-armed rivals on the western part of their border in the Himalayas in June, a government official said. The June clash in the Ladakh region, in the western part of their border, was the worst violence between the India and China in decades and there has been little sign of a reduction in tension, with more military action in the past week. The movement of troops to the eastern district of Anjaw, in Arunachal Pradesh state, which China also claims, raises the prospect of a wider face-off though both government and military officials in India ruled out any imminent confrontation. "The military presence has surely increased, but as far as incursions are concerned, there are no verified reports as such," said Ayushi Sudan, Anjaw's chief civil servant, adding that several Indian army battalions were stationed there. "There has been an increase in troop deployment since the Galwan incident, and even prior to that we'd started," she told Reuters by telephone, referring to the June clash in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Arunachal Pradesh, which China calls South Tibet, was at the centre of a full-scale border war between India and China in 1962, and security analysts have warned that it could become a flash-point again. But an Indian military spokesman, Lieutenant Colonel Harsh Wardhan Pande, said there was no cause for concern and the troops arriving in the area were part of regular rotation. "Basically, it's units changing. That's happening as it happens every time, nothing much," Pande told Reuters from near Guwahati, the largest city in northeastern India. "As of now, there's nothing to worry about on that front." But Tapir Gao, a member of parliament from Arunachal, told Reuters that Chinese troops had been regularly crossing into Indian territory. "It's a regular phenomenon, it's nothing new," he said, identifying the Walong and Chaglagam areas in Anjaw as the most vulnerable. In the 1962 war, India says its outnumbered forces "blocked the thrust of the invading Chinese" in Walong, and the area of mountains, meadows and fast-flowing rivers is now a government focus for settlement and road-building. "What we're trying to do is create more possibilities and opportunities for villagers," said Sudan, referring to plans for clusters of villages in the disputed area. "It's a push to resettle people."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-secures-east-border-with-china-after-pangong-tso-clash-881406.html
02-09-2020||National||Rhea Chakraborty's father called for questioning by CBI for second day in Sushant Singh Rajput's case||Actress Rhea Chakraborty's father was called for questioning by the CBI for the second consecutive day on Wednesday in connection with the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, a police official said. The 28-year-old actress and her family members are accused of abetting the suicide of Rajput (34), who was found dead in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14. Her father Indrajeet Chakraborty reached the DRDO guest house in suburban Kalina, where the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team is stationed, around 10.30 am in a car escorted by a police vehicle, the official said. Rajput's manager Samuel Miranda, his cook Neeraj Singh, house staff Keshav and business manager Shruti Modi also reached the guest house in the morning, he said. Rhea Chakraborty, her brother and mother have not been summoned on Wednesday so far, the official said. On Tuesday, the probe team questioned the actress's father and mother for over eight hours in connection with the case. The actress was earlier questioned for around 35 hours over four days from last Friday till Monday. Rajput was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14 following which the Mumbai Police registered a case of accidental death. The late filmstar's father subsequently filed a police complaint in Patna, accusing Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting his suicide and misappropriating his money. The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of the FIR lodged in Patna to the central agency. The CBI has so far remained tight-lipped about details of its probe into the high-profile case which has been hogging media limelight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rhea-chakrabortys-father-called-for-questioning-by-cbi-for-second-day-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-case-881411.html
02-09-2020||National||78,357 new cases take India's Covid-19 tally past 37 lakh, death toll rises to 66,333||India's Covid-19 tally of cases galloped past 37 lakh on Wednesday with 78,357 new instances of the disease reported in a day, while the number of recoveries crossed 29 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 76.98 per cent, the Union health ministry data showed. The death toll climbed to 66,333 with 1,045 more fatalities reported in 24 hours. India has so far reported 37,69,523 cases of the viral disease, according to the data updated at 8 am. The total number of Covid-19 recoveries in the country has surged to 29,01,908, while the fatality rate has further declined to 1.76 percent. There are 8,01,282, active cases in the country which comprises 21.26 percent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 4,43,37,201 samples have been tested up to September 1, of which 10,12,367 were tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/78357-new-cases-take-indias-covid-19-tally-past-37-lakh-death-toll-rises-to-66333-881413.html
02-09-2020||National||HC refuses to stay streaming of Netflix movie 'Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl'||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to stay the streaming of Netflix movie 'Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl', on the Centre's plea that it depicts the Indian Air Force (IAF) in bad light. Justice Rajiv Shakdher asked the Centre as to why it did not approach the court before release of the movie on Over The Top (OTT) platform, and said an injunction cannot be granted now as the film is already streaming. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the Centre, said the movie has dented the image of the IAF as it showed that the force is gender biased, which is not correct. The high court sought response of Dharma Productions Private Limited, which produced the film, and Netflix on the Centre's plea to stop streaming of the movie. The court said it was of the view that former Flight Lieutenant Gunjan Saxena should also be made a party to the suit and issued notice to her, seeking her response. The movie was released on OTT platform on August 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-refuses-to-stay-streaming-of-netflix-movie-gunjan-saxena-the-kargil-girl-881415.html
02-09-2020||National||Pointless to argue on issues of separate Naga flag and Constitution: NSCN-IM||Reiterating its tough stand, National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) on Wednesday said it was pointless to argue on the two contentious issues of a separate flag and Constitution for the Nagas as the government of India and the outfit agreed to "share sovereign powers" in the Framework Agreement signed in 2015. "The recognition of the people's sovereignty by the Framework Agreement is a natural manifestation that clearly acknowledges that the Flag and and Constitution is an inherent and indispensable aspect of the political agreement, as and when it is signed. The model and arrangement for such can be mutually decided by both the parties," said the editorial of Nagalim Voice, a bi-monthly bulletin published by the NSCN-IM. The Naga groups including the NSCN-IM claim that Nagas were never part of India.   The NSCN-IM has been in ceasefire with the Centre since 1997 and signed the Framework Agreement with the Narendra Modi government on August 3, 2015 after years of negotiations to end the decades-old Naga conflict. Former IB chief R.N. Ravi, who was later appointed as Nagaland Governor had signed the agreement as the Centre's interlocutor. The outfit, however, is engaged in a war of words with Ravi alleging that he had twisted the Framework Agreement to jeopardise the entire talks process. It also sought Ravi's replacement. This comes days after several Naga groups including Nagaland Gaon Bura Association appealed the Centre to go ahead with the final agreement even if the NSCN-IM was not part of it. The Centre also signed a similar agreenent in 2017 with Naga National Political Groups (NNPG), a forum of seven other rebel groups. The NNPG is eager to sign the final agreement soon and resolve all contentious issues through talks thereafter. The NSCN-IM bulletin also alleged that the Government of India and its agencies were responsible for dividing the Nagas and killing of the Nagas by sustaining the factions who are pro-Indian state. "The current political dialogue is an effort by the Nagas represented by the NSCN to resolve the Indo-Naga issue politically through peaceful means..... However, our observation is that the current Indian leadership seems to be losing their focus and vision or they are being misled by RN Ravi, who seems to be more interested in his position of a Governor and has consciously reverted his role within law and order of India," it said. The editorial is seen as no change in NSCN-IM's stand regarding the two contentious issues of flag and Constitution even as Prime Minister Modi recently asked IB top brass to carry forward the talks following the outfit's spat with Ravi. "Nagas have fought long enough and they have survived... They are still ready to fight another war if their political rights and history are not respected. However, if the Government of India is keen on solving the Indo-Naga political conflict, it must honour the Framework Agreement in letter and spirit, exhibit confidence and trust on the Nagas and must stop employing law and order approach and divide and rule policy," the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pointless-to-argue-on-issues-of-separate-naga-flag-and-constitution-nscn-im-881418.html
02-09-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Narcotics Control Bureau arrests alleged drug dealer in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested an alleged contraband dealer who has "links" with the drugs trafficking case pertaining to the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, officials said. The man identified as Zaid is understood to be involved in the supply of narcotics like bud or curated marijuana to the high-end party circles of Mumbai. The best quality of bud is sold at the rate of about Rs 5,000 per gram, NCB officials said. Agency sleuths claimed he was arrested after they obtained some "vital leads" into the narcotics case registered against Rajput's live-partner Rhea Chakraborty and others. The agency last week had arrested two men for alleged drug trafficking in the western metropolis and it is understood that the leads against the detained man came after questioning them. Some more such operators based in Maharashtra, Delhi and Goa are under the scanner of the agency, they said. A special NCB team from Delhi, headed by deputy director (operations) K P S Malhotra, is camping in the city to take forward this probe. The team also includes agency officers from Mumbai and has been constituted by NCB Director General Rakesh Asthana. The agency filed a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) after the Enforcement Directorate, also probing the death case of the 34-year-old actor, shared with it a report after it cloned two mobile phones of Rhea. As per officials, the mobile phone chats and messages indicated procurement and consumption of drugs and these leads were shared by the ED with the NCB and the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-narcotics-control-bureau-arrests-alleged-drug-dealer-in-mumbai-881421.html
02-09-2020||National||54% Covid-19 cases between 18 and 44 years, 51% deaths among those aged 60 years and above||The Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday that 54 percent of the Covid-19 cases reported in India are in the age group of 18-44 years, while 51 percent deaths are among people aged 60 and above. Presenting an analysis of Covid-19 cases and mortality on the basis of age, it also said that 36 percent of the fatalities reported are in the age group of 45-60 years, 11 percent in the age group of 26-44 years and 1 percent each among people aged 18-25 years and those below 17 years. The same figures were shared by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan during a press briefing on August 25. He had also said that 69 percent of Covid-19 deaths have been reported among males and 31 percent among females. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. As far as cases of coronavirus infection are concerned, 54 percent are in the age group 18-44 years, 26 percent among those aged 45 to 60 years, eight percent among those below 17 years and 12 percent among those 60 years and above, it stated. India's Covid-19 tally of cases galloped past 37 lakh on Wednesday with 78,357 new instances of the disease reported in a day, while the number of recoveries crossed 29 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 76.98 percent, the Union health ministry data showed. The death toll climbed to 66,333 with 1,045 more fatalities reported in 24 hours. India has so far reported 37,69,523 cases of the viral disease, according to the data updated at 8 am. The total number of Covid-19 recoveries in the country has surged to 29,01,908, while the fatality rate has further declined to 1.76 percent. There are 8,01,282, active cases in the country which comprises 21.26 percent of the total caseload, the data stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/54-covid-19-cases-between-18-and-44-years-51-deaths-among-those-aged-60-years-and-above-881423.html
02-09-2020||National||Justice Arun Mishra leaves behind a trail of controversies, retires today||It wouldn’t be an exaggeration to say that Justice Arun Mishra has been the epicentre of a fair share of controversies and debates during his tenure as a prominent Supreme Court judge. So, a lot of controversies and landmark hearings after, Justice Arun Mishra retires as a Supreme Court judge today. Justice Arun Mishra right after his Madhya Pradesh session and serving as Chief Justice in Rajasthan and Calcutta, Justice Mishra took over as SC judge in July 2014. He has since heard some of the most contested and politically sensitive cases. Amendments to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities Act): A bench of Supreme Court justices Arun Mishra, Vineet Saran and Ravinda Bhat upheld the validity of the 2018 amendment to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act (SC/ST Act) which had reintroduced the bar on anticipatory bail to those accused under the Act. Parliament had resorted to undo the March 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court in Dr. Subhash Kashinath Mahajan vs The State of Maharashtra. Bhima Koregaon case:  A bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra, however, rejected a contention by senior advocate Shanti Bhushan that he was willing to go to jail, if his son was guilty, saying that it was an argument made out of love and affection and can't be treated as a legal argument. Since in most of the cases the Indian government was involved, critics say, Mishra gave the government a biased benefit of doubt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-arun-mishra-leaves-behind-a-trail-of-controversies-retires-today-881429.html
02-09-2020||National||Centre says Netflix movie 'Gunjan Saxena' depicts IAF in bad light, High Court refuses to stay streaming||The Delhi High Court Wednesday refused to stay at this stage the streaming of Netflix movie Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl on the Centre's plea that it depicts the Indian Air Force (IAF) in bad light. Justice Rajiv Shakdher asked the Centre as to why it did not approach the court before the release of the movie on the Over The Top (OTT) platform, and said an injunction cannot be granted now as the film is already streaming. The movie was released on Netflix on Aug. 12. The high court issued notices and sought response of Dharma Productions Private Limited, which produced the film, its directors Karan Yash Johar and Hiroo Yash Johar, CEO Apporva Mehta, Zee Entertainment, Netflix Entertainment Services India LLP and M/s Netflix on the Centre's suit and interim application to remove the movie from all OTT platforms. The court said it was of the view that former Flight Lieutenant Gunjan Saxena, on whose life the film is based, should also be made a party to the suit and issued notice to her seeking her response. The court has listed the matter for further hearing on Sept. 18 and asked the Centre to remove the IAF from the memo of parties, saying the government could itself take this forward. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain, representing the Centre, said the movie has dented the image of the IAF as it showed that the force is gender biased, which is not correct. The government, in its suit filed through Central Government Standing Counsel Gaurang Kanth, sought a decree of permanent injunction against the defendants from broadcasting or releasing in theatres or any other digital platform the film Gunjan Saxena, without grant of a No-Objection Certificate (NOC) from it. Jain argued that the picture was never shown to the preview committee, set up in accordance with the Ministry of Defence’s 2013 guidelines, an NOC was not taken from the Centre of IAF, objections flagged by them were ignored and a Memorandum of Understanding was not signed. He sought an injunction against streaming of the film saying it is a continuing cause of action and the movie has shown the IAF in a very poor light as if the force is gender biased. “In the India Air force, we give the highest regards to women. We have been made a subject matter of ridicule even for countries with whom we are not having friendly relations. IAF’s image has been dented,” the ASG contended. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Dharma Productions, said the Centre’s plea was devoid of basic particulars and that he had also seen the movie, which had portrayed the IAF in a very good light. “The movie starts by saying that it is inspired by the story of... I saw the movie yesterday and IAF comes out in glory. There is no organisation which does not have gender issues. Anything said in criticism is not slander. Haven't we seen it (gender bias) in our profession? You can't pick four scenes and say slander. A letter (from the Chief of Staff) does not curtail free speech,” he submitted. Senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, representing Netflix, told the court that the script of the movie was shared with the IAF in 2018 and that the film was shown to them in February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-netflix-movie-gunjan-saxena-depicts-iaf-in-bad-light-high-court-refuses-to-stay-streaming-881444.html
02-09-2020||National||No Question Hour, private members' bills, curtailed Zero Hour during Parliament's Monsoon Session||There will be no Question Hour and private members' bills will not be taken up in the upcoming Monsoon Session of Parliament, while the Zero Hour will be restricted, notifications issued by Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the session will be held in two shifts -- 9 AM to 1 PM and 3 PM to 7 PM. Except for the first day, the Rajya Sabha will sit in the morning shift and the Lok Sabha will sit in the evening, according to the notifications. "There will be no Question Hour during the Session. In view of the request of the Government owing to prevailing extraordinary situation due to Covid-19, the Speaker has directed that no day be fixed for transaction of Private Members' Business during the Session," the Lok Sabha Secretariat said in a notification. A similar notification has also been issued by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat. On the move to dispense with the Question Hour, Trinamool Congress MP and Floor Leader in Rajya Sabha Derek O' Brien said opposition MPs will lose the right to question the government. "Pandemic an excuse to murder democracy," he said in a tweet. In the past, he said, the Question Hour was dispensed with during sessions of Parliament called for special purposes but the upcoming Monsoon Session is a "regular session". Last week, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Speaker Om Birla urging him not to curtail the Question Hour and the Zero Hour. Chowdhury had said it will prevent lawmakers from raising issues of national importance. Meanwhile, according to sources, the government has reached out to the Opposition, sharing its compulsions to not hold the Question Hour in wake of the pandemic. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has called up several opposition leaders, including Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Chowdhury, Biju Janata Dal's Pinaki Misra and O'Brien.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-question-hour-private-members-bills-curtailed-zero-hour-during-parliaments-monsoon-session-881448.html
02-09-2020||National||Justice Arun Mishra retires, A-G describes him as iron judge||Supreme Court judge, Justice Arun Mishra was on Wednesday described as "iron judge for his firm and unshakeable" demeanor. He was also praised as a "beacon of light, courage and fortitude". The third senior-most judge, who retired on Wednesday, passed several important judgements related to Sahara-Birla diary case, land acquisition compensation, SC/ST law, Bhima Koregaon case, daughter's right to ancestral property, Prashant Bhushan contempt case. But he has faced immense criticism during his six years tenure. Four senior judges' unprecedented press conference on January 12, 2018, questioned the allocation of sensitive cases to select bench and Justice Ranjan Gogoi cited the Mumbai judge, B H Loya case, which was then placed before Justice Mishra. Giving his vote of thanks in an international conference, Justice Mishra described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally," inviting wide criticism. On Wednesday, Justice Mishra, for customary practice sat in a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde. "I have dealt with every case with my conscience. Sometimes I have been very harsh in my conduct directly or indirectly. Nobody should feel hurt. Analyse every Judgment and don't colour it this way or that way. If I have hurt anybody then please pardon me," he said. CJI Bobde said it has been a privilege to have Justice Arun Mishra as a colleague "It is a peculiar thing that this is the first time I am sitting with him in court and this happens to be his last time. You have been a beacon of courage and fortitude in discharging your duties," he said in his brief speech. Attorney General K K Venugopal, said, "I have not seen in the Supreme Court a judge so firm and unshakeable. I would describe him as an "iron judge" of the Supreme Court." "Many of his judgments are earth shattering. Even in the last contempt case, he has laid down the law elaborately, though it will be a matter of debate", he added. SC Bar Association President Dushyant Dave, who was also visible on the screen during video conferencing, claimed that he was deliberately muted during the ceremonial address. The CJI called out the President of SCAORA Shivaji Jadhav to speak, but the President of SCBA was not asked, he said. He termed it as "an affront to the Bar and to him personally" and vowed not to participate in any function organised by the Supreme Court till his term in December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-arun-mishra-retires-a-g-describes-him-as-iron-judge-881475.html
02-09-2020||National||China foreign ministry says no Indian troops died along border||China's foreign ministry said on Wednesday no Indian troops had died along the countries' shared border, as fresh tensions flared up on the frontier. Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying spoke at a news briefing in Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-foreign-ministry-says-no-indian-troops-died-along-border-881480.html
02-09-2020||National||PM Modi pays tributes to spiritual leader Sree Narayana Guru on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tributes to spiritual leader and social reformer Sree Narayana Guru on his birth anniversary, hailing him as a "farsighted visionary" whose ideals give strength to many across India. "I bow to the venerable Sree Narayana Guru on his Jayanti. His life and works epitomised the perfect blend of spirituality and social reform. He emphasised on education and empowerment of women," the prime minister tweeted. Born in the 19th century in Kerala, Sree Narayana Guru worked to end social discrimination and for fostering cohesiveness in society. He remains an influential figure in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-spiritual-leader-sree-narayana-guru-on-his-birth-anniversary-881507.html
02-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 fatality rate slides to 1.76%, one of the lowest globally: Health ministry||India has been reporting one of the lowest Covid-19 fatality rates in the world with the figure further declining to 1.76 per cent as on date against a global average of 3.3 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. It also said that Covid-19 deaths per million population in India is one of the lowest in the world. "While the global average is 110 deaths per million population, India is reporting 48 deaths per million population. The comparative figure for Brazil and the UK is 12 and 13 times higher, respectively," the ministry highlighted. India's Covid-19 tally of cases galloped past 37 lakh on Wednesday with 78,357 new instances of the disease reported in a day, while the number of recoveries crossed 29 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 76.98 per cent, the Union health ministry data showed. The death toll climbed to 66,333 with 1,045 more fatalities reported in 24 hours. India has so far reported 37,69,523 cases of the viral disease, according to the data updated at 8 am. As part of the Covid-19 management and response policy, the Centre's sharp focus has been not only on containing the coronavirus-related fatality, but also to reduce deaths by providing quality clinical care to the critical and severe patients, it said. Collaborative efforts of the Centre, states and union territories have resulted in strengthening of the health facilities across the country, the ministry said. As many as 1,578 dedicated Covid hospitals are providing quality medical care. The Central government has also issued the standard of care guidelines incorporated in the Clinical Treatment Protocol. The AIIMS, New Delhi, has been conducting e-ICU sessions to build the capacities of the ICU doctors in clinical management of critical patients towards reducing the fatality. Knowledge and domain experts have been holding tele- or video-consultation sessions twice every week from July 8 for the doctors manning ICUs in state hospitals. Till date, 17 tele-sessions have been held and 204 institutions have participated in them, the ministry said. To further build the ICU, clinical management capacities of doctors for treatment of critical patients, AIIMS, New Delhi, in collaboration with the Health Ministry, has developed frequently answered questions (FAQs).  One of these clarifies that Remdesivir and tocilizumab are experimental therapies and should not be used as empirical therapy for suspected cases. They should be used only in proven Covid-19 patients, where clinically indicated, the ministry said, underlining that there is no evidence to support the use of these two drugs in asymptomatic patients with comorbidities.   In one of the answers, the ministry said, Tocilizumab is an experimental therapy, has a limited role, and should be used only in patients with cytokine syndrome after ruling out active infections. As for the role of Favipiravir, the ministry said studies have used this drug mainly in mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, claiming to prevent progression, whereas the majority of this cohort recover with just supportive care and monitoring and usually require no specific therapy. Evidence is weak for the use of Favipiravir and is currently not recommended in national guidelines, it said. According to the FAQs, depression is a common finding in patients with Covid which may be because of a number of reasons including staying in isolation, anxiety related to disease, social stigma, among others. Such patients need empathy and psychological counselling preferably by a trained healthcare worker like a psychologist / psychiatrist, it said. The ministry said that sudden deaths have been reported both at presentation to emergency department as well as in hospital. Reasons that have been proposed include a sudden cardiac event/ACS, preceding silent hypoxia that went unnoticed or due to a thrombotic complication such as pulmonary thromboembolism.  "Patients with risk factors to develop severe Covid-19 or with prior comorbid conditions such as CAD or chronic lung disease should be strictly monitored for their saturation. They should not be allowed to move unattended. Anticoagulant should be used on all at-risk patients who do not have any risk factors of bleeding," the ministry elaborated. As far as the role of plasma therapy is concerned, the FAQs said that convalescent plasma collected from ABO matched donors with high neutralizing titers can be given to patients at risk of developing severe Covid in early stages of the disease. However, it should also be considered an experimental therapy and should be used with caution, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-fatality-rate-slides-to-176-one-of-the-lowest-globally-health-ministry-881509.html
02-09-2020||National||Fear and relief: JEE-Mains candidates recount exam day||For many students appearing in JEE-Mains in Delhi, the day began with exam anxiety and apprehension about contracting Covid-19 infection but special arrangements made at centres to combat the virus allayed their fears, and they were finally relieved that they would not have to lose an academic year because of the pandemic. The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Mains for admission to engineering colleges began on Tuesday amid stringent precautions and social distancing measures in view of the pandemic despite calls from some quarters for postponement of the crucial exam which had already been deferred twice. Nikhil Kumar, who travelled from Uttam Nagar to his centre in Vivek Vihar, said that the exam was held smoothly. "Proper social distancing was ensured by the staff inside the premises. The exam went okay. I prepared for the entrance through online classes. I am relieved that the exam is finally over despite so many delays," he said. Vishal Gupta, a resident of Bhikaji Kama Place, said that he reached the centre by cab. "The exam was held from 9.30 am to 12 noon. There were around 50 students sitting in the room where my exam was scheduled. Social distancing norms were strictly followed by school staff. I didn't face any difficulty in reaching the centre," Gupta said. Bhushan Gaur (17), who came to Vivek Vihar from Khanpur, said that though he had fears of coming in contact with the virus but was relieved that all went well. "My JEE exam will be held from 2.30 pm. Initially I was fearing that I may come in contact with the virus but when I reached the centre I gained confidence. I had done my preparations and I am relieved it will be over. Waiting another year would have been problematic. "The coaching institutes had conducted online classes and also shared PDF material of the course," Gaur said. Sanjay Kumar, his father, said that they initially had apprehensions because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Vishal Yadav, a resident of Jagatpuri in Shahdara, said that social distancing was the main concern on his mind. "The school staff gave us sanitiser thrice. When we entered the school, they gave us a mask also and asked the students to remove the old one. Inside the centre, we were sitting on alternate chairs," Yadav said. Scenes outside exam centres across the country reflected the "new normal" amid the pandemic -- staggered entry and exit for candidates, sanitiser at the gates, distribution of masks, and students queuing up with safe social distance among them. JEE-Mains, the first large scale exam to be conducted amid the pandemic, is scheduled from September 1 to 6. Over 9 lakh candidates have registered for the exam for admission to engineering courses in IITs, NITs and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs). While the governments of Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have assured students that they will provide transportation to candidates, a group of IIT alumni and students have also launched a portal to provide transport facilities to exam centres for the candidates in need. Increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the steps the National Testing Agency has taken for safely conducting the crucial exam. There has been a growing chorus for postponing JEE-Mains and medical entrance exam NEET amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The Supreme Court had earlier dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams amid a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, saying a "precious year" of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on. Based on the results of the JEE-Mains Paper 1 and Paper 2, the top 2.45 lakh candidates will be eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam, which is a one-stop exam to get admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). JEE-Advanced is scheduled to take place on September 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fear-and-relief-jee-mains-candidates-recount-exam-day-881514.html
02-09-2020||National||Question Hour suspended to deny opposition MPs chance to ask questions on economy, Covid-19 pandemic: Derek O'Brien||The Trinamool Congress hit out at the government on Wednesday over the suspension of Question Hour in the upcoming Monsoon session of Parliament, alleging that it was to deny opposition members an opportunity to ask questions on the economy and the coronavirus pandemic. Monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to begin from September 14 and conclude on October 1. According to notifications issued by Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats, there will be no Question Hour and private members' bills will not be taken up in the Monsoon session, while the Zero Hour will be restricted. "MPs required to submit questions for Question Hour in Parliament 15 days in advance. Session starts September 14. So Question Hour cancelled? Opposition MPs lose right to question government. A first since 1950? Parliament overall working hours remain same so why cancel Question Hour? Pandemic excuse to murder democracy," tweeted TMC MP Derek O'Brien. He also pointed out that question hours are significant because issues raised during this time is answered by the minister concerned which is not the case in Zero Hour. O'Brien also said that during the question hour, questions are asked also from the Treasury Benches and by the move to suspend it, the government was also "denying their own MPs to raise their queries". "This means that we cannot ask any questions on the state of the economy or the pandemic," he said. "During the 33rd (1961), 93rd (1975), 98th (1976) 99th (1977) sessions there was no Question Hour as these sessions were summoned for SPECIAL PURPOSES: Orissa, Proclamation of Emergency, 44th Amdmt, President's Rule TN/Nagaland. The upcoming Monsoon Session is a REGULAR SESSION (sic)," the TMC said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/question-hour-suspended-to-deny-opposition-mps-chance-to-ask-questions-on-economy-covid-19-pandemic-derek-obrien-881516.html
02-09-2020||National||Govt issues SOP on preventive measures to be taken while conducting examinations||Ahead of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate medical courses, the Union Health Ministry has come out with the standard operating procedure, listing the guidelines for the institutes that would hold the examination amid Covid-19 pandemic. The SOP, applicable not only for NEET but other future examinations as well, is necessary because of India’s surging Covid-19 caseload. With the reporting of more than 78,000 new cases, the total number of infected persons has gone up to 37.69 lakhs, out of which about 8 lakh are active cases. The death toll stands at 66,333 with 1,045 new coronavirus deaths recorded in the last 24 hours. Among other things, the examination centres have been asked to make arrangements for 'isolation rooms' if symptomatic students insist on writing the test rather than skipping it. While face mask and hand sanitizers are mandatory, the invigilator will sanitise his/her hands before handing over the copies and question paper to the students, who also have to sanitise their hands before returning the copy to the invigilators at the end of the test. More than 15 lakh students will appear in the NEET that has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The test is now scheduled for September 13. While the Supreme Court has permitted holding the medical entrance examination, six opposition ruled states moved the apex court once again with a plea to reconsider the decision on health grounds. The court is yet to give its ruling on the review petition.  According to the Standard Operating Procedures, the collection and packing of the answer sheets will involve sanitisation of the hands at every stage. The answer sheets will preferably be opened up after 72 hours have elapsed post collection. Use of spit/saliva for counting and distributing sheets is not allowed. Staff at high risks such as older employees, pregnant women and those with underlying diseases shall not be deployed for invigilation or conduct of examination, it said. There has to be multiple entry and exit points to avoid crowding and social distancing norms are to be followed while making the seating arrangements. Appropriate arrangements for face covers/masks, hand-sanitiser, soap and sodium hypochlorite solution are to be made by universities, educational institutions, examination authorities or centres to the staff as well as students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-issues-sop-on-preventive-measures-to-be-taken-while-conducting-examinations-881532.html
02-09-2020||National||PUBG gets headshot; Govt bans 118 mobile apps with Chinese links||The Centre on Wednesday banned 118 more Chinese apps, including the popular gaming app PUBG Mobile, citing security reasons amid a fresh incursion bid by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army troops in eastern Ladakh. The banned apps include Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun, besides PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite, according to an official statement. The government has decided to block the usage of certain apps, used in both mobile and non-mobile internet-enabled devices. “The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has received many complaints from various sources including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India,” the government said. “The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” the Ministry said in its statement. All these banned apps have Chinese links, PTI sources said. Other apps blocked include games, online payment services, dating sites and software to edit selfies. All the banned apps have Chinese links, sources said. Tencent Holdings Ltd’s videogame PUBG Mobile is among the world’s top five smartphone games with over 734 million downloads. According to reports, it has close to 50 million active PUBG players in India with 13 million daily users. This is the third time that the government is banning Chinese apps. In June, the Centre banned 59 Chinese apps including TikTok, Club Factory, Cam Scanner and UC Browser, and later added 47 more to the list. In total, 224 other apps have now been banned by India. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said that under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, the government has decided to block 118 mobile apps since, according to available information, they are engaged in activities which are prejudicial to the integrity of India, defence of India, the security of state and public order. Earlier, in June, India had already banned around 50 Chinese apps, including ByteDance's video-sharing platform TikTok, Alibaba's UC Browser and Xiaomi's Mi Community app. The PUBG mobile phone app has millions of young users in India. The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures, the ministry added.  There have been similar bipartisan concerns, flagged by various public representatives, both outside and inside the Parliament of India, it said. This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users, the ministry said. India had also banned frozen Chinese firms out of contracts and held up Chinese goods at customs posts. China has complained about the action and warned that Indian consumers will suffer. (With inputs from PTI, PIB)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pubg-gets-headshot-govt-bans-118-mobile-apps-with-chinese-links-881543.html
02-09-2020||National||36 suicides in CAPF in 2019, 433 in six years: NCRB||Thirty-six security personnel under the command of the Union Home Ministry died by suicide in 2019, taking the number of such cases to 433 in six years, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. Of the 433 suicide deaths among the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) personnel during the six-year period, the least (28) number of cases was reported in 2018 and the maximum (175) in 2014, the data showed. The number stood at 60 in 2017, 74 in 2016 and 60 in 2015, the NCRB data for the respective year showed. The CAPF refers to seven central security forces of the country under the administrative control of the Ministry of Home Affairs. It consists the Border Security Force (BSF), the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), besides the Assam Rifles (AR) and the National Security Guard (NSG). As on January 1, 2019, the CAPF had an actual strength of 9,23,800 personnel, who play a vital role in guarding the borders and assisting the Centre and state governments in maintaining internal security and in curbing other illegal or unlawful activities, the NCRB stated. However, the NCRB data did not give a force-wise break up of suicide cases within the CAPF. A total of 36 CAPF personnel killed themselves during 2019, with 14 of them (38.9 per cent) due to “family problems” and three due to “service-related issues”, the NCRB, which also functions under the Union Home Ministry, stated. The reason for suicide was “not known” in eight cases, while it was “other causes” in nine. “Fall in social reputation” and “marriage-related issues” led to one suicide each during the year, the data records. As per state and UT-wise pattern, five suicides were reported in Rajasthan followed by Tamil Nadu (4) and Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Nagaland, Tripura & Delhi UT (3 each) during 2019, the data stated. These eight states together accounted for 75 per cent (27 out of 36) of total suicides in CAPFs in the country. Out of five suicides reported in Rajasthan, four were due to “family problems”, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/36-suicides-in-capf-in-2019-433-in-six-years-ncrb-881544.html
02-09-2020||National||Union Cabinet approves Mission Karmayogi for bringing post-recruitment reforms||The Centre on Wednesday announced  Mission Karmayogi, a scheme for bringing post-recruitment reforms in civil services. The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved the launching of Mission Karmayogi, which is officially called as National Programme for Civil Services Capacity Building (NPCSCB). "Today the Union Cabinet under Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to bring this very big, post-recruitment reform, where an opportunity will be given to officers and employees to improve their own performance," he said. "This is post recruitment skill-building programme. Under the Mission, officers and government employees will get an opportunity to improve their performance under the mission,"  Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar told media here. A council, headed by the Prime Minister and having chief ministers as members, will approve the civil services capacity building plans under the scheme. Union Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said the scheme will help end subjective evaluation, and ensure scientifically-devised, objective and real-time assessment of employees. "Mission Karmayogi is an endeavour is also to end the culture of working in silos and to overcome the multiplicity of training curriculum which we have because of the institutions spread all over the country, with the introduction of a common platform for uniform realisation of nation''s vision and of our shared aspiration and our shared future goals," he said. This way, Singh said, it will provide a mechanism for continuous capacity building, a constant updating of the talent pool and also provide an equal opportunity of professional as well as personal growth and a stream of self-training for value addition at all levels. Department of Personnel and Training secretary C Chandramouli said Mission Karmayogi is constituted to build future-ready civil servants with right attitude, skills and knowledge, aligned to the vision of a "New India". Department of Personnel and Training secretary C Chandramouli said Mission Karmayogi is constituted to build future-ready civil servants with right attitude, skills and knowledge, aligned to the vision of a "New India". He said it looks at a new national architecture for civil services capacity building and focuses not only on individual capacity building but on institutional capacity building and also on process. He also said the central government will set up Capacity Building Commission to harmonise training standards. The commission will have shared faculty & resources. It will supervise all training institutions in the country. The government will spend Rs 510 crore for five-year project which will be accessible to all from section officers to secretaries. In a presentation, he said at present, there is a diverse and fragmented training landscape and there are inconsistencies in training priorities by various training institutions in various ministries which has prevented shared understanding of India's developmental aspirations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-approves-mission-karmayogi-for-bringing-post-recruitment-reforms-881548.html
02-09-2020||National||Facebook India chief Ajit Mohan appears before Parliamentary panel||Amid a political slugfest over the Facebook issue, the company's India head Ajit Mohan on Wednesday appeared before a parliamentary panel, which is discussing alleged misuse of social media platforms. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, headed by senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, had called representatives of Facebook to hear their views "on the subject of safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space," according to agenda of the meeting. Mohan, Managing Director of Facebook India, appeared before the panel this afternoon, officials said. The panel has also called representatives of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on the same issue. Tharoor's announcement that the panel would like to hear from Facebook about a report published in the Wall Street Journal claiming that the social media platform ignored applying its hate-speech rules to politicians of the BJP in India, had evoked a strong reaction from BJP members of the panel. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey had alleged that the Congress leader has been using the panel's platform to further his and his party's political agenda and even demanded his removal as chairman. A fresh round of political slugfest started on the matter on Monday with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi claiming that the international media has "exposed" Facebook and WhatsApp's "brazen assault" on India's democracy and social harmony. "No one, let alone a foreign company, can be allowed to interfere in our nation's affairs. They must be investigated immediately and when found guilty, punished," Gandhi tweeted. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also wrote to Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday, accusing the social media platform's employees of supporting people from a political predisposition that lost successive elections, and "abusing" Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers. In a three-page letter to Facebook Chief Executive Zuckerberg, Prasad alleged "bias and inaction" by individuals in the Facebook India team on complaints by people supportive of right-of-centre ideology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-india-chief-ajit-mohan-appears-before-parliamentary-panel-881550.html
02-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Govt bans 118 Chinese apps including PUBG||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Centre has blocked 118 mobile apps including PUBG, Army commanders of India and China hold another round of talks; Supreme Court judge Justice Arun Mishra retires and Karnataka to go with first of the two options to compensate the state for the GST revenue loss.    Here are the top news of today, Wednesday: September 02, 2020: The Centre has blocked 118 mobile apps that are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, Defence of India, Security of State and Public Order. This list includes popular gaming App PUBG. Earlier, the government had banned 59 apps in July including TikTok and WeChat.   The upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, beginning September 14, will not have Question Hour and a shorter duration for members to raise matters of public importance, prompting the opposition to accuse the Modi government of “murdering democracy”. The fortnight-long monsoon session will be marked by several firsts such as sittings of both the Houses on Saturdays and Sundays, staggered timings for the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, instead of simultaneous proceedings and strict restrictions on movement in Parliament premises. “There will be no Question Hour and private members’ business during the session,” a Rajya Sabha notification said. On the first day of the monsoon session, the Lok Sabha will meet from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and the Rajya Sabha from 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. For the rest of the duration of the session till October 1, the Rajya Sabha would meet in the mornings and Lok Sabha in the afternoon. The two-hour break between will be used to disinfect chambers of both the Houses. The decision to scrap the Question Hour and private members’ business has not gone down well with the Opposition. “Opposition MPs lose the right to question the government. A first since 1950? Parliament overall working hours remain the same so why cancel Question Hour? Pandemic excuse to murder democracy,” Trinamool Congress leader Derek O'Brien said. Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had already written a letter to Speaker Om Birla protesting the decision to scrap the Question Hour. “We request the government to reconsider the decision,” Chowdhury said adding that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had sounded him out beforehand about the changes citing the Covid-19 pandemic. “BJP government’s decision to suspend the Question Hour for the entire session conveys just one message – even elected representatives have no right to question the government,” DMK member Kanimozhi said. Supreme Court judge, Justice Arun Mishra was on Wednesday described as "iron judge for his firm and unshakeable" demeanour. He was also praised as a "beacon of light, courage and fortitude". The third senior most judge, who retired on Wednesday, passed several important judgements related to Sahara-Birla diary case, land acquisition compensation, SC/ST law, Bhima Koregaon case, daughters right to ancestral property, Prashant Bhushan contempt case. But he has faced immense criticism during his six years tenure. Four senior most judges' unprecedented press conference on January 12, 2018 questioned allocation of sensitive cases to select bench and Justice Ranjan Gogoi cited Mumbai judge B H Loya case, which was then placed before Justice Mishra. Giving his vote of thanks in an international conference, Justice Mishra described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally," inviting wide criticism. On Wednesday, Justice Mishra, for customary practice sat in a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde.   Days after China's "provocative actions" in Pangong lake area in eastern Ladakh, the situation in the region remained sensitive on Wednesday while army commanders from both sides held another round of talks to defuse tensions, government sources said. The army of the two countries held Brigade Commander-level talks in Chushul with a focus on bringing down tensions in the Pangong lake area, they said, adding similar dialogue on Monday and Tuesday, each lasting over six hours, did not produce any "tangible outcome". Sources said India has achieved tactical gains in eastern Ladakh in the last few days by occupying a number of strategically important hill tops and locations. On Monday, the Indian Army said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Tuesday said the Chinese PLA was engaged in "provocative action" again on Monday when the ground commanders of the two sides were holding talks to ease the situation following China's attempt to change the status quo in the Pangong lake area two days back. "The situation in the area remained sensitive," said a source. The two sides were earlier engaged in a confrontation on the northern bank of Pangong lake but it was for the first time such an incident occurred on its southern bank, they said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday carried out a comprehensive review of the situation in eastern Ladakh at a high-level meeting attended by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria.   BJP-ruled Karnataka on Wednesday announced that it would pick the first of the two options provided by the Centre to compensate the state for the GST revenue loss. Under Option 1, Karnataka will be eligible for a compensation of Rs 18,289 crore, whereas under Option 2, the state was eligible for Rs 25,508 crore.  The decision to go with the first option was taken after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, the finance minister, held a meeting with senior finance department officials.  "After the evaluation of both these options, it is felt that Option 1 would be more beneficial to the state's finances. Hence, the Government of Karnataka has decided to convey to the Government of India its preference for Option 1. This would help the state in augmenting its revenue in the present financial year," the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said in a statement.  Following the GST Council meet held last week, two options were proposed for states to address GST compensation shortfall. Several state governments have rejected both the options, stating that the Centre was bound by law to compensate states. Under Option 1, states will have to cumulatively borrow Rs 97,000 crore to cover shortfall in compensation caused only due to the implementation of GST, while Option 2 allowed states to borrow the entire GST compensation shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore.    Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-govt-bans-118-chinese-apps-including-pubg-881552.html
02-09-2020||National||Nearly 43,000 engaged in farming sector, daily wage earners killed self in 2019: NCRB||Nearly 43,000 people engaged in farming sector and daily wage earners committed suicide in 2019, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. As many as 32,563 daily wage earners ended their lives during the year and formed 23.4 per cent of the total suicide cases in the country, up from 30,132 in 2018, the data showed. As many as 10,281 people involved in farming sector (consisting of 5,957 farmers or cultivators and 4,324 agricultural labourers) killed themselves in 2019, accounting for 7.4 per cent of total suicide victims (1,39,123) in the country, it stated. The suicide figures for people engaged in farming sector stood at 10,349 (7.7 per cent) of the total in 2018, previous data showed. Out of 5,957 farmer or cultivator suicides in 2019, a total of 5,563 were male and 394 female. Out of the 4,324 suicides committed by agricultural labourers during 2019, 3,749 were male and 575 were female, the NCRB, which functions under the Union Home Ministry, stated. Majority of victims engaged in farming sector were reported in Maharashtra (38.2 per cent), Karnataka (19.4 per cent), Andhra Pradesh (10 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (5.3 per cent) and Chhattisgarh and Telangana (4.9 per cent each), the data showed. However, the NCRB stated that West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Chandigarh, Daman & Diu, Delhi UT, Lakshadweep and Puducherry reported “zero suicides” of farmers or cultivators as well as agricultural labourers. Altogether, India reported 1,39,123 suicides during 2019, up from 1,34,516 in 2018 and 1,29,887 in 2017, the data showed. In profession-wise categorization of suicides in 2019, daily wage earners (23.4 per cent) were the biggest chunk of such fatalities, followed by housewives (15.4 per cent). They were followed by self-employed (11.6 per cent), unemployed (10.1 per cent), professionals or salaried people (9.1 per cent), students and persons engaged in farming sector (both 7.4 per cent), and retired persons (0.9 per cent), the data showed. The NCRB stated that 14.7 per cent suicide victims fell in "other persons" category. An educational background of the suicide victims revealed that of the total suicide victims, 12.6 per cent (17,588) were illiterate, while only 3.7 per cent  (5,185) were graduates and above, the data showed. The maximum 23.3 per cent (32,427) people who killed themselves in 2019 were educated up to matriculation or secondary level, whereas middle-level educated persons accounted for 19.6 per cent (27,323) such fatalities, it showed. Primary-educated people formed 16.3 per cent (22,649) suicide cases, followed by higher secondary or intermediate or pre-university educated 14 per cent (19,508), it added. The NCRB also noted that 66.7 per cent (92,757 out of 1,39,123) of the suicide victims were married, while 23.6 per cent were unmarried (32,852). Widowed/widower, divorcees and separated accounted for 1.8 per cent (2,472), 0.71 per cent (997) and 0.69 per cent (963), respectively, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-43000-engaged-in-farming-sector-daily-wage-earners-killed-self-in-2019-ncrb-881556.html
02-09-2020||National||Metro services to start in graded manner; govt issues SOP||With the Union Home Ministry allowing resumption of metro rail services from September 7, the Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs, Hardeep S Puri said services will start in a graded manner.  Announcing SOP for resuming metro service, the Minister said that services will start in phases and initially only a few lines will operate.  "Multi-route Metro networks should resume trains from Sept 7 in a graded manner so that all lines are operational by September 12," Puri told media after releasing Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the resumption of services. Initially, trains will operate in a few lines with limited hours. Gradually more trains and all routes will be operated, he said. For passengers, adequate time will be provided at stations to enable them smoot boarding/deboarding ensuring social distancing. However stations remained close in Covid-19 containment zone, he said. The minister warned that metro trains will not stop in stations where passengers found not following social distancing norms. Passengers must wear masks and downloading Arogya Setu is optional.  Following are the SOP :  1. Metro operations to be resumed in graded manner. Metros having more than one line should open different lines starting from September 7, 2020, onwards in a graded manner so that all corridors become operational by September 12, 2020.  Daily hours of operations may be staggered initially, which needs to be increased gradually with resumption of full revenue service by September 12, 2020. Frequency of trains to be regulated to avoid passenger crowding at stations and in trains. 2.​ Stations/ entry-exit gates in containment zones to be closed.   3.​​ In order to ensure social distancing, suitable markings at stations and inside trains to be done. 4.​ Wearing of face mask to be made mandatory for all passengers and staff. Metro rail corporations may make arrangements for supply of masks on payment basis to the persons arriving without mask. 5.​ Only asymptomatic persons to be allowed to travel after thermal screening at entry into the stations. Symptomatic persons should be advised to go to nearby COVID Care Centre/Hospital for testing/medical attention. Use of Aarogya Setu App to be encouraged. 6.​ Provision of sanitisers to be made at entry into the stations for use by passengers. Sanitisation of all areas having human interface viz. equipment, train, working area, lift, escalators, handrail, AFC gate, toilets etc. needs to be done at regular intervals. 7.​Use of Smart Card and cashless/online transactions to be encouraged. Tokens and paper slips/ticket to be used with proper sanitisation. 8.​ Adequate dwell time at stations to be provided to enable smooth boarding/deboarding, ensuring social distancing. Metro rail corporations may also resort to skipping of stations to ensure proper social distancing. 9. ​Passengers to be advised to travel with minimum luggage and avoid carrying metallic items for easy and quick scanning. 10. ​Operation of Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning (HVAC) system as per the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) & Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE) guidelines. Intake of fresh air in air-conditioning system to be increased to the extent possible. 11. ​Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign to be launched for passenger and staff through electronic/print/social media, poster, banner, hoarding, website etc. 12. ​Metro rail corporations to keep close liaison with state police and local administration for regulating crowd outside station and to deal with contingencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metro-services-to-start-in-graded-manner-govt-issues-sop-881559.html
02-09-2020||National||Govt bans PUBG Mobile, Baidu, Alipay, Tencent games and 114 more Chinese apps [full list]||In the last few months, the Indian government citing security concerns had banned more than 100 mobile apps, most of them are of Chinese origins such as TikTok, Mi Video caller, and others.Now, the government using its power under the section 69A  of the  Information Technology  Act with relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009 and in view of the emergent nature of threats has decided to block 118 mobile apps (list below). In view of the information available, they are engaged in activities which is prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India,defenœ of India, security of the state, and public order.  "Besides the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre, Ministry of Home Affairs has also sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these malicious apps LiKewise. there have been similar bipartisan concerns. flagged by various public representatives. both outside and inside the Parliament of India. There has been a strong chorus in the public space to take strict action against Apps that harm India’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of our citizens," the press release said. The series of apps' ban comes amid the growing tension between India and China in the eastern Ladakh. Earlier in the year, there was a clash between Indian Army and China's PLA (People's Liberation Army) and resulted in the deaths of several soldiers on both sides. Full list of apps banned by the Indian government1)  APUS Launcher Pro: Theme, Live Wallpapers, Smart2) APUS Launcher: Theme, Call Show, Wallpaper, HideApps3) APUS Security: Antivirus, Phone Security, Cleaner4) APUS Turbo Cleaner 2020: Junk Cleaner, Anti-Virus5) APUS Flashlight-Free & Bright6) CutCut: CutOut and Photo Background Editor7) Baidu8) Baidu Express Edition9) FaceU- Inspire your Beauty10) ShareSave by Xiaomi: Latest gadgets, amazing deals11) CamCard-- Business Card Reader12) CamCard Business13) CamCard for Salesforce14) ComOCR15) InNote16) Voov Meeting-- Tencent Video Conferencing17) Super Clean-- Master of Cleaner, Phone Booster18) WeChat reading19) Government WeChat20) Small Q brush21) Tencent Weiyun22) Pitu23) WeChat Work24) Cyber Hunter25) Cyber Hunder Lite26) Knives-No rules, just fight!27) Super MechaChampions28) Image29)Dawn of Isles30) Ludo World- Ludo Superstar31) Chess Rush32) PUBG IvIOBlLE Nordic Map: Livik33) PUBG MOBILE LITE34) Rise of Kingdoms. Lost Crusade 35) Art of Conquest. DarK Horizon 36) Dank Tanks37) Warpath38) Game of Sultans39) Gallery Vault — Hide Pictures And Videos40) Smart AppLock (App Protect)41) lvlessage LocK (SMS Lock)-Gallery Vault Developer Team42) Hide App-Hide Application Icon43)  App Lock44) App Lock Lite45) Dual Space - Multiple Accounts & App Cloner 46) ZAKZAK Pro - Live chat & video chat online47) ZAKZAK LIVE. live-streaming & video chat app48) Music- Mp3 Player49) Music Player - Audio Player & 10 Bands Equalizer50) HD Camera Selfie Beauty Camera51) Cleaner - Phone Booster52) Web Browser & Fast Explorer53) Video Player All Format for Android54) Photo Gallery HD & Editor55)     Photo Gallery & Album56) Music Player - Bass Booster - Free Download57) Camera - Beauty Cam with Filters & Panorama58) HD Camera Pro & Selfie Camera59) Music Player - MP3 Player & 10 Bands Equalizer60) Gallery HD61) Web Browser - Fast, Privacy & Light Web Explorer62) Web Browser - Secure Explorer63) Music player - Audio Player64) Video Player - All Format HD Video Player65) Lamour: Love All Over The World66) Amour- video chat & call all over the world.67) MV Master - k\ake Your Status Video & Community68) MV Master — Best Video Maker & Photo Video Editor69) APUS Message Center-Intelligent management70) LivU Meet new people & Video chat with strangers71) Carrom Friends: Carrom Board & Pool Game-72) Ludo All-Star- Play Online Ludo Game & Board Games73) Bike Racing: Moto Traffic Rider Bike Racing Games74) Rangers Of Oblivion: Online Action k\MO RPG Game75) Z Camera - Photo Editor, Beauty Selfie, Collage76) GO SMS Pro, Messenger, Free Themes, Emoji    77) U-Dictionary: Oxford Dictionary Free Now Translate78) ULike-Define your selfie in trendy style79) Tantan-Date For Real80) MICO Chat: New Friends Banaen aur Live Chat Karen81) Kitty Live - Live Streaming & Video Live Chat82) Malay Social Dating App to Date & Meet Singles83) Alipay84) Alipay HK85)  Mobile Taobao86) YouKu87) Road of Kings- Endless Glory88) Sina News89) Netease News90) Penguin FM91) Murderous Pursuits92) Tencent Watchlist ( Tencent Technology)93) Learn Chinese Al-Super Chinese94) HUYA LIVE — Game Live Stream95) Little Q Album96) Fighting Landlords - Free and happy Fighting Landlords97) Hi Meitu98) MobiIe Legends: Pocket99) VPN for TikTok100) VPN for TikTok Lite    101) Penguin E-sports Live assistant102) Buy Cars-offer everything you need. special offers and low prices103) iPick104)  Beauty Camera Plus - Sweet Camera & Face Selfie105) Parallel Space Lite - Dual App106)  "Chief Almighty. First Thunder BC107)  MARVEL Super War NetEase Games108) AFK Arena109)  Creative Destruction NetEase Games110) Crusaders of Light NetEase Games111) Mafia City YottaGames112) OnMyoji NetEase Games113) Ride Out Heroes NetEase Games114) Yimeng Jianghu-Chu Liuxiang has been fully upgraded115) Legend. Rising Empire NetEase Games116) Arena of Valor:     5v5 Arena Games117) Soul Hunters118) Rules of Survival||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-bans-pubg-mobile-baidu-alipay-tencent-games-and-114-more-chinese-apps-full-list-881566.html
02-09-2020||National||Cabinet approves signing of India-Japan textiles pact||The government on Wednesday approved for signing of a pact between India and Japan aimed at improving the quality and testing of Indian textiles and clothing for the Japanese market. "The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved for the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between textiles committee, India, and M/s Nissenken Quality Evaluation Centre, Japan, for improving quality and testing of Indian textiles and clothing for the Japanese market," an official statement said. In a tweet, Textiles Minister Smriti Irani said the "MoU approved today (on Wednesday) will facilitate Indian exports to meet the requirements of Japanese importers as per technical regulation imposed by Japan." She added that this will help exporters expand their market in Japan and boost Indian textiles and apparel exports, including technical textiles to Japan. The MoU would enable the Nissenken Quality Evaluation Centre, Japan, to assign the textile committee as their cooperative testing and inspection service providers in India for textiles and apparel products. These include technical textiles and any other products mutually agreed upon at a later date for both domestic and overseas clients. Irani also tweeted that she was "thankful to PM @narendramodi Ji & Union Cabinet for approving MoU between Textiles Committee of @TexMinIndia and M/s. Nissenken Quality Evaluation Centre, Japan for strengthening the network of quality & compliance services to ensure growth of trade in textile and apparel segment". Technical textiles are material and products made primarily for their technical properties and functional requirements. They have wide usage such as agro-textiles, medical textiles, geo-textiles, protection-textiles, industrial-textiles, sports-textiles and many other usages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-signing-of-india-japan-textiles-pact-881567.html
02-09-2020||National||PM CARES Fund got Rs 3,076-cr in just five days: Account statement||The PM-CARES Fund, set up in March to deal with emergency situations like the Covid-19 pandemic, received Rs 3,076.62 crore in just five days of its formation, as per an account statement made public by the fund on Wednesday. The 'receipt and payment account' showed nearly Rs 3,075.85 crore as 'voluntary contributions', while Rs 39.67 lakh came as foreign contributions. It put the fund's closing balance as on March 31, 2020 at Rs 3,076.62 crore, after including interest income and deducting service tax on forex conversion. The fund started with an initial corpus of Rs 2.25 lakh, as per the account statement posted on the fund's official website. It also referred to "accompanying notes to the financial statements", but those were not made public on the website. According to details posted on the website of the 'Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund)', the fund consists "entirely of voluntary contributions from individuals/organisations and does not get any budgetary support". "During 2019-20 (from March 27-31, 2020), an amount of Rs 3076.62 crore has been collected under PM CARES Fund," it said. It further said this fund has been set up as a public charitable trust "keeping in mind the need for having a dedicated national fund with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected". The fund generated a lot of interest immediately after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced its formation of the fund in the last week of March after the Covid-19 outbreak and appealed for donations, prompting several private firms, government bodies and individuals, including celebrities, to donate money. The Fund's objectives include undertaking and supporting relief or assistance of any kind relating to a public health emergency or any other kind of emergency, calamity or distress, either man-made or natural, including the creation or upgradation of healthcare or pharmaceutical facilities, other necessary infrastructure, funding relevant research or any other type of support, according to its website. The government has used a part of the money to buy medical equipment, including ventilators, to boost the battle against the Covid-19 and has also provided relief to migrants.      Opposition parties have, however, criticised the Fund, claiming that its contributions and expenses are not transparent, a charge denied by the government. Reacting to the account statement of the fund, Congress leader P Chidambaram said the auditors of the fund have confirmed that the fund received Rs 3,076 crore in just five days, but the "names of these generous donors will not be revealed". "Every other NGO or Trust is obliged to reveal the names of donors contributing more than a threshold amount. Why is the PM CARES Fund exempt from this obligation," he tweeted. "The donee is known. The trustees of the donee are known. Why are the trustees afraid to reveal the names of the donors?," Chidambaram said. Last month, the Supreme Court had refused to direct the transfer of contributions made to the PM CARES Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The top court had also ruled that at this need of the hour no exception can be taken to the constitution of a public charitable trust PM CARES Fund to have necessary financial resources to meet the emergent situation, adding this fund and the NDRF were entirely different funds with separate object and purpose. While Prime Minister is the ex-officio Chairman of the PM CARES Fund, the Minister of Defence, Minister of Home Affairs and Minister of Finance are its ex-officio trustees. The chairperson (Prime Minister) has the power to nominate three trustees to the board of trustees, who can be eminent persons in the field of research, health, science, social work, law, public administration and philanthropy. Also, any person appointed a trustee will act in a pro bono capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-fund-got-rs-3076-cr-in-just-five-days-account-statement-881571.html
02-09-2020||National||Ministries, public sector undertakings to stop physical printing of calendars, diaries||The government on Wednesday said ministries, departments, public sector undertakings and public sector banks will stop physical printing of calendars, diaries and greeting cards. In an office memorandum on 'Economy Instructions -- Printing Activities', the Department of Expenditure under the finance ministry also banned the printing of coffee-table books and said e-books would be encouraged. The decision has been taken given the fact that using technological innovations for planning, scheduling and forecasting is known to be economical, efficient and effective. "The Government of India has decided that there will be no activities towards printing wall calendars, desktop calendars, diaries festival greeting cards and similar materials for use in the coming year by any Ministries/Departments/PSUs/PSBs and all other organs of the government. All such activity shall go digital and online," the ministry said. Further, all the government departments and offices have been directed to make efforts to adopt innovative means to use digital or online method for these items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministries-public-sector-undertakings-to-stop-physical-printing-of-calendars-diaries-881589.html
02-09-2020||National||ALIMCO-CSC tie up to help disabled people in rual areas||To provide access to people with disability in rural areas who seek assistive devices and appliances, Common Services Centers (CSC) has partnered with the Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO) to register persons with disability and senior citizens in remote and inaccessible areas. ALIMCO, a PSU under the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, and CSC (SPV) Special Purpose Vehicle under the Ministry of Electronics & IT signed an MOU to utilize around 4 lakh CSCs across the country to register Divyangs and Senior Citizens for distribution of free of cost assistive aids and appliances under various schemes of Government of India. CSC will also help create awareness about ALIMCO and its initiatives and further mobilize and support divyangs and senior citizens to avail assistive aids and appliances under the schemes, said a statement.  Under the partnership, Divyangjans and Senior Citizens can visit their nearest CSC to get registered for free Assistive Aids and Appliances from ALIMCO. Registration at CSCs will be done free of cost for Divynagjans and Senior Citizens. A team of rehabilitation professionals from ALIMCO will then assess the candidate, prescribe and supply aids and appliances as per the disability according to Assistance to Disabled Persons for Purchase/Fitting of Aid and Appliances (ADIP) scheme of the Government. The service will be rolled out as a pilot in six districts of Uttar Pradesh, following which it will be extended to all states, said the statement.  “The objective of the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment is to reach out to as many Divyangjans and Senior Citizens under flagship schemes," Chairman and Managing Director, ALIMCO, D R Sarin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alimco-csc-tie-up-to-help-disabled-people-in-rual-areas-881595.html
02-09-2020||National||India ranks 48th in global innovation index||India has joined the group of top 50 countries in the global innovation index for the first time, moving up four places to the 48th rank and keeping the top position among the nations in central and southern Asia. According to the Global Innovation Index (GII) list, 2020 released jointly by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Cornell University and INSEAD Business School on Wednesday, the rankings show stability at the top but a gradual "eastward shift in the locus of innovation" as Asian economies like China, India, the Philippines and Vietnam have advanced considerably in the innovation ranking over the years. Switzerland, Sweden, the US, the UK and the Netherlands lead the innovation ranking, and the top 10 positions are dominated by high-income countries, WIPO said in a statement. About India, the statement said it has become the third most innovative lower middle-income economy in the world, thanks to newly available indicators and improvements in various areas of the GII. India ranks in the top 15 in indicators such as ICT (Information and Communication Technology) services exports, government online services, graduates in science and engineering, and R&D-intensive global companies. "Thanks to universities such as the Indian Institute of Technology in Bombay and Delhi and the Indian Institute of Science in Bengaluru, and its top scientific publications, India is the lower middle-income economy with the highest innovation quality," it said. A total of 131 countries were analysed under the GII before arriving at the rankings. The metrics include institutions, human capital and research, infrastructure, market sophistication and business sophistication, knowledge and technology outputs and creative outputs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranks-48th-in-global-innovation-index-881601.html
02-09-2020||National||Duraimurugan and Baalu to be new GS and Treasurer of DMK||Senior DMK leaders Duraimurugan and T R Baalu are likely to be elected as new general secretary and treasurer of the party unanimously during elections at the General Council meet scheduled on September 9. Duraimurugan, who had shrugged shoulders with AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran and a close aide of DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi, will replace K Anbazhagan as General Secretary of the party, if elected. Anbazhagan, a fellow traveller of Karunanidhi and the eternal no.2 in the DMK, died on March 7. With incumbent treasurer Duraimurugan likely to be elected as General Secretary, he has already resigned his current post. Former Union Minister T R Baalu is likely to step into Duraimurugan’s shoes as the treasurer of the party as it braces itself to face the crucial 2021 assembly polls. While filing of nominations will close on September 4, elections, if necessary, will be held on September 9 when the General Council meets for the first time via video conference in its 70 years. However, sources said, only one nomination will be filed for each post, ensuring unanimous election for both the posts. DMK’s General Council is the highest policy-making body of the party and members of the GC elect President, General Secretary and Treasurer. The GC meet also comes as the political atmosphere in Tamil Nadu heats up with just eight months to go for the crucial assembly elections in the state. The GC was to meet in March but was postponed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. There is also a possibility of changes within the organisation being discussed during the GC meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/duraimurugan-and-baalu-to-be-new-gs-and-treasurer-of-dmk-881621.html
02-09-2020||National||Nyima Tenzin: An unsung Tibetan hero of India’s resistance against Chinese PLA’s aggression||The mortal remains of Nyima Tenzin draped with both the tricolour and the snow-lion flags lying at Sonamling in Ladakh send out a not-so-subtle message to Beijing – Tibetans living in India have joined the Indian Army to resist expansionism of China. Tenzin sacrificed his life during the pre-emptive operation the Indian Army carried out on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) in eastern Ladakh in the late hours of Saturday and the early hours of Sunday to foil a fresh move by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to transgress into the territory of India. The 51-year-old was a Company Leader in the Indian Army’s Special Frontier Force (SFF) – an elite paramilitary force, which was raised during the India-China war in 1962 with most of its recruits being young refugees and guerrilla soldiers from Tibet. It was always kept under a shroud of secrecy. The valour of the SFF soldiers was never officially acknowledged. Nor were the supreme sacrifices they made on the battlegrounds. There is nothing official about the death of Tenzin, who served the SFF for 33 years. The Ministry of Defence issued a statement in New Delhi after the Indian Army thwarted the Chinese PLA’s move on the south bank of the Pangong Tso lake, but it had no word about his martyrdom or the role of the SFF in the overnight operation. Tenzin is survived by his wife and three children, who received his coffin from the Indian Army in Leh on Tuesday, said Lhagyari Namgyal Dolkar, a member of the Tibetan Parliament in Exile based at Dharamshala in India. His mortal remains now wait at his home for the funeral – draped not only with the tricolour of India but also with what was the official flag of the government that existed in Lhasa before Tibet was occupied by the Chinese PLA in the early 1950s. Tibet’s snow-lion flag has been banned by the Chinese Government long back. It, however, remains the icon of the Tibetans’ resistance against the communist country’s rule over their homeland. Tenzin Lodhen, another 24-year-old SFF soldier, was also injured while taking part in the Indian Army’s operation against the Chinese PLA on Saturday-Sunday night.   The SFF, a.k.a. “Establishment 22”, is under the administrative control of the intelligence establishment of India, although it is placed under the command of the Indian Army, whenever it is required to carry out covert operations. With most of its men still refugees or descendants of refugees from Tibet, New Delhi continues to keep the SFF under wraps, just as it never officially acknowledges the existence of the Tibetan Government in Exile in India – ostensibly to avoid complications in its diplomatic relations with China. The SFF, however, fought shoulder-to-shoulder with the Indian Army against the Pakistan Army, both during the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh as well as the 1999 Kargil War. “Death is always tragic, but what makes me and all the Tibetans proud is that another of our own has made the supreme sacrifice for India – a nation that made us a part of it ever since His Holiness (Dalai Lama) had to leave Tibet, a nation that we will always remain grateful to,” Namgyal Dolkar told the DH on Wednesday. “He gave his life for #India, out of Love for #Tibet,” Tibetan activist Tenzin Namgyal posted on Twitter. “My salute to Nyima Tenzin!” tweeted former Indian Army chief General Ved Malik, who recalled the valour of the personnel of the SFF (a.k.a Vikas Battalions) during the Kargil War.   "Nothing can be more humiliating to China than India's use of its Special Frontier Force comprising mainly Tibetan exiles to foil the latest PLA incursion," eminent strategic affairs analyst Brahma Chellaney commented on the microblogging website.   The Indian Army apparently factored in the familiarity of the SFF personnel with the terrain along Ladakh-Tibet border region, when it decided to deploy the highland warriors to support operations to counter the Chinese PLA’s expansionist moves along the LAC. It came just after China claimed that thousands of youths in its Tibet Autonomous Region joined the PLA amid the military stand-off along the disputed boundary with India. The message India wanted to send out with deployment of the SFF along the LAC was not lost on China. “We oppose any country, of course, that includes India, to provide any facilitation or venue to forces advocating independence of Tibet,” Hua Chunying, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said when a journalist asked for her comment on the reports about the Indian Army deploying the SFF along the LAC. “As to the relationship between the exiled Tibetans and the Indian Army, I am also very curious,” she added during a routine briefing in Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nyima-tenzin-an-unsung-tibetan-hero-of-india-s-resistance-against-chinese-pla-s-aggression-881623.html
02-09-2020||National||India takes up concerns of Indian students with China||The Indian Embassy here has taken up with the Chinese officials concerns of a large number of Indian students studying in China following an official announcement that foreign students and teachers will not return to their colleges until further notice. Over 23,000 Indian students studied in different courses in Chinese universities and colleges as per the last year's data. Of them, over 21,000 have enrolled to study MBBS. Most of these students left for home during the Chinese New Year holidays earlier this year just around the time when the coronavirus pandemic began spreading in China. It is reiterated that following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year, the Chinese government had restricted the entry of foreigners into China, permitting such entry only in specific circumstances, an Indian Embassy press release said. While some exceptions have since been made in some categories of foreigners who can enter China with fresh visa, foreign students have not been included in any of these categories, it said. The Ministry of Education of China has published on its website that “all overseas students and teachers who have not received notice from their respective educational institutions will not return to their Colleges/Universities until further instructions”. The embassy has been taking up Indian students’ concerns with Chinese authorities including the Ministry of Education, the press release said. The response of the Chinese authorities regarding their stand on the return of foreign students to China is awaited, it said. The same will be updated through a press release as soon as it is received, it said. Meanwhile, Indian students are advised to monitor the website of the Indian embassy/consulates in China and our social media channels to remain updated about the evolving situation in respect of the return of foreign students to China. Indian students are also advised to remain in touch with their respective universities/colleges, the press release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-takes-up-concerns-of-indian-students-with-china-881630.html
02-09-2020||National||Traders' body hails govt move to ban 118 apps with Chinese links||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Wednesday hailed the Centre's decision to ban 118 mobile phone apps with Chinese links, saying the move is a morale booster for India. While banning the apps, the government termed them prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of the nation. The banned apps include PUBG, Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun, among others, according to an official statement. "The banning of 118 more Chinese apps by the Union government today is a major milestone against misdeeds of China and will certainly boost the morale of the country," CAIT's NCR unit convener Sushil Kumar Jain said He said CAIT, which has 40,000 trade associations and 7 crore members across India as members, has been leading an anti-China movement since June 10 this year. "Banning more Chinese apps other than 59 already banned was all the more necessary as these apps were always a threat to the country's safety, security and sovereignty as also for the protection of individual data these apps were accruing through their usage," Jain said. He said CAIT in a letter sent to Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on August 24 had urged to ban more Chinese apps. "On behalf of the business community of the country, we express our gratitude and compliments to the government headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for taking such an important step as per the wishes of the people of India," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/traders-body-hails-govt-move-to-ban-118-apps-with-chinese-links-881639.html
02-09-2020||National||Facebook rejects allegations of political bias at Parliament panel meet||Under attack from Congress and BJP, Facebook India Managing Director Ajit Mohan on Wednesday rejected allegations of bias against any political party. Appearing before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, Mohan said the social networking company strictly followed the government guidelines while dealing with hate speech and had deleted 22.5 million objectionable posts world over this year. At the outset, Committee chairman Shashi Tharoor is learnt to have sought an explanation on reports appearing in a section of the international media pm allegations of Facebook favouring the BJP. Mohan is learnt to have told the Committee that the company did not have any policy of favouring a particular political party. BJP members Nishikant Dubey and Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore were understood to have raised the issue of links of some Facebook employees with the Congress party. Mohan said some officials at Facebook were employees of an international consultancy firm which had worked with some ministries during the UPA tenure for assessment of government initiatives. “There is no relationship with the Congress,” Mohan is learnt to have told the Committee. “In response to overwhelming media interest in the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology that just adjourned, this is all I can say: we met for some three and a half hours and unanimously agreed to resume the discussion later, including with representatives of Facebook,” Tharoor said on Twitter. Earlier, Tharoor’s announcement that the panel would like to hear from Facebook about a report claiming that the social media platform ignored applying its hate-speech rules to politicians of the BJP in India, had evoked a strong reaction from BJP members of the panel. Dubey had accused Tharoor of using the Committee platform to further his party’s political agenda and even demanded his removal as chairman. AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal has written two letters to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg seeking explanation on reports appearing in a section of the international media alleging favours to the BJP in the hope of support for launching new projects in India. IT Minister Ravishankar Prasad too had shot off a letter to Zuckerberg accusing Facebook employees of supporting people from the Congress party. Prasad had also alleged “bias and inaction” by individuals in the Facebook India team on complaints by people supportive of right-of-centre ideology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-rejects-allegations-of-political-bias-at-parliament-panel-meet-881641.html
02-09-2020||National||Indians in team spotting most massive black hole merger||A team of Indian astronomers and a specialised computing facility created at an institute in Pune played a key role in detecting the most massive merger of two black holes ever observed more than seven billion years ago. The collision between the two black holes led to the creation of an “intermediate-mass black hole”. The two black holes that collided have 85 and 66 times the mass of the Sun, forming a bigger black hole of mass 142 times that of the Sun. Black holes are remnants of massive dying stars, with gravity so monstrous that even light can’t escape their pull, making them literally black.   This is the first conclusive discovery of an intermediate-mass black hole. This event, its energy detected on Earth in the form of gravitational waves, is the most massive black hole merger yet observed. An international team of researchers, including several Indian scientists, witnessed the birth of this intermediate-mass black hole by analysing its signature – a feeble gravity wave, labelled GW190521, on May 21, 2019. They witnessed this with the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO), a pair of identical 4-km-long L-shaped instruments in the USA and Virgo - a similar 3-km-long detector in Italy. The signal lasted only about a tenth of a second, but long enough to extract key data. “Such black holes provide clues to the formation of supermassive black holes, at the core of the galaxies. Since the signal was very short, it could have been mistaken as noisy transient. We look for common signatures in both the detectors to zero in on the merge,” Archana Pai, professor at IIT, Bombay, and part of the team that made the discovery, told DH. Between the stellar black holes that can be seen with existing detectors and supermassive black holes, there was no candidate for an intermediate range till this discovery. “Evidences of intermediate mass black holes can complete our understanding of the universe,” said Sanjit Mitra, another team member at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Pune, which has set up a special high performance computing centre for data analysis.  After LIGO and Virgo, a third gravity detector would be set up in Maharashtra (LIGO India) to detect more such gravity waves that would unravel such unknowns of the universe, commented Tarun Sourdeep, a professor at the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Pune and the spokesperson of the LIGO India project. The discovery has been published on Wednesday in two papers that appeared in Physical Review Letters and Astrophysical Journal Letters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-in-team-spotting-most-massive-black-hole-merger-881655.html
02-09-2020||National||Country's first regional voters' awareness centre to come up in Jaipur: EC||The Election Commission will set up the country's first regional voters' awareness centre in Jaipur, which will cater to four states -- Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. The centre will carry out various awareness activities under the Systematic Voters' Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme. "Jaipur is set to be distinguished as being the first SVEEP Regional Centre of the ECI in the country. As a stepping stone in this direction, a 3,385 square metre piece of land for construction of the SVEEP Regional Centre has been allotted by the state government in Indira Gandhi Nagar, Jagatpura," Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said. Arora, who was in the city to conduct a review meeting with officials of the election department, said the Election Commission of India (ECI) will bear the entire cost of construction of the centre. The CEC drew attention towards the implementation of detailed guidelines issued by the commission for smooth conduct of polls amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He re-emphasised the need for ensuring maximum utilisation of digital media platforms for organising various meetings, webinars, video conferences and training, according to an official release. He said that pre-revision activities as well as special summary revision of electoral rolls-2021 should be carried out by undertaking a pragmatic approach in light of the present Covid-19 Pandemic. Arora asked officials to encourage voters for online registration and the department should also adopt the online procedures to fit in with the changing times. The CEC apprised the participants about the commission's endeavour to ensure 'ease of voting' for geriatrics and senior citizens. "The latest provision in this regard is the introduction of the facility of postal ballot, so that their physical presence at the Polling Station will not be warranted,” he said. He also directed to expand the SVEEP outreach and make it more penetrative among senior citizens, women, youths, tribal people and migrant workers among others. The review meeting was attended by Rajasthan Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta and other senior officials of the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/countrys-first-regional-voters-awareness-centre-to-come-up-in-jaipur-ec-881669.html
02-09-2020||National||Responsibility for fresh tension rests entirely with India, claims China||India’s claim about pre-empting a move by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the south bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) itself proved that its army was the first to illegally cross the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the area, a spokesperson of the communist country’s government said. Even as the local commanders of the two armies continued talks to defuse tension on the south bank of the Pangong Tso, Beijing kept on blaming the Indian Army for trying to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC. “The responsibility rests entirely with India,” Hua Chunying, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese government, told journalists in Beijing on Wednesday. “China has exercised great restraint to prevent escalation of the situation along the border with India.” New Delhi earlier this week stated that the Indian Army had on Saturday-Sunday night pre-empted a move by the Chinese PLA to unilaterally push the LAC westwards and grab land belonging to India. Hua on Wednesday cited the statement by the Government of India and referred to a Chinese proverb – “there are no 300 taels of silver buried here”, which meant that one accidentally gave away the hidden truth in an explanation. “India’s statements reveal the fact that the Indian troops were the first to have illegally crossed the LAC, made provocations, changed the status quo in the border areas, and violated bilateral agreements and important consensus,” she said. She also alleged that India had breached bilateral agreements and important consensus many times in the western sector of the China-India boundary since the beginning of the year, attempted to unilaterally change the status quo by force, undermined peace and stability in the border region and caused tensions. Hua said that the two sides were in communication through military and diplomatic channels. “We urge India to strictly discipline its border troops, stop all provocations at once, immediately withdraw all personnel who illegally trespassed across the LAC, and stop taking any actions that may escalate tensions or complicate matters,” said the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese government. “We hope India will work with China to implement bilateral agreements and important consensus reached by leaders of the two sides and make concrete efforts to uphold peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/responsibility-for-fresh-tension-rests-entirely-with-india-claims-china-881671.html
02-09-2020||National||India attends key meeting of BIMSTEC||India on Wednesday attended a key a meeting of the regional grouping BIMSTEC which discussed ways to further expand cooperation among its member nations to effectively deal with key challenges including impact of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. The Indian delegation at the virtual meeting of the grouping was headed by Secretary (East) in Ministry of External Affairs Vijay Thakur Singh, they said. The Senior Officials' Meeting (SOM) of BIMSTEC under the chairmanship of Sri Lanka discussed ways to deepen cooperation among the member nations and holding of the next summit of the grouping, they said. A number of issues including ways to boost cooperation in dealing with economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic was discussed in the meeting, the officials said. The BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) comprises India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Bhutan and Nepal. The grouping accounts for 22 per cent of the global population, and has a combined gross domestic product of USD 2.8 trillion. India has been pushing for making BIMSTEC a vibrant forum as various regional initiatives under SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional) were not moving forward primarily due to non-cooperation from Pakistan. For India, BIMSTEC is a natural choice to take forward key foreign policy priorities like 'Neighbourhood First' and 'Act East' as the bloc enjoys the strength of connecting South and South-East Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-attends-key-meeting-of-bimstec-881672.html
02-09-2020||National||Jal Shakti ministry launches 'Water Heroes' contest||The Jal Shakti ministry has launched a "Water Heroes" contest with an aim to reach out to people with the important message of water conservation and management, a statement said on Wednesday. "One of the primary objectives of the Ministry of Jal Shakti is to make water conservation a people's movement and strengthen the water consciousness in the country. "For furthering this objective, the Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti has launched the 'Water Heroes – Share Your Stories' Contest from September 1, 2020 with an aim to reach out to people on the important subject of water conservation and management," the statement said. The contest hopes to encourage people and collect best practices in water conservation from across the country. Every month (from September onwards), entries would be invited for the awards. A maximum of 10 entries can be considered for the awards every month. All selected entries will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 10,000 and a certificate, the statement added. The participants will have to post their success stories on water conservation through a specially made video of 1-5 minutes, along with a write-up of up to 300 words and some photographs, depicting the efforts and significant contributions to conserve and manage water resources. The participants can share their videos (with the link of their YouTube videos) on the MyGov portal -- www.mygov.in -- the statement said. In addition, the entries can also be submitted at waterheroes.cgwb@gmail.com, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-shakti-ministry-launches-water-heroes-contest-881681.html
02-09-2020||National||Gujarat: Relatives of burnt Covid-19 victims in hospital allege phones, jewels stolen; seek CBI probe||Seeking CBI investigation into the incident of fire in which eight coronavirus positive patients were killed in a private hospital last month, relatives of the victims on Wednesday said that mobile phones and jewelry of the deceased were stolen and the police haven't been able to trace them. The police had registered an FIR against the director of Shrey hospital who walked away with a bailable offence. The relatives said that they have sent representations to the Prime Minister Office and sought an appointment of Gujarat chief minister for demanding a probe by the CBI. They have said that if the fire was caught accidentally, how come burnt mobile phones of all the victims were not found on the spot. They said that hospital authorities claimed that victims had 70% to 80% burn injuries and the whole ICU ward, where they were being treated, was gutted down, then why the phones of the victims were not burnt. The incident had taken place at 3:03 am on August 6. In a statement released by the victims on Wednesday, it is mentioned that one of the victims Leelavati Shah's son had dialed his mother's phone 12 hours after the fire incident and the phone was reportedly picked up by the mother of an employee of the hospital. Minutes later the phone was switched off. Similarly, one of the victims' phone was handed over to the relative four hours after the incident while the other mobile was with the employee of the hospital which was later taken by the police. In another similar case, the phone of victim Ayesha Tirmizi was found to be working till 36 hours after the incident and was later found to be switched off. "We still don't know where the phone is. The only thing police tell us is that investigation is on. We have made representation to the PMO and sought an appointment with the chief minister Vijay Rupani to demand a CBI probe. We want the registration of an FIR under section 304 Part-II of Indian Penal Code (culpable homicide not amounting to murder)." In a statement, the relatives have said if CBI can probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide case then why can't the agency be asked to investigate death of eight innocent people. When contacted a senior police officer told DH that "I am not aware about such lapse as alleged. We will inquire into it." The FIR registered at Navrangpura police station against Shrey hospital's director Bharat Mahant under section 304 A that deals with causing death by negligence which is a bailable offence. The relatives have alleged, "there are various issues which the hospital has tried to cover up including CCTV cameras, which incidentally found to be not working. The only working camera was mostly covered with a curtain." They have demanded that these lapses should have been probed diligently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-relatives-of-burnt-covid-19-victims-in-hospital-allege-phones-jewels-stolen-seek-cbi-probe-881691.html
02-09-2020||National Politics||Rafale jets in danger due to garbage-induced bird hazard in Ambala: Report||Highlighting the avian problem, Director-General Inspection and Safety of Indian Air Force, Air Marshal Manavendra Singh wrote, “Air Force Station Ambala has very high concentration of birds and this has the potential to cause very serious damage to the aircraft in case of a collision. Bird activity over the airfield is related to the presence of garbage in the area around." He further said that a number of recommendations have been suggested such as littering penalty, improvement in garbage collection and setting up a Solid Waste Management project near the airfield base. He emphasised that the safety and security of the Rafale fighter jets is the IAF's primary focus and at least 10 km around the airfield must be free of small as well as big birds like black kites. According to the report, IAF also demanded immediate implementation of a Solid Waste Management project. The Chief Secretary sent the IAF letter to the Urban Local Bodies Department for further action, the report said. Minister of Urban Local Bodies Department, Anil Vij told the publication that help will be provided from the state government to IAF wherever needed. Rafale fighter jets would be officially inducted into the IAF in the second week of September in the presence of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart Florence Parly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rafale-jets-in-danger-due-to-garbage-induced-bird-hazard-in-ambala-report-881385.html
02-09-2020||National Politics||India reeling under 'Modi-made disasters': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the state of the economy, rise in Covid-19 cases and "external aggression" at borders, alleging that India is reeling under "Modi-made disasters". His attack comes after official data showed on Monday that the country's economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 percent as the coronavirus-related lockdown weighed on the already declining consumer demand and investment. India is reeling under Modi-made disasters: 1. Historic GDP reduction -23.9%2. Highest Unemployment in 45 yrs3. 12 Crs job loss4. Centre not paying States their GST dues5. Globally highest COVID-19 daily cases and deaths6. External aggression at our borders "India is reeling under Modi-made disasters: 1. Historic GDP reduction -23.9% 2. Highest Unemployment in 45 yrs 3. 12 Crs job loss 4. Centre not paying states their GST dues 5. Globally highest Covid-19 daily cases and deaths 6. External aggression at our borders (sic)," Gandhi tweeted. Rebutting Gandhi's attack in a video earlier this week on the state of the economy, the BJP had mocked him saying he should release a video about the "G-23", a reference to the 23 leaders who wrote to the Congress chief seeking the party's overhaul. Chief Economic Adviser K V Subramanian has said the economy was "experiencing a V-shaped recovery" after the lockdown was eased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-reeling-under-modi-made-disasters-rahul-gandhi-881449.html
02-09-2020||National Politics||India, China hold another round of Brigade Commander-level talks amid border tension||Days after China's "provocative actions" in Pangong lake area in eastern Ladakh, the situation in the region remained sensitive on Wednesday while army commanders from both sides held another round of talks to defuse tensions, government sources said. The army of the two countries held Brigade Commander-level talks in Chushul with a focus on bringing down tensions in the Pangong lake area, they said, adding similar dialogue on Monday and Tuesday, each lasting over six hours, did not produce any "tangible outcome". Sources said India has achieved tactical gains in eastern Ladakh in the last few days by occupying a number of strategically important hill tops and locations. On Monday, the Indian Army said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Tuesday said the Chinese PLA was engaged in "provocative action" again on Monday when the ground commanders of the two sides were holding talks to ease the situation following China's attempt to change the status quo in the Pangong lake area two days back. "The situation in the area remained sensitive," said a source. The two sides were earlier engaged in a confrontation on the northern bank of Pangong lake but it was for the first time such an incident occurred on its southern bank, they said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday carried out a comprehensive review of the situation in eastern Ladakh at a high-level meeting attended by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. It was decided at the nearly two-hour meeting that the Indian Army will continue to maintain its aggressive posturing in all sensitive areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to effectively deal with any Chinese "misadventure", the sources said. They said the Indian Army has further bolstered its presence around the Southern Bank area of Pangong lake by deploying additional troops and bringing in more weaponry including tanks and anti-tank guided missiles. A battalion of the Special Frontier Force was also deployed in the area. The sources said the Indian Air Force (IAF) has also been told to enhance its surveillance on increasing Chinese air activities along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. There have been reports that China has deployed J-20 long-range fighter jets and several other key assets in strategically located Hotan airbase which is around 310 kms from eastern Ladakh. In the last three months, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The fresh attempt by China to change the status quo in the Pangong lake area is the first major incident in the area after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. China also suffered casualties but is yet to make the details public. According to an American intelligence report it was 35. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-china-hold-another-round-of-brigade-commander-level-talks-amid-border-tension-881465.html
02-09-2020||National Politics||No question hour in Parliament's monsoon session; Opposition slams move||The upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, beginning September 14, will not have Question Hour and a shorter duration for members to raise matters of public importance, prompting the opposition to accuse the Modi government of “murdering democracy”. The fortnight-long monsoon session will be marked by several firsts such as sittings of both the Houses on Saturdays and Sundays, staggered timings for the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, instead of simultaneous proceedings and strict restrictions on movement in Parliament premises. “There will be no Question Hour and private members’ business during the session,” a Rajya Sabha notification said. "In view of the request of the Government owing to prevailing extraordinary situation due to Covid-19, the Speaker has directed that no day be fixed for transaction of Private Members' Business during the Session," the Lok Sabha Secretariat said in a notification. On the first day of the monsoon session, the Lok Sabha will meet from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 pm and the Rajya Sabha from 3:00 pm to 7:00 pm For the rest of the duration of the session till October 1, the Rajya Sabha would meet in the mornings and Lok Sabha in the afternoon. The two-hour break between will be used to disinfect chambers of both the Houses. The decision to scrap the Question Hour and private members’ business has not gone down well with the Opposition. “Opposition MPs lose the right to question the government. A first since 1950? Parliament overall working hours remain the same so why cancel Question Hour? Pandemic excuse to murder democracy,” Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’brien said. Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had already written a letter to Speaker Om Birla protesting the decision to scrap the Question Hour. “We request the government to reconsider the decision,” Chowdhury said adding that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had sounded him out beforehand about the changes citing the Covid-19 pandemic. “BJP government’s decision to suspend the Question Hour for the entire session conveys just one message – even elected representatives have no right to question the government,” DMK member Kanimozhi said. In the past, he said, the Question Hour was dispensed with during sessions of Parliament called for special purposes but the upcoming Monsoon Session is a "regular session".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-question-hour-in-parliaments-monsoon-session-opposition-slams-move-881481.html
02-09-2020||National Politics||Not running away from debate in Parliament: Pralhad Joshi||Under attack from the Opposition, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday said the Modi government was not running away from debates and all political parties except the Trinamool had agreed to drop the Question Hour during the monsoon session of Parliament. Joshi said holding the Question Hour during the truncated monsoon session of Parliament would have led to crowding in the officers’ gallery as ministry officials have to be present to assist the ministers. “All political parties except Trinamool had agreed to drop the Question Hour,” the minister told DH terming the Opposition criticism of the government as “unfair”. Joshi said political parties have also agreed to cut short the Zero Hour, when members raise matters of public importance, to 30 minutes. The move to drop the Question Hour during the monsoon session was criticised by Opposition leaders. “Proposal to exclude Question hour is arbitrary, shocking and undemocratic. It is Members’ privilege and the very life of a session,” Anand Sharma, deputy leader of the Congress in Rajya Sabha said. “Opposition MPs lose the right to question the government. A first since 1950? Parliament overall working hours remain the same so why cancel Question Hour? A pandemic excuse to murder democracy,” Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien said. “BJP government’s decision to suspend the Question Hour for the entire session conveys just one message – even elected representatives have no right to question the government,” DMK member Kanimozhi said. Joshi said the government had recommended to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to allow tabling of unstarred questions during the monsoon session. “The government is ready to reply to unstarred questions. We are not running away from debates and will discuss all issues, as decided by the Business Advisory Committee,” Joshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-running-away-from-debate-in-parliament-pralhad-joshi-881625.html
02-09-2020||National Politics||Reveal names of donors: Chidambaram on PM-CARES fund||The PM-CARES fund received Rs 3,076 crore in the first five days of its existence, an audit statement said, prompting the Opposition to demand details of the donors. The audit statement released on the PM-CARES website states that the fund was set up with an initial corpus of Rs 2.25 lakh, received Rs 3,075.85 crore through voluntary contributions, Rs 39.67 lakh from foreign contributions and Rs 35.32 lakh as interest income. Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram slammed the Modi government for not revealing the list of donors to the PM-CARES fund that has found itself in Opposition cross-hairs since its launch on March 27. “The auditors of PM-CARES Fund have confirmed that the Fund received Rs 3,076 crore in just five days between March 26 and 31, 2020. But the names of these generous donors will not be revealed. Why?” asked the senior Congress leader. The one-page audited statement mentions donations received under voluntary contributions and foreign contributions with details apparently appended to accompanying note 4. However, the accompanying notes have not been uploaded on the website. “Every other NGO or Trust is obliged to reveal the names of donors contributing more than a threshold amount. Why is the PM-CARES fund exempt from this obligation,” Chidambaram asked. Opposition has been questioning the need for a separate fund at a time when the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund was already in existence. Congress has accused the Modi government of being opaque about PM-CARES by not allowing it to be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General and keeping it out of the purview of the Right to Information Act. The Centre for Public Interest Litigation had moved the Supreme Court demanding that the funds received by PM-CARES be transferred into the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund or the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The apex court had turned down the plea to transfer the PM-CARES fund to the NDRF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/reveal-names-of-donors-chidambaram-on-pm-cares-fund-881635.html
02-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition creating fake narrative on Question Hour suspension: BJP||The BJP on Wednesday took a swipe at the Congress over its criticism of the Union government for not having the Question Hour during the upcoming Parliament session, saying it is amusing to see opposition members who "don't have power" to question even their party president create a "fake narrative" on this issue. Rajya Sabha member and BJP media head Anil Baluni said that the uproar caused by opposition members over the Question Hour suspension is nothing but a "masterclass in hypocrisy". In these times of Covid-19 pandemic, the two Houses of Parliament will convene only for four hours daily and so naturally there is a paucity of time, he said, citing the reason behind not keeping the Question Hour a part of the 18-day session. Unstarred questions, answers to which are given to members in a written form, will be allowed, he added. BJP sources also said that the government is working to see if the Question Hour can be accommodated in the session, which starts from September 14. Baluni noted that several state assemblies have functioned after March, the month when Covid-19 began to spread and brought about the nationwide lockdown, and that there has been no Question Hour in the assemblies of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. All these states are ruled by non-BJP parties, and his party did not raise a hue and cry there, he said. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had spoken to all parties where they all supported this move, but they have changed their stand now, he said. Baluni pointed out that when Question Hour was a normal feature in Parliament, it was routinely "disrupted" by opposition parties. "The extent of disturbance of the Question Hour is visible from the fact that in the last eight sessions, out of the 162 hours allotted for it, only 59 hours were used and more than 102 hours were lost due to disruptions and adjournment," he said. "For the parties creating an uproar, can they tell how many questions have their top leaders asked in the question hour?" he asked. Rebutting the opposition's charge, he said it is far-fetched to say that this is being done by the government to evade questions. "This is simply a case of extraordinary measures for extraordinary times. The government has always answered each question with sincerity," he said. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and the party's deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma have criticised the proposal to exclude Question Hour during this session, saying this is arbitrary and undemocratic as it is the members' right to ask questions to the government on key issues. The Left and the Trinamool Congress have also attacked the government for this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-creating-fake-narrative-on-question-hour-suspension-bjp-881658.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Woman stages 'robbery' at her own house with associate, both arrested||Eyeing her 60-year-old husband's wealth, a 28-year-old woman staged a "robbery" at her own apartment within a month of their marriage, police said on Tuesday after arresting her along with her male accomplice. The accused duo robbed Rs 2.18 lakh and gold jewellery from the flat. The woman also inflicted an injury on herself and tied herself up to mislead both her husband and the investigators, police said. The police claimed to have recovered the stolen cash and jewellery from the house of the woman's associate, identified as Jitender (30). The accused woman was a widow and her mother worked as a maid at the house of the man named Ramesh Kumar, aged 65 years. Just a month ago, she got married to Kumar. She was his third wife of Kumar, who had a five-year-old son from his previous marriage, police said. Kumar had a fan manufacturing unit here in Delhi but due to losses in business, he had to shut down his factory. However, he was making good money by renting out several of his properties, police said. The incident took place on August 30 in Shastri Nagar in north Delhi's Sarai Rohilla, police said. After reaching the flat, the police were told by the woman that some unidentified men had entered her house "forcefully" and after injuring her with a hammer, they robbed all the cash and jewellery and tied her hands and legs before fleeing. It was her husband who called the police after seeing his wife tied up and injured. The accused woman was then taken to Acharya Bhikshu hospital by the police where she received treatment. An investigation was initiated immediately soon after a case was registered on the statement of her husband, said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north). During the investigation, it was found that the woman's husband had married thrice. After his first wife expired in 2010, he married another lady who later left him. Thereafter, he married the accused woman, he said. The crime team was called to the spot and the site was inspected in detail. All the relatives were questioned and CCTV footage of the rooms was scanned. After she returned from the hospital, the accused woman was questioned in detail during which police noticed contradictions in her statements. So the entire sequence of the crime was recreated, he said. During interrogation, the woman confessed to staging the robbery with Jitender. The team immediately raided his house and recovered the robbed items, he added. "Jitender told the police that he is married and had met the accused woman earlier. Both Jitender and the accused woman hatched a conspiracy to stage the robbery at her husband's flat. "In order to mislead her husband and the police, she injured herself on the forehead and tied her hands and legs while her associate took away the cash and jewellery and hid it at his house," the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-stages-robbery-at-her-own-house-with-associate-both-arrested-881272.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Pranab Mukherjee's ashes immersed in Ganga at Har ki Pauri||The ashes of former President Pranab Mukherjee were immersed in the Ganga at Har ki Pauri here late on Tuesday evening by his son Abhijit Mukherjee. Before the immersion of the ashes, a ritual was performed in front of a framed picture of the former President in the presence of Ganga Sabha chief Pradeep Jha, general secretary Tanmay Vashishtha and sabhapati Krishna Kumar Sharma. Congress leaders Satpal Brahmachari, Sanjay Agrawal and Sanjay Paliwal were also present. Pranab Mukherjee passed away on Monday at the Army Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi at the age of 84. He was cremated on Tuesday with full state honours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pranab-mukherjees-ashes-immersed-in-ganga-at-har-ki-pauri-881292.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||UP govt 'stubborn like a child', can frame me in another case: Kafeel Khan after his release from jail||The Uttar Pradesh government instead of doing 'Raj Dharma' was indulging in 'Baal Hatth' or childlike-stubbornness and could frame him in another case, Dr Kafeel Khan said after he was released from the Mathura jail late on Tuesday night. The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday quashed Khan's detention under the National Security Act and ordered his immediate release. Following the court's order, Khan was released from Mathura jail late on Tuesday night. "Mathura jail administration informed at around 11.00 pm that Dr Kafeel will be released, and at around midnight, he was released," Khan's lawyer Irfan Ghazi told PTI. Speaking to PTI after his release from the jail, Khan thanked the court and said, "I will always remain thankful to all my well-wishers, who raised their voice for my release. The administration was not ready for release, but because of the prayers (duaa) of people, I have been released." "In Ramayana, Maharshi Valmiki had said that the Raja (king) should act for 'Raj Dharma'. In UP the 'Raja' is not doing 'Raj Dharma' but is doing 'Baal Hatth' (being stubborn like a child)," Khan said. He also said he was apprehensive that the government can frame him in any other case, and claimed that he and his family had to face many hardships as the state government was "after" him because of the oxygen issue in BRD Medical College. Khan said he now wants to help flood-affected people in Bihar and Assam. The bench, comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh, passed the order on a petition filed by Khan's mother Nuzhat Parveen. The petition alleged that Khan was granted bail in February by a competent court and he was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and the NSA was subsequently invoked against him. Hence, his detention was illegal, the petition argued. Khan was in jail since January after he delivered an allegedly provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in December last year. Kafeel Khan had hit the headlines for the first time in 2017 after the deaths of several kids due to lack of oxygen cylinders at Gorakhpur's BRD Medical College, where he worked as a paediatrician. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for the children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders. However, later, he faced action along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail. A state government probe had cleared Khan of all major charges, prompting him to seek an apology from the Yogi Adityanath government. The doctor had alleged that an institutional failure had led to the deaths of the children.         He subsequently faced threats, cases and even his family members were attacked, which the doctor dubbed as political vendetta on the part of the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-stubborn-like-a-child-can-frame-me-in-another-case-kafeel-khan-after-his-release-from-jail-881302.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Kafeel Khan released from Mathura jail after Allahabad HC quashes his detention under NSA||Dr Kafeel Khan was released from Mathura jail after the Allahabad High Court on Tuesday quashed his detention under the National Security Act and ordered his immediate release, saying his speech at the AMU didn't promote hatred or violence and gave a call for national integrity. The bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh said the Aligarh district magistrate, who passed the order for Khan's detention, did a "selective reading" of his speech, "ignoring its true intent". Khan's lawyer Irfan Ghazi told PTI, "Mathura jail administration informed at around 11.00 pm that Dr Kafeel will be released, and at around midnight, he was released". The high court allowed the writ petition filed by Khan's mother Nuzhat Parveen and said the detention order by the district magistrate was illegal. The petition argued that Khan was granted bail in February by a competent court and he was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and the National Security Act (NSA) was subsequently invoked against him. Hence, his detention was illegal. Khan was in jail since January after he delivered the allegedly provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in December last year. He was lodged in Mathura jail. On Tuesday evening, his family members said they would file a contempt plea in the Allahabad High Court on Wednesday if he was not released as per its orders. Khan’s brother Adeel claimed that the jail administration told them that they will go by the order of the Mathura district magistrate and until the DM says, Kafeel would not be released. Adeel claimed that after the High Court gave the order, an e-mail informing about the release of Khan was sent to the jail administration and the DMs of Mathura and Aligarh, but the authorities were “making an excuse” of not getting the order. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hailed the court's decision and hoped the Uttar Pradesh government would immediately release Khan "without any malice". Quashing Khan's detention order, the court said, "A complete reading of the speech primafacie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also no where threatens peace and tranquility of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. "It appears that the District Magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent." The court further said in the instant case, the "causal link is found to be missing or completely broken". Under the NSA, a person can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that he or she is a threat to national security or law and order. Khan spent over six months in jail under the NSA. In its order, the court said, "The writ petition for the reasons above is allowed. The order of detention dated 13th February, 2020 passed by District Magistrate, Aligarh and confirmed by the State of Uttar Pradesh is set aside. The extension of the period of detention of detenue Dr. Kafeel Khan is also declared illegal." "A writ in the nature of habeas corpus is hereby issued to release Dr. Kafeel Khan, the detenue, from State custody forthwith," it said. The Uttar Pradesh government had extended Khan's detention under the NSA by three months twice -- in May and August. In an order dated August 4, the Home Department had said the NSA was invoked against Khan on February 13, 2020, on the orders of the Aligarh district magistrate. After this, the matter was sent to the advisory council, which, in its report, said there were "enough reasons" to keep Khan in jail. On her way to Mathura after the court delivered its verdict, Khan's mother Parveen told PTI on phone, "I am very happy that my son is coming out of jail. I will be able to see him after a long time." "My son is a good person and he was never against the country or the society. It is also my daughter-in-law's birthday today, and we are taking a cake with us as she is in Mathura," she said. "If Kafeel is not released from the jail, then we will file a contempt appeal in the High Court on Wednesday," his brother Adeel said. Mathura jail Senior Superintendent Shailendra Kumar Maitreya on Tuesday evening said he was yet to receive the court orders. District Magistrate Mathura Sarvagya Ram Mishra said orders of the court will be complied with. "Since, the NSA was imposed on Kafeel by the Aligarh district magistrate, he should be contacted," Mishra said. Khan's advocate Ghazi alleged that the Aligarh DM was not meeting him on the pretext of attending a meeting or other, despite hours of efforts made by him. Khan, who worked as a paediatrician at Gorakhpur's BRD Medical College, first hit headlines in 2017 after several children died at the hospital due to the lack of oxygen cylinders. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi welcomed the court order. "The Allahabad High Court today ordered the removal of NSA and immediate release of Dr. Kafeel Khan. It is expected that the UP government will release Dr. Kafeel Khan without any malice," she said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kafeel-khan-released-from-mathura-jail-after-allahabad-hc-quashes-his-detention-under-nsa-881304.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Ladakh anxious as tension escalates along LAC with China||Amid tensions escalating between the armies of India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the situation in the newly created Union Territory remains tense with people anxious about the future The Indian army’s counter-offensive in Pangong Tso on August 29-30 night has ensured that its troops are now dominating heights along its side of the LAC and monitoring the Chinese movement. However, in Leh town and its adjoining areas, people are worried and anxious. “People are anxious about the future as to how the situation will develop,” former minister Chering Dorjey, said. He said the access to forward areas of eastern Ladakh has been restricted with communication services, including mobile networks, snapped. A local scribe told DH over the phone that the situation seems extremely tense along the LAC and there is no exact information as the mobile phone communication has been blocked in the area near Chushol.  “The situation seems to be dire and the possibility of further escalation can’t be ruled out,” he said adding that there has been increased troop movement and vehicles transporting artillery in the recent days. Since the last few days hundreds of army vehicles carrying troops and other artillery were seen moving towards Ladakh from Kashmir resulting in the interruption of the civilian traffic movement on major highways. According to the locals living along the strategic 434-km long Srinagar-Leh national highway, which passes through Ganderbal district in central Kashmir, they haven’t seen such an increase in troop movement since the Kargil war in 1999. Reportedly as of now, armies of India and China are matching each other in strength with the Indian Army ready to repel any Chinese aggression along the 1597-km-long LAC in cold desert Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-anxious-as-tension-escalates-along-lac-with-china-881365.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Army jawan killed in Pakistani shelling along LoC in J&K||A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) of the army was killed in Pakistani shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Tarkundi sector of Jammu division’s Rajouri district on Wednesday. A defence official said that Pakistani army resorted to ceasefire violation on Wednesday morning using small arms at Kesser Gela area of Tarkundi sector along the LoC in Rajouri. “A JCO sustained injuries in Pakistani shelling and he was immediately evacuated to an army hospital but he succumbed to his injuries,” he said and added the Indian Army retaliated strongly. The latest incident comes three days after another JCO (Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh) was killed in Pakistani shelling along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri. On Saturday, the BSF had detected a trans-border tunnel that originated from Pakistan and stretched 150 meters into Samba sector of Jammu region. According to official figures, there has been around 75% jump in ceasefire violations by Pakistan in the first six months of 2020 along the LoC in J&K as compared to the same period last year. The Army maintains that Pakistani troops have been frequently violating ceasefire by resorting to heavy shelling and firing to help the militants to infiltrate||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-killed-in-pakistani-shelling-along-loc-in-jk-881384.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Provide affordable treatment to poor Covid-19 patients, SC directs Centre||A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked the Union government to impress upon the States and Union Territories to come up with plan, both legislative and executive, to address the concerns. The court said the states may take cue from Public Health Acts of various states and National Health Bill, 2009 in this regard. In an order passed on August 31, the court said though health is a state subject, the Centre is still empowered under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to issue directions in view of the pandemic. The bench also asked the Centre to file a comprehensive report compiling responses received from the States and Union Territories, after convening a second meeting of Health Ministers and Secretaries on the steps taken by them.  While hearing a PIL filed by advocate Sachin Jain and others, for the Union government to regulate the cost of treatment of patients infected with Covid-19 at private and corporate hospitals, the court said ‘Health and Hospitals’ is a subject that falls in Entry 6 of List II of the Constitution. Only a few States took advantage of the subject of “public health” falling in their domain, and passed legislations like the Madras Public Health Act, 1939, the Travancore Cochin Public Health Act, 1955, the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Public Health Act, 1939, the Goa, Daman and Diu Public Health Act, 1985, Madhya Pradesh Public Health Act, 1949, the Puducherry Public Health Act, 1973, Gujarat Public Health Act, 2009 and Assam Public Health Act, 2010, the court noted. Following a mandate from the WHO in the form of International Health Regulations (IHR, 2005), to which India is a signatory, the Union government proposed a National Health Bill 2009, which, among others, provided that even private players are obliged to honour such right of every individual to emergency treatment and care, the court noted. "But the National Health Bill, 2009 also did not see the light of the day. The net result is that the States, which have the legislative competence, have failed to act. The Centre is unable to act, for want of competence. But fortunately, the Central Government is empowered under section 62 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to issue certain directions," the court pointed out. The court directed Suo Motu making all states and Union Territories parties to the matter and put it for consideration after four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/provide-affordable-treatment-to-poor-covid-19-patients-sc-directs-centre-881417.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Former head of Madhya Pradesh Shiv Sena unit shot dead||A 70-year-old former head of the Madhya Pradesh Shiv Sena unit has been shot dead by unidentified persons in Indore, police said on Wednesday. The deceased, Ramesh Sahu, used to run a roadside food joint in Umdikheda village on Indore-Khandwa road. Some unidentified persons reached Sahu's eatery late Tuesday night and shot him in the chest, Tejaji Nagar police station in-charge R N S Bhadoria said. "The reason behind the murder is yet not known. We are probing the incident," he said. Of late, Sahu was not active in the Shiv Sena, the police official said. The police are enquiring with his family members and close acquaintances to get some leads in the case, he said. Sahu was the state Shiv Sena unit head in 1990s and at that time led many agitations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-head-of-madhya-pradesh-shiv-sena-unit-shot-dead-881422.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Cloud cover, patchy rains to keep mercury in check in Delhi: IMD||A cloud cover and patchy rains are expected to keep the mercury below the 35 degrees Celsius-mark on Wednesday, the weather department said. The minimum temperature is likely to settle around 25 degrees Celsius.   On and off light rains will continue in the city over the next six days, the meteorological department said, adding moderate rainfall is likely on Thursday. Delhi recorded 237 mm rainfall in August this year, the highest for the month in seven years, according to an India Meteorological Department data.   On Wednesday, the national capital recorded an air quality index of 54 at 10 am, which falls in the "satisfactory" category An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor. At 301-400, it is considered very poor and 401-500 falls in the severe category. Above 500 is severe as well as emergency category. On Monday, the city recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 41, which was the lowest since the Central Pollution Control Board started maintaining air quality records in 2015. It was the fifth "good" day in terms of air quality this year.   AQI values were 45, 50, 50 and 45 on March 28, August 13, August 20 and August 24, respectively. The AQI value remained between 50 and 70 on most days in August.  A CPCB official said the improvement in air quality can be attributed to favourable weather -- good wind speed and rainfall -- and coronavirus-forced curbs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cloud-cover-patchy-rains-to-keep-mercury-in-check-in-delhi-imd-881445.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Welcome release of Kafeel Khan; hope Azam Khan, framed in false cases, will get justice: Akhilesh Yadav||Welcoming the release of Dr Kafeel Khan from jail after the Allahabad High Court quashed his detention under the National Security Act, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday hoped that party leader Azam Khan "framed in false cases" will also get justice. The high court on Tuesday quashed Khan's detention under the NSA and ordered his immediate release, saying his speech at the AMU didn't promote hatred or violence and gave a call for national integrity. Following the court's order, Khan was released from Mathura jail late on Tuesday night. "All justice-lovers have welcomed the High Court's order for release of Dr Kafeel Khan from detention. We hope Azam Khan, framed in false cases, will also get justice. Injustice and atrocities of those in power do not last long," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. Khan was in jail since January after he delivered the allegedly provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests. He was lodged in Mathura jail. Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan is also in jail in connection with a number of cases including that of land grabbing filed against him in Rampur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/welcome-release-of-kafeel-khan-hope-azam-khan-framed-in-false-cases-will-get-justice-akhilesh-yadav-881453.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||HC asks Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences to fill up staff vacancies expeditiously||The Delhi High Court Wednesday directed the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) to fill up faculty and medical staff vacancies as early as possible. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued the direction after the institute's counsel, Tushar Sannu, said an advertisement was issued on Tuesday for recruiting 45 faculty staff. The submission was made in response to a PIL moved by advocate Amit Sahni seeking filling up of vacancies at IHBAS in order to tackle the alleged "rampant rise in psychiatric and psychological cases in the country more effectively and efficiently". In view of the statement made on behalf of IHBAS, the court disposed of the matter by asking the institute to complete the recruitment process in accordance with law, rules and regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case and as expeditiously as possible and practicable. Sahni, also a social activist, had claimed in his plea that patients with psychiatric disorders or those who require clinical psychological treatment are suffering due to acute shortage of medical and other staff at IHBAS. He also told the bench that he had made a representation to IHBAS on August 5 to fill the pending vacancies, but they issued the advertisement only after filing of the PIL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-institute-of-human-behaviour-and-allied-sciences-to-fill-up-staff-vacancies-expeditiously-881485.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat under quarantine after OSD tests positive for Covid-19||Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has gone into self-quarantine once again with his OSD testing positive for Covid-19, official sources said on Wednesday.       A meeting of the state cabinet scheduled for Wednesday has been postponed as a result, the sources said.  With an OSD to the chief minister testing positive for the coronavirus the latter has had to quarantine himself for three days, they said.  Rawat had earlier gone into self-quarantine for three days as a precaution on August 25 after one of his advisors had tested positive for Covid-19 leading to the postponement of a meeting of the state cabinet scheduled to be held on August 26.  Rawat came out of self quarantine after testing negative on August 30 and the cabinet meeting was rescheduled for September 2 which has once again been deferred. However, the revised date for the cabinet meeting has not been decided yet, the sources said.  Uttarakhand has recorded over 20,000 case of the virus and 280 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-under-quarantine-after-osd-tests-positive-for-covid-19-881489.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Noida BJP MLA Pankaj Singh undergoing Covid-19 treatment at AIIMS, condition stable||The condition of the BJP's Uttar Pradesh vice-president and Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, who is undergoing treatment at AIIMS after testing positive for Covid-19, is stable, sources said on Wednesday. He was admitted to AIIMS' Trauma Centre, which is a dedicated Covid-19 facility, on Tuesday evening and is being attended to by a team of doctors led by Dr Neeraj Nischal, an associate professor in the department of medicine at the premier institute. "Pankaj Singh is stable and doing fine," a source said. The 41-year-old politician, who is the son of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, on Tuesday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and urged people who recently came in contact with him to get themselves tested for the infectious disease. "On getting the initial symptoms of coronavirus, I got myself tested and the report has come positive. I have got myself hospitalised on the advice of doctors. I request that all of you, who have come in contact with me in the last a few days, please isolate yourself and get your inquiry done," Singh tweeted in Hindi. He had in March isolated himself as a precautionary measure after it emerged that he was in a room for a press conference with Uttar Pradesh Health Minister Jay Pratap Singh, who was in a party in Lucknow with singer Kanika Kapoor who was Covid-19 positive. Earlier, Uttar Pradesh Minister of State for Minority Welfare Mohsin Raza, Rural Development Minister Rajendra Pratap Singh; Ayush Minister Dharam Singh Saini; Youth Development Minister Upendra Tiwari; Atul Garg, Minister of State for Medical, Health and Family Welfare; and Chaudhary Udaybhan Singh, Minister of State for Khadi and Villages Industries, tested positive for the infection. UP Industries Minister (Cabinet) Satish Mahana, Health Minister (Cabinet) Jai Pratap Singh, Jal Shakti Minister Mahendra Singh and Law Minister Brajesh Pathak too have tested positive for Covid-19. Two UP Cabinet ministers -- Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan -- have succumbed to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-bjp-mla-pankaj-singh-undergoing-covid-19-treatment-at-aiims-condition-stable-881491.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Four more MLAs test positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan||Four more MLAs have tested positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan which recorded five more fatalities due to the novel coronavirus on Wednesday. A Congress MLA and three BJP legislators had tested positive for the virus last week. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot wished speedy recovery to the MLAs. "I have come to know Congress MLAs Ramlal Jat ji and Rafeek Khan ji, BJP MLAs Rajendra Rathore ji, Ashok Lahoti ji and Arjun Lal Jeengar ji have tested positive for Covid-19. I wish them a speedy recovery," Gehlot said in a tweet.  Ashok Lahoti had tested positive last week.    The state reported 690 new cases on Wednesday taking the total cases to 83,853. Of the new cases 124 were reported in Jaipur, 79 in Bikaner, 75 in Jodhpur, 71 in Alwar, 70 in Ajmer, 65 in Jhalawar, 36 in Banswara besides cases reported in other districts of the state. While 14,514 people are under treatment, 67,093 people have been discharged after treatment till now. In Jaipur, the death toll from the coronavirus infection is 278 followed by 101 in Jodhpur, 76 in Bikaner, 75 in Kota, 73 in Ajmer and 69 in Bharatpur, 44 in Pali, 43 in Nagaur, 28 in Udaipur, 25 in Alwar and 22 in Dholpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-more-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-rajasthan-881495.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||AIIMS suspends routine OPD admissions for two weeks||With an increasing number of non-Covid patients being admitted in the emergency department of the AIIMS here, hospital authorities have suspended routine OPD admissions in general and private wards for two weeks. However, routine OPD services to enable patients to seek medical advice and counselling, which were recently resumed will continue, AIIMS Medical Superintendent, Dr D K Sharma, said. "In view of the need to optimise usage of available inpatient beds for hospitalisation of seriously ill emergency/semi-emergency patients, it has been decided to temporarily stop routine OPD admissions to general wards as well as private wards in AIIMS hospital and all centres with immediate effect for a period of two weeks which will be reviewed after that," a circular issued by Sharma on Tuesday said. Emergency patients, who require inpatient hospitalisation in general wards or such patients who are advised private wards hospitalisation owing to emergency and semi-emergency conditions will continue to be admitted. "Notwithstanding above, EHS (employees health scheme) patients will continue to be hospitalised as clinically warranted," the circular stated. "The decision has been taken in view of increased admissions of non-Covid serious patients through an emergency, particularly trauma emergency as the Trauma Centre has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility. There has been an almost two-fold increase in emergency admissions," Sharma explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-suspends-routine-opd-admissions-for-two-weeks-881504.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||50% rise in active Covid-19 cases in Delhi in August||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Delhi increased by around 50 per cent in a month, with the city witnessing a marked uptick in new cases, according to government data. There were 10,596 active Covid-19 cases on August 1. The number increased to 15,870 on Tuesday, an analysis of Delhi government's health bulletins showed. The number of active Covid-19 cases peaked to 28,329 on June 27. It tapered off to 10,705 active cases by July 31. On August 4, it dropped below the 10,000-mark for the first time since May 30 and stood at 9,897, owing to a good recovery rate and less new cases. But just when it seemed the number might drop further, it started rising again with an increase in new cases. The city reported 12,520 active cases on August 26. The number rose to 13,208 the next day. From 14,040 active Covid-19 cases on August 29, the number increased to 15,870 on September 1. The national capital on Tuesday recorded 2,312 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in around two months. On Monday, the daily cases count was 1,358. The city reported 1,808 new cases on Friday, 1,954 on Saturday, 2,024 on Sunday and 1,358 on Monday. Experts attribute the increase in new cases to increased public movement after easing of lockdown restrictions, non-residents coming to Delhi for treatment and return of migrants from other states. “Delhi has been witnessing a slight increase in the number of new cases because of various factors. People (migrants) are returning. Then there are people from other states who have come to the city for treatment,” Dr Desh Deepak, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said. The government is gradually allowing businesses to reopen, other activities to resume under unlock period, he said. Dr B L Sherwal, the managing director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, said the number of new cases is bound to increase with the easing of restrictions.  Government data shows that of the 8,577 Covid-19 patients admitted to city hospitals in August, 2,536 belonged to other states (around 30 percent) -- mostly from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. The rise in the number of new cases has also led to a 35 percent increase in the demand for beds in hospitals in the city. The occupancy of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients was 18 percent on July 30, with only 2,958 out of 16,038 beds being occupied. It increased to 28 percent on Saturday, with 4,004 out of 14,135 beds occupied, according to data shared by the hospitals on Delhi Corona app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-rise-in-active-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-in-august-881519.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Noida MLA Pankaj Singh undergoing Covid-19 treatment at AIIMS, condition stable||The condition of the BJP's Uttar Pradesh vice-president and Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, who is undergoing treatment at the AIIMS here after testing positive for Covid-19, is stable, sources said on Wednesday. He was admitted to AIIMS' Trauma Centre, which is a dedicated Covid-19 facility, on Tuesday evening and is being attended to by a team of doctors led by Dr Neeraj Nischal, an associate professor in the department of medicine at the premier institute. "Pankaj Singh is stable and doing fine," a source said. The 41-year-old politician, who is the son of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, on Tuesday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and urged people who recently came in contact with him to get themselves tested for the infectious disease. "On getting the initial symptoms of coronavirus, I got myself tested and the report has come positive. I have got myself hospitalised on the advice of doctors. I request that all of you, who have come in contact with me in the last a few days, please isolate yourself and get your inquiry done," Singh tweeted in Hindi. He had in March isolated himself as a precautionary measure after it emerged that he was in a room for a press conference with Uttar Pradesh Health Minister Jay Pratap Singh, who was in a party in Lucknow with singer Kanika Dhillon who was Covid-19 positive. Earlier, Uttar Pradesh Minister of State for Minority Welfare Mohsin Raza, Rural Development Minister Rajendra Pratap Singh; Ayush Minister Dharam Singh Saini; Youth Development Minister Upendra Tiwari; Atul Garg, Minister of State for Medical, Health and Family Welfare; and Chaudhary Udaybhan Singh, Minister of State for Khadi and Villages Industries, tested positive for the infection. UP Industries Minister (Cabinet) Satish Mahana, Health Minister (Cabinet) Jai Pratap Singh, Jal Shakti Minister Mahendra Singh and Law Minister Brajesh Pathak too have tested positive for Covid-19. Two UP Cabinet ministers -- Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan -- have succumbed to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-mla-pankaj-singh-undergoing-covid-19-treatment-at-aiims-condition-stable-881529.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Dr Kafeel Khan says UP CM Yogi Adityanath 'obstinate' like a child||Kafeel Khan, the Gorakhpur-based doctor, who was released from the jail after the Allahabad high court on quashed the NSA slapped on him for allegedly delivering an ''inflammatory speech'' regarding the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), on Wednesday apprehended that the UP government could again arrest him on trumped-up charges and said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath was 'obstinate' like a child. Khan, who came out of the Mathura jail late on Tuesday night after spending seven months there, also thanked the special task force (STF) of the UP police for not killing him in 'encounter'. He said that Adityanath, whose home town also happened to be Gorakhpur, said that the latter did not follow the 'Raj dharm' (duty of a ruler). Khan also accused the state government of 'torturing' him in custody and alleged that he was not given anything to eat for five days. ''I am thankful to the STF for not killing me in encounter while bringing me to UP from Mumbai,'', he said. Khan was arrested by the STF in Mumbai in January this year. The Allahabad high court had on Tuesday quashed the NSA on Khan and directed that he be released immediately. There was some delay in Khan's release from the jail as the order of the court had not reached the Aligarh district administration in time. Khan was also an accused in the case of death of over 60 children owing to lack of oxygen at Gorakhpur Medical College three years back. He was arrested in that matter also and spent nine months in jail before being enlarged on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dr-kafeel-khan-says-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-obstinate-like-a-child-881534.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Bihar polls: Why Nitish Kumar wants former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi to sail in the NDA boat||It’s now official. Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi will join the NDA on September 3, a week after the ex-chief minister met the Bihar Chief Minister and Janata Dal (United) president Nitish Kumar. Manjhi, who rocked the Grand Alliance boat last month, has, of late, been showering praise on Nitish, giving credence to the theory that the Mahadalit leader may eventually join hands with his mentor. Manjhi’s pocket organisation Hindustan Awam Morcha (HAM) will, in the meantime, not merge with the JD (U) but is likely to become the fourth NDA ally in Bihar after the JD (U), BJP and the LJP. Though Manjhi has sought 15 Assembly seats (out of 243 constituencies in Bihar), NDA sources say he may settle for eight or nine seats, including his own constituency Imamganj in Gaya. A former protege of Nitish, Manjhi was hand-picked by the JD(U) strongman and made Bihar chief minister in May 2014 after Nitish was routed in the Lok Sabha election. Bruised and battered after JD (U) won merely two Lok Sabha seats, Nitish took the defeat personally and quit as Bihar chief minister in the wake of his much-publicised cut-throat rivalry with Narendra Modi then. However, within ten months of anointing the Mahadalit leader Manjhi as Bihar CM, Nitish took over the reins of Bihar. Manjhi, who, by then, grew strong, was eventually shown the door by the JD (U) in 2015. Five years down the line, Manjhi needs Nitish as much as the latter needs his protege. Of late, Nitish is perturbed over the constant attack unleashed by an over-ambitious LJP chief Chirag Paswan. Son of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Chirag has been targeting Nitish on the issue of “poor law and order, migrants’ issue and equally poor handling of Covid-19 situation.” Rattled over the attack by an ally (Paswan), Nitish deemed it fit to rope in another Mahadalit leader (Manjhi) who could counter the growing influence of the LJP chief. “Mahadalits in Bihar are numerically strong. Together they comprise around 16% of the electorate. But this includes 6% Paswans too. Manjhi’s influence is in Magadh region comprising Gaya and Aurangabad. Even if Manjhi commands 6% votes, a minor shift in the vote base could tilt the balance,” explained a senior Mahagatbandhan leader, who earlier worked closely with Manjhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-polls-why-nitish-kumar-wants-former-cm-jitan-ram-manjhi-to-sail-in-the-nda-boat-881546.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Rituals performed in UP police station to keep away gangster Vikas Dubey's 'ghost'||When alive, Vikas Dubey, who, with his goons, had shot dead eight Uttar Pradesh cops before being gunned down in an"'encounter", used to be treated as a special guest at the Chaubepur police station in UP's Kanpur Dehat District, about 125 kilometres from here. Dubey, a history-sheeter, was so friendly with the cops, that the then SHO Vinay Tewari had allegedly tipped him off about the police raid at his house at Bikaru village in July this year and the result was that the raiding party walked straight into the trap and were butchered. Although Dubey is no longer alive, his ghost seems to be visiting the police station as two months after the massacre, the cops at Chaubepur police station performed a 'havan' (a ritual by fire) to "ward off the evil spirit". According to reports, the 'havan', which was performed on Tuesday, was attended by all the cops at the police station and people who came to lodge their complaints had to wait for several hours. The district police officials, however, termed the 'havan' as a ''routine puja'', which was held from time to time. Eight UP cops, including a circle officer (CO) and an inspector, were killed in an encounter with Dubey and his gang in July. SHO Vinay Tewari was subsequently suspended and arrested on charges of tipping off the criminal. Dubey was later nabbed from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh and killed in an "encounter", when he allegedly tried to escape after the police vehicle transporting him overturned near Kanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rituals-performed-in-up-police-station-to-keep-away-gangster-vikas-dubeys-ghost-881555.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Kafeel Khan fears UP govt may frame him in another case||The Uttar Pradesh government was indulging in 'Baal Hatth' or childlike-stubbornness instead of observing 'Raj Dharma' and could frame him in another case, Dr Kafeel Khan said after being released from Mathura jail late on Tuesday night. He was in jail since January after he delivered an allegedly provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in December last year. Earlier on Tuesday, the Allahabad High Court quashed his detention under the stringent National Security Act (NSA) and ordered the Uttar Pradesh government to release him "forthwith", saying his speech at the AMU didn't promote hatred or violence and called for national integrity. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and the AMU Resident Doctors' Association on Wednesday welcomed Khan's release and termed it a "victory of justice". Speaking to PTI after his release, Khan said, "I will always remain thankful to all my well-wishers who raised their voice for my release. The administration was not ready for (my) release but I have been released because of the prayers of people." "In Ramayana, Maharshi Valmiki had said that the 'raja' (king) should act for 'Raj Dharma'. In UP, the 'raja' is not doing 'Raj Dharma' but is doing 'Baal Hatth' (being stubborn like a child)," the paediatrician said. Khan, who first hit headlines in 2017 following his suspension from Gorakhpur's BRD Medical College after several children died there due to the lack of oxygen cylinders, said he was apprehensive that the government may frame him in another case. He claimed that he and his family have had to face many hardships as the state government was "after" him because of the oxygen issue at BRD Medical College. He said he now wants to help flood-affected people in Bihar and Assam. In its verdict, the Allahabad High Court said the Aligarh district magistrate, who passed the order for Khan's detention, did a "selective reading" of his speech, "ignoring its true intent". The bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh allowed the writ petition filed by Khan's mother Nuzhat Parveen and said the detention order by the district magistrate is illegal. Quashing Khan's detention order, the court said, "A complete reading of the speech primafacie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also no where threatens peace and tranquility of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence." "A writ in the nature of habeas corpus is hereby issued to release Dr. Kafeel Khan, the detenue, from State custody forthwith," it said. Khan was charged under the NSA on February 13. The Uttar Pradesh government had extended his detention under the stringent law by three months twice -- in May and August. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav lauded the court order and hoped party leader Azam Khan, who has been "framed in false cases", will also get justice. "All justice-lovers have welcomed the high court's order for the release of Dr Kafeel Khan from detention. We hope Azam Khan, framed in false cases, will also get justice. Injustice and atrocities of those in power do not last long," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. SP leader Azam Khan is in jail in connection with a number of cases including that of land grabbing filed against him in Rampur. On Tuesday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had also hailed the court order. She congratulated all "justice-loving people" and party workers in the state who had been making efforts for Khan's release The Resident Doctors' Association at the AMU also welcomed Khan's release. Hamza Malik, president of the association, described Khan's release as a "victory of justice". Khan had always stood for humanitarian values as a doctor, maintained the high traditions of the medical profession and never indulged in divisive activities, Malik said on Wednesday. Instead of incarcerating Khan, the government should have availed his services at a time when health amenities in the state "badly needed" cooperation from the medical fraternity, he added. Former AMU students' union president Faizul Hasan said Khan's release is a "victory for truth and democracy". Khan exercised his democratic right to protest but never resorted to undemocratic means, and always championed the spirit of unity and communal harmony, he said. Khan was initially hailed as a saviour for the children at the BRD Medical College for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders. However, later, he faced action along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail. A state government probe had cleared Khan of all major charges, prompting him to seek an apology from the Yogi Adityanath government. He had alleged that an institutional failure had led to the deaths of the children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kafeel-khan-fears-up-govt-may-frame-him-in-another-case-881563.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Noida woman jumps to death on birthday after fight with sister over cake cutting||A 23-year-old woman died after she allegedly jumped off a 10th floor flat in Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Tuesday following a quarrel with her elder sister over cutting a birthday cake, police said. The woman lived with her parents in Jaypee Kosmos society in Sector 134 and was celebrating her birthday at her married sister's house in the same complex, an officer from the local Expressway Police Station said. “The woman and her parents had gathered in the flat of her sister where her in-laws and some other people had also come to celebrate the birthday. The family said there was a fight between the two sisters over the cutting of cake after which the woman jumped off the balcony and died,” the officer said. The exact details of the fight were not available, with the official saying the police have been only told that the incident took place due to some argument over cake cutting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-woman-jumps-to-death-on-birthday-after-fight-with-sister-over-cake-cutting-881570.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||National Investigation Agency files chargesheet against five people for alleged links with an ISIS affiliate||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a charge sheet against five people for their alleged association with the banned Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) case, an affiliate of ISIS, officials said. Those charge-sheeted include Jahanzaib Sami of Delhi; Hina Bashir, a native of Kashmir; Abdullah Basith, a resident of Hyderabad; and Sadiya Anwar Shaikh and Nabeel Siddick Khatri, both residents of Pune. The charge sheet was filed in a court in Delhi. The accused have been charge-sheeted for their affiliation with the proscribed terrorist organisation ISIS/ISKP and for conspiring to create disaffection against government, promoting enmity among different religious communities and for committing subversive activities. They have been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-investigation-agency-files-chargesheet-against-five-people-for-alleged-links-with-an-isis-affiliate-881597.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Craving for Murthal's 'parathas', five end up in police net||Three men were arrested and two juveniles apprehended for allegedly carjacking and robbing a cab driver to fund their trip to Haryana's Murthal to have its famous 'parathas' (flat bread) for dinner, police said on Wednesday. But their trip was cut short as a quarrel broke out between them on whether to take a trip to Murthal or Shimla. Finally the five of them ended up having dinner in their car after picking up food from an eatery in west Delhi's Paschim Vihar, police said. The three men have been identified as Pankaj (19), Sagar (20) and Abhijeet (19), all residents of Nangloi in outer Delhi, from where they were arrested, police said, adding that Sagar was previously involved in two others cases. After having their dinner, they parked the vehicle at a secluded spot in Nihal Vihar area, a police officer said. On August 30, the accused booked the cab through an app installed in a phone that they had earlier stolen. The accused boarded the cab after it arrived at its pick up destination on Najafgarh road in Nangloi. However, on reaching Rajdhani Park, the five accused started beating the driver and overpowered him. They took away his two mobile phones as well as his wallet, threw him out of the car and drove off, according to the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) A Koan said a case of robbery was registered at Nangloi police station and an investigation was taken up. On the basis of intelligence, Sagar and Pankaj were arrested. Both accused confessed to their crime and disclosed the names of the other three accused. Subsequently, Abhijeet was also arrested and the two juveniles apprehended, police said. The police claimed to have recovered the robbed vehicle from a secluded spot in Nihal Vihar area. Other stolen articles have also been recovered, they claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/craving-for-murthals-parathas-five-end-up-in-police-net-881605.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Over 100 women join Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party||More than a hundred women leaders and workers from different political parties joined the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) on Wednesday, a party spokesman said. They joined the party at a function at its headquarters here in the presence of party president Syed Mohammed Altaf Bukhari. Speaking on the occasion, Bukhari welcomed them into the party and hoped that they would work for the empowerment of women. Namrata Sharma, the provincial president of the party's women wing, demanded that the government give reservation to women in the political field in Jammu and Kashmir for their empowerment. “Many women, especially in rural areas, are unaware about various welfare schemes and it is the responsibility of the administration to make them aware about them," she said and expressed her commitment to strengthen the women wing in Jammu division for their upliftment and empowerment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-100-women-join-jammu-and-kashmir-apni-party-881638.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Police question Umar Khalid in connection with northeast Delhi riots||The Delhi Police Crime Branch on Wednesday questioned former Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Umar Khalid in connection with the northeast Delhi riots, officials said. On Wednesday, Khalid came to the Sunlight Colony police office and joined the investigation. He was questioned for a couple of hours, a senior police officer said. Earlier, Khalid was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in another case related to the riots. He was also questioned by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police earlier in connection with an alleged conspiracy behind the riots. His mobile phone was also seized by the police. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between supporters of citizenship law CAA and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-question-umar-khalid-in-connection-with-northeast-delhi-riots-881652.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||5 highly polluted regions identified in addition to pollution hotspots in Delhi||Five highly polluted areas have been identified in the national capital in addition to the existing 13 pollution hotspots in the city, according to the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority. "The Delhi Pollution Authority has identified five new highly polluted regions in the capital. These include Gandhi Nagar, Peeragarhi, Azadpur Mandi, Rohtak Road and Sarai Rohila," EPCA member Sunita Narain said.  Massive traffic snarls at these places lead to high levels of pollution, according to DPCC officials.  The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had earlier identified the 13 hotspots -- Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase II, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Bawana, Narela, Mundka and Mayapuri -- based on the high particulate matter (PM) concentration in these areas on a long term. The EPCA on Wednesday reviewed the steps taken and progress achieved in bringing down the pollution levels at the 13 pollution hotspots at a meeting with officials of civic bodies and the DPCC.  The DPCC informed the EPCA that deputy commissioners of east, north, and south municipal corporations have been made nodal officers to regularly monitor pollution levels at the hotspots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-highly-polluted-regions-identified-in-addition-to-pollution-hotspots-in-delhi-881683.html
02-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro services to resume in three stages; stations in containment zones to remain closed||Delhi Metro is set to resume services in three stages from September 7-12 after a hiatus of over five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but stations in containment zones would remain closed, DMRC said on Wednesday. Officials of the urban transporter also cautioned that "trains may not stop at some of the stations" if social distancing norms are not adhered to by the passengers. The assertion from the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) came on a day the city recorded 2,509 cases, the highest single-day spike in the last nearly 60 days. "The Delhi Metro services will be resumed in a graded manner in three stages from September 7-12 with the Yellow Line or Line 2 connecting Samyapur Bali in Delhi to HUDA City Centre in Gurgaon and Rapid Metro to be the first ones to be made operational on September 7," the DMRC said in a statement. Trains will operate in batches of four-hour each from 7-11 AM in the morning and 4-8 PM in the evening, it said. Metro services in Delhi-NCR have been closed since March 22 due to the pandemic. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday said Metro train services will resume in a graded manner from September 7 across the country, except in Maharashtra, and passengers will have to follow preventive measures against Covid-19 such as maintaining social distancing and wearing face mask. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday had issued 'Unlock 4' guidelines, permitting metro rail operations from September 7 in a graded manner.  Meanwhile, at a press conference, DMRC chief Mangu Singh said metro trains will not stop at stations where passengers are found not adhering to social distancing norms. Sources said Singh's statement was "more like a cautionary word to ensure people follow safety and social distancing norms". "This is a new normal and an evolving scenario, so we will anyway be assessing the situation once we resume services," a source said. Wearing masks will be mandatory for commuters and for the time being, no tokens will be issued to passengers due to high risk of virus spread through it, Delhi government on Sunday. "There will be a system of purchasing smart cards at every station and passengers will be able to travel only with smart cards," a statement quoting Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said. On September 9, Blue Line or Line-3/4 (Blue Line) connecting Dwarka Sec-21 in Delhi and Noida Electronic City/Vaishali; and Pink Line or Line 7 connecting Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar will resume operations, following the same schedule as for the Yellow Line. On September 10, Red Line or Line 1 from Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda; Green Line or Line 5 from Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brig. Hoshiar Singh (Bahadurgarh); and Violet Line or Line 6 from Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh (Ballabhgarh) will also resume services with the same timings. In stage-2, kicking in from September 11, Magenta Line or Line 8 from Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden; and Grey Line or Line 9 from Dwarka to Najafgarh will also be made operational. The trains in stage two will operate in batches of six-hour each from 7 AM to 1 PM and 4-10 PM, the DMRC said. Train services resumed in stage one will from this date also follow the timing prescribed in stage two, it added. From September 12, stage three will set in, and in addition to lines made operational in stage one and stage two, Airport Express Line from New Delhi to Dwarka Sec-21 will also resume service, officials said, adding that services on all lines will be available throughout the day from 6 AM to 11 PM. Trains will not stop at stations falling in containment zones, and such stations will remain closed for the public, the DMRC said. The number of containment zones in Delhi on Wednesday jumped to 894, according to the Delhi health department bulletin, according to which the total cases mounted to over 1.79 lakh and Covid-19 death toll mounted to 4,481. Also, train services will commence with adequate frequency as they were before March 22, which may be increased or decreased as per requirement. However, due to trains halting for longer duration at stations, there will be minor increase in time required for performing a trip, officials said. "Once metro services resume from September 7, DMRC will strive to facilitate all necessary measures and precautions in its premises to provide a safe travelling experience to its commuters amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic," Executive Director, Corporate Communications, DMRC, Anuj Dayal had said on Sunday. The total number of entry points at Delhi Metro stations will be heavily curtailed to ensure compliance with Covid-19 safety norms, officials had earlier said. DMRC has 10 lines spanning 242 stations, and 264 stations, including the Rapid Metro in Gurgaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-services-to-resume-in-three-stages-stations-in-containment-zones-to-remain-closed-881706.html
02-09-2020||Panorama||Chardham project will destroy fragile ecology of the Himalayas||Professor G D Agrawal, aka Swami Gyan Swaroop Sanand, gave up his life after a 112-day fast in 2018 in Rishikesh demanding an end to the devastating activities going on in the Himalayas in the form of construction of a series of dams on various streams that join to become the Ganga, mining in its bed and deforestation in its valleys, but to no avail. Now, another tragedy is unfolding. The Himalayas are of tremendous ecological, cultural and religious significance for the people of India. Yet, for the past several decades, the region’s abundant natural resources are being exploited and its ecosystems destroyed in the name of development. Now, the ambitious 900-km Chardham Highways project, work on which began in 2018, seems set to propel the Himalayas towards disaster.  The government’s stated goal for the project is to widen the roads leading up to the four Hindu pilgrimage sites of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath to make the pilgrimage “safer, faster and more convenient.” But the project was pushed through by the authorities with complete disregard for the environmental laws of the country.  Such a large-scale project should have required a comprehensive and rigorous environmental impact assessment (EIA), including public consultations and hearings, before being given the green light, as it is mandatory for road projects which span more than a 100 km. However, the government surreptitiously side-stepped this requirement by dividing the 900-km stretch of road into 53 segments, each thus of less than 100 km, and labelling the work to be done on each segment as a separate project. Not going through the assessment process has not only put the environment and people of the region at great risk, but, by extension, even threatens the safety of the travellers for whose convenience these roads are being built. The whole Himalayan region is geologically unstable and disaster-prone. The Himalayas are young mountains which are still in the process of formation. They grow in height by about six cm every year. They lie in seismic zones 4 and 5 because of which they experience frequent tremors and other seismic phenomena. They also experience exceptionally heavy rainfall. Large-scale deforestation and indiscriminate construction activity, mining and quarrying further contribute to the geological instability of the region. The Chardham sites are located in areas particularly susceptible to landslides and land subsidence. They are amongst the sites that experience the most topsoil-loss in the country. According to a Geological Survey of India report in the wake of the Kedarnath disaster of 2103, road-building in the area has disturbed the natural slope of the mountains over the years, leading to their destabilisation and landslides. Yet, this already precarious nature of the environment has been completely disregarded for the  project. The minimum width of the highway roads has been set at 10m, which many environmentalists have criticised as being far too wide, considering the extent of slope cutting and soil displacement it would require. It has been reported that due to the mountains being cut at the dangerous angle of 90 degrees in many places, several landslides have occurred at different points along the route. There have been several reports of fatalities among the construction workers as well as travellers and residents of the area. Damage to property and agricultural land has also been reported. The muck generated from the cutting of the slopes is being dumped directly into the rivers, causing extensive damage to their water quality and aquatic life.  Environmental groups such as Ganga Aavaahan and the South Asian Network on Dams, Rivers and People have voiced concern over the project. The late Prof Agrawal had also strongly criticised the project before his unfortunate death. As the extent of the destruction due to the project started to become apparent, some concerned citizens filed a petition in court. Eventually, the matter reached the Supreme Court, which formulated a High-Powered Committee (HPC) to look into the matter, naming the eminent environmentalist Ravi Chopra as its chairman. The court directed the committee to ensure that the Chardham project conforms with the requirements of safe and sustainable construction in the steep valley terrain of the region. Chopra and a few of his committee members have, after extensive investigation of the situation, suggested an intermediate road width design of 5.5 metres, as opposed to the 10-metre double-lane paved shoulder design. Through a circular issued in 2018 Ministry of Road Transport and Highways itself originally recommended 5.5-metre width for the roads. However, a group comprising 22 of the 26 members of the committee, who are mainly government officials, have opposed Chopra’s recommendations. They have submitted a separate final report to the Union environment ministry, which supports the double-lane paved shoulder design. Chopra and the other three members of the minority group, who are all independent experts and scientists, have stood firmly by their recommendations, which they believe is the only viable option for protecting the Himalayas. They have requested that all construction activity on the project be halted until a final decision on the road width, which is now left to the Supreme Court. One of the reasons being given in support of wider road is facilitation of faster movement of troops, given the imminent Chinese threat at the border. However, landslides will become frequent due to the project itself and thus defeat its very purpose. The manner in which members of the HPC are furthering an agenda completely contrary to the public interest is condemnable and undermines the authority of the Supreme Court in the matter. Looking at the broader context, with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic as well as the climate change crisis -- both of which will likely have a profound impact on tourism in the coming years -- the prioritisation of the interests of tourists and pilgrims over local environments and communities appears irresponsible and unwise. Development in the Himalayas is necessary to improve the living standards and mobility of its people, but for this, the government should take a collaborative approach, which also takes into consideration the indigenous knowledge and technologies of the people of the region. For example, the development and upgradation of existing modes of transport and conveyance through local innovation could be considered to improve access to various remote parts of the Himalayas. This could help invigorate local economies by encouraging and supporting local entrepreneurial activity while also facilitating the conservation of the environment. (The writers belong to the Socialist Party of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/chardham-project-will-destroy-fragile-ecology-of-the-himalayas-881288.html
02-09-2020||Panorama||The forgotten colonial forces of World War II||They fought in every theatre of World War II, from North Africa to Europe and as far east as Hong Kong. They died and went missing in the tens of thousands. And they formed the largest volunteer force in history. But their contributions are often an afterthought in history books. The colonial forces that dotted the battle maps of World War II were crucial for the Allies to fill out their ranks and keep up their momentum. While India contributed the largest number of volunteers, at some 2.5 million troops, Africans, Arabs and others fought and died for the freedom of the Allied powers, although they were under the yoke of colonial rule. “I always say, Britain didn’t fight the Second World War, the British Empire did,” said Yasmin Khan, a historian at Oxford University and author of “The Raj at War.” About 15% of all the Victoria Crosses — Britain’s highest decoration for valour — awarded during the Second World War went to Indian and Nepalese troops. The honour was bestowed upon service members from other colonies as well. “If you look at Commonwealth graves, you can find burial spots of Indians everywhere,” Khan said. “There’s a scattered memory of their sacrifice all over Europe.” Despite their sacrifices, these troops were never treated as equals. They were largely under the command of European or American officers, although they were skilled fighters and even helped patrol the streets of London. It was difficult for them to rise up the ranks and become officers. Their compensation was far less than that of their white peers, and it worsened the darker their skin was. As poorly as Indian soldiers were treated, their African peers fared far worse. Their skill on the battlefield helped stoke nationalism at home; however, the colonial forces were in many ways helping Britain maintain its crumbling empire, as it came under onslaught by Japanese, Italian and German forces. Although the battlefronts of Europe were romanticized in novels, history books and films, much of the war was fought in and over British (and to a lesser extent, French) colonies, with front lines springing up from North Africa to East Asia as both sides vied for control of the regions’ vast resources and wealth to sustain their militaries. In June 1940, the Axis powers launched the North Africa campaign and fighting broke out across Algeria, Morocco, Egypt and Tunisia as they tried to wrest those colonies from British and French rule. Japan snatched up British colonies like Singapore and Burma (now Myanmar) and tried to invade India. It would be the entry of the world’s most vocal supporter of liberty and self-determination, the United States, that would help the Allies restore their momentum and shift the tide against the Axis. But the alliance between the United States and Britain was forged in tension over their clashing stances on colonialism. While the United States remained on the sidelines for nearly half of the war, its calls to end colonialism irked Britain, which needed its colonies more than ever, as its financial reserves were nearly exhausted. Indians were angry when Britain, which ruled them, declared war on Nazi Germany in 1939 and exploited their resources to support the conflict. Some Indians, such as upper-caste urbanites, were loyal to the raj — British rule over India — and fought enthusiastically for the Allies, but the vast majority volunteered because they were offered land, a stable salary and steady meals. Others joined to refine their technical or engineering skills as the military modernized over the course of the war, allowing them to gain experience with more complicated machinery as it was introduced.  In August 1941, Prime Minister Winston Churchill and President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed what became known as the Atlantic Charter, a new vision for the postwar world, highlighting the right of all people to self-determination. Though the United States had not yet entered the war as a combatant, it was supplying military hardware to Britain and created the document as a justification for its support to the Allies, laying out its anti-fascist hopes for the world. Britain was desperate to bind itself to the United States and persuade it the join the war, and Churchill begrudgingly signed the statement, although it challenged the very foundation of the empire. The Atlantic Charter spurred hopes of independence among the British colonies. But a month after the charter was signed, Churchill clarified that the right to self-determination outlined in the document applied only to countries under German occupation. The damage, however, was already done. In 1942, Mohandas K. Gandhi began his Quit India movement, demanding the end of British rule, galvanizing Indians against British colonial forces and threatening the economic and natural resources London needed to continue fighting. A star of the Indian independence movement, Subhas Chandra Bose, split with Gandhi’s nonviolent campaign and aligned himself with the Axis powers, who he believed would empower him to raise an army and win India’s autonomy. Bose toured the prison camps of Europe and Asia, building a force by recruiting Indian expatriates and Indian prisoners of war. Bose’s military, the Indian National Army, was a roughly 40,000-strong force. By 1943, he established the Azad Hind, or the provisional government of India in exile, in Japanese-occupied Singapore and declared war on the Allied powers. Bose’s ultimate goal was to invade India and liberate it from the British. Once the I.N.A. and the Axis invaded, Bose bet, Indians would rise up en masse. The British forbade their media from reporting on the rogue force, worried it would spur Indian troop defections. In March 1944, Bose had his chance to shatter British rule. The Japanese military, with the support of the I.N.A., launched Operation U-Go, a campaign to invade northeast India from Burma and smash a buildup of Allied forces in the area. If the Japanese and the I.N.A. prevailed, they could extract India’s resources to revitalize their war effort, perhaps prolonging the war, and use India’s strategic ports to cut off Allied supply lines spanning from East to West. But they faced stiff resistance from Allied forces, which were overwhelmingly nonwhite — about 70 % of the fighting force was from India and to a lesser extent, African colonies. (British forces were reluctant to serve in India, preferring the glamour of the European front lines.) The fight, known as the Battle of Kohima and Imphal, produced some of the worst bloodshed of the war in Asia. As Britain-backed Indian troops killed their own compatriots, those under Bose’s command, they also killed thousands of Japanese, considered some of the best fighters in World War II. The Japanese 15th Army, 85,000 strong at the start of the invasion, saw 53,000 troops dead or missing by the battle’s end. The defeat, one of the most devastating of the war for Japanese ground forces, helped the Indian military come into its own, historians believe, and helped spur nationalist movements in India and parts of Africa. “They demanded their liberation,” said the historian Kaushik Roy, a professor at Jadavpur University in Kolkata, India. “There was this feeling, ‘why should we fight to preserve colonialism?’” It took a few years after the war ended, but the nationalists prevailed. Britain dismantled its empire, and the colonial troops it used to prop up its rule across the world were rolled into the national armies of the independent states that formed out of the wreckage. India was granted independence in 1947. “Once that lifeblood of colonialism was broken,” Roy added, “they gained confidence in their demands to rule themselves.” International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-forgotten-colonial-forces-of-world-war-ii-881289.html
02-09-2020||Panorama||Are Indian languages inferior to English?||No language is inferior, it is a battle of vocabulary, and the winner steals the show! Here is a glaring elucidation of this conundrum. Adoration of a language depends on how gracefully it is spoken. To speak a language elegantly one needs a great vocabulary. To build that library of vocabulary, one needs a passion to pick it up as they grow in their life. Even in English speaking countries, some people with poor vocabulary speak such crummy English, you would wonder can English language be so deplorable? When the British came to India, most were rich, educated and spoke good English. However, even during those bad times, poets, writers, and the elite exuded great vocabulary of their native languages. If you compare such eloquence with a bad English, of course, native languages would excel! During the British era, poverty had reduced our rich native languages to mere words for survival. Poverty also conceived dingy vocabulary because of resentment further lowering its stance. Unquestionably English ruled the land. Now and then we see frustration among fanatics espousing local languages. The sad truth is you can’t compete with another language without an effort to build a pleasant vocabulary. Such fanatic endeavours will take us nowhere. Our languages never challenged the English language. We just gave up. Can we speak in native language as elegantly as English? Of course, we can. As the standard of living is increasing in India, we have another chance to go at it. But would we? Let’s look at some of the challenges. English is the international language today, although for us it is a language of oppression. It came to us in an unjust way, but it came anyway. Even if it had not come to us, we would have learnt it inevitably to be part of global economy. China is already introducing English in a big way in all their schools. In ten years, they will beat India in English literacy. For any developing country, English plays a vital role in global trade. The Indian software industry is thriving on this language pedestal. English represents a pathway to success. By knowing English, you will win half the battle in global competition. For India, English is also a language that binds many linguistic states. Just to give you an example to illustrate its deeps roots, after independence, Indian constitution declared Hindi as the official language of the country and declared it would replace English as the official language after 15 years that is after 1965. However, this idea of changeover was met with violent protests from the non-Hindi speaking states and eventually, it became a subsidiary official language in addition to Hindi. In the course of time, we developed a love-hate relationship with the English language. We hate it because it is foreign, but we love it because it is spoken in most developed countries! We hate it because it is oppressive, but we love it because it unites all linguistic states! We hate it because it is not our mother tongue, but we love it because it is a gateway to the world of science and technology. The bottom line is, we can’t uproot English from India for sure. There is no reason to develop animosity against a language that is giving us global exposure. However, we can compete with it, by attempting to speak our native language gracefully and making an attempt to avoid squalid words. Let’s learn better words each day, build our vocabulary as we grow and make our language elegant! This would be a great gift to our next generation who would build it further up and one day the English language enigma would become a folk tale! (The writer is a software engineer, committed to climate advocacy employing Artificial Intelligence)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/are-indian-languages-inferior-to-english-881290.html
02-09-2020||Panorama||24x7 news or frivolous debates and propaganda?||Thirty years ago, there was only one television channel in India, Doordarshan. Back then, if we wanted TV news, we had to turn on Doordarshan at pre-decided times. Every so often, discerning viewers felt a need for independent news bulletins. Nowadays, in the internet era, almost every self-proclaimed journalist has a 24x7 channel. Non-stop commercials Television channels have two types of advertisements. One is called the commercial. Commercials are themselves of two kinds. One is called commercial break. They surface between two ostensibly serious programmes. Every 15-minute telecast incorporates a three-minute commercial break. Therefore, the total duration of commercial breaks in a 24-hour telecast is slightly below five hours! The second type of commercials run concurrently with other programmes. Then, the TV screen looks like a philistine collage of confusing displays, moving in all directions with different velocities. Some pop up one moment and vanish the next, abruptly, as in a magic show! The second kind of advertisements is self-promotion – declaration of their own channel rank based on some unknown, perhaps hypothetical, surveys. Some channels declare the upcoming programmes in their headlines. The allocated programme now gets restricted to barely 30-40% of the TV screen!  Frivolous debates, bookshelf backgrounds All 24x7 news channels spend a substantial amount of airtime on so-called debates, irrespective of whether there is a debatable issue or not. Many debates are anchored by impolite, aggressive, and arrogant people who seem to derive pleasure by insulting their guests. Some anchors are experts in all subjects from politics to science, economics to medicine, art to education, sports and what have you. Many programmes are titled as “The Right Stand”, “India’s Agenda”, “Frankly Speaking”. As if these anchors decide the country’s agenda by ‘frankly’ discussing and taking the ‘right’ position. One channel screams, for instance, “Who is leading Delhi’s Corona Fight – Amit Shah or Arvind Kejriwal?” – politicising a non-issue. Then there are programmes with audacious titles such as “Decoding China’s Global Design”. They fail to understand that such a topic requires elaborate global research by a collaboration of acclaimed scholars.  Several ‘journalists’ deliberately indulge in verbal fights, in obnoxiously high decibels, with anyone with a different point of view by arbitrarily changing the topic, bringing in extraneous issues and blaming everybody else other than the ones that they worship as their political masters. “The nation wants to know” debates are annoyingly frivolous. Ill-informed participants keep looking at their mobiles nervously waiting, perhaps, for a prompt from their ‘WhatsApp University’ friends. “I am coming, I am coming…” – frequently heard for questions begging a crisp answer – after monotonous narration of unconnected or wrong history dating back several decades. Then there are the “I do not know much about the topic, but…” type participants. High decibel cacophony continues for the entire duration – multiple speakers speak simultaneously. Their backgrounds are decorated with bookshelves with tightly stacked books that look long untouched. News or propaganda? News is of least priority, both in quality and quantity. Headlines and stories, even in prime time, are so very diverse as though the channels are from different worlds, filled with opinions of political leaders, allowing longer airtime to their favourites, showing long footages of press conferences and campaign speeches. They invent disappointingly ludicrous phrases (Dragon Border Dare, RaGa, NaMo, etc.) to deliberately mislead viewers. Some unhesitatingly spread fake news. Headlines and “breaking news” displays travel in all directions in various font sizes – they look like running arrows in battle scenes from TV serials Ramayana and Mahabharata. With a debate or newscast, three more stories appear simultaneously; one on top of the screen, and two at the bottom. They arrive and depart incessantly, traversing in different paths. Besides, at least two posters occupy a large part of the screen concurrently. Consequently, 60-70% of the screen is engulfed with exhibits unrelated to the main programme. On-field reporters report their interpretations. Their questions to a passer-by or pre-selected interviewee are ridiculously stupid. They ask a daughter who is mourning her mother’s death, “How are you feeling now, ma’am?”  They ask a politician about migrant labourers walking hundreds of miles back home, “What is your take on that?” They ask a destitute farmer, “Aap sarkar se kya chahtey hay? (What do you want from the government?).” They ask the CEO of a company who has donated for a natural calamity, “Why is the well-being of people good for business, in general?” They ask a top political leader, “Does your party function democratically?” The sartorial indulgence of the anchors ranges from unknown ethnic styles to ultra-modern western fashion, competing with celebrities. This happens more often when they visit, on a most expensive-looking motorbike or a car, some never-visited village to report from ground zero. The villagers look intimidated by their presence. Their bewilderment knows no bounds when they encounter the most idiotic questions of their life from these aliens. Some senior journalists act like “Messiahs”, seemingly suffering from the Atlas Syndrome. They self-delegate themselves with the task of “uncluttering” the news and giving a “complete picture”, as if viewers are ignorant fools. Their selection of issues for “uncluttering” is guided by their affinity towards a political leader. From the viewers’ perspective, considering the commercial breaks and the concurrent advertisements together, these news outlets have metamorphosed into non-stop commercials with a smidgen of shoddy debates and an apology of news. (The writer is a Professor at the Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/24x7-news-or-frivolous-debates-and-propaganda-881665.html
02-09-2020||Panorama||In a changed Kashmir, moderates feel betrayed by India||For more than two decades, Peerzada Lateef Shah risked his life in a high-wire political process to bring peace to Kashmir, the mountainous, predominantly Muslim region that has long chafed under India’s rule. He organized rallies and encouraged Kashmiris to vote for a political party that did not want to fight India and would instead accept some degree of Indian authority. He even took five bullets for the cause, narrowly surviving an assassination attempt last year by Kashmiri separatists who saw him as a traitor. Now, a little more than a year after India revoked Kashmir’s statehood and upended years of policies that granted Kashmiris some autonomy, Shah is among a growing group of political moderates who feel betrayed, disillusioned and disenfranchised. For years, he and others sought a middle path that would bring stability to one of Asia’s most volatile regions. Today, Shah wonders whether his life’s work was a waste. “We used to tell the world that Kashmir belongs to India,” Shah said, “And then we were crushed under its jackboots.” India fully brought Kashmir, which also borders Pakistan, under its authority a year ago when it stripped away the region’s special semi-autonomous status. Prime Minister Narendra Modi justified the move by saying that Kashmir’s status had impeded development and boosted separatism. Instead, Modi’s move seems to have further undermined the class of democratic political moderates long sympathetic to the Indian state who were already targets of Kashmiri militants. Without them, experts say, the Indian government will find it harder to bring peace and stability to the region. Of the dozens of moderate political leaders and thousands of other Kashmiris arrested last August, more than 400 still remain in jail. To get released, some had to post bond and sign agreements stipulating that they would not “make any comment, issue statements or make a public speech,” according to documents they showed The New York Times. Men and women who worked with the government say Kashmir is now run like an occupied territory by police officers and government functionaries, the majority of whom are not Kashmiri. In an April meeting held to discuss developmental projects, out of 19 officials, only one was a Kashmiri Muslim. “By brutally dispensing established intermediaries,” said Sumantra Bose, a political scientist at the London School of Economics, “the government has severely weakened the already shaky Indian hand in Kashmir.” The region has been left dispirited by the Indian government’s tightened grip. Outside investment has slowed to a standstill, according to the Kashmir Chamber of Commerce, a local business group. Many shops remain closed, and the streets are full of soldiers. Military bunkers removed years ago are back. On a new highway meant to better connect the region with the rest of the country, the passage of military convoys takes precedence, even over medical emergencies. Kashmiris are stopped, and the halts can last for hour. The state of Jammu and Kashmir, which includes the restive Kashmir Valley, was India’s only Muslim-majority state. For decades, it was seen as an important symbol of India’s commitment to secularism. But as Hindu nationalism continues its march across India, many such symbols are increasingly under attack. Many in Kashmir’s political class were realists. They may not have loved being under Indian control. But they accepted that they would never succeed in driving out the Indian army, which keeps hundreds of thousands of troops in Kashmir, or break away and form their own country as some Kashmiris, especially the militants, had dreamed. The moderates felt the best path was to make peace with the Indian government and serve as a bridge between India and Pakistan, which also claims Kashmir. Other Kashmiris, especially the militants, saw these moderate politicians and political party workers as threats. Rights activists say that, since the early 1990s, more than 7,000 political moderates have been killed. Now many of the moderates say their cause is no longer worth the effort. In interviews with The Times, more than two dozen Kashmiri politicians, including six former Cabinet ministers, said the move by Modi’s government has alienated the local population by making them feel they are bystanders with no hand in Kashmir’s destiny. One of them, Farooq Abdullah, a former chief minister who was under house arrest for months, said that he might as well have been a terrorist for the lack of respect he has received. Should the authorities permit an election in the future, said Yasir Reshi, a former member of the Kashmiri legislature, the moderates may not take part. Militant attacks continue. About half a dozen moderates and other local leaders have been killed in recent months, according to the police. Dozens have fled to mountain retreats. Many have resigned from their political parties. The coronavirus seems to have helped the government in its fight against the militants. Before, when forces would close in on the fighters, civilians poured onto streets, blocking entire neighbourhoods and inserting themselves between the Indian soldiers and the militants. Now, the lockdown has confined people to their homes, leaving the militants with no friendly supportable to rally for their defence. Since the region’s autonomy was rescinded last year, Indian forces have killed more than 155 militants in 71 gunfights, according to the police. One recent afternoon, Naeem Akhtar, 68, a former education minister who had been imprisoned for nearly a year, described how local police officers who once saluted him searched his jail cell just to humiliate him. Akhtar, who was released in June, said he reached a low point when his son and granddaughter brought him warm clothes while in custody. His granddaughter kept asking why he was in jail. He could not answer. “Those innocent questions,” Akhtar said, “are part of my being now.” Akhtar’s eyes welled with tears. He said that by robbing Kashmir of its special identity, India did not just disenfranchise Kashmiris, but also dishonoured those who stood for it. “We are living under the smokescreen of a democratic system,” he said. “I don’t want to be part of it now. That would be treachery.” The region’s political system, which functioned even during the difficult years of insurgency, has been upended. In recent months members of the Bharatiya Janata Party or BJP, the Hindu nationalist party governing India, have been methodically hunted by militants. Sajad Ahmad Khanday, a member of the BJP, was leaving his house after having tea in August when two boys on a motorcycle stopped him and fired five rounds into his abdomen. He died minutes later. Shaheen Sajad, Khanday’s wife, said that her husband took precautions but that Kashmiris associated with BJP have become pariahs. Peerzada Lateef Shah, the onetime moderate leader, saw his life and his political views change in almost an instant. In June 2019, he was returning from his apple orchard in southern Kashmir’s Pulwama district when a young man appeared in front of his house. The young man pulled out a pistol andfired five bullets at him. Shah, 49, collapsedbut managed to whistle to his brother working in a nearby orchard. He was rushed to the hospital. After eight days in intensive care, he awoke to discover that the Indian government had seized control of Kashmir. Mehbooba Mufti, Shah’s party president and the most recent chief minister of the region, and thousands of others had been thrown in jail. “That day Kashmir was turned into a colony,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-a-changed-kashmir-moderates-feel-betrayed-by-india-881666.html
02-09-2020||Panorama||Real estate sector needs reform||Many years from now, when the Covid-19 pandemic is well and truly behind us, an epiphany that is here to stay is that home is the safest place.   During the early days of the lockdown, we saw how so many prioritised going home. Airports around the world were packed with people waiting to be repatriated home. In India, many people stepped forward and organised to ensure that people who were stuck in different places can reach home to their respective city, town and villages comfortably and in good health.   The Indian real estate industry is to be credited for achieving tremendous progress in developing homes for all sections of the society, despite facing a myriad of challenges. Housing sales reached 2.61 lakh units in 2019 across seven major cities, with the overall market size pegged at Rs. 12,000 crore. By 2030, the industry’s market size is expected to surpass the US$ 1 trillion-mark, and about five years from now the sector is projected to contribute as much as 13 per cent to the national GDP. The sector is also a very large source for informal employment, with estimates ranging from 12-15 million people.  Despite the existing housing policy measures, the country is still facing an unprecedented housing shortage. Hence, it is clear that a focused review of various regulations is the need of the hour to holistically sort out the factors impinging the realty sector for it to be viable and competitive in serving the public mandate of homeownership.  One of the key challenges emanates from the often conflicting rules in land acquisition, land use and FSI. Developers are also facing plenty of challenges to acquire land with clear titles, as records claiming ownership still remain unclear. Further, skilling of workmen vests with the industry as there is an open gap between the skills required and what is in majority supply. After the Covid-19 lockdowns, capital crunch, liquidity management, shortage of skilled labour, disruptions across supply lines and tepid demand have amplified the problems further. The Government announced a slew of measures to drive home urgent relief: extension of registration and completion date of real estate projects under RERA by six months expiring on or before March 25, 2020, using the force majeure clause, special liquidity support of Rs. 30,000 crore to NBFCs and HFCs, an extension of Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) for the affordable housing category, a moratorium on term loans and working capital facilities up to August 2020, etc.  Important as these measures are, there is also an urgent requirement of well thought robust policy roadmap for the housing segment to bring the health of the sector back into a fit shape. Covid-19 should be taken in the context of a major disrupter for real estate, with the opportunity used for bold and rapid structural reform.  There is a need for holistic regulatory and financial stimuli aimed at quickening recovery, and this can be achieved through the facilitation of ease of doing business on the one hand, while also ensuring adequate liquidity support for current-day sustenance. Further, measures such as extending loan moratoriums, while also widening RERA timelines and NBFC loans beyond one year will provide additional support.  Policy reforms at a holistic level are also crucial for the real estate industry, especially in attracting foreign capital around India’s emerging credence as an alternative manufacturing base. Hence, unified laws and policy reforms across the value chain that help fast-track land allotment processes and project permissions will unquestionably create a more solid platform for generating induced demand for homes, offices and other allied asset classes.  Labour reform is yet another area that will bring resilience to the way the real estate industry operates. Further, greater clarity on health and safety protocols and best practices will ensure better easement into the new normal.  In a credible measure to relieve the financial burden on the real estate buyer, Maharashtra recently implemented a 1% reduction in stamp duty in the state for a period of two years, starting from April 2020. Other states should look at similar initiatives too, which can stir genuine real estate demand.  (The writer is Managing Director, Puravankara Limited)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/real-estate-sector-needs-reform-881668.html
02-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Quarantine cleansing||Lockdown disrupted my regime of taking a walk every day in the evening. Listlessly, I resumed the routine by having a brisk walk in the front courtyard of my home but felt constrained. Instinctively one day I went to the and found that the neighborhood rooftops teemed with life. Many families were at their respective terraces playing badminton, doing yoga, aerobics, jogging, reading books or sitting leisurely, listening to the flute. It was a sight to behold -- positivity and passion prevailed in a time of uncertainty.  Earlier, when I would occasionally visit the terrace to get it cleaned, the rooftops looked barren with not a soul in sight. Now rooftops were alive, agog with life, thriving in a fettered festivity of mankind. They had become windows to connect to the rest of the neighborhood while maintaining social distancing. Children sat on the wall edge, laughing and talking, some flying kites. I felt like I was reliving my childhood days. Nostalgia gripped me as I recollected how we would sleep on rooftops along with cousins at our grandparents' home during summer vacation on traditional woven charpai (cots). The giggles of children brought me back to present as I pondered over how lockdown had changed our lives. We managed without malls and multiplexes, dining out and designer dresses, diamonds or domestic help. Rather, we had the time to stand and stare at the beauties of nature. I had never noticed how a flock of birds perched regularly on our tall and towering Christmas tree, chirping lively as if in conversation. In the beginning, I was anxious and apprehensive, worrying about how I would manage household drudgery without domestic help, but soon we all started working together congenially. Purging of old files, sorting through photos, delving into storage trunk, the wonderment at some of the things found there. I also shed a few kilos I failed to lose even after regular walks. My fears proved false and stillness transformed into serenity. The epiphany dawned that cost of living is not much, it is one's lifestyle that costs one to fume and fret. True, coronavirus is real and so is its threat, the fact remains that this phase of life would remain frozen in our mind. But let us hope faith prevails over fear and once this mess is over, we emerge healthier after having cleansed our cluttered lifestyles and march towards a brighter renaissance!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/quarantine-cleansing-881287.html
02-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Canine chronicles||Ever since the early days of my boyhood, I have been overly smitten with canines. Of the umpteen pups I, a boy of nine had brought home from our neck of the woods, one black, densely-furry pup was lucky to get my mom’s consent to be reared as a pet. Cock-a-hoop with joy, I took him around my siblings, two sisters and a brother, all the elders who were won over by its endearing looks, began petting him. Soon winning oodles of love and affection from every one of us, the tiny stranger became another member of our family. He came to be called Karadi (bear) owing to his thick, furry coat.  Munnu, the gardener in our house, who also doubled as a flesher in a mutton stall nearby, would on occasion bring raw mutton from his butchery and feed it to Karadi in the snicket adjacent to our house, quite unbeknownst to our mom who was feeding him veg food alone. He was heartily fond of our dog that used to play with him often. The practice added to the strength and ferocity of the dog all the more. My dad, a Research Assistant at the department of archaeology at Madras University who was lodged with one of our relatives in Madras, would come and be with us only for short periods. His only objection to us rearing a dog in our house was it should not enter his room, which was almost a library in our house. We ensured that we abided by his request. Panneerselvam, one of my classmates from a different section, staying some three or four houses next to ours, always carried a grudge against me for reasons known to him alone. Once, entering our garden in the front yard, he started plucking some vegetables without permission from anyone in our family. When I objected to it he began abusing me. As a result, a fisticuff ensued between us. Karadi that was lying couchant till then in the portico straight came running to us, tore off his shirt and mauled his forearms. Utterly scared he withdrew from the dust-up and left the spot.  Another time, while walking along the marshy bank of an almost brimming lake with Karadi beside me I slipped suddenly and belly-flopped in the water. Karadi tout de suite jumped into the lake and began pulling me out of the water, gripping me by my shirt-collar and brought me safe to the bank as I had not learnt swimming by then.         Thus it was my pet canine that saved me from untoward situations in the early days of my boyhood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/canine-chronicles-881664.html
02-09-2020||Second Edit||A big win for Indian chess||Viswanathan Anand triggered the original chess revolution in India in 1987, becoming the country’s first Grandmaster when not yet 18. Such was the impact of the supremely gifted teenager from Chennai that his exploits inspired a generation of prodigies to dream and achieve big. Anand’s sustained excellence on the world stage kept the fire burning and gradually, India began to stockpile Grandmasters, both men and women, with stunning regularity. He walked alongside the likes of Anatoly Karpov and Garry Kasparov, and did so without exhibiting any traits of eccentricity that by then had come to characterise chess geniuses. While chess didn’t necessarily graduate into a popular spectator sport, it did grow in stature as a mass playing attraction. Admittedly, a majority of those inspired by Anand’s early success came from Tamil Nadu; soon, the net spread to other pockets of the country and India’s standing in the world of chess rose exponentially in the 1990s and beyond, peaking when Anand was crowned the FIDE World Champion for the first time in 2000. Even as the numbers playing the game, and doing so successfully, continued to grow, the financial rewards weren’t always commensurate with the tools required for preparation and continued progress, and administrative misadventures abounded. Factionalism within the sport’s governing body in the country attracted inevitable scrutiny and sanction, and while that didn’t result in players dropping standards, chess no longer enjoyed the patronage of officialdom. Against this backdrop, India’s remarkable gold-medal march at the recently concluded virtual Chess Olympiad has come as a shot in the arm for the sport. A strong collective fashioned this triumph, showing the depth of Indian chess talent, but aptly with Anand’s presence and mentorship guiding the team. Joint winners alongside traditional powerhouse Russia, India can use this extraordinary story as the springboard to greater glory. Equally, the chess fraternity can now expect that government apathy will become a thing of the past. Anand was the recipient of the inaugural Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, the country’s highest sporting honour, in 1991-92. But as he presciently pointed out in the immediacy of the Oympiad victory, it’s been eons since recognition has been conferred on chess players/and or coaches at the Annual Sports Awards. That must be a particularly bitter pill to swallow, given how freely these awards are handed out, and not always to the most deserving. It can only be hoped that through this effort, chess will regain the attention from officialdom that it so richly deserves. This could well set off another era of triumphs in the game of 64 squares for India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-big-win-for-indian-chess-881283.html
02-09-2020||Second Edit||Lessons for world from polio campaign||The declaration by the World Health Organisation (WHO) last week that the whole of Africa is free of the wild polio virus is an important landmark in the worldwide battle against this affliction that has been waged for many decades. The world health body has rightly called it “historic” because as late as 2012 the continent had accounted for half of all polio cases worldwide. It is after a long programme of vaccination and surveillance that it has now been declared that polio has been eradicated in all 47 countries in Africa. It is four years since any case was reported from any country. The last case was recorded four years ago in north-east Nigeria. The achievement is all the more remarkable as it comes when the world is in the grip of a virus which is challenging people, governments, health bodies and the medical fraternity.  The campaign against polio may be near its end with the success in Africa. The only two countries where the viral affliction is still present and is a live threat are Pakistan and Afghanistan. There is no cure for polio which causes irreversible paralysis, mostly among children, and tens of thousands of people have suffered from it. The only protection comes from vaccination. The worldwide campaign started in 1988 when the WHO and UNICEF came together to launch a vaccination programme across the world. It is estimated that about $19 billion has been spent on the programme. The challenges were many. Every child in the world had to be reached and vaccinated, and the human effort for that and the logistics required was of an unprecedented scale. There were geographical and climatic challenges and difficulties like how to take the vaccine to nomadic communities. Disinformation and rumours that the vaccine would cause infertility or spread HIV were another problem. This is still a serious problem in Pakistan and Afghanistan. India, which once had the highest case load in the world, was declared polio-free in March 2014. It is expected that polio will be eradicated even in its last holdouts in the near future. The battle against polio offers some lessons which are relevant now. It took many years to develop a safe and effective vaccine, and even over six decades after vaccinations on a large scale started, a complete victory over the virus has not been achieved. These lessons and those from other health campaigns, like the successful drive against small pox, which was eradicated in 1980, will be useful in the fight against the present pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/lessons-for-world-from-polio-campaign-881660.html
02-09-2020||South||Top Maoist leader Ganapathi set to surrender?||Top Maoist leader Muppala Laxmana Rao alias Ganapathi — who is the political face of the extremist movement and said to be hiding in the dense forests of Chhattisgarh — has reportedly offered to surrender before Telangana police officials.   Age-related ailments are said to be behind the Maoist leader's alleged offer to surrender.  If the surrender does happen, it will be a major blow to the Maoist movement in the country, since Ganapathi is the guiding force and the movement's link to urban India.  While Telangana police said they would welcome and facilitate such a move, a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh told DH that Ganapathi’s surrender process could be already on, with the Centre kept in the loop. Hailing from Jagityal in Telangana, Ganapathi, who is in his 70s, had stepped down in November 2018 as the general secretary of the CPI (Maoist), handing over the mantle to Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavaraj, who is from Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh. However, Ganapathi continues to mentor insurgents. Another key leader Mallojula Venugopal alias Bhupathi, a central committee member, has also decided to surrender, sources said. “This would be the game changer when it happens,” said the Chhattisgarh IPS officer. “Nambala is strong on the military side, but Ganapathi is the one sustaining the movement with connections with the outside world — the urban links we talk about.” Ganapathi carries a bounty of Rs 1.5 crore on his head offered by the Chhattisgarh government. Other left-wing extremism affected states like Maharashtra, Telangana also have cash prizes for those who help find him dead or alive. This amount will go to Ganapathi if he surrenders. A teacher-turned-extremist, Ganapathi has been suffering from diabetes, arthritis, and other age-related ailments for some years now, which has severely constrained his movement. Special intelligence officials of Telangana and Chhattisgarh said that Ganapathi is insulated in the deep forests of Abhujmaad in Chhattisgarh. His advanced age and ailments have supposedly pushed Ganapathi to make a surrender offer to the Telangana government through his family and friends’ network, in order to avail proper medical care and a peaceful retirement.   “There are reports of his such intentions. We would welcome and facilitate, as per the process, if Ganapathi and or any other Maoist approaches to join the mainstream,” a top intelligence official of Telangana police told DH. “His surrender would be most probably in Telangana only,” the official added. Maoist turn Ganapathi was born in 1949 in Beerpur village of the then Karimnagar district of Telangana. He graduated in science from SRR College in Karimnagar in 1970 and served as a teacher for three years (1971-74) in a government high school in Elgandal village of Karimnagar district. In 1974, he shifted to Warangal to pursue B.Ed. It was in Warangal, the hotbed of Naxalite movement in the eighties and nineties, that Ganapthi came in contact with the People’s War Group founder, Kondapalli Seetharamaiah. Ganapathi later joined the insurgents and became the CPI (ML) People’s War’s secretary in 1992. The Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCCI) merged with the PWG in September 2004 under his guidance, and Ganapathi became the Maoist Party’s supreme leader. He was the General Secretary of CPI (Maoists) till 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/top-maoist-leader-ganapathi-set-to-surrender-881269.html
02-09-2020||South||Too much drink puts a number of men in psychosis in Tamil Nadu||Excessive, regular consumption of alcohol after a break due to Covid-19 lockdown induced dry phase has landed a number of men in "alcohol induced psychosis," a mental condition marked by disrupted thinking, perceptions and behaviour, an expert said here on Wednesday. Left with no other option, several people had been abstinent from alcohol for a considerable period of time during the lockdown, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Institue of Mental Health (IMH), D Devi said. The IMH, a renowned institution dedicated for mental health here is over 200-year-old and it is among the largest and oldest government institutions. "When some people resumed regular and excessive drinking they landed in complications and sought our help. Had they not touched alcohol again, it would have done them a world of good," she told PTI. Citing the case of a man, who resumed unrestrained drinking after a gap of months, she said, "this person lost his sleep, became restless, talked endlessly and roamed around which are manifestations of Alcohol Induced Psychosis (AIP)." "Psychosis is a mental condition, that includes disrupted or altered thinking, perceptions and behaviour," the Assistant professor said. An auto driver, the 40-year-old man, did not have a drink for months due to lockdown restrictions and once he had access to alcohol with the easing of curbs, "he suffered because of his over-indulgence in alcohol," she noted. "The sad thing is, his family also suffered. Since his wife was here in the hospital as attendant, the children had to be entrusted with relatives. Immoderate and habitual alcohol consumption affected not only this man, but also his family," the psychiatrist said. "We see a number of men with a similar profile. Really too much of alcohol to the point of not knowing if it was day or night," she said adding wives of such men plead with doctors to admit them since their behaviour could be very unpredictable. Such men, diagnosed for AIP, were admitted as in-patients at the IMH for about a week. They were treated with anti-psychotics, anxiolytics, intravenous fluids and multivitamin supplements. After discharge, they were advised to continue to be on medications and visit the hospital periodically to ensure good health and prevent recurrence of AIP. "Alcohol induced psychosis happens, in some cases, even during withdrawal (when people stay away from alcohol) and it is due to their dependence which is physical and psychological. We treat such people as well," Dr Devi said. When people with "severe alcohol dependence" had no access to drink during the initial phases of lockdown, they developed complications and they were successfully treated, she said adding such people should avoid alcohol altogether. Cautioning against alcohol dependence, she said excessive and regular drinking could lead to severe health issues both "physical and psychological" and may lead to health issues including alcohol induced psychotic disorder. According to the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11) of the World Health Organisation, alcohol-induced psychotic disorder is characterized by psychotic symptoms like delusions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking and behaviour that develop with intoxication from alcohol or during withdrawal from it. The IMH, located at Kilpauk here is attached to the Madras Medical College. In Tamil Nadu, the state-run liquor shops were closed on March 24 evening when the lockdown was implemented for the first time. While the outlets resumed operations in May in the rest of Tamil Nadu, the shops here and in suburbs reopened on August 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/too-much-drink-puts-a-number-of-men-in-psychosis-in-tamil-nadu-881424.html
02-09-2020||South||Hyderabad Metro Rail to resume operations from September 7||The Telangana government has permitted operation of metro rail services here in a 'graded manner' from September 7. The announcement comes after the Centre allowed the metro services to resume operations across the country, as part of Unlock-4 guidelines. "Managing Directors of all Indian metros held a video conference on Tuesday (September 1) to recommend protocols for necessary precautions and safety measures. The protocols will be decided in a day or two by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, government of India with the approval of the Home ministry," Hyderabad Metro Rail Ltd MD, N V S Reddy said in a statement on Tuesday night. The protocols would be strictly adhered to while taking adequate care to ensure proper sanitation, maintain social distancing in metro trains and stations, he added. Metro rail services in the city were suspended on March 22 as part of lockdown announced nation-wide to contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-metro-rail-to-resume-operations-from-september-7-881440.html
02-09-2020||South||Puducherry records 397 fresh Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||Puducherry logged 397 new cases of coronavirus and 13 related fatalities on Wednesday, pushing the overall tally in the union territory to 15,157. Director of Health and Family Welfare, S Mohan Kumar said in a release that 13 people, including two women, succumbed to the viral infection raising the toll to 253. He said of the 15,157 cases, as many as 4,936 were active while 9,968 patients recovered and were discharged. The cases reported in the last 24 hours were identified after examination of 1,315 samples. The Director noted that the fatality and recovery rates were 1.67 percent and 65.76 percent respectively. He said 77,428 samples have been tested so far and it was found that 60,902 were found to be negative and result of examination of remaining samples was awaited. As many as 293 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours. The 13 people who died were in the age group ranging between 45 and 88 years.  Of the 397 new cases in the Union Territory, Puducherry region accounted for 345 cases followed by 46 in Yanam and 6 in Karaikal. Mahe did not report any new case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-records-397-fresh-covid-19-cases-13-deaths-881459.html
02-09-2020||South||Passenger trains, inter-district bus services will commence on September 7 in Tamil Nadu: CM Palaniswami||Inter-district bus transport and passenger train services within Tamil Nadu would be permitted from September 7, Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced on Wednesday. While bus transport is allowed only within districts as of now, there were representations from the public to the government seeking facilitation of services to go from one district to another, he said. "Considering public welfare, following the Standard Operating Procedure, from September 7, inter-district government and private bus transport will be allowed across Tamil Nadu," Palaniswami said in a statement. Similarly, from the same date, passenger train services within Tamil Nadu shall be permitted, he said. Inter-state train services are already operational in permitted routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/passenger-trains-inter-district-bus-services-will-commence-on-september-7-in-tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-881471.html
02-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradsh setting up 30 skill development centres to provide quality workforce for industry||Andhra Pradesh government is establishing 30 Skill Development Centres for which it is partnering with institutes like Singapore Polytechnic, Van Hall Larenstein in the Netherlands and over 50 companies including Dell, Tata, HP, IBM, Biocon. The YSRCP government had last year brought in a law reserving 75 percent jobs in all categories of industrial units for the locals. “Training imparted should be as per the requirements of the industry so that these SDCs would play an important role in providing a highly-skilled workforce thus helping industrial development in AP,” Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy said in a review meeting on skill development on Tuesday. The state’s industrial policy (2020-23) unveiled last month, mention the setting up of 30 skill development centres and two skill development universities with a focus on cutting edge analytics and smart manufacturing using Internet of Things, predictive maintenance. Officials said that land has been identified at 20 places already. The curriculum is prepared while categorizing the courses into two modules - for finishing skills and alternative employment courses. Out of a total of 162 courses, to be made available at the SDCs,127 are for finishing skills and 35 for alternative employment. The CM has instructed officials to expedite the work on establishing the 30 centres, to cater to all the 25 Parliamentary constituencies in the state, while ensuring quality in design and construction. Officials informed that the government has so far partnered with four international institutes - Singapore Polytechnic, Van Hall Larenstein (Netherlands), GIZ and Department for International Development in designing the skill development curriculum. “23 reputed companies including Dell, Tata, HP, IBM, Biocon have come forward to join hands with the government on curriculum and lab infrastructure in these skill centres. Discussions are on with 35 other companies,” officials said. Reddy directed officials to include technical courses related to agricultural work and implements in the SDCs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradsh-setting-up-30-skill-development-centres-to-provide-quality-workforce-for-industry-881610.html
02-09-2020||South||Do not attribute religious motives: Tamil Nadu police on murder of youth||Tamil Nadu Police on Wednesday clarified that the murder of a 23-year-old youth in Ramanathapuram district has no “religious angle” as it was the result of a fight between two groups, rejecting social media posts, including one by BJP leader H Raja, in this regard as “false” and “rumour.” After Arun Prakash was murdered allegedly by members of another gang due to old enmity on August 31, social media was abuzz with claims that the murder was religiously motivated as two of the four suspects belonged to a different faith. BJP leader H Raja, known for his penchant for controversies, took to Twitter on Tuesday to allege that Prakash was “murdered by 10 Muslim religious fanatics” in Ramanathapuram in southern Tamil Nadu. Soon, Twitter was flooded with tweets attributing religious motives to the murder in the communally-sensitive district and leaders from various right-wing outfits circulating them on other social media platforms. The police said Prakash’s murder was due to the previous enmity and they are investigating the incident. “The police will do an impartial investigation and arrest all the suspects soon. Please do not believe rumours and fake news,” Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police (SP) Varun Kumar said. The district police also put out a public notice asking people not to believe rumours and warned strict action against those spreading fake news. “The incident that took place in Vasantham Nagar in Ramanathapuram is a result of personal enmity between two groups. Some people are trying to give the incident a religious colour. People involved in this crime belong to different religious and there is no issue regarding any religion in this case. Do not believe those spreading rumours,” the public note said. It further added that the police have formed three special teams to nab the culprits and get to the bottom of the incident. This is not the first time that the BJP has tried to bring in the religious angle to a murder. It had alleged ‘love jihad’ angle to the murder of party functionary Vijaya Raghu in January this year. However, the police clarified that the motive behind the murder was the previous enmity and not “love jihad” as claimed by BJP leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/do-not-attribute-religious-motives-tamil-nadu-police-on-murder-of-youth-881614.html
02-09-2020||South||Sasikala’s under-construction bungalow in Poes Garden to be attached: Income Tax dept||Income Tax department on Wednesday issued a provisional attachment order to initiate the process of attaching a property owned by jailed AIADMK leader V K Sasikala through her benami. The said premise is located just opposite to former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s sprawling bungalow in upscale Poes Garden here. The premises spread over an area of over 22,000 square feet is to be attached under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act by the Income Tax Department. A huge bungalow is being constructed currently on the land for Sasikala to stay once she comes out of the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru after completing her four-year jail sentence in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. I-T officials pasted a copy of the provisional order outside the under-construction premises, while another copy has been served to Sasikala in the prison. The order was pasted two days after the I-T department said it has initiated the process of attaching properties, including the aforementioned one, worth Rs 300 crore belonging to Sasikala held through benamis. Besides Sasikala, a copy of the notice was also served to Hari Chandana Estates, who owns the property. Sources said these properties were purchased between 2003 and 2005 in the name of Hari Chandana estates. The timing of the notice is significant as Sasikala’s family had begun construction work on the premises so that she can stay in the brand-new bungalow once she walks free from the jail. The jail term of the long-time aide of Jayalalithaa will end in February 2021 but she will eligible for an early release, according to some, as she has not used her regular leaves. Besides the Poes Garden premises, 64 other properties owned by Sasikala through her benamis will be attached and the combined value of the properties is Rs 300 crore. Last year, the I-T sleuths had attached assets worth Rs 1,500 crore allegedly purchased by Sasikala after demonetisation of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes was announced by the Centre in November 2016. The properties, including a mall in Chennai and a resort in neighbouring Puducherry, were attached under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act as it was suspected that Sasikala bought these and controlled through others. Sasikala is serving four-year imprisonment in the disproportionate assets (DA) case in which Jayalalithaa is also an accused. But she was not convicted as she had died when the final verdict was delivered by the Supreme Court in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-s-under-construction-bungalow-in-poes-garden-to-be-attached-income-tax-dept-881617.html
02-09-2020||State||2 held for issuing death threat to Mangaluru inspector||Mangaluru City police arrested two persons, including a minor, on charges of issuing a death threat and abusing police inspector Shantharam in connection with anti-CAA protest on December 26. The arrested youth is Mohammed Shafiq, a resident of Bondanthila and a minor. Shantharam had filed a complaint at Mangalore East Police Station. Mangaluru Police Commissioner, realising the gravity of the case, had it transferred to Cyber Crime, Economic Offences & Narcotics (CEN) police station. Shafiq has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-held-for-issuing-death-threat-to-mangaluru-inspector-881383.html
02-09-2020||State||Thieves in Mysuru rob 2 kg gold from police constable's house||Thieves robbed two kilograms of gold from the house of a police constable, Vanajakshi, attached to City Crime Records Bureau (CCRB) in Mysuru. The incident took place when Vanajakshi, along with her husband Vijaykumar, a businessman, visited a hospital to admit her mother-in-law as she had developed health issues. The couple had left the house at 10 pm and returned at 3 am. The couple found the valuables missing from locker and cupboard.  According to the sources, Vijaykumat's relatives had kept gold at their house and Vanajakshi had brought the gold from bank locker. According to the police, the thieves entered from balcony. The police are investigating the case. A dog squad and finger print experts visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/thieves-in-mysuru-rob-2-kg-gold-from-police-constables-house-881442.html
02-09-2020||State||19-year-old man murdered in Mysuru||An old feud with a friend led to the death of a 19-year-old man, Chiranth, in Mysuru. Police suspect that the youth's friend Manoj stabbed him to death near K D Circle in the city early on Wednesday. Vijayanagar police, who are investigating the case, have taken Manoj into custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/19-year-old-man-murdered-in-mysuru-881511.html
02-09-2020||State||BJP, Congress leaders bat for Sadashiva Commission report||Madiga community leaders of both Congress and BJP have come together to put pressure on the State government to table the A J Sadashiva Commission's report on internal reservation among SCs, STs, and backward classes in the Assembly. Speaking to media persons at a joint press conference here on Wednesday, BJP MP A Narayanasway, and former minister and senior leader of Congress H Aanjaneya said, a delegation of Madiga community leaders would meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Congress and JD(S) legislature party leaders, and urge them to table the report in the Assembly and implement it. Narayanaswamy said, the Congress, JD(S), and BJP governed the State after the Commission headed by Justice A J Sadashiva submitted its report. The party which was in favour of the oppressed classes during the agitation for internal reservation, changed its stand after it came to power. All the three parties did not make any attempt to table the Commission's report on internal reservation in the Assembly, he regretted. Congress leader H Aanjaneya said, six legislators, two MPs, and one MLC from the Madiga community are in power in the State. Besides, Govinda Karjol of the community is the deputy chief minister. In order to safeguard the interests of the community, all the leaders have decided to come together. Leaders of all parties will participate in a meeting slated to be held in Bengaluru, he said. He said, he had discussed the issue related to the presentation of the Commission's report in the Cabinet meeting twice when he was the Social welfare minister. The then chief minister Siddaramaiah was in favour of it. But, the time was not ripe then. So, the report could not be implemented, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-congress-leaders-bat-for-sadashiva-commission-report-881637.html
02-09-2020||State||H D Kumaraswamy alleges drug mafia money used for toppling JD(S)-Congress government||Former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Wednesday alleged that certain MLAs took money from the drug mafia to bring down the JD(S)-Congress coalition government headed by him last year. He also claimed that some people part of the efforts to topple the coalition government were found to be involved in illegal activities, including drug trafficking and betting. The JD(S) leader was referring to the fall of the coalition government in July last year owing to the disqualification of 17 rebel MLAs of Congress and the JD(S) and the installation of the BJP government led by B S Yediyurappa. "To bring down my government, money was collected from mafia indulging in cricket betting and drug trafficking and illegal dance bar operators," Kumaraswamy told reporters in Channapatna in Ramanagara district. He was reacting to recent busting of a drug trafficking racket here by the Narcotics Control Bureau with the arrest of three people, including a woman recently, and its statement that the trio was supplying drugs to the singers and actors of Kannada film industry and some influential people. The police have also arrested three people, allegedly involved in selling cannabis in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, from Mysuru and seized over 200 kg of the narcotic on August 27. The JDS leader said when he was in power he had spoken in the assembly about the money from these mafias being used to bring down his government. "Media had then reported that some of the MLAs were getting money from the drug traffickers," Kumaraswamy alleged, adding the BJP had rubbished it. "Did I say that BJP leaders toppled my government? I had only said that these mafias were also active to bring down my government. Now, who got money from them should speak up," Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/h-d-kumaraswamy-alleges-drug-mafia-money-used-for-toppling-jds-congress-government-881646.html
02-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka in second spot in Covid-19 positive healthcare staff||Karnataka has the second-highest Covid-19 positive healthcare workers in the country after Maharashtra, with a total of 12,260 healthcare workers testing positive so far, out of which 46 have died from the contagious disease. This includes doctors, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists, allied health workers and group D staff, according to data from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). As per the ICMR's August 25 line list, 1,07,100 samples of healthcare workers have been tested so far, out of which 11% have turned out to be Covid positive.  All Covid-19 hospitals in Bengaluru have Hospital Infection Control Committees (HICCs) to prevent cross-contamination, but healthcare workers are still contracting the infection. Hospitals said likely sources of infection are PPE doffing practices, patient attenders, those visiting fever clinics to give samples, commute to and from hospitals, and own family members.  Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said that "regular trainings are organised every fortnight" and "rapid antibody kits are being given to health workers to check the presence of antibodies and instil confidence". "Protocols for work and rest have been given," he added. While all major Covid-19 hospitals in Bengaluru have had a large number of their staff testing positive, there have been no deaths of staffers in major dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) has had 60 staffers test positive, while KC General Hospital saw 84 staffers contracting the contagious disease. CV Raman General Hospital has had 21 hospital staff test positive.  Dr C Nagaraj, Director, RGICD, said he didn't think the staff got infected in the Covid ward. "Initially, our doctors had to talk to patient attenders of SARI patients whose Covid-19 status was yet to be known. Patient attendees who did not wear masks were primary contacts which risked our doctors," he said.  Dr HDR Radhakrishna, medical superintendent, CV Raman General Hospital, said out of 12,384 samples collected, 1,774 tested positive. "We have shown multiple PPE doffing videos to our staff," he said. "Hypochlorite solution is sprayed on them for disinfection before they remove it. They must have got infected when people came to give samples at the hospital, during the commute to and from the hospital or at home," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-in-second-spot-in-covid-19-positive-healthcare-staff-881268.html
02-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||GST compensation: Karnataka goes with option 1||Under Option 1, Karnataka will be eligible for a compensation of Rs 18,289 crore, whereas under Option 2, the state was eligible for Rs 25,508 crore.  The decision to go with the first option was taken after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, the finance minister, held a meeting with senior finance department officials.  "After the evaluation of both these options, it is felt that Option 1 would be more beneficial to the state's finances. Hence, the Government of Karnataka has decided to convey to the Government of India its preference for Option 1. This would help the state in augmenting its revenue in the present financial year," the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said in a statement.  According to the CMO, under Option 1, Rs 6,965 crore out of Rs 18,289 crore will come from the cess collected. "For the remaining amount of Rs 11,324 crore, Karnataka would be able to borrow through a special window with the entire burden of principal and interest repayment being met out of compensation cess fund in the future," the CMO said.  “Further, an additional borrowing up to 1 per cent of the GSDP (Rs 18,036 crore) will be available unconditionally and another 1 per cent borrowing can be done linked to certain reforms as earlier suggested by the Government of India...These additional borrowings may also be carried forward to the next financial year, if necessary,” the CMO said.  The second option was sidelined as it would burden the state. Out of Rs 25,508 crore, the state would get Rs 6,965 crore from the cess collected. “And the remaining amount of Rs 18,543 crore would be allowed to borrow through an issue of market debt. However, in this option, unconditional borrowing of 1 per cent of GSDP will not be separately available to the state,” the CMO explained. “As a result, the net borrowing of the state will reduce substantially by an amount of Rs 10,817 crore. Further, under Option 2, the interest on the above borrowing through issue of market debt shall be paid by the state from its own resources.”  Following the GST Council meet held last week, two options were proposed for states to address GST compensation shortfall. Several state governments have rejected both the options, stating that the Centre was bound by law to compensate states. Under Option 1, states will have to cumulatively borrow Rs 97,000 crore to cover shortfall in compensation caused only due to the implementation of GST, while Option 2 allowed states to borrow the entire GST compensation shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore.  The Opposition Congress had asked the BJP government not to accept the proposal to borrow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gst-compensation-karnataka-goes-with-option-1-881487.html
02-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports biggest single day spike of 9,860 Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Wednesday reported its biggest single-day spike of over 9,800 new Covid-19 cases and 113 deaths, taking the infection count to 3,61,341 and the toll to 5,950, the health department said. The day saw the state testing a whopping 73,317 samples, including 38,735 using the rapid antigen kits, as the cumulative specimens examined crossed the 30 lakh mark. A total of 6,287 patients were discharged taking the overall recoveries to 2,60,913. Of the fresh cases, as many as 3,420 were from Bengaluru Urban district alone. The previous biggest single-day spike of 9,386 cases was recorded on August 27. The bulletin said the state's cumulative positive cases stood at 3,61,341, including 5,950 deaths and 2,60,913 discharges. There were 94,459 active cases and of them 93,708 in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 751 had been admitted to intensive care units (ICUs). Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum of 32 deaths out of the total 113 fatalities on Wednesday, followed by Mysuru (11), Dharwad (10), Shivamogga (7), Dakshina Kannada (6), Ballari and Kalaburagi (5) among others. Most of those who succumbed had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the other districts where the new cases were reported, Mysuru reported 667, Belagavi 470, Ballari 433, Tumakuru 357, Shivamogga 342, Dharwad 327, Davangere 321, Hassan 290 and Koppal 282. Bengaluru Urban continued to top the districts in the number of positive cases with a total of 1,35,512 infections, followed by Ballari 22,167 and Mysuru 19,353. Among discharges too Bengaluru Urban recorded the most with a total 93,563 discharges, followed by Ballari 16,795 and Mysuru 13,092. A total of 30,52,794 samples had been tested so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-9860-covid-19-cases-881622.html
02-09-2020||West||Goa CM Pramod Sawant tests positive for coronavirus||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant tests positive for Covid-19. He is asymptomatic and under home isolation. I wish to inform all that I have been detected COVID19 positive. I am asymptomatic and hence have opted for home isolation. I shall continue to discharge my duties working from home. Those who have come in my close contact are advised to take the necessary precautions. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-881387.html
02-09-2020||West||Covid-19 cases rise in Mumbai after being stable for some time||After being stable for nearly a month, Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have started rising, again For the last week, on an average, the coronavirus cases in Mumbai rose by over 1,200, and in MMR by over 3,500. The Mumbai-MMR region continues to remain India’s Covid-19 hotspot. But the Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have attributed the rise to significant ramping up of testing facilities in Mumbai and its suburbs. As on Tuesday, the total progressive total in Mumbai and MMR was 1,46,947 and 3,37,485, respectively, while the deaths reported were 7,693 and 12,926, respectively. Besides, because of the gradual unlocking process more people are travelling by road though the suburban railway network of Central Railway and Western Railway are carrying people engaged in essential services and those Central and state governments. With cases rising in the last week of August, the government took a conservative approach and decided not to succumb to the pressure of opeining up places of worship and gyms.     “More than 9,000 tests are being conducted in Mumbai daily. The recovery rate of the metropolis is 81 per cent and the doubling rate is 80 days,” BMC officials said, adding that the active patients are around 20,000. In the Thane, Raigad and Palghar districts of MMR which includes nine municipal corporations, including that of Mumbai’s sister city of Thane and satellite township of Navi Mumbai, the bed strength has been augmented significantly. Of these nine, seven have reported 10,000-plus cases. The cases in Thane and Navi Mumbai are a whopping 19,890 and 29,072, respectively. The area of concern is the Kalyan-Dombivli region that has reported 32,397. “The figure could go up further. During the Ganesh festival, people have travelled in Mumbai-MMR and also to the hinterland. Besides, now inter-district travel has been allowed. In a fortnight’s time, there would be an increase,” a senior Mumbai-based general physician said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-rise-in-mumbai-after-being-stable-for-some-time-881402.html
02-09-2020||West||Residential building collapses in Palghar; no casualty||A four-storey residential building collapsed in Nallasopara area of Palghar district in Maharashtra in the wee hours of Tuesday, an official said. There was no casualty, Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation's chief fire officer Dileep Palav said. Nearly 23 members of five families residing in the building, located on Achole Road in Nallasopara, rushed out just in time before the structure collapsed around 1.30 am, the official said. The building, constructed in 2009, had developed cracks. It was declared dangerous some time back and a notice was also served to its owner following which 15 out of 20 families residing there shifted out, he said. The remaining five families held a discussion on a ground in the premises around Tuesday midnight on further course of action. After the meeting, a couple residing on the fourth floor went to their flat to pick some money and they were just coming out of the main entrance when the building collapsed. The others who were already downstairs also rushed out and got saved, the official said. "It is God's grace that we are saved," building resident Nityananda Devrukhkar told reporters as tears rolled down her eyes. Another woman resident said they were staying in the building as they had nowhere else to go in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. "We have now lost everything," she said. Work was underway to clear the debris and efforts were being made to search for the valuables of the building occupants, Palav said. Heavy rains have been lashing the area since Tuesday night, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/residential-building-collapses-in-palghar-no-casualty-881405.html
02-09-2020||West||Four injured in LPG cylinder blast in Pune||At least four people were injured when an LPG cylinder exploded after leakage of gas from it in a flat in Maharashtra's Pune district on Wednesday morning, police said. The incident took place around 7 am in the apartment located on third floor of a building in Ganesh Nagar area of Wadgaon Sherri suburb, they said. The explosion was so powerful that it led to collapse of the common wall separating two apartments, a fire brigade official said. It seems the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) might have leaked overnight and the cylinder exploded when the gas burner or an electrical light in the house was turned on, an official from Chandan Nagar police station said. "As per preliminary information, four people were injured and all of them have been admitted to a hospital," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-injured-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-in-pune-881436.html
02-09-2020||West||Bombay High Court permits Parsis to pray at community temple on Thursday||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday allowed the Parsi community in Mumbai to offer Farvardiyan prayers at the Doongerwadi tower of silence here for a day on Thursday after the Maharashtra government denied permission for the same. The court also said its order was to be treated as an exception, and others seeking permission for any other religious event or prayers cannot use this as a precedent. A bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and M J Jamdar granted the permission on the condition that no person below the age of 10or above the age of 65 would be allowed at the premises in the wake of the Covid-19-related restrictions. The bench also mandated that attendees will compulsorily use masks, sanitisers, and follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Centre and the Maharashtra government last month on implementing safety precautions in the wake of Covid-19. As per the order, the prayers will be held between 7 am and 4.30 pm and not more than 200 people will attend it. At any given hour, only a maximum of 30 people will be permitted inside the premises. The bench allowed the community to hold prayers after the state government denied permission to the Bombay Parsi Panchayat (BPP) for the same. On Monday, the high court directed the state government to consider a representation made by BPP for holding prayers at the community temple here on September 3. After HC's directive, the petitioner, BPP trustee Viraf Mehta, and another trustee made a representation before the state government seeking permission for the prayers. On Wednesday, the state informed the court that it had rejected BPP's request. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the state had refused permission because the petitioners insisted on a large number of participants, instead of holding a "symbolic prayer". "We are not against any one particular community. We are asking them to stay at home for their own safety. Our (state's) approach is like that of the parents' of citizens. We want them to be safe from the virus," Kumbhakoni said. The Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, also said the Centre was not opposed to any community's festivities, but it only cared for the larger public health and safety. The petitioner's counsel, Prakash Mehta, however, told the court that BPP would restrict the number of people attending the prayers and also take all safety precautions. Mehta said the Doongerwadi tower of silence at Kemps Corner in south Mumbai was spread over an area of 55 acres. The premises will be divided into five pavilions of 600 to 800 sq ft each and only six persons will be permitted inside each pavilion on an hourly basis, he said. The court accepted the petitioners' undertaking and granted permission for prayers on Thursday. It however, clarified that its order was to be treated as an exception, and others seeking permission for any other religious festivity or prayers cannot use the present order as a precedent. As per the order, all participants' temperatures will be recorded before they enter the premises, and use of masks, sanitisers will be mandatory. The court also recorded the petitioners' submissions that Parsis who died due to Covid-19 were not laid to rest at Doongerwadi, the property was gated one and no one but the Parsis were permitted inside. Earlier, Viraf Mehta filed a plea last week through advocate Shah, seeking special permission for prayers on the lines of the permission granted by the Supreme Court to the Jain community to open three temples in the city for their Paryushan festival. Shah told the court that the prayers were not part of festivities, but were an annual ritual, whereby members of the community remembered and paid respect to the departed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-permits-parsis-to-pray-at-community-temple-on-thursday-881513.html
02-09-2020||West||4.1 magnitude earthquake in Gujarat's Kutch district||An earthquake of 4.1 magnitudes was recorded in Gujarat's Kutch district on Wednesday afternoon, an official said. The quake was recorded at 2.09 pm with its epicentre 7 km North-North East from Dudhai in Kutch district, an official of the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said. The depth of the light-intensity quake was 30.5 km, he added. No casualties or damage to the property were reported due to the tremors, the district administration said. Earlier in the morning, a mild quake of 2.3 magnitudes was recorded with its epicentre 19 km East-North East from Lalpur in Jamnagar district of Saurashtra region, the ISR official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/41-magnitude-earthquake-in-gujarats-kutch-district-881547.html
02-09-2020||West||CIU nabs international scamster in Mumbai, seized Rs five lakh in cash, gold worth Rs10 lakhs||In a major swoop, the Crime Branch of Mumbai police netted an international scamster who is part of a racket in which many US and Canadian citizens were cheated of millions of dollars by the operatives posing as tax, citizenship or immigration officials. The operation was carried out by the Criminal Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch. The accused has been identified as Nishant Nagraj Shirsikar, a 30-year-old youth from Mumbai. The CIU seized Rs five lakh in cash and gold biscuits worth Rs10 lakhs besides a small quantity of ganja and ganja-filled cigarettes from Shirsagar. The accused was part of an international racket operated from different Indian cities through certain call centres and from the homes of the operatives. The international racket operated from different Indian cities through certain call centres and from the homes of the operatives. It targets hundreds of US and Canada based citizens and defrauded of millions of dollars. As part of the scam, individuals from call centres impersonated officials from the Internal Revenue Service or US Citizenship and Immigration Services in a ruse designed to defraud victims located throughout America and Canada. “Using information obtained from data brokers and other sources, these racketeers targeted people in the US and Canada who were threatened with arrest, imprisonment, fines or deportation if they did not pay the alleged money owed to the government,” officials said. Victims, who agreed to pay the scammers, were instructed how to make a payment, including by purchasing stored value cards or wiring money. During the custody, further unaccounted cash of Rs 35 lakhs and gold biscuits totalling of 200 grams were seized from his lockers at Axis Bank Malad (West) branch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ciu-nabs-international-scamster-in-mumbai-seized-rs-five-lakh-in-cash-gold-worth-rs10-lakhs-881583.html
02-09-2020||West||Three generations of Gandhis write to Maharashtra CM to stop tree-cutting in Wardha||For the first time, three generations of descendents of Mahatma Gandhi and Kasturba have written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to stop felling of trees along the road between Wardha and Sevagram. At the Sevagram Ashram, Ba and Bapu had spent over a decade – and the place continues to inspire people across India and the world. Those who wrote the letter are Ela Gandhi, Arun Gandhi, Rajmohan Gandhi, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, Kasturi Gandhi and Tushar Gandhi. In the letter, that has also been addressed to public works department minister Ashok Chavan and tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, the Gandhis pleaded to stop felling of trees for widening of road between Wardha and Sevagram. “The reason being sighted is that it is required for the purpose of widening the road so that it will make it easier for tourists to visit Ba and Bapu's Ashram at Sevagram. A pilgrimage does not need to be made easy, the idea of a pilgrimage is so that there is an element of penance on the part of the pilgrim. We three generations of Ba and Bapu's children beg you to halt this atrocity on the environment and act of brutal violence against trees, trees which were lovingly planted from the time when Ba and Bapu lived at Sevagram,” the letter stated. These particular trees were planted with a purpose, that they would provide shade and shelter for visitors who arrived at Wardha and make the five mile trip to Sevagram by foot. “These trees bore witness as history was made on a daily basis at Sevagram during the years running up to our freedom, unfortunately, we have lost many of these historic heritage trees already, our plea to you is please no more,” the letter states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-generations-of-gandhis-write-to-maharashtra-cm-to-stop-tree-cutting-in-wardha-881620.html
02-09-2020||West||Gujarat: Congress-BJP 'coalition' wins Amul dairy polls||In what seems to be an unusual development, a BJP-Congress 'coalition' has won in the elections in the Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers' Union, widely known as Amul dairy. In the poll result announced on Monday, the panel supported by BJP leader Ramsinh Parmar and backed by Rajendrasinh Parmar, a Congress MLA, won the majority seats. Ramsinh Parmar, chairman of the union, had switched over to BJP from Congress in 2017 during the closely contested Rajya Sabha polls, in which senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel narrowly won. Parmar lost in the Assembly polls held a few months later in the same year. Rajendrasinh, a Congress MLA from Borsad, is the vice-chairman of the union. According to sources, nine out of 11 candidates, backed by these two leaders, won the polls. Meanwhile, Ramsinh Parmar told DH that "I am still with the BJP but there is no party politics in the dairy. Chunav me Amul samarthak panel jiti hai (In the election Amul-supported panel has won). No one should raise questions about it." The dairy board consists of 13 elected members out of which 12 represents as many blocks that fall in dairy milk shed areas in the districts such as Anand, Kheda and Mahisagar, all in central Gujarat. In the election, Ramsinh Parmar, who represents Thasra block, was elected uncontested. Another member Ranjit Patel, representing lifetime membership was elected unopposed.  In some of the significant contests, Congress MLA from Anand Kanti Sodha Parmar defeated BJP MLA from Umreth Govind Parmar at Anand block while at Matar block, BJP MLA Kesarisinh Solanki was defeated by a new face Sanjay Patel. Incidentally, Patel was defeated by Solanki in the assembly elections. Of the 18 dairy cooperative unions in the state which are under the umbrella of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF), only Amul dairy is under Congress control. Meanwhile, BJP over the years has been able to control the rest of the unions. Ramsinh Parmar was the chairman of GCMMF, that sells Amul milk and other dairy products, till July 2020 and had to make way for Shamalbhai Patel as its new chairman with the support of BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-bjp-coalition-wins-amul-dairy-polls-881643.html
02-09-2020||West||Maharashtra records highest single-day spike with 17,433 new Covid-19 cases||The Covid-19 toll in Maharashtra on Wednesday crossed the 25,000-mark even as it recorded the highest single-day tally of positive cases.  On Wednesday, 17,433 coronavirus positive cases were recorded in the state, taking the tally to 8,24,739. As many as 292 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 25,195. Meanwhile, 13,959 patients have been discharged taking the tally of recovered patients to 5,98,496 Covid-19 patients till date. The recovery rate in the state stands at 72.48 percent. The case fatality rate in the state is at 3.05 percent. Out of  the42,84,000 laboratory samples, 8,25,739 have tested positive (19.27%) for Covid-19 till date.  Currently, 14,04,213 people are in home quarantine and 36,785 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-17433-new-covid-19-cases-881653.html
02-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Ex-IPS officers urge HC to rein in news channels||Eight former IPS officers have moved the Bombay High Court against the "unfair, malicious and false media campaign" against Mumbai Police in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The "media trial" should be stopped, the plea urged the court. The petitioners are former Maharashtra DGPs M N Singh, P S Pasricha, D K Sivanandan, Sanjiv Dayal, Satish Mathur and K Subramanyam, former Mumbai police commissioner D N Jadhav, and former additional DGP K P Raghuvanshi. The petition, filed on August 31, said a section of news channels have been trying to influence the course of investigation which is being carried out by the CBI, ED and NCB, and airing false propaganda against Mumbai Police. It sought a direction to media organisations to refrain from publishing or circulating false, derogatory and scandalous comments which may jeopardize the reputation of the city police. "The media organisations should be directed to ensure that reporting of ongoing investigations is done in a balanced, ethical, unbiased and objective manner and to not turn such reporting into a media trial and a vilification campaign against the police and others," the petition said. It also sought a direction to the concerned authorities to frame the guidelines to be followed by the media while reporting on such cases. The petition is yet to be listed for hearing. Rajput, a Bollywood star, was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. While the Mumbai police registered an Accidental Death Report and started probe, his father on July 25 lodged a complaint with Patna Police alleging that the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family members had abetted his suicide. The case was later transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The Enforcement Directorate is probing allegations of money laundering against Rhea and her family; Narcotics Control Bureau is looking into claims that she used to consume drugs and also supply them to Rajput.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ex-ips-officers-urge-hc-to-rein-in-news-channels-881657.html
02-09-2020||West||Maharashtra govt transfers over 40 IPS officers||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred more than 40 IPS officers, including Navi Mumbai Police Commissioner Sanjay Kumar, who will be the new Additional Director General of Police (Training and Special Squads). Nagpur Police Commissioner Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay and his Nashik counterpart Vishwas Nangre-Patil, too, have been transferred and they will assume charge as the Additional Director General of Police (Traffic) and Mumbai's Joint Police Commissioner (Law and Order) respectively, the government said in its orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-transfers-over-40-ips-officers-881667.html
02-09-2020||West||Man succumbs to burn injuries caused by sanitiser fire||A 56-year-old man succumbed to the injuries he had suffered in a blaze caused by the reaction with sanitiser at his house here in Maharashtra, police said on Wednesday. The victim, Anil Suchak, had suffered 68 per cent burns on August 30 when the sanitiser he was pouring into a bottle came in contact with the gas stove flame and caught fire, a police official said. He died in the district civil hospital on September 1, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-succumbs-to-burn-injuries-caused-by-sanitiser-fire-881670.html
