04-09-2020||First Edit||Bail for Dr Kafeel Khan indictment of Uttar Pradesh||The Allahabad High Court’s order releasing Dr Kafeel Khan, a doctor at Gorakhpur BRD Medical College and Hospital, who was under detention under the National Security Act (NSA), has struck a blow for civil liberties and is an affirmation of justice. The UP government had ordered his detention and he was in jail for nearly seven months. The NSA was slapped on him for delivering a speech which was critical of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the proposed Register of Citizens (NRC) at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in December last year. He has been hounded and persecuted by the UP government ever since the death of a number of children in the Gorakhpur medical college in 2017. He was arrested on charges of negligence though it turned that he had actually arranged for the timely supply of oxygen cylinders for the hospital and thus saved the lives of many children. Then, too, he was kept in jail for months but an enquiry absolved him of the charges. The persecution continued even after he was released from jail. He is still under suspension.  There is reason to conclude that Dr Khan was persecuted because Yogi Adityanath had a personal grudge against him. The doctor had pointed out the institutional failure that led to the death of children in the hospital in Gorakhpur, Adityanath’s constituency for long, year after year. He also opposed the CAA. Ordering his immediate release, the High Court said that the detention was based on a “selective reading and selective mention of few phrases from the speech, ignoring its true intent”. It also said that the allegedly “provocative speech” was actually “a call for national integrity and unity” and did not show “any effort to promote hatred or violence”. It shows that his detention was wrong and in violation of the due processes of law. He was granted bail, but the UP government then invoked the NSA to ensure he wouldn’t be given bail, betraying the vengeful attitude against him. The court has corrected an act of injustice and put an end to the harassment of a citizen on political grounds, at least for now. There are others who have been arrested, detained and put in jail for opposing the CAA or for criticising the government on other issues. Draconian laws like the NSA have been invoked against many to silence dissent and criticism of public authorities. Dr Khan has become a symbol as a victim of highhandedness, intolerance and vindictiveness. The Allahabad High Court has done well to assert the first principles of democratic freedoms by setting him free and chastising those who persecuted him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bail-for-dr-kafeel-khan-indictment-of-uttar-pradesh-882212.html
04-09-2020||First Edit||Unbecoming of the TV channels||The spectacles being staged on the channels are excessive, sordid and violative of all basic principles of media ethics and conduct. The death of a celebrity is a matter of public interest but the no-holds-barred coverage is very disproportionate and raises apprehensions about a coordinated campaign. Unhealthy competition amounts to coordinated action in effect. Every wrong element has been thrown into the brew that gets cooked round-the-clock in the studios, with too much spice, and even bile thrown in. The whole narrative is one-sided, sensational, loud and exaggerated, and much of it is based on rumours and gossip. The actress and her family are continuously harassed. There are dire inroads into the privacy of individuals, and there is misogyny, voyeurism and a pandering to the baser instincts. Crime scenes are rebuilt, new characters and witnesses invented, and new victims created. There is shouting and screaming, and a frenzy directed more against some persons than intended to find the truth.  Finding the truth is the remit of the investigating agencies. The job of the media is only to report it. But it is now taking on the roles of the judge and the jury and is an executioner of reputations, forgetting its own role. Rhea Chakraborty has been declared the villain and #Arrest RheaNow is splashing across screens, and #JusticeforRhea is not far behind. This is unprecedented. The media has not sunk to this level before. The Press Council has noted that all media norms have been violated, and the so-called self-regulatory mechanism of the Broadcasting Council is felt only by its absence. The Bombay High Court has told the media to observe restraint, but the show is still going on. It demeans the media itself, makes fools of people, obstructs the course of justice and undermines the rule of law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/unbecoming-of-the-tv-channels-882603.html
04-09-2020||In Perspective||Doing small things with great love||When Pope Francis pronounced Mother Teresa of Kolkata a saint at St Peter’s Square in Rome on September 5, 2016, it was merely a formality that was fulfilled. For, Saint Teresa, often referred to as the ‘Saint of the gutters,’ was a living saint of her times. When she came to India as a missionary in 1931, it was the first step of her long journey in serving the poorest of the poor.  As Teresa hailed from the league of contemporary saints, the message that can be garnered from her life and times cannot be brushed aside as quaint or irrelevant. Her life of love, lived wholly through service to those people nobody was prepared to serve, leaves a deep impression and during these times of a global pandemic, it beckons everyone to action.           Teresa showed the world what it takes to really love the poor among us. A conversation she once had with a reporter vividly describes her understanding of it. The reporter had just watched Teresa nurse the maggot-infested wounds of a leper. “I wouldn’t do what you do for a million dollars,” he commented thoughtlessly. With a wry smile, Teresa replied, “I wouldn’t either.”  For a person who did all that she did for love, loving another was to be exemplified through service.  In the wake of the century’s worst pandemic, this is just what is being replayed in the lives of scores and scores of people who are putting themselves on the line and doing their bit to assuage its effects. From the prominent frontline workers to others behind the scenes and to every responsible citizen, people across the globe are living that which Teresa believed: “Love cannot remain by itself; it has to be put into action, and that action is service.” Teresa’s journey to service began on a day in September 1946, on the winding tracks to Darjeeling that was the venue of her annual retreat. The ‘call’ she felt on the speeding train was both palpable and compelling. Over the next two years, she would contemplate this intensely drawing call.  After much discernment, dressed in a white, blue-bordered sari that became the dress code of the sisters of ‘Missionaries of Charity’, she would walk through the gates of the Loreto Convent to which she belonged, to start her own congregation. Her congregation, ‘Missionaries of Charity,’ would soon become a recognised ‘International Religious Family’ with centres in every part of the world to reach out to the destitute and the dying living on the other side of the tracks.    Like all mighty initiatives that have a humble beginning, Teresa’s beginning was small. Initially, she was just a one-woman team. She had no funds, no medicines and no food to offer those poor people who were dying. All she had to offer was her love and service. And this made those on their death beds brighten up. Just as a child hot with fever would lighten up at the attention and embrace of his mother, these poor people were momentarily strengthened. She brought back their life and dignity, even if only on their death beds and only for those few, last moments of their lives.      Teresa truly believed that it was not the material poverty of the poor that made them so miserable.  Rather, their misery stemmed from the way they were treated, stripped of all the God-given dignity of a human person, in a materialistic world. Her sincerity and service flowed at ease from the awareness of this great truth that unfolded before her. “Do small things, with great love,” became her motto. For those, like the reporter who was repulsed at what she did, and wondered what could possibly be the secret of her willingness and energy to do it, she would say plainly, “My secret is simple, I pray.”  Perhaps in these times, when the world is ravaged by an invisible, tiny terminator, it would do all humanity good to borrow Teresa’s secret. In the aftermath of the spread of the virus that has seen tragedies of the likes of World Wars, one can only keel and pray to a just God for the protection of the vulnerable, relief to the burdened, justice to the oppressed, health to the sick and comfort to the bereaved. The debilitating effects of this pandemic have been seen all over the world. Yet, Teresa’s message of love can rekindle our sapping energy and drooping spirit. And as we too attempt and begin to do “small things with great love,” it will become a fitting tribute to pay her on her 22nd death anniversary this September 5. Teresa would famously say, “By blood, I am Albanian. By citizenship, an Indian. By faith, a Catholic nun. As to my calling, I belong to the world.” Through her life of love and service, she showed the world that everyone can enjoy a sense of belonging to the world simply through “small acts of great love.” To follow the example of this great Nobel laureate is a tall order. Yet, it is the only sure one that can work wonders during these times, as it did in Teresa’s times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/doing-small-things-with-great-love-882605.html
04-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka HC directs experts to check if trees marked by KRDCL can be saved||The High Court on Thursday directed the Committee of Experts of the University of Agricultural Sciences, (GKVK), constituted by the court, to examine if any trees can be saved in the road development projects undertaken by the Karnataka Road Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) on the outskirts of Bengaluru. The bench said the committee will examine if trees can be saved as per the finalised alignment of the roads. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing the PIL filed by D T Devare. During the hearing, KRDCL submitted that it had stopped the felling of trees for the road projects from August 8, 2020. KRDCL also stated that it was agreeable to the expert committee re-examining the trees that could be saved. The road projects are in areas like Anekal, Nelamangala, Harohalli, KR Puram, and Sarjapur. The petitioners submitted that approximately 8,500 trees were proposed to be felled by KRDCL. The counsel for the petitioners contended that the Forest Department had arbitrarily granted permissions and that there was no application of mind when identifying which trees were to be felled and which were to be saved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-hc-directs-experts-to-check-if-trees-marked-by-krdcl-can-be-saved-882232.html
04-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Speeding vehicle kills deer in Chamarajanagar district||A deer died on the spot, when an unidentified vehicle ran over it, near Mysurappana Doddi, in the taluk, on Friday. This has irked animal lovers, who have alleged that an over-speeding vehicle is the reason for the death of the deer near Yedayaralli corridor coming under Lokanahalli hobli limits. Over speeding vehicles killing animals are often reported in the stretch, they complained. In an effort to prevent such incidents and put a stop to the over speeding vehicles, the Nature Conservation Foundation had laid road humps at several places. A few miscreants had removed the humps after a few months of laying it. Hence, the vehicles continue to travel at a high speed on the stretch, causing danger to the wild animals, they complained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/speeding-vehicle-kills-deer-in-chamarajanagar-district-882377.html
04-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 mortality rate in Dakshina Kannada stands at 2.82%||According to the district surveillance unit, an analysis on 381 Covid-19 deaths was conducted by experts from March 25 to September 2. The analysis showed that 364 deaths (95.53%) were due to comorbidities and 17 deaths were due to non-comorbidities. The officials said among the deaths, 276 had been classified under Covid-19-associated deaths, 84 due to covid-19 coincidental deaths. Only 16 deaths were due to Covid-19 alone. While two deaths were due to non-Covid-19 reasons, three were brought dead to the hospitals. The age-wise distribution of Covid-19 deaths showed that the highest number of 188 deaths occurred in the age group between 60 to 80 years. While 132 deaths were in the age group of people between 41 to 60 years and 30 deaths in the age group of 21 to 40. Twenty seven deaths occurred among those who were above 80 years old while four deaths were among below 20 years old, the analysis revealed. Among the Covid-19 fatalities, 73 per cent (277) were men. Mangaluru taluk recorded the highest number of deaths at 218 (57.21 per cent), while Bantwal reported 46 deaths (12.07 per cent), Puttur 23 deaths (6.03 per cent), Belthangady 11 (2.88 per cent), and Sullia 4 (1.04 per cent). To reduce the deaths, the district administration is carrying out extensive contact tracing and active search for cases in containment zone. The testing of all suspect cases and high-risk contacts are being carried out to isolate all suspect/confirmed cases. Measures are being taken to quarantine contacts. Further, testing has been increased in the district to isolate the infected patients. Patients who tested positive for Covid-19 with moderate symptoms of pneumonia with no signs of severe disease were admitted to dedicated Covid-19 Health centres in the district, so that doctors can monitor their health frequently.  If a patient is suffering from severe pneumonia or Acute respiratory Distress syndrome, then he/she will be admitted to Covid-19 dedicated hospital for treatment. Further, technology is also used for analyising the data for quick action. Some technologies like Data base management system (DBMS), Geographical information system (GIS) are very useful for reducing death cases. The first Covid-19 case was confirmed in the district on March 22 when a Dubai-bound youth from Bhatkal tested positive for the virus.The first death was reported in the district on April 19, when a woman from Bantwal succumbed to the virus. The district has been recording deaths on a daily basis since July 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-mortality-rate-in-dakshina-kannada-stands-at-282-882439.html
04-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Four held for growing ganja on four acres of land in Molakalmuru||Rampura police nabbed four persons on charges of growing ganja plants on four acres of land at Vaderahalli in Molakalmuru taluk in the district. According to police, the arrested have been identified as Rudresh, a resident of Sandur taluk, Sumanth, a resident of Kudligi, Ballari district, Manjunath and Jambunath, residents of Rampura and, Molakalmur taluks. The land belongs to siblings Manjunath and Jambunath. The duo had leased out five acres out of 36 acres of land to Rudresh. They had asked to give Rs 1 lakh per month. Sumanth was the man behind the deal. Rudresh had grown ganja plants on four acres of land around five months ago. Police said that they had even set up nets used for silk farming to hide ganja plants. There was no proper road to the land. However, powerful scent generated from ganja plants helped police bust ganja cultivation racket. They said, ganja pants have been cut and transported to a safer place and the officials of Excise Department would assess the value. For the first time, they were caught in ganja cultivation case and the investigation is on to find out where they were supplying ganja, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-four-held-for-growing-ganja-on-four-acres-of-land-in-molakalmuru-882482.html
04-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Drug peddling: Police, Excise dept authorities intensify vigilance||With the drug peddling cases emerging across the state, the Police and Excise department officials have intensified the vigilance and closely monitoring the people who were involved in the narcotic business earlier. There were several cases of narcotic substances supply, including ganja and Khat in the district. As the city is one of the major tourist hubs in the state, drug peddlers were active and targeting foreigners and youths. The illegal trade is high at Mandi Mohalla area and most of the ganja is supplied from there, according to the police.  The drugs were being supplied to foreign countries through courier services. In 2018, the city police had busted an international drug racket and seized 7.5 kg of ‘Khat’ leaves from a foreign student belonging to Yemen. The student was trying to send Khat to Mumbai through a parcel service. The Police and Excise department authorities have been conducting raids and arresting the peddlers since years but, the menace still exists. As many as 19 cases were registered and 17 kilo of ganja was seized in 2019. This year, the police have registered two cases and seized 24.5 kilo ganja. Bengaluru Police arrested city-based Kaisar Pasha alias Jamie and Sameer for allegedly involved in ganja peddling from Andhra Pradesh to Karnataka. According to sources, ganja is being cultivated in villages of Hunsur, Periyapatna, Hanur and Chamarajanagar taluks in the region. A few tribals too are involved in ganja cultivation. According to an officer, people from Kerala purchase lands from local farmers on the pretext of growing ginger and other crops, but cultivate ganja. A police officer said that the higher ups have directed to intensify the vigilance and also asked to keep a close watch on the persons who were booked under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The police have also listed out the areas where ganja is used and cultivated. The respective jurisdiction police and the staff of Excise department will conduct raids, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/drug-peddling-police-excise-dept-authorities-intensify-vigilance-882570.html
04-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Reopening of schools: Parents, teachers worry about safety of students||Amidst talks of reopening of schools, parents and teachers are worried about the safety of children from Covid-19. School managements suggest the government to announce the date at least one month in advance. Following the outbreak of Covid, education institutions remained closed since March. But, there is discussion about reopening of schools and colleges in a phased manner. While parents are worried about the safety of their children, teachers are concerned about maintaining safety of students.   Vidya Deepak, mother of Bhoomi Deepak, said that there are 1,200 students in the school of her daughter. Each section has a minimum of 50 students. How will the school authorities manage the students with limited resources? How can the government safeguard children from the infection? she asks. “I won’t mind my daughter sitting at home for an academic year, rather than exposing to crowded places. My daughter’s health is more important than anything else for me. Unless there is vaccination, it is not reasonable to open schools. The government must think twice about it, as managing children is highly difficult," she said. Chandrakanth, parent of a class VIII student, said that he is waiting for the guidelines of the government to ensure the safety of children at schools. "It is not an easy task to maintain children and make them to follow the guidelines. Before sending the children to schools, they should be prepared, as they are under the fear of Covid. We need to instill confidence among them,” he said. A principal of a private school, who wished to maintain anonymity said, “Though we are in a crisis, we have to live with the situation. With certain measures, we should open schools. The government must announce reopening date at least one month earlier so the school can make needed arrangements." Ramya, a school teacher said, "The government can allow to conduct classes. Meanwhile, it should give guidelines on managing the students. It is difficult to manage students in schools. Many risks are associated with reopening of schools. Without proper plan, students must not be brought to schools." According to the officials of the Education department, students of classes 9 and 10 may be permitted to visit their schools, outside containment zones, on a voluntary basis from September 21. However, written consent from parents or guardians is a must. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Primary and Secondary Education Department are likely to issue a guidance in this regard, soon, an officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reopening-of-schools-parents-teachers-worry-about-safety-of-students-882571.html
04-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||RC to submit THO suicide report soon||The investigation into the suicide case of Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer (in-charge) Dr S R Nagendra is in final stage and the report will be submitted to the Chief Secretary soon. Nagendra killed self by hanging on August 20. Following the death, government doctors across the district staged a protest alleging that Dr Nagendra took the extreme step due to harassment by then Zilla Panchayat chief executive officer Prashanth Mishra. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa ordered a probe and appointed Mysuru Regional Commissioner G C Prakash as Investigation Officer (IO). The CM also directed to submit a report within seven days from the date of the order. However, the investigation is delayed as several officials were under quarantine, said Prakash. According to the authorities, the IO is conducting an investigation from all angles. The details from Dr Nagenrda’s colleagues, friends and relatives, officials are being collected. The statements of the IAS officers, Officials of the District Health Office, and others have been recorded. The IO has also collected call details of Dr Nagendra. Even telephonic conversation between Dr Nagendra and a senior officer was closely observed by the IO. It has to be noted that a telephonic conversation between Dr Nagendra and a person said to be an IAS officer, who was serving in the district then, had gone viral. The person over telephone warns the doctor of teaching a lesson for not collecting the targeted number of swabs. The person says: “When you are asked to collect 150 swabs, you are doing 25 to 26. You can collect 500 swabs per day, if you go to streets and markets. When people are finding it difficult to undergo tests, you are playing pranks. Such things are not tolerable. I will teach you a lesson, if this continues.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rc-to-submit-tho-suicide-report-soon-882576.html
04-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka government has taken drug mafia seriously, says C T Ravi||"The state government has taken the drug mafia seriously. Attempts are being made to pressurise the investigation team. The government will not heed to any pressure," said Karnataka's Minister for Tourism C T Ravi. "There is a connection with outside the state and foreign countries to the drug mafia. The government has a responsibility to free youth from drug menace. The government will carry out a serious investigation into it," he added. "To a query on Dasara, the Minister said a high-level meeting chaired by CM B S Yediyurappa will be convened on September 8. The meeting will discuss in length on Dasara celebrations. Later, a detailed programme will be chalked out after discussing with Mysuru district-in-charge minister Somashekar. The high level meeting will discuss whether to observe Dasara in a simple manner by adhering to the traditions," said the tourism minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-government-has-taken-drug-mafia-seriously-says-c-t-ravi-882430.html
04-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Ragini Dwivedi campaigned for BJP in 2019 Karnataka bypolls||Actor Ragini Dwivedi, who was arrested by the Bengaluru police on Friday, was a star campaigner for the BJP in the Karnataka bypolls held in 2019. Pictures and videos of Ragini campaigning for BJP’s KR Pet candidate K C Narayana Gowda, were shared on social media after she appeared before the police earlier in the day. K C Narayana Gowda is now a minister in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet.  She was expected to join the party during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which did not materialise. Apart from holding roadshows in the KR Pet constituency, she also participated in door-to-door campaigning with other BJP leaders, including the party’s vice president B Y Vijayendra. Meanwhile, there were also reports that Karthik Raj, who was arrested in connection with the ongoing investigation into the Sandalwood drugs scandal, was a member of BJP Yuva Morcha in the Shivajinagar constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ragini-dwivedi-campaigned-for-bjp-in-2019-karnataka-bypolls-882503.html
04-09-2020||Main Article||A dangerous dilution||At a time when global warming and climate change are taking their toll on the environment and adversely impacting the lives of millions, the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 notification should have focused on strengthening the 1994 and 2006 EIA notifications. Instead, the latest draft seeks to dilute existing regulations. The proposed changes will give a relatively free reign to polluting enterprises, and make our country more vulnerable to unprecedented environmental disasters. The Union environment ministry had fixed June 30 as the deadline for public responses to the draft EIA, seeking to make these changes in the midst of a raging pandemic. But the Karnataka High Court has allowed till September 7 for the responses and also directed that the draft be made available in the regional languages. The Supreme Court also issued a similar direction. Nearly 1.1 million objections have been filed against the draft, including some important ones by retired bureaucrats and professionals from different organisations.  The EIA notification 2006 brought a provision for accredited consultants for studying and preparing project reports. The process is initiated by a project proponent choosing a consultant from the list of accredited consultants with the Quality Control of India – National Accreditation Board for Education and Training (QCI-NABET). The consultant is paid by the project proponent to provide data, conduct studies and write a report on the proposed project. There was clearly a conflict of interest involved and such a report cannot be objective. The current draft has not addressed this lacuna. The Supreme Court, in the Lafarge case, had asked the Centre to appoint a national regulator for appraising projects, enforcing stipulated environmental conditions and to impose penalties on polluters. Later, a committee headed by ex-bureaucrat Subramanyam also suggested constituting a national authority for environmental appraisal and monitoring, rather than the paid consultant system of the EIA notification 2006. This has also been forgotten in the current draft. States choose members of the State Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC) in a transparent manner. However, in the central Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, the minister picks the members of the EAC. The list is not notified in the official Gazette and can be changed easily. The current draft fails to make the EAC selection process transparent. In EIA notification 2006, projects were listed in A and B categories for regulation and prior Environmental Clearances (EC). Further, by a government notification in 2014, a sub-category (B2) of projects for minor minerals was created to keep these out of the full EIA process. The most controversial part of the current notification is that a large list of project types have been added to the B2 category, exempting all of them from EIA. These are generally irrigation projects, mineral beneficiation units, chlor-alkali industries, dykes and dykes intermediates, bulk drugs, basic organic chemicals, etc. Prior Environmental Permission (EP) is sufficient to run these projects henceforth. At present, EIA is done and prior EC is obtained for these projects. Some of the chemical industries can be small in size, but they can have greater hazardous potential and so should not go out of the purview of EIA. Even road expansion and building projects close to ecologically sensitive areas such as Protected Areas and other projects of modernisation and expansion have been added in B2 category and are sought to be exempted from EIA. Activities such as mining of minor minerals in up to two hectares of lease area and building construction projects with built-up area between 20,000 and 1,50,000 sq meters can enjoy deemed EP, which stands granted within 15 days of the online application. Dredging in offshore areas within 12 nautical miles is placed in B2 category, and no EIA is necessary. However, its impact on fishing, marine life, waste materials disposal, underground pipelines, etc., can be consequential. It should not be exempt from EIA. The collection of baseline data of environmental parameters was from the area within 10 km for all projects requiring EIA. The new draft has retained 10 km for category A projects and reduced it to 5 km for category B1 projects. Further, the data is prescribed to be collected for only one season other than monsoon. Monsoon data is collected only when the Appraisal Committee prescribes it. Thus, the draft focuses on regulation of air and water quality and ignores biodiversity, especially micro flora affected in non-rainy season.   The new draft provides for post-facto project clearance for those operating in violation of Environment (Protection) Act. Project authorities may apply for clearance, as reiterated in the March 2017 notification. The violator may apply with two plans for remediation and resource augmentation, corresponding to 1.5 to two times the ecological damage assessed and benefit derived due to violation. Also, the violator may be charged Rs 2,000 to Rs 10,000 as penalty for each day of delay. Earlier, after public consultation, project proponents had to address all concerns of the public and suitably modify mitigation and management plans. In the new draft EIA notification, they have to address only material concerns of the environment. Social and economic impacts will remain unaddressed in the new scenario.   The new draft has waived public hearing for the expansion of any project, which may be misleading in some cases. Moreover, the public hearing so far was conducted by Collector/District Magistrate of the district. As per the new draft, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate is also empowered to conduct public hearing of projects listed in B1 category. This is in line with the intent of downgrading the need for EIA overall.   The new draft has dispensed with the functions of the District Environment Authority. Earlier, stone and sand mining at a small scale was regulated at the district level. Now, all such small projects may need the approval of the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority. In a way, it will cause hardship to small businesses. The best course for the MoEF&CC is to give up the current EIA draft completely and constitute a national authority for appraisal and monitoring of projects and to deal with all aspect of environmental management. It will also ensure that site-specific conditions are stipulated in clearances, unlike ‘cut and paste’ methods adopted at present.  (The writer is a former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-dangerous-dilution-882213.html
04-09-2020||Main Article||NEP 2020: What an insipid policy!||“Teach him it is more honourable to fail than to cheat. Teach him that a dollar earned is of more value than five found. Teach him to have faith in his own ideas, even if everyone tells him they are wrong. Give him the strength not to follow the crowd when everyone is getting on the bandwagon. Teach him to sell his brawn and brain to the highest bidders, but never to put a price tag on his heart and soul. Teach him to fight if he thinks he is right. Teach him to have sublime faith in himself, because then he will always have sublime faith in mankind. This is a big order, but see what you can do...He is such a fine little fellow, my son.” These inspiring words, written by Abraham Lincoln to the headmaster of his son’s school, could have been the foreword to the National Education Policy (NEP) recently released by the Government of India. Instead of using meaningless buzz words, the authors of this important document could have summed up a child’s education in three simple concepts like seeing, learning and doing. If a child is free to see things around him, learn from them and respond in his own childlike way, his early childhood education will be complete. Teachers and other adults who interfere in this process are actually the deterrents of such education. Just as “lecturers” who deliver learned orations from icy heights to a class of obedient students make up our institutions of higher education. Our dismal learning process at all levels is an exercise in obedience to a teacher and to a system. There is no imagination or inspiration in it. Sadly, these two qualities are also missing in the authors of education policies who keep hashing and rehashing existing ones. Right from 1968 to 2020, every elected government has tinkered with the existing policy instead of introducing reforms that are relevant to the present context. Even today, the Kothari Commission Report of 1968 can be considered a pragmatic treatise on how to impart quality education at all levels. According to its authors, learning was an “adventure.” That one word described education as an enjoyable pursuit. A discovery of rich treasures. A veritable Ali Baba’s cave. If there is a student in school or college who tells you that she delights in learning and looks forward to the next class, we may conclude that our education system has succeeded beyond words. Far from being a bureaucratic exercise, it will be the gateway to knowledge – not through fear of examinations, but through curiosity and discovery. But how does one achieve this objective without proper teachers? The NEP says “teaching and learning will strive to be conducted more interactively; questions will be encouraged, and classroom sessions will regularly contain more creative, collaborative, and exploratory activities for deeper and more experiential learning.” A glorious vision, no doubt. But with more than 90,000 schools in the country having a single teacher at the primary and secondary level combined, where can we find that creative interaction between teacher and pupil?  There are thousands of other schools functioning with no teachers at all. There are schools with no buildings, classrooms, books or furniture. Have the authors of education policies visited such schools? If they had, the NEP would have been designed differently. In its present form, it is a Utopian concept of languages that must be taught, of theories that must be explored, of skills that must be mastered. A wonderful voyage of discovery for a child granting that there is a teacher to teach those languages, impart those skills or unravel those theories. Like its earlier versions, it reads like a policy meant to enhance the image of a government. Just like other popular and populist viewpoints that a child will enrol and remain in school if given a free meal. Let us not insult a child’s aspirations. Children are eager learners and, given the right environment, will come to school even without a meal. This is not to underestimate the importance of proper nutrition which governments must ensure in every school. The NEP has simply filled old wine into new bottles by revising the 15-year education formula from the well tested 10+2+3 pattern into 5+3+3+4. It all adds up to the same anyway. Changing these superficial components was not as important as changing the teaching and examining methods. It would have been simpler and more practical to abolish the gargantuan end of school examination, and instead give a certificate of eligibility for public service at the end of ten years of schooling to every child. This would have reduced teenaged unemployment. On the other hand, standardised and rigorous entrance tests for further studies would have ensured that the highly motivated alone would opt for higher education. These were time tested methods of ensuring quality in education at all levels. We need an education that leads to employment as well as specialisation. Both are crucial for a country that was trapped in colonial rule for centuries. Again, when millions of young people need to be usefully employed in socially relevant vocations, specialised education in marketable subjects should be the main component in the higher secondary stage. That would leave universities to be places of research, added to a world-class higher education system which generates well-qualified professionals in every field. Strong, research-oriented universities would also prevent brain drain to other countries. If such simple strategies were properly implemented, do we need new education policies every few years just to boost a government’s image?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/nep-2020-what-an-insipid-policy-882604.html
04-09-2020||National||Ladakh tension: All eyes on Rajnath Singh-Chinese Defence Minister talk as Wei demands meet||Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghi is understood to have sought a meeting with his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh on the sidelines of a key Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) meet in Moscow, people familiar with the development said on Thursday. Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a tense border row in eastern Ladakh for nearly four months now. Singh and Wei are currently in Moscow to attend a meeting of SCO defence ministers on Friday. According to information, the Chinese side conveyed to the Indian mission its keenness to have a meeting between the two defence ministers. However, there is no official confirmation about it. Tensions flared in eastern Ladakh after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the Southern Bank of Pangong lake four days back when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the festering border row. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India's move. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following the Chinese attempts. India on Thursday said the border tension in Ladakh over the past four months is a "direct result" of Chinese actions aimed at effecting unilateral change in the status quo of the region, and asserted that the only way forward to resolve it was through negotiations. The comments by the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA) that squarely put the blame on China for the prolonged border standoff came even as Chief of Defence Staff(CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat asserted that India's armed forces are capable of handling aggressive Chinese actions in "best suitable ways".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-tension-all-eyes-on-rajnath-singh-chinese-defence-minister-talk-as-wei-demands-meet-882221.html
04-09-2020||National||SC stays HC order on bail to DHFL promoters||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed Bombay HC's order granting default bail to DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan in the money laundering case.  The case is being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the multi-thousand crore Yes Bank fraud. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose issued notice to the two on a petition filed by the Enforcement Directorate. The court sought a response from the promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd within a period of two weeks and rejoinder from the agency two weeks thereafter. It put the matter for consideration on October 7. The ED was represented by Additional Solicitor General V Raju Surya Prakash and the Wadhawans by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Amit Desai. The HC had on August 20 granted bail to the Wadhawans after noting that the ED had failed to file the charge sheet against them within a statutory period of 60 days. They were arrested on May 14. Both of them could not be released due to their pending case against the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-hc-order-on-bail-to-dhfl-promoters-882245.html
04-09-2020||National||India wants G20 to adopt standardized Covid-19 tests for international travellers||India on Thursday suggested that the G20 nations should adopt common standardized Covid-19 testing and quarantine procedures to facilitate international travels during the pandemic period. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar participated in a video conference of the G20 Foreign Ministers, who “acknowledged the importance of opening borders, uniting families and promoting measures to allow the economy to thrive in light of the protective measures given by health organizations and national regulation during the Covid-19 pandemic”. Jaishankar also proposed development of a voluntary ‘G20 Principles on Coordinated Cross-Border Movement of People’ with standardised Covid-19 testing procedures and universal acceptance of test results, standardised quarantine procedures and standardised ‘movement and transit’ protocols, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs. Saudi Arabia’s Foreign Minister Faisal Bin Farhan Al-Saud chaired the meeting of his counterparts from all the G20 nations. The discussions centred on strengthening international cooperation across borders in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. The ministers also exchanged national experiences and lessons learned from the cross-border management measures taken in response to the Covid-19 pandemics. The External Affairs Minister called on the governments around the world to protect the interests of the foreign students and to facilitate the movement of stranded seafarers back to their home country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wants-g20-to-adopt-standardized-covid-19-tests-for-international-travellers-882246.html
04-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 4||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 39 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  40,08,598 as of September 4 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  69,462   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  29,01,908  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-4-882247.html
04-09-2020||National||DH Toon | PUBG ban: 'Dread being asked 'What's so great happening in the offline world''||Beijing on Thursday protested against India’s move to ban 118 more apps developed by the Chinese companies, stating that it violated the rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO).  New Delhi, however, defended its decision, saying that all foreign companies would have to abide by the laws of the land to run the apps developed by them in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pubg-ban-dread-being-asked-whats-so-great-happening-in-the-offline-world-882249.html
04-09-2020||National||Army officer injured, three militants killed in encounter in J&K's Baramulla||Three unidentified militants were killed while an army officer and two policemen were injured in an encounter between security forces and ultras in Pattan area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Friday. A police spokesperson said the gunfight broke out after a joint team of J&K police, Army’s 29-Rashtriya Rifles and CRPF launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Yadipora, the village of Pattan, 32 kms from here, during the wee hours of Friday. “During the search operation as the presence of hiding terrorists got ascertained, they were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they refused and instead held two families consisting of 12 members including children as a hostage,” he said and added it was after strenuous efforts the family members were evacuated to a safer place.  The spokesperson said during the rescue operation one army Major and two police personnel were injured as the hiding militants fired upon the rescue party. “In the ensuing encounter, three unidentified terrorists were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter. The identification and affiliation of the killed terrorists are being ascertained,” he said. Arms and ammunition were recovered from the encounter site. “The last rites of the killed terrorists shall be performed after conducting medico-legal formalities including the collection of their DNA. In case any family claims the killed terrorists to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for their identification and participation in last rites to PCR Baramulla,” he added. On August 18, five security forces personnel and three Lashkar-e-Toiba militants were killed in a two-day encounter in Pattan after the ultras launched an attack on the security forces party. Since the beginning of this year, security forces have killed over 160 militants, including 26 top commanders in J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-officer-injured-three-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jks-baramulla-882261.html
04-09-2020||National||US to allow Indian air carriers to conduct ground handling operations||The US Transportation Department said Thursday it planned to restore the ability of Indian air carriers to conduct ground handling operations at US. airports. The announcement comes as India is now allowing US. air carriers to perform the full range of ground handling operations at Indian airports, the department said. Those ground operations cover services to facilitate an aircraft in preparation and conclusion of flights, including ticketing, check-in, baggage sorting, refueling, and de-icing. Air India should be allowed to resume operations after the department adopts a final order. The Indian Embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment. In late July, India agreed to allow US. air carriers to resume flights after coming under criticism from the Trump administration. The Indian government, citing the coronavirus, had banned all scheduled services from the United States, prompting the Transportation Department in June to accuse India of engaging in "unfair and discriminatory practices" on charter air carriers serving India. The Trump administration said in June it wanted "to restore a level playing field for US airlines" under the US-India Air Transport Agreement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-to-allow-indian-air-carriers-to-conduct-ground-handling-operations-882282.html
04-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 39-lakh mark; recoveries zoom past 30 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally went past 39 lakh on Friday with 83,341 fresh cases reported in a span of 24 hours, while the number of recoveries crossed the 30-lakh mark, pushing the recovery rate of coronavirus patients in the country to 77.15 per cent, according to the Union health ministry. The total number of Covid-19 cases mounted to 39,36,747, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 68,472 with 1,096 people succumbing to it in a day, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.74 per cent in the country. There are 8,31,124 active coronavirus cases in the country, which account for 21.11 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and the 30-lakh mark on August 23. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 4,66,79,145 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the country as on September 3, including 11,69,765 on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-39-lakh-mark-recoveries-zoom-past-30-lakh-882305.html
04-09-2020||National||Among 20 worst-hit nations, India yet to reach Covid-19 peak?||A day after India reported the highest single-day spike of 83,883 coronavirus cases and the tally crossing the 39-lakh mark, data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control shows that India is yet to reach the peak to flatten the Covid-19 curve. Although other countries witness a surge in the daily cases, it is still below their peak value, or the day when it reported the maximum number of cases. The three-day average of fresh cases in India stands at 77,387 on September 3, which was 92.3 per cent of the peak of the 83,883 cases. This is the highest value in comparison to the top 20 worst-hit countries. India ranks number two among the worst-hit countries, currently accounting for 30 per cent of cases and 20 per cent of deaths worldwide. The government data shows that the recovery rate is at over 77 per cent, and the fatality rate has declined to 1.75 per cent. The other worst-hit countries include United States of America, Brazil, Russia, Peru, Columbia, South Africa, Mexico etc. In the European Union and the United Kingdom, cases peaked during week 14, and by the end of week 15 and 23 (around second week of April and first week of June), the trend in these countries declined, after which it reached a plateau, according to the report by the EU Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/among-20-worst-hit-nations-india-yet-to-reach-covid-19-peak-882307.html
04-09-2020||National||Talks can resolve India-China border row: Army Chief||India's Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Friday he was confident that the ongoing border standoff with China in the western Himalayas could be resolved through talks. "We are sure that the problem can be resolved fully through talks," Naravane told Reuters partner ANI during a visit to the Ladakh region, where troops from the two nuclear-armed countries have been squaring off for months. "The situation along the LAC is slightly tense," Naravane said, referring to the Line of Actual Control, the de facto border, along parts of which India has deployed additional troops to stall any attempted Chinese incursions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talks-can-resolve-india-china-border-row-army-chief-882328.html
04-09-2020||National||SC notice to Secretary General on plea alleging inertia on conferring senior advocate designation||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to its Secretary General on a plea by senior advocate Indira Jaising questioning its "inertia" and "failure" to comply with the 2017 judgement on conferment of senior advocate designation.  A bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman sought a response from the top court's official within four weeks on an application filed by Jaising. She contended that the process for designating lawyers as senior advocates can be initiated by the top court and conducted via virtual mode similar to virtual court hearings due to present Covid-19 situation. In a plea filed by advocate Anandita Pujari on Jaising's behalf, it was pointed out that the guidelines were published on August 6, 2018 which required for inviting applications for designation of senior advocates twice a year. On March 27, 2019, as many as 37 advocates were conferred with the designation out of 105 applicants. But since then, the process has remained standstill and the Supreme Court's Registry ought to have invited applications in January, and July, 2019 and 2020. Though different High Courts in the country dutifully followed the 2017 judgement delivered on October 12, 2017 on Jaising's writ petition, the apex court has filed to comply with it, her plea stated. According to Section 16 of the Advocates Act, there are two types of advocates, namely senior advocates and other advocates. An advocate may be designated as senior advocate by the Supreme Court or a High Court due to his standing, knowledge and special experience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-secretary-general-on-plea-alleging-inertia-on-conferring-senior-advocate-designation-882329.html
04-09-2020||National||Man, his friend arrested for killing sister's lover in Delhi||A 22-year-old man was arrested along with his friend for allegedly killing a person who was in relationship with his sister in Shahbad Dairy area, police said on Friday. The accused have been identified as Armaan, a resident of Shahbad Dairy, and his friend Karan Singh (28), a resident of Sector-16, Rohini, they said. On Thursday at 4.56 pm, the Shahbad Dairy police station received information regarding a body lying near Prahladpur, a senior police officer said. The body of an unknown male person was found in the green belt area opposite water plant. "The throat of the deceased was found slit by a sharp edge weapon and no ID card was recovered. Later, the deceased was identified as Dharmender alias Raj (26), a resident of JJ Colony, Shahbad Dairy," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said. A case of murder was registered at Shahbad Dairy police station and investigation was taken up, the DCP said. On the basis of technical surveillance and local intelligence, Armaan and Singh were apprehended by police, Sharma said. Interrogation revealed that Dharmender was in a relationship with Armaan's sister and he boasted about it to his friends. Armaan did not like it and asked him not to do so but Dharmendra did not pay any heed to it following which the accused decided to kill him, he said. A medium size sword and a motorcycle were seized from the accused, police said, adding that further investigation is going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-his-friend-arrested-for-killing-sisters-lover-in-delhi-882342.html
04-09-2020||National||Centre moves Delhi High Court for review of its direction to publish draft EIA in 22 languages||The Centre has moved a plea in the Delhi High Court seeking review of its direction to publish the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) in all the 22 languages in the Eight Schedule of the Constitution. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan on Friday issued notice to the environmentalist, on whose plea the high court had issued the direction, and sought his response by September 23. The high court in its judgement of June 30 had extended till August 11 the date for giving comments and objections to the draft EIA. It had also directed that the notification be published in all the 22 languages within 10 days of the verdict. The June 30 order had come on the plea moved by environmental conservationist Vikrant Tongad. The Centre had moved an appeal before the Supreme Court against the high court decision. However, the plea was withdrawn after the apex court asked the Centre to first seek a review of the decision. The Supreme Court, while giving the liberty to the Centre to move the high court, also put on hold any contempt proceedings against the government till it files a review plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-moves-delhi-high-court-for-review-of-its-direction-to-publish-draft-eia-in-22-languages-882356.html
04-09-2020||National||Supreme Court asks CBSE to respond to cancel compartment examinations||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the CBSE to provide details and preparation of compartment examinations scheduled to be held in last week of September, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar asked the Central Board of Secondary Education to file an affidavit. The top court was hearing a plea by students for cancellation of compartment examinations as board examinations have already been scrapped due to the pandemic. A counsel for petitioner contended that when the main examinations were not held why there should not be a scheme to cancel the compartment examinations, being held to improve the marks. The CBSE's advocate, for his part, said a notification for holding the compartment examinations at the end of September could be issued on Friday. He said sufficient measures have been undertaken including restricting number of students in a room for the tests. The court, however, asked him to file details and put the matter for consideration on September 10. In June, the court approved the CBSE's move to cancel remaining Class X and XII examinations and declare the results based on assessment of students' performance in other subjects. The Board, however, had then said it would conduct optional examinations for improving marks as soon as the situation became conducive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-cbse-to-respond-to-cancel-compartment-examinations-882365.html
04-09-2020||National||Give employment, solutions to problems being faced by youth: Rahul Gandhi to government||The Congress on Friday hit out at the government over the alleged rise in unemployment and poverty, as it demanded that solutions must be provided for the problems being faced by the youth. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi attacked the government over a media report which claimed that unemployment rate has gone up in August as rural jobs dipped. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the government over the alleged rise in unemployment and privatisation. She raised the issue of Staff Selection Commission Combined Graduate Level Exams allegedly being in a state of limbo. "2017- No appointments till now under SSC CGL. 2018 - Even results are not out of the CGL exam. 2019 - CGL exam was not held. 2020 SSC CGL - No vacancies taken out," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "If vacancies come out, then no exams. If exams take place, then no results. If results come out, then no recruitment," she said. "The future of the youth is being ruined by private sector layoffs and a halt on government recruitment, but the government is serving lies in advertisements and speeches to hide the truth," Priyanka Gandhi tweeted with the hashtag 'stop privatization'. In a tweet in Hindi, Rahul Gandhi appealed to the Narendra Modi government for "employment, reinstatement, results of exams". "Provide solutions to the problems being faced by the youth of the country," he tweeted. Meanwhile, Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala attacked the government over alleged rise in poverty. He cited growth and poverty figures from the UPA era to hit out at the current dispensation. Citing a UN report, he said it shows a rapid rise in poverty among women. He also claimed that according to the International Labour Organization, 40 crore Indians are being pushed below the poverty line. The Congress has stepped up its attack on the government after the country's economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 per cent as the coronavirus-related lockdowns weighed on the already-declining consumer demand and investment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/give-employment-solutions-to-problems-being-faced-by-youth-rahul-gandhi-to-government-882367.html
04-09-2020||National||Despite high testing levels, daily Covid-19 positivity rate below 7.5%||"Even with this very high daily testing, the daily Covid-19 positivity rate is still below 7.5 per cent while the cumulative positivity rate is less than 8.5 per cent," it underlined. With 30,37,151 people having recovered from Covid-19, the national recovery rate has risen to 77.15 per cent, while the case fatality rate has further declined to 1.74 per cent, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. "These results reflect the successful Centre-led strategy of 'test, track and treat' being effectively implemented by most of the states and Union territories. "No other country has achieved these levels of very high daily testing," the ministry stressed. The sustained higher testing on a wide scale enables an early diagnosis, prompt isolation and a timely hospitalisation. Effective treatment, based on the Standard Treatment Protocol both in supervised home isolation and in hospitals, also results in a lower mortality rate. "With the aim to reduce the fatality rate below 1 per cent, India's case fatality rate (CFR) has touched 1.74 per cent following a gradient of steady and sustained decline," the ministry underscored. The daily testing capacity has been enhanced to more than 10 lakh tests. A total of 11,69,765 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday. "With this steep exponential rise in daily testing, the cumulative tests are nearing 4.7 crore. The cumulative tests as on date have reached 4,66,79,145," the ministry said. The substantial increase in the testing levels is anchored in the daily expansion of the network of diagnostic laboratories across the country. As on date, there are 1,631 such laboratories in India -- 1,025 in the government sector and 606 private ones. With 83,341 new cases reported in a span of 24 hours, the country's Covid-19 tally mounted to 39,36,747, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 68,472 with 1,096 people succumbing to it in a day, the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-high-testing-levels-daily-covid-19-positivity-rate-below-75-882379.html
04-09-2020||National||National Centre for Good Governance lists Covid-19 success stories from 20 districts: Report||In its discussion with states, the National Centre of Good Governance (NCGG) highlighted 20 coronavirus success stories from districts across the country that have put in effort to tackle Covid-19. The Corona RM software introduced in Kerala’s Pathnamthitta helped the local government successfully create a database of all Covid-19 patients and their contacts. As per the report, Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli district set up a call centre specifically for the convenience of migrant labour. With multilingual staff, the initiative was a noteworthy way to address the grievances of migrants. Village Vigilance Committee Call Centres were set up in every village of the district to ensure that social-distancing norms are being followed and quarantine facilities are working effectively. The centres are run by over 1,100 volunteers, as per the report. As a part of surveillance to check the spread of Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada district, Asha workers and Multi Purpose Workers had launched a door-to-door survey in order to collect information on Influenza-Like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. Along with these other success stories listed by NCGG include Ranchi's ‘Tatpar’ initiative under which dedicated vehicles were assigned for migrants’ travel purposes. Footwear, food and medicines were also provided to the migrant labourers.  The Jharkhand government set up community kitchens along the highways to provide food and water free of cost to migrants returning home. These kitchens were in addition to 6,432 "Didi Kitchens" which were already set up during the Covid-19-related lockdown period, feeding two meals to about 45,000 people every day. Covid-19 hotspots including Agra, Mumbai and New Delhi were also a part of the NCGG’s list of 20, stated the Economic Times report. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-centre-for-good-governance-lists-covid-19-success-stories-from-20-districts-report-882385.html
04-09-2020||National||Supreme Court rejects review plea by 6 states on conducting NEET, JEE exams||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a review petition filed by six Opposition-ruled States' Cabinet ministers against the August 17 order, which allowed holding of JEE Mains and NEET UG examination in September. "We have carefully gone through the review petitions and the connected papers. We find no merit in the review petitions and the same are accordingly dismissed," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said. A new bench took up the matter in judges chambers as per the SC Rules on review petition. Of the three-judge bench, which passed the order on August 17, Justice Arun Mishra retired on Wednesday, necessitating setting up a new bench. The court had on August 17 said though there is pandemic situation, ultimately life has to go and the career of the students cannot be put on peril for long and full academic year cannot be wasted. The petitioners claimed that the court has failed to consider safety, security and right to life of students, besides ignoring logistical difficulties. The examinations of JEE Mains, scheduled between September 1 and 6 were already underway and the NEET UG is to be held on September 13. The petition was filed by advocate Sunil Fernandes on behalf of Moloy Ghatak, a Cabinet Minister from West Bengal, Rameshwar Oraon from Jharkhand, Raghu Sharma from Rajasthan, Amarjeet Bhagat from Chhattisgarh, Balbir Singh Sidhu from Punjab and Uday Ravindra Samant from Maharashtra.  They said if the examinations are postponed until October, as advised by many experts, there will be no loss of Academic Year 20-21.  Besides non-BJP ruled states ministers, two other review petitions were dismissed by a common order. According to the National Testing Agency, approximately 9.53 Lakh and 15.97 lakh students were registered for JEE (Main) for admission to engineering colleges and NEET UG, 2020 for admission to medical colleges, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-rejects-review-plea-by-6-states-on-conducting-neet-jee-exams-882389.html
04-09-2020||National||Covid-19 tests mandatory for MPs attending Parliament||Parliamentarians attending the upcoming monsoon session will have to undergo mandatory Covid-19 tests 72-hours before their arrival in the premises. According to the guidelines issued by the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha secretariats, members of Parliament have also been advised to get their family members and personal staff, including assistants, drivers and maids, tested for Covid-19. If any of the family members or personal staff test positive for Covid-19, the member concerned will have to undergo 14-day quarantine from the day of the last contact Special counters have been set up at Parliament reception for members to get tested for the infectious disease using Rapid Antigen Tests. “In case the member is found negative, he or she can attend the Session forthwith,” the guidelines state adding that if the test turns out to be negative, but the member has symptoms, he will have to undergo RT-PCR test and go for home isolation till the results are out. To begin with, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariat staff and security personnel will undergo Covid-19 tests on Saturday at the counters set up at Parliament’s reception building. Besides setting up testing counters, Parliament secretariats have taken adequate preparations for handling emergency situations if a member develops symptoms during the session. Oxygen cylinders will be available at the main Parliament building and a mini-hospital of sorts is being planned in the Library Building to attend to any emergency situation. These special measures will remain in place till October 1, when the monsoon session of Parliament is expected to conclude. Earlier, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had given directions to ensure proper caution is exercised for safety of members and other personnel in Parliament premises during the session. Thermal guns and thermal scanners will be used for noting the body temperatures of all those entering the House. In addition, proper measures for sanitisation of the premises will be undertaken. Touchless sanitisers will be installed at 40 spots within the House and emergency medical teams and ambulances put on the standby.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tests-mandatory-for-mps-attending-parliament-882405.html
04-09-2020||National||Bihar elections, 65 pending bypolls to be held around same time: EC||The Election Commission on Friday said it has decided to hold 65 pending by-elections and the Bihar assembly polls "around the same time". There are 64 vacancies in the legislative assemblies of various states and one in Lok Sabha. "One of the major factors in clubbing them together is the relative ease of movement of central forces and related logistics issues," a Commission statement said. The term of the Bihar assembly ends on November 29 and elections are likely to be held sometime in October-November. "... (the) Commission has decided to conduct all the 65 bye-elections and the General Assembly Elections of Bihar around the same time... Announcement of the schedule of Bihar General Assembly Elections as well as these bye-elections will be done by the Commission at the appropriate time," it said. Several bypolls were deferred recently due to excessive rains and the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-elections-65-pending-bypolls-to-be-held-around-same-time-ec-882408.html
04-09-2020||National||Supreme Court stays sexual harassment inquiry against District judge||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed disciplinary enquiry against a district judge on a sexual harassment charge by a woman judicial officer, while deploring a regular phenomenon of levelling allegations against a person before elevation or promotion. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Madhya Pradesh High Court's registrar general on a petition filed by Shambhoo Singh Raghuvanshi. The petitioner challenged the validity of the high court's order of August 14, rejecting his plea against the enquiry. Senior advocate R Balasubramanian, appearing for Raghuvanshi, contended that the petitioner had unblemished 32 years record of service. He was to be considered for elevation to the HC but unfortunately, a 2018 complaint surfaced, leading to the enquiry. He was to retire at the end of this year but had to face this embarrassment. The court said this has become a regular practice in the system that before elevation, charges are made, bringing bad name to the person. In his plea, the petitioner contended the Gender Sensitisation Internal Complaint Committee (GSICC) has given a final report in the matter on April 30, 2019, but subsequently made a volte-face, favouring a disciplinary enquiry against him. "All these actions have been done at a time when the petitioner is in the zone of consideration for elevation. The action has apparently been kept pending for last more than two years by ordering one enquiry after the other by different agencies with a view to keep the ‘pot boiling’ in order to harm the career prospects of the petitioner and eschew him from consideration for extraneous reasons," he said. "Despite such categorical finding of 'no evidence' and 'no material to proceed in the matter', the GSICC in a volta face action recommended disciplinary action against the petitioner as well as the complainant dehors the mandate of law contained in Sec 10, 11 and 13 of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013," the plea said. "It is submitted that the petitioner has an unblemished judicial service career spanning over 32 years with sterling record of service and he is due to superannuate at the end of the year, 2020. "The entire action of Respondents (HC and its committee) is visited with arbitrariness, malafide and in complete violation of law and the principles of natural justice by holding enquiry and or recording statements behind the back of the petitioner repeatedly without giving any opportunity to cross examine even once the complainant at any stage," the District judge said in the plea. All these actions have been done at a time when the petitioner is in the zone of consideration for being considered for elevation, the plea said. Earlier, the apex court had refused to entertain the previous plea of the district judge seeking quashing of show cause notice of the GSICC. It had granted liberty to the district judge to withdraw the petition and avail such other remedies as may be available in law. The judicial officer then moved the Jabalpur bench of the High Court which dismissed the plea. The district judge challenged the issuance of show cause notice by the Principal Registrar of Madhya Pradesh High Court for the inquiry.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-stays-sexual-harassment-inquiry-against-district-judge-882413.html
04-09-2020||National||Man rides 1,200km on scooter to take wife to exam centre in MP||Rains and potholed roads were no deterrence for a Jharkhand man who drove over 1,200 km on a scooter, with his pregnant wife sitting pillion so that she could appear for an exam for aspiring teachers here in Madhya Pradesh. The tribal couple, Dhananjay Kumar (27) and his wife Soni Hembram (22), travelled on the two-wheeler from Ganta Tola village in Godda district of Jharkhand to reach Gwalior, a centre for DEd (Diploma in Education) exam, required to be cleared by those wanting to take up teaching jobs. The wish to see his wife become a schoolteacher inspired Kumar to undertake the arduous journey, covering more than 1,200 km across four states, braving rains and bad roads in the midst of COVID-19-enforced lockdown. As trains, buses and other means of transport were not available, we decided to traverse the journey by road on our two-wheeler, Kumar told PTI on Friday. My wife, who is pregnant, was initially reluctant to take this arduous journey. But after seeing my determination, she agreed for this long journey, he said. The couple arrived here on August 30 for DEd exam being conducted by the MP Board of Secondary Education. The examination will continue till September 11. As a video of the couple and their journey taken by some newspersons went viral on social media, the district administration stepped in to help them. If I had hired a taxi for coming to Gwalior, it would have cost Rs 30,000 which was a big amount for me. Whatever little jewellery we have, we mortgaged it to raise Rs 10,000. "So far, we have spent Rs 5,000 on our one-way journey and on a room that we have taken on rent in Deendayal Nagar here, Kumar, who has studied till Class 8, said. We started off on August 28 morning and en route stayed a night each in Muzaffarpur (Bihar) and Lucknow to reach Gwalior on our scooter, said Kumar, who was working as a cook with a caterer before he lost his job three months ago because of lockdown. Earlier I thought that it won't be possible for me to appear in this examination but after seeing my husbands determination and courage, I got ready for this long journey. "We faced a lot of trouble due to rains. I got a mild fever en route, but now everything is okay. I will apply for a teaching job in Jharkhand and I am sure I will get selected, Soni, who got married to Kumar in December last year, said. Taking cognisance of the couple's travails, Gwalior collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh directed the districts women empowerment officer, Shaleen Sharma, to take care of them and provided Rs 5,000 as immediate assistance. Sharma said The administration will also pay for their rent and make arrangements for their food. We have also offered to send them back to their village safely. As the woman is pregnant, special attention is being given to her and her medical examination and ultrasound will be done on Sunday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-rides-1200km-on-scooter-to-take-wife-to-exam-centre-in-mp-882423.html
04-09-2020||National||SC notice to Centre, states on a plea alleging shortage of essential drugs for mental health||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre and States on a plea alleging essential drugs for mental treatment have yet not been notified by them, affecting the health of poor citizens. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the Union as well as state governments on a PIL filed by advocate and mental health activist Gaurav Kumar Bansal. In his PIL, the advocate pointed out the Union Health Ministry has issued a notification on August 16, 2019, which has been addressed to principal secretaries of states to provide the "essential psychotherapeutic drugs", free of cost, in government run hospitals. However as per RTI replies and information gathered, it seemed that all the states and Union Territories were not adhering to the said notification and violated Section 18 of the Mental Health Care Act, 2017. He contended since last one year, Uttar Pradesh government has not finalised the essential drugs list notification, depriving the poor of necessary medications.  Similarly, Bansal said, the RTI responses of other states, including Delhi, showed that many states were not providing essential drugs and medicines to the persons with mental illness.  "It is a matter of shame that after 73 years of independence, poor patients of our country, suffering from mental illness were not getting "essential drugs" as specified by Ministry of Health Family Welfare," he stated in his petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-states-on-a-plea-alleging-shortage-of-essential-drugs-for-mental-health-882425.html
04-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recoveries cross 30-lakh mark, over 60,000 recoveries for 8th consecutive day||India's total Covid-19 recoveries crossed the 30 lakh-mark on Friday, taking the recovery rate to over 77 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday, asserting that the figures show that the number of patients recovering is steadily rising. One of the goals of the 'Test-Track-Treat' strategy of the Centre is to reduce Covid mortality and keep the case fatality rate low, the ministry said in a statement. There has been sharp attention on sustaining high levels of recoveries and to strengthen the clinical treatment protocols to provide a uniform standardised level of medical care to save lives, it said. "Not only is India’s case fatality rate lower than the global average and progressively declining (current figure is 1.74 per cent), but a very small proportion of active cases, amounting to less than 0.5 per cent, are on ventilator support," the ministry said. Data also shows that two per cent cases are in ICUs and less than 3.5 per cent of the active cases occupy oxygen supported beds, it said. As a result of these measures, India's total Covid-19 recoveries crossed 30 lakh (30,37,151) on Friday. With the recovery of 66,659 patients in the last 24 hours, India has continued its trajectory of posting more than 60,000 recoveries for the eighth consecutive day, the ministry said. The recovery rate amongst Covid-19 patients is 77.15 per cent demonstrating that the number of patients recovering is steadily rising over the past several months, it said. The higher number of recoveries has also led to a steady enhancement in the difference between the recovered and active cases, and this difference has crossed 22 lakh, as on date. This ensured that the actual caseload of the country (8,31,124 which are under active medical care), has reduced and currently comprises only 21.11 per cent of the total positive cases. The total number of Covid-19 cases mounted to 39,36,747, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 68,472 with 1,096 people succumbing to it in a day, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recoveries-cross-30-lakh-mark-over-60000-recoveries-for-8th-consecutive-day-882434.html
04-09-2020||National||Chopper scam: ED to move Supreme Court against HC order not to revoke Rajiv Saxena's approver status||The Enforcement Directorate told the Delhi High Court on Friday that it will challenge in the Supreme Court its order dismissing the ED plea to revoke approver status of Rajiv Saxena in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam. The ED submitted before Justice C Hari Shankar that the probe agency is in the process of filing an appeal in the Supreme Court during the day, challenging the high court’s June 8 order. The high court allowed the ED’s plea to adjourn the matter, relating to the agency’s plea seeking cancellation of Saxena’s bail, and listed it for hearing on October 15. Advocate Zoheb Hussain, representing the ED, said “We are in the process of filing SLP (Special Leave Petition) today against the order of the high court. As we speak here, the SLP is being filed in the Supreme Court. It is likely to be listed in the coming days. We request the (high) court to defer the hearing by two weeks.” The probe agency is challenging the high court’s June 8 order by which it had dismissed ED’s plea to revoke approver status of Saxena. The high court had upheld the trial court’s decision not to revoke Saxena's pardon as sought by the ED. It had said that the ED's plea before the trial court for revoking the approver status was not maintainable as his statement under section 306 (4) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) had not been recorded. It had further said that once his statement under section 306 (4) of CrPC is recorded, the ED can again move an application for revoking Saxena's approver status. Section 306 (4) of CrPC provides for recording of the statement of an accomplice who has been granted pardon. The high court had also said that the public prosecutor issuing a certificate, under section 308 CrPC, stating that the approver has given false evidence or wilfully concealed material has to be preceded by recording of the statement. Section 308 of CrPC lays down procedure for trial of an approver who has not complied with conditions of a pardon. The high court had said the certificate of the public prosecutor in the present case was based entirely on alleged non-cooperation by Saxena during investigation and it does not conform to the provisions of sections 306 and 308 of CrPC. ED had sought revocation of Saxena's approver status on the ground that he had undertaken to disclose all the facts related to the offence but he was not doing so. The probe agency had challenged the trial court's order which had refused to revoke Saxena's approver status. The Dubai-based businessman, Saxena was extradited to India on January 31 last year in connection with the Rs 3,600-crore scam case relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland. ED, in its plea before the trial court, had said that while seeking pardon, Saxena had said he will make full disclosure of the facts within his knowledge and his statement was recorded in March last year after which he was granted pardon. He was allowed to be an approver by the trial court subject to his making full and true disclosure of the whole of circumstances within his knowledge relating to the offence. The ED had contended that Saxena has very strategically withheld and not disclosed full and true facts which were within his knowledge, relating to the commission of the offence, and has deliberately hidden and fabricated certain documents to shield the other co-accused, which was contrary to the terms of the grant of pardon granted by the trial court. The trial court, in its order refusing to revoke his approver status, said that failure of the accused to comply with the conditions on which the pardon was tendered, makes him liable to be tried. However, Saxena was yet to enter the witness box to depose before the court and as on date, his status was of a witness and he has ceased to be an accused, the trial court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-scam-ed-to-move-supreme-court-against-hc-order-not-to-revoke-rajiv-saxenas-approver-status-882442.html
04-09-2020||National||Five held over Pandach militant attack: J&K police||Five “uncategorised” Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) militants, who had helped in the execution of Pandach militant attack in which two BSF personnel were killed in May this year, were arrested by the police on Friday. A police spokesman said the arrested “uncategorised militants” of ISJK had helped in transporting, logistics, planning and executing the attack. A case FIR no 48/2020 u/s 302, 395 IPC, sections 7/25, 7/ 27 Arms Act , sections 16, 18, 19, 23 ULAP Act has been registered at Police Station Soura. “During further investigation, four vehicles were detained which includes two private ambulances functioning at SKIMS, a bike and a scooty. Accordingly, approval for seizure of the above vehicles was sought from the DGP Dilbagh Singh,” he said. Following the approval from the DGP, both the vehicles were seized, read the statement. “The ambulance, (JK01AD0915) was used to transport the militants from Bijbehara (south Kashmir) to Pandach, Srinagar. Bike (JK01AH2989) and scooty, (JK01V 8288) were used to carry out the attack and escape after looting weapons from the injured jawans,” the spokesperson said. “Ambulance JK01AF 9417 was used to transport the militants back to Bijbehara from Srinagar,” he said. Categorised militants of ISJK involved in the attack have been killed in two separate encounters at Zadibal, Srinagar and Hatigam, Bijbehara and looted weapons of BSF personnel have been recovered, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-held-over-pandach-militant-attack-jk-police-882445.html
04-09-2020||National||Banks allowed to operate on Saturdays in West Bengal||The West Bengal government has allowed banks to operate on working Saturdays as part of further relaxations in Covid-related restrictions, according to an order. Banks, which usually operate on alternate Saturdays, were asked by the state government to remain shut on weekends in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The decision to allow banking operations on Saturdays was taken in view of the current Covid-19 situation and the relaxation in different activities permitted by the government outside the containment zones, the order issued on September 3 said. All bank branches will be allowed to operate on working Saturdays, it added. The second and fourth Saturdays of every month are banking holidays. In an order issued on July 20, the West Bengal government asked banks to declare all Saturdays as holidays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banks-allowed-to-operate-on-saturdays-in-west-bengal-882451.html
04-09-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh man beheads wife to 'please' deity||A man allegedly beheaded his 45-year-old wife to 'please' the 'kuldevi' (clan-deity) in the remote and tribal dominated Sonebhadra district in Uttar Pradesh. Though the shocking incident happened at Basauda village in the district on Wednesday, it came to light on Thursday, when the son of the accused informed the locals about the same. According to the police sources, the man, identified as Brijesh Kewat, who was allegedly under the influence of some exorcists, beheaded his wife with an axe. Police said that Brijesh offered the severed head to his 'kuldevi' at the temple near his house and buried the rest of the body in his room. Brijesh's two sons, aged around eight and ten years, fled from the house after they went into the room of their father on hearing their mother's cries and saw him attacking her with the axe. The two children hid in a nearby sugar cane field and spent the night there. They informed the locals about the incident on Thursday morning. The cops, who launched a hunt immediately, managed to nab the culprit from a house at another village. ''He has confessed to killing his wife,'' said a police official in Sonebhadra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-man-beheads-wife-to-please-deity-882462.html
04-09-2020||National||BJP's Syed Zafar Alam elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha from UP||BJP candidate Syed Zafar Alam was on Friday elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from Uttar Pradesh, officials said here. Friday was the last day for the withdrawal of nominations and no one else was in the fray for the by-election, which was scheduled on September 11. The Rajya Sabha seat fell vacant following the death of SP MP Amar Singh in Singapore on August 1. "Alam has been declared elected," Returning Officer Brijbhushan Dubey told PTI. Zafar will serve the remainder of Singh's term till July 4, 2022. On Tuesday, BJP's Govind Narain Shukla and Independent Mahesh Chandra Sharma had filed nominations. Sharma's nomination got rejected on Wednesday as he did not have the backing of 10 MLAs as required, while Shukla withdrew his nomination the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-syed-zafar-alam-elected-unopposed-to-rajya-sabha-from-up-882463.html
04-09-2020||National||Major ports in India to use only home-made tug boats||To promote the Indian shipbuilding industry, the Ministry of Shipping has directed all major ports to procure or charter only made in India tug boats. "Procurement/chartering of port crafts would need to be aligned with the revised Make in India Order to promote shipbuilding in India.  It is proposed to set up a Standing Specifications Committee under Managing Director, Indian Ports Association and comprising representatives from Cochin Ship Yard Limited (CSL), Shipping Corporation of India (SCI), Indian Register of Shipping (IRS) and Director General of Shipping," said a statement from the Ministry. The Standing Specifications Committee would shortlist around five variants/types of tugs and prepare an ‘Approved StandardizedTug Design and Specifications.’ (ASTDS), the statement said. "The Government is taking 360-degree actions to revive old shipyards and promote shipbuilding in India. It is a step towards bolstering the revival of Indian shipbuilding and a big move towards AatmaNirbhar Shipping in AatmaNirbhar Bharat. The Government will try to create an ecosystem for shipbuilding, ship repair, ship recycling," said Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya. The Ministry will also provide some window to major ports so that construction time would be availed, said a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/major-ports-in-india-to-use-only-home-made-tug-boats-882466.html
04-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Explosion in Tamil Nadu firecracker factory kills 7 women||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Seven women were killed and two others injured on Friday when an explosion ripped through a firecracker unit in a village near Kattumannarkoil in the Cuddalore district of Tamil Nadu; The recent riots in Bengaluru were "pre-planned and organised" and it was "undoubtedly communally motivated", the Citizens for Democracy in its fact-finding report; Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, who was discharged after recovering from Covid-19, has been admitted to hospital again after he developed fever and cough.  Here are the top stories of the day, September 4, 2020: Seven women were killed and two others injured on Friday when an explosion ripped through a firecracker unit in a village near Kattumannarkoil in the Cuddalore district of Tamil Nadu.  The accident took place at a small-scale firework-manufacturing unit in Kurungudi village near Kattumannarkoil, 245 km from Chennai, on Friday morning. Eye-witnesses said the explosion occurred when labourers were working inside the factory, which had several cartons of fireworks stacked up for delivery.  The recent riots in Bengaluru were "pre-planned and organised" and it was "undoubtedly communally motivated", the Citizens for Democracy in its fact-finding report submitted to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said. It said the mob during the riots on August 11 night had specifically targeted certain prominent Hindus in the area, and the entire incident qualifies to be a "riot against the state" with the motive of "reducing the faith of common people in the state". Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, who was discharged after recovering from Covid-19, has been admitted to hospital again after he developed fever and cough, party sources said. Shivakumar has been shifted to Apollo Hospital in Jayanagar, sources said. Parliamentarians attending the upcoming monsoon session will have to undergo mandatory Covid-19 tests 72-hours before their arrival in the premises. According to the guidelines issued by the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha secretariats, members of Parliament have also been advised to get their family members and personal staff, including assistants, drivers and maids, tested for Covid-19. Facebook-owned Instagram on Friday said it has launched a separate tab for 'Reels' in India, making it the first country to get the feature, that will enable users to easily discover short-video content. In July, Instagram had unveiled its new format 'Reels' in India that allows users to create and share short videos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-explosion-in-tamil-nadu-firecracker-factory-kills-7-women-882479.html
04-09-2020||National||India asks Persian Gulf countries to resolve their differences by dialogue||India on Friday said that it was “deeply concerned” about the situation in the Persian Gulf and called upon the countries in the region to resolve their differences by dialogue based on mutual respect. A series of incidents in the Persian Gulf involving Iran, the US and the UAE in recent weeks have flared up tension in the region. “We are deeply concerned about the situation in the Persian Gulf,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in his address at a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) here. Noting that India has vital interests and links of civilisation and culture with all states in the Gulf, Singh called upon the countries in the region to resolve differences by dialogue based on mutual respect. “We call upon countries in the region – all of which are dear and friendly to India, to resolve differences by dialogue based on mutual respect, sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of each other,” he said in his address at the combined meeting of defence ministers of the SCO, Collective Security Treaty Organisation and Commonwealth of Independent States member states. Last month, Iranian navy briefly seized control of a Liberian-flagged oil tanker in what the US said were international waters near the Strait of Hormuz, which links the Persian Gulf with the Gulf of Oman to the south and the Arabian Sea beyond. Iran has threatened to disrupt oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz if the United States tries to strangle its economy. According to the US Energy Information Administration, 21 million barrels per day (bpd) of oil flowed through it in 2018, or the equivalent of about 21 per cent of global petroleum liquids demand at the time. Iran has observer status in the SCO, which was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the Presidents of Russia, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India and Pakistan were admitted as observers of the grouping in 2005. Both the countries were admitted as full members of the bloc in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-persian-gulf-countries-to-resolve-their-differences-by-dialogue-882480.html
04-09-2020||National||CBSE class 10, 12 compartment exams to be held from September 22-29||The compartment examinations for classes 10 and 12 will be conducted from September 22 to 29, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced on Friday. "The compartment examination for the two classes will begin from September 22 and will conclude on September 29. All candidates will carry their own hand sanitiser in transparent bottles and (their own) water bottles, and will be required to cover their mouth and nose with mask or cloth," CBSE Exam Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said in an official notification detailing the exam schedule. Earlier in the day, the CBSE opposed in the Supreme Court a plea seeking postponement of compartment exams for Class 12 scheduled this month, saying all "necessary" safety measures for students are being taken in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The plea challenged the CBSE’s decision to hold compartment examinations for Class 12 on the ground that it would be detrimental to the health of the examinees in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The apex court will hear the case on September 10||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-10-12-compartment-exams-to-be-held-from-september-22-29-882481.html
04-09-2020||National||Rajnath lauds Russian scientists for developing Covid-19 vaccine||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday congratulated the government and people of Russia for successfully controlling the coronavirus outbreak in the country and lauded its scientists for developing a vaccine against the deadly disease. President Vladimir Putin last month announced that Russian scientists had developed the world's first vaccine against Covid-19, Sputnik-V. He said one of his daughters had already been vaccinated with it and that it works "quite effectively" and forms "stable immunity". Speaking at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting here on Friday, Singh said, "I congratulate the government and people of Russia for successfully managing the pandemic." "We applaud Russian scientists and health workers for spearheading the Sputnik V vaccine. I wish you all health and success in this time of pandemic!" the minister said. The Russian government has reached out to India seeking collaboration for manufacturing its Covid-19 vaccine ‘Sputnik V’ and conducting its phase 3 clinical trial in the country. However, there has been scepticism in some quarters about limited data related to the efficacy of the Russian vaccine. The coronavirus has claimed 17,598 lives in Russia and the country has over 1 million confirmed cases, according to Johns Hopkins University. Singh is on a three-day visit to Moscow to attend the meeting of the defence ministers of the eight-member SCO grouping. On Thursday, he held talks with his Russian counterpart Gen. Sergey Shoigu during which Singh appreciated the “steadfast support” provided by Russia in response to the country’s defence and security needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-lauds-russian-scientists-for-developing-covid-19-vaccine-882483.html
04-09-2020||National||India extends anti-dumping duty on Chinese float glass for 3 months||India has extended anti-dumping duty on imports of float glass from China for three months till December 7, as per notification.  The move is aimed at guarding the domestic industry against cheap imports from China. "The anti-dumping duty imposed under this notification shall remain in force up to and inclusive of the 7th December 2020, unless revoked, superseded or amended earlier," the Department of Revenue said in the notification. Float glass, made by floating molten glass on a bed of molten metal, is used in sectors like construction. The duty of $218 per tonne was imposed for the first time on September 8, 2015, for five years. It was extended after the recommendation of the commerce ministry's investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR). In a separate notification dated September 2, the department has imposed provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of Ciprofloxacin Hydrochloride medicine from China for a period of six months. It is used to treat different kinds of bacterial infections. DGTR had recommended the anti-dumping duty after conducting a probe into alleged dumping of this medicine from China. The directorate had in June concluded that the medicine has been exported to India from China at dumped prices, due to which the domestic industry has suffered material injury. The duty imposed is in the range of USD 0.94 to USD 3.29 per kg. "The provisional anti-dumping duty imposed under this notification shall be effective for a period of six months (unless revoked, amended or superseded earlier)," it added. Countries initiate anti-dumping probes to determine if the domestic industry has been hurt by flooding of below-cost imports. As a counter-measure, they impose duties under the multi-lateral WTO regime. Anti-dumping steps are taken to ensure fair trade and provide a level-playing field to the domestic industry. They are not a measure to restrict imports or cause an unjustified increase in the cost of products||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-extends-anti-dumping-duty-on-chinese-float-glass-for-3-months-882490.html
04-09-2020||National||Don't treat parole, furlough as routine matter: MHA to states||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked the states to review the existing practices and procedures on parole, furlough and premature release of prison inmates, keeping in mind that granting relaxations is not a matter of routine. The MHA wants the presence of a psychologist or criminologist or correctional administration expert as a member of the Sentence Review Board and in the committee which decides on granting parole and furlough. It has asked the states to ensure that the grant of parole or furlough to those offenders, whose release may have an adverse impact on the security of the state or safety of individuals may be "strictly restricted". The MHA also wanted the states to review the parole rules, including the criteria, duration and frequency after making an assessment based on their experience about the benefits and detriments of such parole. "Parole and furlough may not be granted as a matter of routine and may be decided by a committee of officers and behavioural experts, who may meet as per requirement, keeping in view all relevant factors, especially for inmates sentenced for sexual offences, serious crimes such as murder, child abduction, violence etc," MHA Deputy Secretary Arun Sobti said in his letter. The states should also take steps to monitor the inmates released on parole, furlough or premature release to ensure that they do not violate the law. The letter highlighted that concerns have been raised over recidivism, as some prison inmates commit crimes on temporary release. Of the 1.88 lakh convicts who were sent to jails in India after conviction in 2019, 6,756 were habitual offenders or recidivists. Recidivism is defined as the tendency of a convicted criminal to re-offend. "This underlines the need to carefully regulate the grant of parole, furlough, remission and premature release of prisoners. It is, therefore, important that for state authorities to review their guidelines to ensure that the facility and concession given to inmates....with the intention of providing them relief and rehabilitation, is not abused and misused by them and their advantage does not turn into disadvantage and nuisance for the society at large," Sobti wrote. The letter also referred to the provisions in the Model Prison Manual, 2016, which included not to grant parole or furlough to those prisoners who are considered dangerous or otherwise prejudicial to public peace and order by the District Magistrate and Superintendent of Police. The manual also has said that prisoners involved in serious prison violence like assault, an outbreak of riot, mutiny or escape, or who have been found to be instigating serious violations of prison discipline should also not be given relaxations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-treat-parole-furlough-as-routine-matter-mha-to-states-882494.html
04-09-2020||National||BCI seeks to examine Prashant Bhushan case||The Bar Council of India has sought the examination of advocate Prashant Bhushan's case following his conviction and sentence of Re one by the Supreme Court. "The General Council of the Bar Council of India has unanimously resolved to direct the Bar Council of Delhi, where Bhushan is enrolled as an advocate, to examine the matter and proceed as per law and rules to decide the same as expeditiously as possible," it said. In a press statement, the top regulatory body of the advocates' Secretary Srimanto Sen informed that a meeting of the General Council was held on Thursday through video conferencing to discuss the judgement of August 14 and the order on sentence on August 31 against Bhushan. "The Council is of the view that the tweets and statements made by Bhushan, advocate and the Judgment of the Supreme Court need thorough study and examination by the Bar Council in the light of the statutory duties, powers and functions conferred on it," the statement said. The Council relied upon Sections 24A and 35 of the Advocates’ Act, 1961 and the rules framed thereunder, allowing disciplinary proceedings against a lawyer held guilty of professional or other misconduct. Bhushan held guilty of Suo Motu criminal contempt, refused to tender an apology or express regret for tweets, leading to a fine of Re one or three months jail and debar from practice for three years. He maintained his tweets posted on June 27 and 29 were bona fide beliefs and were meant to express his anguish with the Supreme Court for "a deviation from its sterling past record".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bci-seeks-to-examine-prashant-bhushan-case-882501.html
04-09-2020||National||Centre working on rejuvenation of 13 rivers across the country: Prakash Javadekar||The Centre is working on rejuvenation of 13 rivers across the country and their detailed project reports (DPR) are already being prepared, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday. He said this during an interaction with Sadhguru, Founder, Isha Foundation, on the occasion of the anniversary of "Cauvery Calling" movement launched by the latter last year with an aim to revitalise the river. "We have already prepared detailed project reports or DPRs of 13 rivers. River Ganga is already under implementation. The 13 important rivers being taken care of are Beas, Chenab, Jhelum, Ravi, Sutlej, Luni, Yamuna, Narmada, Godavari, Kaveri, Krishna, Brahmaputra and Mahanadi," Javadekar told Sadhguru during the virtual interaction. The minister was referring to the technical study assigned to Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE), Dehradun, by the Environment Ministry to assess the river landscape and prepare a DPR for forestry interventions required for rejuvenation of the 13 rivers. Javadekar was in conversation with Sadhguru, who has been the initiator of movements like 'Cauvery Calling' and 'Rally for Rivers' to spread the message of river revitalisation across the world. Talking about the movement, Sadhguru said 'Cauvery Calling' promotes tree-based agriculture on private farmlands in the Cauvery basin and aims to enable over 50 lakh farmers to plant 242 crore high-value trees on their farms for economic gain.  "This will not only put one-third of the river basin under shade and significantly improve soil health and groundwater tables, but it will also substantially increase farmer income to anywhere between three to eight times in five to seven years.  "It is also expected to sequester up to 12 trillion litres of water in the Cauvery river basin and recharge all water bodies in the region including augmenting source flow of river Cauvery," he said. Speaking about the steps being taken for conservation of plantations being destroyed by animal attacks which in turn is leading to human-animal conflicts, Javadekar said his government is working on water and fodder augmentation programme. "We have selected 28 forests in 28 states, 10,000 hectares each where catchment area treatment will be carried and DPR have been prepared using latest technology," he said. Sadhguru also stressed about the need to tackle human-animal conflict and praised the ministry's water and fodder augmentation programme launched earlier this year. "Water and fodder augmentation is vital for addressing human-animal conflict. Human population has grown immensely. So we have to make compromises and not them (animals).  "We must also complete the mission of making green cover 33 per cent in India and stop exploiting forests for its produce. We have to bring back trees," Sadhguru said. During the interaction, the environment minister also assured the farmers that whatever they grow on their land, will be theirs.  "Your plantation will not be called as forests and not be taken away from you. It will remain yours only," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-working-on-rejuvenation-of-13-rivers-across-the-country-prakash-javadekar-882507.html
04-09-2020||National||Ministry of Finance comes out with measures to rationalise non-priority expenditure||The government on Friday asked all ministries/departments to review appointments of consultants, curtail functions and ban use of imported paper for printing as part of measures to rationalise non-priority expenditure. The finance ministry has issued the instructions on expenditure management with a view to improving the quality of public expenditure, containing non-developmental spending and ensuring availability of adequate resources for critical priority schemes, the Department of Expenditure said. "In the context of the present fiscal situation and the consequent pressure on Government resources, there is a need for further economy and rationalisation of non-priority expenditure, while protecting and preserving priority expenditure," the department said in an office memorandum. With regard to administrative expenditure, the Department of Expenditure, under the finance ministry, said no printing or publishing of books, publications, documents will be done on imported paper, except where printing is done abroad by Indian missions. "Expenditures on functions such as celebrations of Foundation Day etc, should be discouraged or if felt necessary be appropriately curtailed. In any case, travel for such functions and provision of bags or mementos should be avoided," the ministry said. It asked all the ministries /departments to carry out a review of the individual consultants appointed by them in consonance with the provisions of General Financial Rules (GFR) and reduce the number of consultants to the minimum requirement. "Due economy may be observed while determining the fees of the consultants and care may be taken that such fees are not disproportionate to the quality and quantity of work to be carried out by the consultants," it added. With regard to new positions, it said there will be a ban on creation of new posts, except with the approval of the expenditure department. "If any post has been created after July 1, 2020, under delegated powers or authority, without approval of Expenditure Department and have not yet been filled, then shall posts shall not be filled. If it is deemed absolutely essential to fill them, proposals may be sent for approval of Department of Expenditure," it added. Earlier this week, the finance ministry had asked ministries / departments/ PSUs and public sector banks not to print calendars, diaries, greeting cards and schedulers in physical format henceforth. It also banned printing of coffee-table books and instead encouraged use of e-books.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-finance-comes-out-with-measures-to-rationalise-non-priority-expenditure-882521.html
04-09-2020||National||MHA allows extension in special visa to 410 Hindu refugees stranded in Pakistan||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday gave consent for an extension in a special category visa that had expired for 410 Hindu refugees left stranded in Pakistan. The MHA made the submission before the Jodhpur Bench of Rajasthan High Court during a hearing of a petition regarding issues and problems of refugees from Pakistan. This comes as a major relief for the immigrants who were staying in India on long-term visa (LTV) and had gone to the neighbouring nation for a short trip on the special NORI visa before the national coronovirus lockdown was first imposed in March this year. The NORI visa allows LTV holders with no Indian citizenship to travel to Pakistan and return within 60 days. “Due to the lockdown, the 410 people got stranded there as the visa period of 60 days expired”, said Hindu Singh Sodha, President of Seemant Lok Sangathan, a welfare organisation for such refugees. During the previous hearing on August 19, the high court was apprised of the plight of stranded NORI visa holders in Pakistan and had sought a reply from the the Centre about helping them come to India. The MHA, in its reply to the court through its counsel, said, “It has been decided that return visa in respect of such LTV holding Pakistani nationals, who had gone to Pakistan on NORI visa before the lockdown and stranded there due to travel restrictions, may be treated as deemed extended for a period up to 15 days from the date on which travel restrictions from Pakistan to India are lifted by the GoI”. The extension of the NORI visa will help the stranded immigrants to register with the High Commission of India (HCI) in Islamabad with all supporting documents that would enable the MHA to take up the matter with security agencies. The HCI in Islamabad will have to intimate the MHA with the names and particulars of all such Pakistani nationals, who register with them for return visa extension. The visa extension will be stamped on their passports at Attari border in Punjab on their arrival, where they will be tested for coronavirus after entering India. The issue had hit the headlines in July when one such Hindu refugee, Janta Mali, had gone to visit her ailing mother in Mirpur Khas, Pakistan in February on NORI visa with her husband and children, but was not allowed to return later due to the expiry of her visa. She got stranded there while her husband and children, who are Indian citizens, travelled back to India. Two shuttle services were rolled out after lifting of lockdown curbs for the return of the immigrants in July, but these 410 refugees had been left out due to expiry of their visa period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-allows-extension-in-special-visa-to-410-hindu-refugees-stranded-in-pakistan-882528.html
04-09-2020||National||Kharif crops sown over record 1095.38 hectares; spur hopes for bumper harvest||On the back of favourable rains, farmers across the country have achieved a record acreage of Kharif crops despite the Covid-19 pandemic, raising hopes of a bumper harvest. The total acreage achieved for the ongoing Kharif season is 1095.38 lakh hectares, 6.32% higher than that achieved for the corresponding period of the previous year. Farmers have taken to cultivating oilseeds enthusiastically with acreage touching 194.75 lakh hectares, nearly 12% more than the previous year’s 174 lakh hectares. Sowing of pulses has also increased to 136.79 lakh hectares, 4.67% more than the previous year’s mark of 130.68 lakh hectares. Area sown to coarse cereals was reported on 179.36 lakh hectares against 176.25 lakh hectares of last year, marking an increase of 1.77%, the Agriculture Ministry said. Sugarcane was being cultivated across 52.38 lakh hectares as against 51.71 lakh hectares of last year, an increase of 1.30%. Tomar said timely inputs made available to farmers such as seeds, pesticides, machinery and credit led to larger coverage of areas under cultivation even during the lockdown period. Agriculture was the only sector to report growth in the first quarter of the 2020-21 financial year when the overall GDP contracted by 23.9%. The government had exempted the agriculture sector from the lockdown thus making the movement of farm labour and machinery easier. Besides government efforts, hiring farm machinery has been made easier by private players by launching apps for farmers that use regional languages. While planting of rice is still continuing in some parts of the country, sowing of pulses, oilseeds, coarse cereals, millets is almost over. The final figures for sowing for Kharif crops will be closed on October 2, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kharif-crops-sown-over-record-109538-hectares-spur-hopes-for-bumper-harvest-882538.html
04-09-2020||National||NCW chief seeks arrest of Shiv Sena MLA for threatening Kangana Ranaut||NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday sought the arrest of a Shiv Sena MLA for allegedly threatening Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut. Referring to reports about Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik threatening Ranaut, Sharma said she is taking suo motu cognisance in the matter. "He must immediately get arrested @CPMumbaiPolice. Taking suo motu," she said in a tweet. Sarnaik, in a tweet, demanded that Kangana be booked for sedition for comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. "MP Sanjay Raut cautioned Kangana in a very mild way. If she comes here then our brave women will not leave without slapping her. I will demand Kangana to be booked for sedition for comparing Mumbai, the city which creates industrialists and film stars, to PoK," Sarnaik tweeted in Marathi. Sarnaik's comments come after Ranaut accused Shiv Sena leader Raut of threatening her. She also claimed, in a tweet, that Mumbai now looks like Pakistan occupied Kashmir to her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-chief-seeks-arrest-of-shiv-sena-mla-for-threatening-kangana-ranaut-882544.html
04-09-2020||National||Field commanders of Indian, Chinese armies hold interaction in eastern Ladakh||India and China on Friday held another round of brigade commander-level talks in eastern Ladakh to explore ways to bring down tensions triggered by Beijing's fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake area, government sources said. The interaction took place between 11 AM and 2 PM at a border point in Chushul, the sources said. The outcome of the interaction was not immediately known. Three rounds of Brigade Commander-level talks between the two militaries earlier this week remained inconclusive. Both sides have significantly increased deployment of troops around Chushul and several other areas in the last few days following the fresh confrontation. Tensions flared up in the region after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake five days ago when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the festering border row. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India's move. India has, however, maintained that the heights are on its side of the LAC. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following the Chinese attempts. Army Chief Gen MM Naravane paid a two-day visit to Ladakh from Thursday during which he carried out a comprehensive review of India's security preparedness in the region. He visited the region in view of the escalating tensions triggered by China's fresh attempts. "The situation along the LAC is tense. We have undertaken precautionary deployment in some areas. The troops are prepared for all contingencies that may arise. All these actions have been carried out only along the LAC," Gen Naravane said at the end of his visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/field-commanders-of-indian-chinese-armies-hold-interaction-in-eastern-ladakh-882549.html
04-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Schools in Delhi to remain closed till September 30||All schools in Delhi will continue to remain closed till September 30 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, but students of senior classes will be allowed to visit their institutions for taking guidance from teachers from September 21, the Directorate of Education (DoE) said on Friday. The directorate has said that up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff can be called to schools outside Covid-19 containment zones for online teaching, tele-counselling and related work. "All schools shall continue to remain closed for students till September 30 in view of Covid-19 pandemic. However, students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the containment Zones only, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers," the DoE said in official order. "This will be subject to the written consent of their parents and guardians and will be permitted with effect from September 21 for which, SOPs will be issued by the Health Ministry," it said. The DoE has directed that online classes and teaching, learning activities for students will continue as usual. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of the measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. A nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-schools-in-delhi-to-remain-closed-till-september-30-882561.html
04-09-2020||National||ABVP attacks those opposing NEET-JEE exams||The people opposing NEET-JEE exams have nothing to do with students and are protesting for the sake of it rather than with any knowledge of what students want, said a functionary of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the BJP students' wing, on Friday. If the NEET-JEE exams get delayed, students will end up wasting a year, said ABVP national general secretary Nidhi Tripathi. She hit out at some schools demanding fees from students despite the severe downturn due to the coronavirus outbreak and lockdown. During its central committee meeting held here, the outfit claimed it had increased its membership in 2019-20 by a record 33.39 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/abvp-attacks-those-opposing-neet-jee-exams-882568.html
04-09-2020||National||Business cannot be as usual with China unless PLA restores status quo: India||"Business cannot be as usual” between India and China unless and until the communist country pulls back its soldiers and restores the status quo ante that existed before the stand-off along the disputed boundary started, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. He said that the current situation in India-China border areas was “unprecedented”. “We have never had this sort of situation since 1962 (India-China war). We have also, for the first time, lost lives of soldiers in the last forty years,” the Foreign Secretary said, referring to the June 15 violent face-off between Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Galwan Valley. “There has been an attempt (by the Chinese PLA) to take a unilateral action to change the facts on the ground (along the India-China Line of Actual Control),” Shringla said during a webinar hosted by the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA) in New Delhi. “We will be firm and resolute in resisting this.”   The tough talks by Foreign Secretary came a day after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar indicated that he could hold a “reasonable chat” with his counterpart in Chinese Government, Wang Yi, on the side-line of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in Moscow on September 10. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also had a meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe on the side-line of an SCO meet in the capital of Russia on Friday.   “There will be no compromise on sovereignty and territorial integrity (of India),” Shringla said. He, however, added that India, being “a responsible nation”, is “always ready” to hold talks with China. “We have kept communications lines open (between New Delhi and Beijing).” He referred to the series of meetings between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had over the past four months after the military stand-off started along the LAC, the de facto border between the two nations, in eastern Ladakh in early May. He said that the diplomats of India and China were also holding talks both in Beijing and New Delhi. The local commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA too had yet another round of talks on Friday, the fifth since Monday. They discussed ways to defuse tension on the northern and the southern banks of the Pangong Tso (lake), but the talks ended without any headway, much like the earlier meetings. “But it is a fact that it cannot be business as usual. Unless there is peace and tranquillity in our border areas, the normal bilateral relationship (between India and China) will be affected,” Foreign Secretary said. “There is a linkage between what is happening on the border and the larger relationship”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/business-cannot-be-as-usual-with-china-unless-pla-restores-status-quo-india-882574.html
04-09-2020||National||BJP condemns Shiv Sena protests against Kangana||The BJP on Friday condemned Shiv Sena protests against actor Kangana Ranaut even as the former distanced itself from her remarks likening Mumbai to PoK and stating that she feared the metropolis' police more than the mafia. The women's wing of the Shiv Sena had carried out protests against her in Mumbai and Thane and had shouted slogans as well as slippered her photographs and effigies. Taking to Twitter, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis' wife Amruta Fadnavis said, "We may not agree with what someone has to say, but we must defend the right to express in democracy! Freedom of speech, freedom of belief, freedom of movement, freedom of press-cannot b suppressed! We can have counter-arguments but beating posters of critics with chappals is a new low." Former state minister and BJP leader Ashish Shelar, meanwhile, said, "We completely disagree with Kangana's comments about Mumbai and residents of this city. I also want to ask Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut not to attack BJP from the shoulders of actor Ranaut." Earlier in the day, the women's unit of Thane Shiv Sena held a protest at the party's local headquarters 'Anand Math'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-condemns-shiv-sena-protests-against-kangana-882583.html
04-09-2020||National||Rs 12.06 crore released to six Delhi University colleges: Govt||The Delhi government has said it has released Rs 12.06 crore to six Delhi University colleges fully funded by it. However, the Delhi University Teachers' Association (DUTA) has been alleging that the grants released to the 12 colleges fully funded by the city government have been inadequate. "The Delhi government had released grants in aid for paying salaries in three installments (final installment for the financial year 2019-2020 towards salaries from January to March), and two for financial year 2020-21. “On release of each of these installments, it was brought to the notice of the Delhi government that the grants sanctioned were highly inadequate and not enough to cover salaries for the said periods," the DUTA had said. It had also said that the colleges have not received any grant-in-aid for the month of June, July or August. However, according to the data shared by the Delhi government, Rs 1.95 crore was released to Maharaja Agrasen College, Rs 2.70 crore to Acharya Narendra Dev College, Rs 1.49 crore to Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education & Sports Sciences, Rs 1.80 crore to Bhaskaracharya College, Rs 1.64 crore to Shahee Rajguru College and Rs 2.48 crore to BR Ambedkar College. The Delhi University and the AAP dispensation have been locked in a tussle over the formation of governing bodies in 28 colleges fully or partially funded by the government. In a statement released last month, the varsity had said the governing bodies of 12 colleges have been formed in accordance with the DU rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-1206-crore-released-to-six-delhi-university-colleges-govt-882588.html
04-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Health Ministry exhorts Karnataka, four other states to reduce mortality rate||The Union Health Ministry on Friday exhorted five states including Karnataka to proactively curb the chain of the novel coronavirus transmission and bring Covid-19 mortality below 1% focusing on 15 districts that report high caseload and fatality. As many as six districts of Karnataka - Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Koppal, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere – were in focus whereas only two or three districts from other states were discussed in the meeting between officials of the ministry and state administrations. Three of the five are southern states – Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Other districts that were discussed ate Chittoor and Prakasam (Andhra Pradesh); Ludhiana and Patiala (Punjab); Chennai, Coimbatore and Salem (Tamil Nadu) and Lucknow and Kanpur Nagar (Uttar Pradesh). All of them have been exhibiting higher active caseload, fatality rates and a surge in the Covid-19 cases for the past four weeks. Since the last five days, Andhra Pradesh has been reporting more than 10,000 new coronavirus cases daily while the fresh cases in Karnataka range between 8,800-9,800 barring August 1, when the number dropped to 6500. The new case numbers in Punjab are still modest but the death count has spiked in the northern state. In Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, nearly 5000-6000 new cases are reported every day since Aug 31. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told the state official to limit and eventually break the spread of the infection by implementing stringent containment measures, following social distancing norms, maintaining strict perimeter control, and carrying out active house-to-house case search. Early identification of cases by ramping up testing across the districts, optional utilisation of the gold standard RT-PCR testing capacity and use of Rapid Antigen Tests as a screening test in hotspots and densely populated areas are other measures on which states have been asked to concentrate. Without identifying, Bhushan said some of the states were not using their optimal RT-PCR capacity. This could be a problem because RT-PCR has better sensitivity than antigen tests that would miss out nearly 50% of the infected individuals. For the second consecutive day, India’s new cases went past the 83,000-mark with the Union Health Ministry recording 83,341 fresh cases. The death toll stands at 68,472 out of which 1096 was added in the last 24 hours. India’s total Covid-19 count stands at 39.36 lakhs with more than 8 lakh active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-health-ministry-exhorts-karnataka-four-other-states-to-reduce-mortality-rate-882594.html
04-09-2020||National||Delhi records highest spike of 2,914 new Covid-19 cases in 69 days||Delhi recorded 2,914 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest single-day spike here in 69 days, as the tally mounted to over 1.85 lakh, while a senior official claimed that there was no chance of another lockdown as it "wasn't an alarming surge". This is the fourth successive day in September when over 2,000 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in a day. Also, over 36,000 tests were conducted on Friday. A senior Delhi government official when asked about the spiralling number of Covid-19 cases, and whether there could be another lockdown, however, said cases have increased as testing has been ramped up, "so, it is not that cases are rising alarmingly, and hence there is no chance of going back to lockdown". Thirteen fatalities have been recorded in the national capital in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,513, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi Health Department. Medical experts have already flagged multiple reasons that could have led to a surge in cases in the past one week or so, including, reopening of the economy and many people not wearing masks and adhering to social distancing norms in public. On June 27, the city had recorded 2,948 Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike before September 3. On Thursday, 19 deaths were reported and the daily cases count was 2,737. On September 1 and 2, the fresh cases count stood at 2,312 and 2,509, respectively. The active cases tally on Friday rose to 18,842 from 17,692 the previous day. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases, till date. The death toll from Covid the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 4,513 and the total number of cases climbed to 1,85,220.  The positivity rate on Friday stood at 8 per cent while the recovery rate was over 87 per cent, as per the bulletin. Meanwhile, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting with medical directors and medical superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing, the bulletin said. Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev Delhi held a meeting on Covid-19 management, through video conferencing. The number of fresh and active cases have shown an increase in the last several days. The senior government official claimed that the rise in Covid-19 cases lately is "because testing has been increased significantly". Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently announced to double its scale to 40,000 tests per day. Also, the increase to some extent is due to opening up of various activities under the unlock process, the official said. "When testing was at 10,000-12,000 per day level, daily cases numbered around 2,000-3,000. Now, when testing has increased to over 36,000 per day, the number of Covid-19 positive cases were just over 2,900 today," he said. However, on Friday, the number of containment zones jumped to 949 from 922 the previous day, according to the bulletin. Last week, Jain had said that the increase in a number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi was due to various reasons, including outside patients coming to Delhi, and increased scale of testing. He had also said that the number of tests was lower as people had stayed home during the recent festivals and now tests have increased and so has the number of positive cases. The last week of August saw a 35 per cent increase in coronavirus cases as compared to the previous week, with 30 to 40 per cent of the new cases coming from the same family, according to an analysis done by the Delhi government's Health Department. The health department analysed the cases in August, which saw a spike, and found that the infection was spilling over to rural and middle-class pockets and there are increasing incidences of cases in migrant habitations. Delhi has seen a fluctuation in the number of novel coronavirus cases since the beginning of this month. On August 1, the city recorded 1,118 fresh cases while for the next three days, the number of infections reported in a single-day stayed below the 1,000-mark. From August 5 to 9, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases again stayed above the 1,000-mark only to come down to 707 on August 10. Since August 18, cases again have been coming in the four-figure count. According to the bulletin, out of 1,4159 total number of beds in Covid hospitals, 9,429 are vacant. Also, 2,805 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by the Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights, it said. According to the bulletin, 1,61,865 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. The number of people in home isolation stands at 9,822. The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Friday stood at 27,731 while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 8,488 in all adding to 32,834, the bulletin said. The total number of tests done till date in Delhi stands at 17,05,571. The number of tests done per million as on Friday was 89,767, it said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-records-highest-spike-of-2914-new-covid-19-cases-in-69-days-882595.html
04-09-2020||National||Shashi Tharoor's 'Tharoorosaurus' is here to embellish your vocabulary||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor is synonymous with astounding English words, and over the years he has built a reputation of one having a gargantuan vocabulary. But more often than not, his mind-boggling plethora of uncommon words have forced the common readers to scamper for a dictionary or search on the internet for its meaning. Who can forget his "Exasperating farrago of distortions," that send the netizens in a tizzy who cannot stop gushing at Tharoor's skill? Well, Tharoorosaurus is coming to aid in our plight. And the help is coming from Shashi Tharoor himself. His new book that is going to be released in September will be a compilation of all the obscure words.   Tharoor himself tweeted about its release with a picture of his mother reading the first copy. Penguin describes the book as "Shashi Tharoor is the wizard of words. In 'Tharoorosaurus', he shares fifty-three examples from his vocabulary, including unusual words from every letter of the alphabet. You don't have to be a linguaphile to enjoy the fun facts and interesting anecdotes behind the words! Be ready to impress-and say goodbye to your hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia!" Many have already grabbed the first edition of the book signed by Shashi Tharoor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoors-tharoorosaurus-is-here-to-embellish-your-vocabulary-882598.html
04-09-2020||National Politics||Dr Kafeel Khan reaches Jaipur as Priyanka Gandhi assures safety: Report||“We were assured of a safe stay in Jaipur by Priyanka ji, who spoke to my mother and wife and said that the Uttar Pradesh government may slap other charges against me. We feel safe here in Rajasthan,” the doctor said while speaking to the press.  Dr Khan was arrested on January 29 after charges were pressed against him for a speech against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that he gave in Aligarh Muslim University.  “I shall write to UP CM urging him to revoke my suspension and give my service back so that I can work as a corona warrior. I want to volunteer in the vaccine research programme,” he said.  Dr Khan claimed that his release was delayed even after the court order, since authorities were waiting for approval from the District Magistrate, who was waiting to hear from Lucknow.  “They released me around midnight because they were looking for an opportunity to slap another charge against me,” he said.  The pediatrician said his elderly mother had to go from the Aligarh lower court to the Allahabad High Court to Supreme Court in order to get him released and that his family has been “crippled financially.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dr-kafeel-khan-reaches-jaipur-as-priyanka-gandhi-assures-safety-report-882306.html
04-09-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi urges women to join police force, appreciates cops' humane side amid Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged women police personnel to engage women in Jammu and Kashmir to prevent youth from taking to terrorism at an early stage itself. Virtually addressing IPS probationers at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy here, Modi also said the 'humane' side of the police force in the country has come to fore during the coronavirus pandemic. Responding to a woman probationer, Modi heaped praises on the people of the union territory, saying they were "lovely" people. "I am very connected to these people. They treat you with so much love...we have to stop those who take the wrong path. Women can do that. Our women personnel can use mothers (in J&K)..if we do that in the initial stages itself, it will be very useful," he said. He also noted that yoga and pranayama were great ways to beat the stress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-urges-women-to-join-police-force-appreciates-cops-humane-side-amid-covid-19-882341.html
04-09-2020||National Politics||Rajnath Singh likely to meet Chinese Defence Minister in Moscow today evening||In the midst of heightened tensions in eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to hold talks with his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe on Friday evening in Moscow on the sidelines of a ministerial meet of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), government sources said. Singh and Wei are in Moscow to attend a meeting of the SCO defence ministers on Friday. The sources said the meeting has been requested by the Chinese defence minister. "The meeting is likely to take place," said a source. Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a bitter standoff in multiple places in eastern Ladakh. Tensions flared up in the region after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake five days back when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the festering border row. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India's move. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following the Chinese attempts. Army Chief Gen MM Naravane is currently on a two-day visit to Ladakh to carry out a comprehensive review of the security situation in the region in view of the Chinese attempts||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajnath-singh-likely-to-meet-chinese-defence-minister-in-moscow-today-evening-882351.html
04-09-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena defends IPS transfers by Maharashtra government, slams BJP||The Shiv Sena on Friday defended the recent transfers of IPS officers by the Maharashtra government, saying the decision was taken on "merit" keeping in mind interests of the state. An editorial in the party mouthpiece, 'Saamana', said the transfers in top echelons of the state police were carried out after consultations between the three Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance partners, the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress. The Sena heads the MVA government in which the home portfolio is handled by the NCP. Hitting out at the BJP for criticising the transfers, the Marathi newspaper claimed the government's decision was "perfect" and maintained the opposition party was feeling "stifled". Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil had criticised the MVA government for transferring top IPS officials in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Despite demands to effect transfers after coming to power (in November 2019), (Chief Minister) Uddhav Thackeray chose not to do so for seven months and worked on the fight against the pandemic with the administration appointed by the previous (BJP) government," the editorial said. All recent IPS transfers, except the one of Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) chief Deven Bharti, were transparent, the Sena publication said. Bharti's transfer was questionable as he was doing a good job at the ATS and had some more time left in his post, it stated. All other appointments were "perfect" and it was the political leadership's job to put the best people in senior positions, the Marathi daily said. The state government recently transferred more than 40 IPS officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-defends-ips-transfers-by-maharashtra-government-slams-bjp-882358.html
04-09-2020||National Politics||Over 800 academicians, activists, and students write to Birla, Naidu to restore Question Hour||Over 800 academicians, activists, politicians and students write to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to reverse the decision to suspend the Question Hour and run the Zero Hour for a full hour. In separate letters to Birla and Naidu, they said that there exists no other platform like the floor of the Parliament for the people to question the executive, through their representatives. "As per settled conventions also, it is only in very exceptional cases that Question Hour may be dispensed with as Presiding Officers are known to rarely exercise this power, and that too only when the Houses unanimously agree," the letter was written by  858 "concerned citizens" said. The letters were signed by former bureaucrat Jawahar Sircar, historian Mridula Mukherjee, academicians Zoya Hasan and Jayati Ghosh, Annie Raja from CPI, Hannan Mollah from CPI(M) and RTI activist Venkatesh Nayak among others. "It may also interest you to note that the rare past precedents of exercise of this power to suspend Question Hour indicate that the exceptional circumstances included a session called following aggression by Chinese (1962), a period when democracy itself was being tested (1975 and 1976) and when special sessions were called for the purpose of seeking a vote of confidence (November 1990 and July 2008)," they said. The current situation, though unprecedented, shouldn’t become a reason for suspension of procedures which help advance deliberative democracy, they added. They argued that several state Assemblies holding their session amidst the pandemic and many of them have not suspended the Question Hour. For instance, recently State Assemblies in Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana and Chhattisgarh held their sessions complete with Question Hour, the letter said. "If the State Assemblies can put sufficient precautions in place to ensure smooth functioning of the House without suspension of any procedures, then Parliament ought to as well," they said. "Transparency in the functioning of a government is a cherished ideal for a democracy and more so when the world is reeling under a pandemic and crucial information at the right time could be the key to take important decisions saving lives. A government open to answering questions also helps build confidence especially during times as troubled as the present circumstances," they said. The letter also described as "problematic" the decision to bring down the time for Zero Hour, through which MPs are able to raise concerns of their constituency and issues of urgent public importance, to 30 minutes and demanded that it should be allowed to run for a full hour, if not more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/over-800-academicians-activists-and-students-write-to-birla-naidu-to-restore-question-hour-882506.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||No more tokens when Delhi Metro resumes operations||Tokens will not be accepted in the Delhi Metro when its services resume after a gap of over five months on September 7, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said on Thursday. The minister held a meeting with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and Transport department officers during the day, discussing the standard operating procedure (SOP) for metro operations. He said Civil Defence volunteers and personnel from the Enforcement wing of the Transport department would be deployed at the stations to help in crowd management and ensure proper social distancing by the passengers. "Tokens will not be allowed in Metro trains in Delhi to ensure protection against Covid-19 infection. Also, all the stations, except those in containment zones, will be open but depending on the crowd, only some gates may open," he told PTI. The Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed opening of Metro train services in the country from September 7 in a graded manner. Its guidelines allow use of the token for travel after proper sanitisation. The minister also said some trains may skip a few stations, after origin station, depending on the number of passengers in them and at the stations. After being closed for over five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Metro services will be resumed in three stages from September 7-12, but stations located in containment zones will remain closed, DMRC officials said on Wednesday. Train services will commence with adequate frequency as they were before March 22, which may be increased or decreased as per requirement. However, due to trains halting for longer duration at stations, there will be minor increase in time required for performing a trip, they said. The total number of entry points at the stations will be heavily curtailed to ensure compliance with Covid-19 safety norms, the officials had said. Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev issued an order on Thursday that stated Metro rail services in NCT of Delhi will be allowed with effect from September 7, in a graded manner, subject to strict compliance of broad guidelines issued by MHA and the SOP of DMRC, as well as other guidelines of the government of India and the Delhi government to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-more-tokens-when-delhi-metro-resumes-operations-882228.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan's BJP president Satish Poonia tests Covid-19 positive||Rajasthan's BJP president Satish Poonia tests positive for Covid-19. He is asymptomatic and under home-isolation, as advised by doctors. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthans-bjp-president-satish-poonia-tests-covid-19-positive-882275.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Lakhimpur: 3-year-old raped before murder, third such case in three weeks||In a shocking incident, a three-year-old girl was allegedly hacked to death before being raped in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district, about 150 kilometres from here. According to the police sources here, the blood-stained body of the victim, a resident of a village under Singahi police station in the district, was recovered from the fields on Thursday. Sources said that the child had gone missing on Wednesday and a report was lodged with the police in this connection. The father of the victim had also named a man, who he suspected of being involved in the girl's disappearance. On Thursday, the locals found the body of the victim in the fields and informed the cops. The postmortem revealed that her throat had been slit by a sharp-edged weapon and that she was also sexually assaulted. Sources said that the accused, a resident of the same village, was nabbed on Friday. He was being interrogated, the police added. Police said that an old enmity between the accused and the victim's father might be behind the incident. Incidentally, it was the third case of rape and murder in the district in the past three weeks. Barely a few days back, a 17-year old girl was raped and murdered in the district. Her body was also recovered from the fields a few metres away from her village. In another similar incident, a 13-year old girl from SC community was strangled to death after rape in the district. The opposition leaders slammed the state government over what they alleged ''complete collapse'' of the law and order machinery in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-3-year-old-raped-before-murder-third-such-case-in-three-weeks-882310.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Situation along LAC slightly tense: Army Chief General Naravane||Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, who visited different places after reaching Leh, on Friday said that the situation along LAC is slightly tensed. "Keeping in view the situation, we have taken precautionary deployment for our own safety and security, so that our security and integrity remain safeguarded," General Manoj Mukund Naravane told ANI. The Army Chief General said that he talked to officers, JCOs and took stock of preparedness. "The morale of jawans is high and they are ready to deal with all challenges," he said. General Naravane noted that for the last two to three months, the situation has been tense but the Army has been continuously engaging with China both at the military and diplomatic level to resolve the issue. "These engagements are ongoing and will continue in the future also," Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said. "We are very sure that through this medium of talks, we will resolve whatever difference we have. We will ensure that status quo is not changed and we are able to safeguard our interests," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/situation-along-lac-slightly-tense-army-chief-general-naravane-882318.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court rejects 1984 riots convict Sajjan Kumar's plea seeking interim bail on health grounds||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to consider bail plea by former Congress MP Sajjan Kumar, who has been serving life term in a 1984 anti Sikh riots case.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde declined to entertain the petition made on health grounds, saying this is no small matter. The court said his appeal against the conviction and sentence would be considered when the court resumed physical hearings of the matters.  Kumar's counsel senior advocate Vikas Singh that he has been in jail for 20 months and lost 16 kgs weight. Opposing the plea, victims' counsel senior advocate H S Phoolka said the petitioner was being given required treatment. Earlier in May, the top court refused him interim bail, saying his medical report of the petitioner did not suggest he required hospitalisation. Kumar, represented by senior advocate Vikas Singh, had then claimed that his life term would be converted to death penalty, if he died. He was suffering from several ailments and he could not be examined by the AIIMS board due to Covid-19 pandemic. The court had earlier also dismissed plea for parole made by co convicts ex-MLA Mahinder Yadav and Balwan Khokhar. Yadav had subsequently died during treatment at the hospital. Kumar has been in jail here after the Delhi High Court had on December 17, 2018 awarded him life imprisonment for the "remainder of his natural life". The riots case related to the killing of five Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment's Raj Nagar Part-I area of southwest Delhi on November 1 and 2, 1984, and burning down of a Gurudwara in Raj Nagar Part-II. Anti-Sikh riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by her two Sikh bodyguards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-rejects-1984-riots-convict-sajjan-kumars-plea-seeking-interim-bail-on-health-grounds-882354.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan records 7 Covid-19 deaths, toll touches 1,102||The state also reported 738 new cases. The total number of people infected by Covid-19 now stands at 86,965 in Rajasthan and out of these 14,614 people are under treatment. As per the bulletin, 70,189 people have been discharged after treatment till now. In Jaipur, the death toll from the coronavirus infection is 281 followed by 103 in Jodhpur, 78 in Bikaner, 77 in Kota, 75 in Ajmer, 70 in Bharatpur, 46 in Pali, 43 in Nagaur, 29 in Udaipur, 26 in Alwar and 22 in Dholpur. Of the fresh cases, 148 were reported in Jaipur, 111 in Jodhpur, 107 in Kota, 37 in Ajmer, 31 each in Alwar and Banswara besides cases reported in other districts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-records-7-covid-19-deaths-toll-touches-1102-882355.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Muslims being targeted in Uttar Pradesh, framed in false cases: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Friday alleged that besides Brahmins and Dalits, Muslims are being being targeted in the BJP regime in Uttar Pradesh. She also flayed incidents of idols of B R Ambedkar being broken in the state and asked the government to take appropriate steps. "In the SP government, Brahmins and Dalits were oppressed selectively. Now in the present BJP government, along with them, there is a lot of oppression of Muslims as well. They are being framed in false cases, which is very sad," Mayawati charged in a series of tweets in Hindi.  "Idols of the messiah of Dalits-Baba Saheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar- great saints and gurus were broken in SP government, and names of districts and institutions etc. named after them (Dalit icons) changed considerably...In the same way now the present BJP government is also running," she alleged. "Now even the idol of Baba Saheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar is being broken. The incidents of Varanasi and now in Jaunpur are extremely condemnable. The government should take appropriate steps in these matters," Mayawati said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslims-being-targeted-in-uttar-pradesh-framed-in-false-cases-mayawati-882369.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||FIR against 102 people for clashing with police in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia||An FIR has been lodged against 102 people, including 60 unnamed, for clashing with police in the Rasda area here, resulting in injuries to 12 people, the police said on Friday. "An FIR has been registered against 102 people, including 60 unnamed and 42 named, for clashing with police, indulging in brick-batting and injuring 12 people, including policemen. Of them, 15 have been arrested," Superintendent of Police Devendra Nath said. DIG Subhash Chandra Dubey denied the allegation that one Pannalal Rajbhar (35) was beaten up by the police. "When the brick-batting started, Rajbhar, about whom it was alleged that he was unconscious and in a serious condition, was the first one to flee. In a medical examination, not even a scratch was found on his body," he said while claiming that some people tried to politicise the matter. "Police outpost in-charge Dharmendra Singh and Head Constable Rajbali have been suspended over the incident," the DIG said, adding that the Gangster's Act will be invoked in the case. Enraged over the police allegedly beating up Rajbhar, villagers blocked the Ballia-Lucknow highway on Thursday and when the men in uniform tried to remove them, they hurled stones at them, ransacked a temporary police post and damaged six vehicles. The police used force to disperse them. Twelve people, including six police personnel and two journalists, were injured in the incident. Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav was also among the injured. "Accusing the police of beating a man named Pannalal, the villagers blocked traffic at about 9.30 am," Yadav said. After police officials spoke to the villagers, they agreed to remove the road block. However, some of them got agitated when the police started removing the blockade. The police used mild force to disperse the villagers, following which they indulged in stonepelting, Yadav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-102-people-for-clashing-with-police-in-uttar-pradeshs-ballia-882383.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel writes to Amit Shah, seeks 7 more CRPF battalions||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday asked the Centre to dispatch seven CRPF battalions, which were sanctioned for the state in 2018, for deployment to strengthen the fight against the Naxal menace. An official said, Baghel, in a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, also sought installation of 1,028 mobile towers in Naxal-affected areas, which were already approved for the state, to improve telecom connectivity. In the letter, Baghel has sought Centres cooperation for effective implementation of the states strategies to eliminate Naxalism, the public relations department official said. The Union Home Ministry had allotted seven additional battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) for Chhattisgarh in 2018 and it was decided to deploy them in the worst Naxal-hit region of south Bastar, comprising Sukma and Bijapur districts, Baghel said in the letter. A CRPF battalion consists of close to 1,000 personnel. It has been learnt that 10 CRPF battalions have been removed from Jammu & Kashmir and in this case, providing the seven sanctioned battalions to the state immediately will help in effective implementation of anti-Naxal operations, he added. According to CRPF officials, at present 33 battalions of the para-military force, including its elite unit, Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), are deployed in the state for counter-insurgency operations. Baghel said as many as 1,028 mobile towers were earlier sanctioned for improving telecommunications in Naxal- affected districts for the state, for which locations have been finalised and details sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). These mobile towers will benefit common citizens as well as security forces, the chief minister said. Besides, Baghel requested for organising a special recruitment rally by the Army for youths of Bastar. Moreover, additional 'Bastariya' battalions of the Central Armed Police Forces can also be raised through which local youths can get employment, Baghel added. Notably, in 2018, the CRPF had raised a specialised unit - Bastariya - which comprises youths from four districts badly affected by the Naxal menace. Baghel urged Shah to consider undertaking construction of roads, bridges and culverts with pre-fabricated materials and advanced technology in the Bastar division to speed up infrastructure projects in the region. Cooperation from the Centre will help the state get a decisive edge in the fight against Naxalism, the CM told the home minister, according to the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-writes-to-amit-shah-seeks-7-more-crpf-battalions-882393.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Four men sexually harass Dalit woman||A Dalit woman was allegedly sexually harassed by four men here following which there was a clash between two groups and they pelted stones at each other, police said on Friday. SHO Rajkumar Rana said one accused was thrashed by the mob in Morna village and handed over to the police, but a search is on to trace the remaining three accused. He said the incident took place on Thursday evening when the four youths harassed the woman outside her house. This led to a clash between two groups during which stones were pelted, the SHO said. In another incident, a 35-year-old man allegedly attempted to rape his seven-year-old neighbour in the district, police said. According to a complaint lodged by the victim's family, the girl was playing outside her house when she was taken by the accused to his residence. There he tried to rape her but she started crying for help, forcing him to flee. The girls' parents had gone to the fields at the time of the incident. When they came back, she narrated her ordeal to them and they registered a police complaint in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-four-men-sexually-harass-dalit-woman-882401.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Doctor, aide arrested in Delhi for giving forged Covid-19 report||A 34-year-old doctor and his associate were arrested for allegedly providing forged Covid-19 test reports to people in the national capital, police said on Friday. The accused have been identified as Kush Bihari Parashar, a resident of Malviya Nagar, and his associate Amit Singh, they said. Police said they received a complaint from a reputed testing lab regarding forgery of Covid-19 test reports, following which a case under relevant sections was registered at Hauz Khas police station. On August 30, one person, who runs a business of providing nursing staff to patients, asked doctor Parashar for Covid-19 test reports of his two nursing staff before they were engaged in the job, a senior police officer said. Parashar forged the reports and sent them to the businessman who, in turn, sent it to his client on her mobile. Spotting a mistake in the name in the report, the client contacted the diagnostic centre and asked for a new report with correction, the officer said. On verifying the details of the patients, it came to notice of the diagnostic centre that no such patient exists in their record. Later, a case was registered at Hauz Khas police station. The accused were arrested on Thursday. "Parashar used to recommend patients for Covid-19 tests and collect the sample. With the help of co-accused Singh, he used to make forged test report of the renowned diagnostic centre or of the labs as desired by the patients,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. As the reports were prepared in PDF format on a computer and same were sent to patients on WhatsApp, it was difficult to differentiate between the forged and the genuine report, the DCP said. Parashar admitted that he had given forged Covid-19 test reports to more than 75 patients using names of diagnostic centres such as CRL Diagnostics Lab, Modern Diagnostics and Research Centre, Dr P Bhasin Pathlabs (P) Ltd and Prognosis Laboratories. Parashar said that he had been doing this forgery for the past two-and-a-half months and used to charge Rs 2,400 per test. There was no specific criterion for deciding negative or positive. Just as per the symptoms of the patient, the reports were prepared. Sample taken were destroyed, police said. Further investigation is in progress and efforts are being made to trace the other persons involved in the nexus, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctor-aide-arrested-in-delhi-for-giving-forged-covid-19-report-882402.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||PWD, traffic police to take steps to prevent road accidents in Delhi||The Delhi government has asked the PWD and traffic police to conduct joint inspections to gauge the need for new signage and other measures to prevent road accidents in the city. The government's home department has directed the public works department and the traffic police to submit a consolidated report within a month. According to an order issued last week, PWD's superintendent engineers and traffic police officers will conduct such inspections in their respective jurisdictions in a coordinated manner. During the inspection, officials will identify such road stretches where signage are required to be installed so that motorists get proper guidance, an official said. The official said that steps would also be taken to identify faulty signage so that they do not lead to road accidents. In 2017, a study on 14 major stretches had found that faulty signage may actually be behind traffic violations and the resulting accidents. Nearly 70 per cent of such signs are wrongly designed and placed, it had also found. In the national capital, the Delhi PWD, which maintains around 1,260-km roads, is responsible for roads over 60-metre in width while roads less than 60-metre wide broadly fall under the jurisdictions of civic bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pwd-traffic-police-to-take-steps-to-prevent-road-accidents-in-delhi-882406.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Muslims being targeted by BJP in Uttar Pradesh, framed in false cases: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Friday alleged that besides Brahmins and Dalits, Muslims are being targeted under the BJP regime in Uttar Pradesh. She also flayed incidents of vandalising idols of B R Ambedkar in the state and asked the government to take appropriate steps. "In the SP government, Brahmins and Dalits were oppressed selectively. Now in the present BJP government, along with them, there is a lot of oppression of Muslims as well. They are being framed in false cases, which is very sad," Mayawati charged in a series of tweets in Hindi. "Idols of the messiah of Dalits - Baba Saheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar - great saints and gurus were broken in SP government, and names of districts and institutions etc. named after them (Dalit icons) changed considerably...In the same way, now, the present BJP government is also running," she alleged. "Now even the idol of Baba Saheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar is being broken. The incidents of Varanasi and now in Jaunpur are extremely condemnable. The government should take appropriate steps in these matters," Mayawati said. In Jaunpur, some persons desecrated Ambedkar's statue in Mishrapur village in Sujanganj area two days back. When people got to know about it the next day, they protested after which police lodged FIR against six people. Ambedkar's statue near the Panchayat Bhawan in the Gadkhara village in Varanasi was also vandalised last week, prompting people to stage protest for several hours. They blocked the main road and staged a protest for several hours. The agitated people demanded arrest of the guilty and building a new statue. Senior district officials rushed to the spot and got the damaged statue replaced by a new one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslims-being-targeted-by-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-framed-in-false-cases-mayawati-882414.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Man held for raping, killing 3-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri||A man accused of raping and killing a three-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri was arrested after an encounter with police on Friday, officials said. Main accused Lekhram sustained a bullet injury in his leg during the gunfight near Bamhanpur village in Nighasan area. He was rushed to Nighasan health centre, where he is undergoing treatment. "His condition is stated to be stable," the official said. Deputy SP Nighasan Pradeep Kumar Verma, who was in the native village of the girl, confirmed the arrest. The girl's body, which bore injury marks on the head, was recovered from the vicinity of her village in Singahi area on Thursday after she went missing on Wednesday, police said. This was the third such incident in the district in as many weeks. "The postmortem report has confirmed rape. I am with family members right now. Seven of our teams are working on the case. I am myself going for combing in sugarcane fields and strict action will be taken against the accused," Superintendent of Police, Satyendra Kumar Singh earlier told PTI over phone. "If needed, NSA will also be invoked against the accused," he said. The girl died due to strangulation, the postmortem report said. In his complaint to police, the girl's father had alleged that Lekhram, a resident of their village, had abducted and killed the child due to an old enmity with his family. A case of murder was lodged against the accused. Lakhimpur Kheri district was in the news recently when a 17-year-old Dalit girl was found dead outside her village. She was allegedly raped and murdered after she left home to fill a scholarship application. Her mutilated body was found near a dry pond, around 200 metres away from her village falling under the Neemgaon police limits. Prior to this incident, a 13-year-old girl was raped and killed in the district. Police said the girl had gone to her fields in the afternoon and when she did not return home, her family started looking for her. She was found dead in a sugarcane field. Both incidents drew flak from the opposition, with Congress and SP leaders attacking the Yogi Adityanath-led state government over the law and order situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-raping-killing-3-year-old-girl-in-uttar-pradeshs-lakhimpur-kheri-882436.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Congress, BJP virtually monopolise Parliamentary panel proceedings||The MPs of the ruling BJP and the main Opposition party Congress have virtually "monopolised" the meetings of the Parliamentary Standing Committees while participation of regional parties is way below the mark, according to a study by the Rajya Sabha's research wing. Other than BJP and Congress, five parties: DMK, BJD, SP, CPM and CPI have availed opportunities more than their respective strength on the eight committees of the Upper House while the participation of 18 parties, including Trinamool Congress, AIADMK, JD (U) and Shiv Sena have been lesser than their share in the strength. The poor attendance by the "middle parties", as per the analysis done on the instructions of Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, said, is "further reducing the diversity of political participation" in the deliberations of these committees while wondering whether these panels have become a "two-party show". Parliament has 24 Department related Standing Committees out of which eight are with Rajya Sabha and the rest with the Lok Sabha. Out of the 34 parties represented in Rajya Sabha, 25 parties and independents are nominated on the eight Committees of the Upper House. On the committees under Rajya Sabha, there are 239 members of both the Houses. According to the analysis of the 100 meetings of the eight Committees between September 2019 and March 2020, BJP and Congress accounted for two-thirds of the 1,586 interventions by the MPs. These two parties alone have a total strength of 57% in these committees. MPs from the remaining 23 parties in these panels account for around 33% of the interventions. Among the rest, MPs from five parties have intervened more than their strength in the committees. The analysis illustrated the "inadequate participation" of the middle parties in these meetings. A lone member of BSP did not attend any of the 11 meetings of the Committee on Transport and Tourism during 2019-20 while another member from the same party did not attend any of the 19 meetings of the Committee on Home Affairs. A BSP member who is part of the panel on Commerce skipped 20 meetings. Shiv Sena and TRS with one MP each on the Committee on Health and Family Welfare skipped all the 21 meetings while Akali Dal's MP in the committee on Commerce did not attend any of the 20 meetings of the Committee on Commerce. Two MPs of Trinamool Congress skipped all the meetings of the Committee on Industry while it was the same case with one each MP of LJSP and National Conference who skipped all nine meetings of the panel on Personnel, Public Grievances and Law and Justice. The SDF member also skipped all the 11 meetings of the Committee on Science and Technology, the analysis said. "The ruling BJP seeks to ensure proper attendance of its members so as to articulate the Government's position on various issues as and when required while the Congress does so to justify its role as the principal opposition party, resulting in virtual monopolisation of participation by these two parties...In effect, the deliberations in the meetings of these Committees are primarily limited to about 5 to 6 parties given the overall attendance as earlier flagged by the Chairman," a senior official said quoting the analysis. Earlier, Naidu had written to various party leaders to ensure proper attendance of MPs in the deliberations of the committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-bjp-virtually-monopolise-parliamentary-panel-proceedings-882452.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal assures relief to traders, industrialists from fixed power charges||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has assured traders and industrialists that steps to provide them relief from fixed power charges in view of the Covid-19 pandemic will be taken soon, an official statement said on Friday. The traders and industrialists in the city have been demanding relief from fixed charges, saying their shops and factories were closed due to the lockdown and also because they suffered losses due to shutdown of all commercial and industrial activities. "The Chief Minister assured adequate steps will be taken to provide relief, vis-a-vis the fixed power charges that the commercial and industrial units are obliged to pay despite economic losses due to Corona," a Delhi government statement said. The non-domestic and industrial consumers of electricity in Delhi have to pay Rs 250 per kVA as monthly fixed charges. The monthly electricity bill comprises fixed charges component and a variable energy charges which is actual electricity consumed. Kejriwal told the traders and industry association representatives that the revenue situation of the Delhi government has taken a hit owing to the complete shutdown of businesses and the economy due to coronavirus.  The Delhi government decided to lift the lockdown and it will take time to cover the economic shortfall, now that businesses and industries have resumed, he said. The  city government, in accordance with Centre's 'Unlock' guidelines, has allowed several economic activities in the national capital. The Kejriwal government has announced various measures to revive the economy of Delhi, the statement said. The Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission recently announced new power tariff for 2020-21, with no hike  in the rates in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-assures-relief-to-traders-industrialists-from-fixed-power-charges-882470.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Kashmiri school teacher named among 47 to receive National Teachers Awards||A Kashmiri school teacher is among 47 recipients of the National Teachers Awards to be presented on the occasion of Teachers Day, officials said here on Friday. Roohi Sultana, a teacher at Boys Middle School Kashipora, Tailbal in Gulab Bagh area in the outskirts of Srinagar, has been awarded this year for demonstrating a creative and innovative approach towards teaching, a PIB handout here said. The awards are presented by the Ministry of Education every year to acknowledge and encourage extraordinary and meritorious efforts of teachers from across the length and breadth of the country. The awards will be conferred by President Ram Nath Kovind through virtual mode because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Education has acknowledged that Sultana's efforts resulted in keeping her students in primary classes engaged in learning activities even in challenging times when schooling and educational activities were severely disrupted. Sultana adopted innovative and low cost teaching-learning practices like pocket boards, utility cards, tracing boards and other child friendly resources for enhancing literacy and numeracy among her pupils. The Ministry has also taken note of Sultana's hard work for inclusion of children with special needs so that they do not remain deprived of the benefits of education. Besides conferring the awards, the Ministry of Education in collaboration with the University Grants Commission will also organise webinars on the occasion to highlight salient features of the recently introduced National Education Policy 2020. Special outreach campaigns will also be run on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and other social media platforms. The National Awards to Teachers are presented every year to celebrate the unique contribution of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honour those teachers who through their commitment and industry have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students. The 47 awardees have been selected after a rigorous three-stage online transparent process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-school-teacher-named-among-47-to-receive-national-teachers-awards-882474.html
04-09-2020||North and Central||Need to spread Mahatma Gandhi's ideas: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said the events to commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi next month should aim at connecting new generation with his message of truth, non-violence and peace. Through these events, ideas of great men and values of our Constitution should be spread, Gehlot said in a statement. Gehlot made the remarks while presiding over a meeting of the Department of Arts, Literature, Culture and Archeology at his residence. He said in today’s circumstances, Mahatma Gandhi's ideas are important to encourage the common man protect democracy and the Constitution. The chief minister said Mahatma Gandhi's ideas need to be spread by taking more people, thinkers, experts and institutions along. Culture Minister B D Kalla informed that several programmes will be organised on October 2 to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary and their theme will be his message of peace and non-violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/need-to-spread-mahatma-gandhis-ideas-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-882601.html
04-09-2020||Panorama||Covid-19 leaves imprint on 2020 UN General Assembly high-level debate  ||On New York’s First Avenue of Midtown East from 42nd Street to 48th Street, an area that once used to have slaughterhouses, lies the United Nations Headquarters. In less than two weeks from now, the premises will play host to the 75th session of the UN General Assembly (GA), which will open on September 15. In the normal course, the main attraction of the opening of a new session of GA is the high-level debate that brings heads of delegations (HoD), including heads of State, governments and foreign ministers, from 193 Member States to the Big Apple. This debate will be on September 22. The GA has now decided that the heads of State and government will not be physically attending the annual gathering due to the pandemic. They will submit pre-recorded speeches to the event. While taking the debate to the virtual platform will bring some consistency to the yearly exercise, it will take away the importance of the occasion, which is not just restricted to the diplomatic corps. The exercise has a broader meaning to the official as well as non-official delegations and those invested in multilateralism.  This year’s General Assembly session had a special significance as it marks 75 years of the UN’s existence. The UN was gearing up to commemorate the occasion. Last year, on April 18, UN Secretary-General António Guterres had announced the appointment of Fabrizio Hochschild of Chile as his Special Adviser on the preparations for the commemoration of the UN’s 75th anniversary at the Under-Secretary-General level. The new format of this year will severely dent the commemoration. This year, the high-level debate will be less taxing for the local authorities. Usually, a day before the high-level debate, the midtown east area of Manhattan that provides access to the UNHQ building comes under a tight security cover of New York Police Department’s 17th Precinct. Imposing metallic road impediments are deployed at the prominent road arteries that provide vehicular access to the UNHQ to foil any potential suicide attacks. The security is particularly tight for the first two days and incrementally starts decreasing, particularly after the US President leaves the city. The high-level week is not just an occasion for speeches as the Member States organise a number of side-events to bring spotlight over various issues. This year, Member States will have to move “all side-events to virtual platforms to limit the footprint and number of people in the UN building.” Even with the changed format, there will be some consistencies. Eagerly awaited on the first day of the high-level week is the speech by the host, the  United States’ President. Apart from his speech, the last few years have marked one important emphasis of the US President at the UNHQ on an issue that signals the priority of the US administration. The UN has been no exception to the Sino-US tensions. In the midst of the rising death toll globally due to Covid-19, the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) struggled for several months to adopt a draft resolution on the pandemic. In this context, the US took a position that it either wants a broader resolution that calls for reforms and accountability of the WHO or a narrow resolution that reiterates UN Secretary-General António Guterres’ appeal for a global ceasefire during the pandemic period. China, on the other hand, was leading the efforts to insist that apart from covering other elements, the resolution should call for support to the WHO. This was inimical to the US position as it had accused the WHO of becoming “literally, a pipe organ for China”. Though a two-page resolution – drafted by France and Tunisia - was finally adopted on July 1, tensions continue between the two on a number of issues, and the high-level debate will reflect those tensions. From the subcontinent, the spat between the HoDs of India and Pakistan has become a consistent feature in recent GA opening sessions. Pakistan raises J&K and cites UN resolutions. India challenges the narrative and asserts that the state is an integral part of the country. India draws attention to the scourge of terrorism emanating from across the border and alleges that Pakistan is the main sponsor of terrorism on its territory. This year, in the context of completion of one year of de-operationalisation of Article 370 and Pakistan’s continued bid to internationalise the issue, the exchange between both sides is expected to be particularly acerbic. Apart from delivering speeches at the high-level segment, visiting HoDs normally use this opportunity to have bilateral engagements with counterparts of other countries. Devoid of any extravaganza, these engagements usually take place in the common spaces of the UNHQ premises, and it is more of a touch base exercise and normally last 5-10 minutes. Member States will miss these rare opportunities to engage with each other.  This year will also be a loss to the activists and members of civil society. In the vicinity of the UNHQ, boisterous protesters of all backgrounds aim to draw the attention of the world leaders and lend different atmospherics from the protocol-ridden and mostly formal developments inside the UNHQ premises. A common sight is of Hasidic Jewish communities from South Williamsburg and Midwood areas of Brooklyn borough of New York city as they voice their perspective on the Israel-Palestine conflict. The Jewish population in NYC is around 13%, next only to Tel Aviv in absolute numbers. There is a prosperous Iranian diaspora from Los Angeles, known as Tehrangeles in a lighter vein because of the large number of Iranian-descent Americans living there, who come holding placards against the alleged human rights violations in Iran. The Egyptian diaspora, a community that man most of the Halal food carts in NYC, raise their voice against alleged human rights violations by the Egyptian military. Often, the protesters are challenged by other sets of protesters with their counter-narratives. For instance, the protest of a group of Armenian Americans against the Turkish denial of genocide during World War I is countered by a parallel protest by Turkish Americans. Remarkably, these protests remain disciplined and are free of violence. (The writer is a former member of the UN Secretary-General's Good Offices on Myanmar)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-leaves-imprint-on-2020-un-general-assembly-high-level-debate-882216.html
04-09-2020||Panorama||Federal borrowing puts US debt on path to exceed World War-II levels||A surge in government borrowing in the face of the pandemic recession has put the United States in a position it has not seen since World War II: In order to pay off its national debt this year, the country would need to spend an amount nearly as large as its entire annual economy. And still, economists and many fiscal hawks are urging lawmakers to borrow even more to fuel the nation’s economic recovery. The amount of US government debt has grown to nearly outpace the size of the nation’s economy in the 2020 fiscal year and is set to exceed it next year, as the virus downturn saps tax revenues, spurs government spending and necessitates record amounts of federal borrowing, the Congressional Budget Office said Wednesday. Federal debt, as a share of the economy, is now on track to smash America’s World War II-era record by 2023. The budget office report underscored the scrambled politics of deficits in 2020: It showed debt held by the public climbing to 98% of the size of the economy for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30. Forecasters had previously expected the nation to reach those levels at the end of the decade, a time frame that had already alarmed fiscal hawks in Washington, who warned that ballooning deficits would consume federal budgets and chill private investment. But the virus has upended those predictions, prompting even longtime champions of fiscal prudence to urge lawmakers on Wednesday to keep borrowing more for the time being, in order to help people and businesses survive the lingering pain of a sharp recession and now-slowing recovery. “We should think and worry about the deficit an awful lot, and we should proceed to make it larger,” said Maya MacGuineas, the president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget in Washington, which has for years pushed lawmakers to take steps to reduce deficits and debt. The turnabout on deficit fears caps several years of declining concern over Washington’s spending more than it takes in, particularly among Republicans. Lawmakers voted along party lines in 2017 to pass a $1.5 trillion tax cut that President Donald Trump and Republican leaders insisted would pay for itself but has instead added to the deficit. The budget deficit surpassed $1 trillion in 2019 — before the coronavirus pandemic hit — a jump of 17% from 2018 as tax cuts and spending increases continued to force heavy government borrowing. The pandemic has plunged the economy into its sharpest quarterly contraction in growth in nearly 75 years, ballooning the deficit in the process. With millions out of work and businesses shuttered, tax revenues have fallen for the federal government, along with states and municipalities. Congress and Trump moved quickly to approve more than $3 trillion in new federal spending to help businesses and individuals stay afloat through the abrupt slowdown in economic activity. All of those factors necessitated large sums of government borrowing, sending deficits — which had grown steadily even in the middle of a record economic expansion — skyward. The deficit — the difference between what the United States spends and what it earns through taxes and other revenue — is expected to reach $3.3 trillion for fiscal year 2020, the budget office said on Wednesday. That is more than triple the level it reached in the 2019 fiscal year. Economic theory has long held that rising debt as a share of the economy would drive up the amount of money governments must pay in interest to borrowers. Like a household with a lot of loans, the theory went, creditors would demand higher interest rates to hand cash to a heavily indebted borrower. With its debt payments more expensive, the household — or government — would have to borrow even more to stay current on its obligations. That would result in a debt spiral in which the government was not able to do anything but fund its debt, the economists said, although such a spiral did not materialize over the past decade, as debt climbed and interest rates stayed low. Because the pandemic hit the economy so quickly and painfully this year, lawmakers raced to borrow money much faster than they did during the last recession, when it took two years for the debt ratio to climb by a similar amount, in percentage-point terms: Debt as a percent of gross domestic product grew from 39% at the end of the 2008 fiscal year to nearly 61% at the end of 2010. But it has been decades since the amount of federal debt was larger than the sum of the nation’s annual economic output. That came in 1946, shortly after the war ended. The fiscal woes are not just confined to the United States’ need to borrow. In a separate report released Wednesday afternoon, the budget office updated its forecasts for the solvency of the Social Security Trust Fund, showing it will run out of money faster than the office previously forecast in June. The new estimates imply the fund will be exhausted by 2031, a year earlier than previously projected, forcing immediate benefit cuts, unless lawmakers intervene. Medicare’s hospital insurance trust fund is now on track to run out of money in 2024, instead of 2026. The aggressive federal response to the pandemic in March resulted in trillions of dollars in additional government spending, as Washington looked to provide tax breaks, assistance for small and large businesses, direct checks for low- and middle-income individuals and supplemental benefits for the unemployed. Those measures were widely supported, as millions of workers were suddenly unemployed and businesses were forced to close their doors. Most economists have continued to call for additional spending, as the pandemic shows no sign of abating. Loretta Mester, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, who has warned about previous deficits, told reporters Wednesday that her own forecasts for the economic recovery hinge in part on continued fiscal support, and that without it, the United States might struggle to make it through shutdowns and onto a sustained growth path. While Mester said that she was “not one of those people who think that deficits don’t matter,” the United States cannot worry about loading up on debt in the middle of a nascent recovery. “This isn’t the right time to have that conversation,” she said. International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/federal-borrowing-puts-us-debt-on-path-to-exceed-world-war-ii-levels-882217.html
04-09-2020||Panorama||Kota can turn to tourism||Local job growth is one of the key drivers of economic growth. The same stands true for the Kota district. Though a relatively prosperous district within Rajasthan with a per capita GDP of approximately Rs 30,0001 (one of the highest in Rajasthan) and home to a sizeable coaching services, mining and manufacturing industry, it has faced its share of challenges, especially with the decline of mining, increasing regulatory hurdles and global competition. The recent Covid-19 pandemic has also negatively impacted the coaching industry which is pre-dominantly offline and depends on the students of other neighboring states – UP, MP, Haryana, Bihar, etc. Local businessmen, investors, politicians and public are starting to pin their hopes on developing Kota as a tourist hub on the lines of Jaipur, Ranthambore, Udaipur, Jodhpur. The key pillar of their hopes is development potential of the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) was declared a national sanctuary in 2013 and encompasses an area of approximately 800 sqkm. With just 40 km from Kota city centre, it provides immense opportunity for the city to emerge as a star attraction. Comprising of Dhok forest and grassland, for the most part, it runs between two parallel hills. The Reserve is home to Cheetal, Sambhar, Neelgai, Leopard, Sloth-bear, Jungle Cat, Black-buck, Wild boar, Jackal, Hyena, Wolf, Peacock and a whole range of other wildlife. Currently, there are two relocated tigers within an enclosure. Arrangements are underway to begin eco-tourism in the protected area as per the applicable norms and guidelines. It also comprises of the Chambal river which, a river that houses the endangered Marsh crocodile and Gharial, a host of threatened and endangered turtle species and the Gangetic dolphin and Smooth-cotted Otter. Rare animals like crocodile, Gharial, Gangetic softshell turtle and otters can be easily seen in the stretch of river falling within Hadoti. Critically endangered vultures and large owls breed within the sanctuary. A short boat safari is available for tourists. Besides this, it also provides ample opportunities for bird watchers. The village ponds, tanks, reservoirs, minor and major dams provide some excellent bird watching opportunities to an avid bird watcher.  Kota has the potential to generate 200 crores for the local economy, as it’s the third tiger reserve in Rajasthan, has excellent train and road connectivity with Delhi, Jaipur and has the potential to attract approximately 1,00,000 domestic and 50,000 international tourists – half of the nearest reserve Ranthambore National Park. As per a field research report by TOFT foundation, Ranthambore in 2016 attracted approx 30,00,004 domestic and 15,00,004 international tourists. Second, it can generate approximately 30,005 local jobs for Kota’s citizens. These will mainly be in areas such as hospitality, construction, food and tourism services. As per MakeMyTrip, Ranthambore National Park is surrounded by as many as 50 hotels, which would mean that Kota would need atleast 20 additional hotels in and around the park area. Third, this can help diversify the local economy which is increasingly dependent on the coaching industry. The coaching industry that employs about 3,50,006 people locally--is the main source for other local consumption-- real estate, banking, retail, hospitality, etc. Diversifying away from coaching would help build additional sources of income and stability. Also, this would benefit if there is a decline in one industry. Fourth, it can lead to a domino effect on other ancillary industries such as leisure, higher education, infrastructure, etc. While visitors are not busy in the park, innovative ventures such as eco-tourism (in and around the MHTR), adventure sports can cater to their demands and generate surplus opportunities. In the 1990s, Kota broke out successfully from being an industrial town, to a talent-factory for engineers and medical aspirants. The next decade can potentially be that of “Kota – a tourism and lifestyle destination.” A concerted effort – both politically and socially – would accelerate its evolution and help the city to be a preferred destination – for tourism and lifestyle.  (The writer is a management consultant based in Netherlands)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/kota-can-turn-to-tourism-882218.html
04-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Made in heaven||“Marriages are made in heaven but then so are thunder and lightning,” says Leroy of the comic strip Lockhorns and he is probably right. The initial days of euphoria of moonlight and roses, shopping binges, fine dining experiences pass and the marriage seems to move into a more mundane territory do we realise what it is all about. Forgotten grocery lists, hidden in the deep recesses of pockets, mistaken birthdates, food forgotten on the burning stove and milk boiling several times over behind newspapers, waking up three times a night to change nappies! Extravagant promises, impossible reassurances, sweet nothings turn into weary arguments, (“I am listening, do I have a choice?) and  the elaborate courtesy with which the car door is opened gives way to peremptory instructions But then time marches on relentlessly and marriages go on sedately each adjusting to the idiosyncrasies and eccentricities of the other, with the public face of togetherness that eclipses private differences, the fierce loyalty that cements that oneness. Then one day as you feel the marriage has clicked, you see the strands of grey and the surreptitiously receding hairline, the odd wrinkle that threatens to overrun the forehead and sense the onset of growing years. Each cannot do without the other, the cup of coffee and the camaraderie, the easy banter, the spacious afternoons, the exchange of news from the information highway, the uneasy fear of the future and its impending plans, waiting for the long-distance ring from loved ones, cement and strengthen bonds. Never has the sky seemed so beautiful or the horizon so red or the branch with a string of golden champa flowers more golden nor the warbling of birds sweeter as on those meditative mornings when happiness lay in quiet conversations interspersed with comfortable almost sacred silences, when everything seemed in harmony, sanctified, and nothing left to be desired. Walt Whitman says in his poem 'Humble love, "There we two content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word” You hear each other's thoughts, you complete each other's sentences, the thundershowers and squalls of yesteryears are behind you and you are on the same page once more! The concern in your heart for what could be or might be, the hope of sunrise turning into the fear of sundown and a silent prayer you breathe that tomorrow should not be different from today!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/made-in-heaven-882215.html
04-09-2020||Right in the Middle||The bard and the board||One of the things that I miss in my virtual classroom is a blackboard. The blackboard is my back board-- a solid surface to which I frequently turn, as I would to a trusted friend. Of course, strictly speaking, the blackboard at school is a green board. Besides, there are whiteboards, so all three could be more correctly categorised as boards. Anyway, as Shakespeare’s charming Juliet might rhetorically enquire, what’s in a shade? A board of any colour works as well as another. Talking of Shakespeare, I have been expounding his works for over four decades. I begin my discourse by scrawling William Shakespeare across the board. This is not redundant. While my students are aware that there is no escaping the dramatist, that realisation proves ineffectual when they try to spell his surname.  They write Shakespeare as Shakespear, which reads as if William is wielding a weapon! Since I keep reiterating that the pen is mightier than the sword, youngsters probably find ‘spear’ a suitable semi-sobriquet. I feel that the omission of the last letter is taking ‘What’s in a name?’ a little too far. I insist on the inclusion of that final ‘e’, although weird variations of Shakespeare prevailed in the past. In the 19th century, it was actually Shakspere! I also use the blackboard to clarify concepts pertaining to Literature. For example, I illustrate (quite literally) what we mean by the word plot in drama. Drawing a series of horizontal, interlinked rings, I declare, ‘Plot is a series of events, each of which is connected to the next.’ My explanation, reinforced with reference to the play we are studying, appears crystal clear to me, not least on account of my definitive diagram. Evidently, my masterpiece lacks merit. When I ask for the literary term for a cause-effect storyline, I expect to hear an emphatic ‘Plot.’ The resounding response, however, is ‘Chain!’ Scorning such setbacks, I have acquired a blackboard to supplement my online instruction. It reminds me of my childhood, when I scribbled on a slate mounted on a makeshift easel, with my dolls in attentive attendance. As I teach indoors again, the wheel has come full circle! That expression, slightly adapted, owes its origin to Shakespeare’s ‘King Lear’; appropriate, I would say. For me, the two have always been inseparable: the Bard and the board!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-bard-and-the-board-882606.html
04-09-2020||Second Edit||These poisonings must stop now||The German government has confirmed what was widely feared: prominent Russian opposition figure and critic of Kremlin Alexei Navalny was poisoned with a variant of Novichok, a Soviet-era nerve agent. Navalny fell ill on a flight from Siberia to Moscow late last month and quickly slipped into a coma. There was apprehension then that he had been poisoned. Toxicological tests by a German military lab have now claimed “unequivocal proof” that Navalny was poisoned. An outspoken critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Navalny has been accusing the government of "sucking the blood out of Russia." He has led numerous mass protests, too. In 2018, he sought to challenge Putin in the presidential election but was prevented from contesting. Clearly, the Kremlin is wary of Navalny. This is not the first time that an attempt has been made on his life; he has been attacked with toxic agents in the past as well. Nor is this the first time that Novichok has been used to silence Russians who have fallen out with Putin. This nerve agent was used to poison former KGB spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, in a 2018 attack in Salisbury in Britain. Russia under Putin has witnessed a rising number of murders of human rights activists, opposition politicians and journalists. Many defectors to the West have been pursued in foreign lands and murdered, most of them by poisoning, with the killers even putting foreign populations at risk. Alexander Litvinenko, a former Russian spy turned whistle-blower, was poisoned in 2006 with the highly toxic isotope Polonium-210. Putin’s critics see his hand in many of these murders. But even if these were not masterminded by Putin but carried out on the orders of Russian security forces, intelligence agencies or the criminal mafia, Putin cannot escape responsibility for these murders. There have been one too many of these murders, and his government has not bothered to even probe any of them. At the least, Putin has tacitly encouraged the silencing of his critics. It is imperative that the international community carries out an objective investigation into the poisoning of Navalny. Who poisoned him and why and on whose orders? Findings backed by solid evidence must be made public. Many governments and leaders will find it expedient to simply voice criticism of the Kremlin and then avoid following up with further action. The poisoning and murder of Kremlin critics and defectors to the West has been going on for too long. It must be stopped now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/these-poisonings-must-stop-now-882211.html
04-09-2020||Second Edit||Covid-19 crisis is worsening||So, why is India’s caseload continuing to increase? Testing continues to be an area of concern. While the number of tests India is conducting has increased overall, the tests per million population is among the lowest in the world. Inadequate testing allows asymptomatic people to infect others easily. Another reason for rising infections is the lifting of restrictions on movement of people. While concerns over the economy and livelihoods forced the government to lift the lockdown, the unlocking process could have been regulated better. People have become lax, too, with regard to even the two simplest yet most important precautions to take to prevent the spread of the virus – physical distancing and wearing a mask. Importantly, rising infections in rural India are adding to the caseload. Besides, the health infrastructure, despite the claims of the Centre and the states, remains inadequate in most places in the country. This shortcoming will be felt more acutely in the coming weeks as Covid-19 gathers pace in the hinterland. It has been eight months since the first Covid-19 case was announced in India. Sadly, India continues to fumble in its response. Authorities continue to sweep troubling figures and issues under the carpet. Meanwhile, the coronavirus is gathering momentum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-19-crisis-is-worsening-882602.html
04-09-2020||South||Telangana reports 2,478 more coronavirus cases, 10 deaths||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 267, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri 190, Rangareddy 171, Nalgonda 135 districts, a government bulletin said on Friday, providing data as of 8 pm on September 3. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1.02 lakh while 32,994 are under treatment. As many as 62,543 samples were tested on September 3. Cumulatively, 16.05 lakh samples have been tested till date. The samples tested per million population was 43,245, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.63 per cent, while it was 1.74 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 75 per cent, while it was 77.14 per cent in the country. The number of individuals in home or institutional isolation was 25,730. As there was a high incidence of Covid-19 in the age group of 20 to 50 years, the government has requested the people not to step out, unless absolutely necessary. When they go out, they should strictly adhere to the safety guidelines like wearing face masks and maintaining social distance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-2478-more-coronavirus-cases-10-deaths-882333.html
04-09-2020||South||7 women killed, 2 injured in explosion at firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu's Cuddalore||Seven women were killed and two injured on Friday when an explosion ripped through a firecracker unit in a village near Kattumannarkoil in Cuddalore district of Tamil Nadu. The dead included the owner of the small-sized factory, C Gandhimathi. The injured have been rushed to the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER) in Puducherry, around 90 km from the accident spot. The condition of the injured is critical as both have suffered over 70 percent burn injuries. The accident took place at the factory located in Kurungudi village in Kattumannarkoil taluk in the district when nine women, including the owner, began working after a gap of over five months. The factory had begun its operations after being shut for five-and-a-half months. Gandhimathi and four others were killed immediately while two women died on the way to hospital, authorities said. An explosion ripped through the premises killing Gandhimathi and four others immediately while two women died on the way to hospital, police and district administration said. “The factory is a licensed unit and resumed operations only on Friday. The exact cause of the accident is being ascertained while it is suspected that stored chemicals could have caused the blast. Seven people have been killed, while two persons have been rushed to JIPMER for emergency treatment,” Industries Minister M C Sampath, who hails from Cuddalore district, told DH. A detailed enquiry has been ordered, the minister added. Vilvam Fireworks renewed its license a few days ago and resumed operations on Friday to manufacture crackers for the Deepavali season. Reports from Kattumannarkoil said that the factory had stored cartons of crackers to be sent to various places for the upcoming festival season. The accident left the villagers shattered as charred bodies were strewn across nearby fields. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 2 lakh to the kin of the deceased. As a result of the incident, Sampath said, the district administration has asked firecrackers units in the district to immediately stop operations. The minister inspected the accident site along with District Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri and Superintendent of Police M Sree Abhinav and spoke to villagers and eye-witnesses. He added that the district administration has been asked to direct all the firecracker units in the district to cease operations immediately for about 15 days till safety measures are taken to resume production. It is likely, Sampath said, the units will be asked to resume operations after 15 days with just four to five people in the beginning and slowly increase the workforce. The deceased have been identified as Gandhimathi, Malarkodi, Latha, Rasathi, Chitra, Rukmini, and Rathinambal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/7-women-killed-2-injured-in-explosion-at-firecracker-factory-in-tamil-nadus-cuddalore-882344.html
04-09-2020||South||Five of family charred to death in fire in Tamil Nadu||Five members of a family were burnt to death after a fire broke out in their house near Kuranguchavadi in Salem early Friday, police said. All the five were asleep when the fire erupted. Chief Minister K Palaniswami expressed grief over the incident and condoled the death of the five people. One person is admitted to the Government Hospital in Salem with serious burn injuries, police said. On receiving information, firefighters rushed to the spot and doused the flames. In a statement in Chennai, Palaniswami said the fire was caused due to a short circuit and condoled the deaths. "I extend my condolences and sympathies with the family of the deceased," he said, adding he has directed the district administration to ensure the best medical treatment to the injured||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-of-family-charred-to-death-in-fire-in-tamil-nadu-882440.html
04-09-2020||South||Shady deals nothing new for Kerala CPM leader Kodiyeri's son||Nexus with shady persons, financial cheating and sexual abuse. These are the allegations against the two sons of Kerala CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan over the last several years, and thereby a major embarrassment to the party. The CPM that has managed to wriggle out of such rows by maintaining that these does not concern party members, might be adopting a similar strategy as Balakrishnan's younger son Bineesh is now caught up in a row over nexus with Bengaluru-based drug peddling case accused Mohammed Anoop, who is a Malayali. Bineesh, who has already admitted that he had lent Rs. 6 lakh to Anoop, was also allegedly running a financial institution in Bengaluru. Opposition parties in Kerala are stepping up demand for a probe into his affiliation with drug peddling and gold smuggling rackets. Bineesh was earlier caught up in similar allegations of nexus with shady persons like R. Sabarinath, who swindled crores of rupees from hundreds of persons by running a financial firm named Total4U, and Omprakash, a notorious gangster based in Thiruvananthapuram who was accused of many crimes, including murder. A Malayali NRI businessman Madathil Raghu and his business associate Egypt-born UK citizen Ahamed Mohamed were intercepted by the CISF personnel at Thiruvananthapuram airport in 2009 following a drunken ruckus. They had allegedly told the security personnel that they were Bineesh's friends. Balakrishnan was then the Home Minister of Kerala. Balakrishnan's elder son Binoy recently faced a serious allegation by a Mumbai-settled woman, who was a former bar dancer in UAE, that Binoy impregnated her after promising to marry, and later cheated her. A Mumbai court-ordered a DNA test to prove the paternity of the child, which was being prolonged mysteriously. Binoy even faced a travel ban from UAE in 2018 following Rs.13 crore financial fraud complaint by the sponsor of a Dubai-based firm. The travel ban was imposed after a cheque he submitted was dishonoured. Once the case was settled, questions were raised by Opposition over the source of the funds used to settle the case, which has also remained unanswered. While serving as the Home Minister, Balakrishnan also faced allegations over a marriage reception of his elder son as it was allegedly organized by a controversial businessman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shady-deals-nothing-new-for-kerala-cpm-leader-kodiyeris-son-882472.html
04-09-2020||South||Row over fish farming at temple ponds in Kerala||In a suspected bid to trigger religious sentiments, an online campaign was being carried out that the Devaswom Boards in Kerala that manages temples, alleging that it has decided to allow fish farming at temple ponds. With several eminent personalities also joining the issue, the Travancore Devaswom Board had even issued a clarification that no such decision was taken. The Malabar Devaswom Board authorities also said that the allegation that fish farming was being initiated at the famous Lokanarkavu temple pond in Kozhikode district was baseless. There were even reports in the social media that fish farming was being initiated at all temple ponds under the Travancore Devaswom Board and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would be conducting an online inauguration of the scheme. Hence the board was forced to issue a clarification and its president N Vasu urged the devotees not to believe in such fake reports. Malabar Devaswom Board president O K Vasu alleged that it was a deliberate attempt by some Hindutva outfits to trigger religious sentiments against the government. No decision to allow fish farming at temple ponds under the Malabar Devaswom was initiated. He, however, added that if any private temple that is now struggling to meet expenses owing to Covid-19 allows fish farming in ponds to generate some revenue, they can't be blamed. Many temple ponds in the state were rich with freshwater fishes and devotees used to feed the fishes with rice as part of traditions and there are also various beliefs associated with the fishes in temple ponds. Hence even during cleaning of ponds, the fishes would be shifted to alternative tanks and would be deposited in other ponds. Temples would not sell fish for consumption purpose, said a Travancore Devaswom Board official. Among those who joined the issue included former Kerala state police chief T P Senkumar who said that temple pond fishes should never be made fish farms as the fishes in temple ponds were not meant for consumption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-fish-farming-at-temple-ponds-in-kerala-882477.html
04-09-2020||South||Kerala: Will not protect my son, says Kodiyeri Balakrishnan||CPI(M) Kerala state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Friday said that he would not protect his son Bineesh if he has committed anything unlawful. He also alleged that the Opposition parties were unleashing propaganda to cover-up the links of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and BJP leaders with gold smuggling cases. "Bineesh has already clarified about the allegations against him. If the Opposition has any evidence against him, let them give it to the central investigation agencies. If Bineesh did anything unlawful, he would not get any protection. Being a Communist leader, the attempts to demoralise me by such allegations is futile," said Kodiyeri. Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son Bineesh Kodiyeri has "close links" with some members of a drug trafficking racket busted by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Bengaluru recently, the youth wing of the IUML alleged on Wednesday. Youth League general secretary P K Firos alleged Bineesh had invested money in a hotel business launched by drug case accused Mohammed Anoop in Kammanahalli in 2015 and demanded a comprehensive investigation into it.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-will-not-protect-my-son-says-kodiyeri-balakrishnan-882514.html
04-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh, Telangana at loggerheads over running inter-state bus services||Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are at loggerheads over running inter-state bus services, despite the complete opening of borders as part of Unlock.4. Thousands, if not lakhs, of people in the two states, remain without a public transport option as the two states are locked in a standoff over routes. Private bus operators are expected to grab the opportunity and exploit the passengers if the stalemate persists for long, it is feared. The lucrative Vijayawada-Hyderabad sector has become the main bone of contention between the two Telugu states as Telangana is reportedly insisting that AP forego the profitable route operations. Though it does not possess an adequate number of buses to meet the passenger demand on the Vijayawada-Hyderabad sector, Telangana is said to be adamant on monopolising it. Telangana is sour that its limited services to Vijayawada from Hyderabad are sparsely patronised, causing a loss to its Road Transport Corporation. As two rounds of talks so far between officials concerned of the states did not break the deadlock, they are now banking on a possible political intervention to end the tussle and get the buses back on roads. A P Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah is expected to open negotiations on Monday to resolve the ongoing crisis and ensure the bus services between the states are resumed at the earliest, authoritative sources said. Post-formation of Telangana in June 2014, the AP Reorganisation Act enabled the running of inter-state public sector Road Transport Corporation bus services for five years without any formal agreement or permit. That arrangement ended in June 2019 but no fresh pact was signed between the two states, though there was never a break in RTC bus services till the Covid-19 lockdown came into force on March 25. But as the lockdown restrictions were eased and operation of inter-state bus services became possible, Telangana sought to seize the chance and put brakes on AP buses. "At the time of bifurcation in June 2014, APSRTC buses were running 3.37 lakh route kilometres to Telangana while the latter operated only 94,000 route kilometres. Over the last five years, Telangana increased its operations to 1.55 lakh route kilometres while AP brought it down to 2.65 lakh kilometres, a top official of the AP Transport said. Andhra Pradesh was hitherto running 500 services to Telangana per day, out of which 400-odd were to Hyderabad city only. "Hyderabad services are the biggest revenue earners and Telangana now wants to grab it all. It wants us to cut the route kilometres by one lakh kilometres though we agreed to reduce 50,000 kilometres. We also asked Telangana to enhance its own operations by 50,000 kilometres to bring parity. Still, it has not come forward to sign an agreement and resume interstate services," the Transport official noted. "We have inter-state agreements with neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha, but we never had any problem. In fact, in some cases we continue to operate the services despite non-renewal of formal agreements, the official pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-telangana-at-loggerheads-over-running-inter-state-bus-services-882515.html
04-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu makes violation of Covid-19 rules compoundable offence||Spitting in public places and non-compliance of Covid-19 rules like wearing of masks, maintaining physical distance, and jumping quarantine will hereafter attract fine in Tamil Nadu with the government issuing an ordinance to make them compoundable offence. Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Second Amendment) Ordinance 2020, came into force following assent from Governor Banwarilal Purohit with the government maintaining that levy of the fine is necessary to bring discipline among people during the coronavirus pandemic. “It is, therefore, considered necessary to make the violations against lockdown and social distancing measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 as compoundable offences and also to prohibit the acts of violence against the persons implementing these measures,” an official statement from Raj Bhavan said. While spitting in public places, violation of quarantine rules and not maintaining physical distance in public will attract a fine of Rs 500 each, people not wearing face masks will have to shell out Rs 200. The rules, released by the Health Department says that commercial establishments violating Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) will have to pay a fine of Rs 5,000. Non-adherence to rules by individuals in containment zones will attract a fine of Rs 500, the new rules signed by Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said. A senior government official explained though there are many who follow the rules with regard to Covid-19, a few people do not wear masks or maintain physical distancing. “Authorities are finding it very tough to handle those people who do not follow rules and hence we have decided to make them compoundable offence to ensure compliance,” he said. At last count on Friday evening, the state had reported a total of 4,51,827 coronavirus cases, including 3,92,507 discharges and 7,687 deaths. The number of active cases in the state stood at 51,633.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-makes-violation-of-covid-19-rules-compoundable-offence-882517.html
04-09-2020||South||Congress MLA's mother writes to CPI(M) chief Sitaram Yechury over 'devil's son' remark||Upset over a CPI(M) leader's "devil's son" remark against a Congress MLA in Kerala, the legislator's mother wrote an open letter to the party general secretary condemning the act. CPI(M) state secretariat member Baby John had labelled Anil Akkara, Congress MLA of Wadakkancehrry in Thrissur, as a son of a devil following the political spat over the corruption allegations over a UAE agency funded housing scheme. Anil's mother Lilly wrote an open letter to CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury condemning the remark. She also recollected that her late husband Anthony was a former Communist activist. Lilly said that no politicians should pass such remarks that hurt their parents. "Anil's father was an active Communist worker. But politics is an individual choice (Anil is in Congress). Whatever be the reason, no politician should abuse his opponents and use such words. It is painful for parents when a son is being referred to as the devil's son, she said. During a public meeting, Baby John had alleged that Anil was trying to sabotage the housing scheme for the poor. Anil is the son of a devil and should be boycotted by the society, Baby John had allegedly said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-mlas-mother-writes-to-cpim-chief-sitaram-yechury-over-devils-son-remark-882518.html
04-09-2020||South||Battered in successive elections, DMDK begins posturing ahead of assembly polls||Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu may be eight months away, but the Desiya Dravida Murpokku Kazhagam (DMDK) of actor Vijayakanth has already begun posturing, in an apparent bid to stay relevant in the state’s political landscape. The posturing comes even as the DMDK has been battered by dwindling vote share in subsequent elections, mass exodus of leaders and an “uninspiring leadership” with Vijayakanth keeping indoors mostly due to his ill-health. Though the party’s stature in state politics has witnessed a downslide in the past few years, the DMDK’s top brass – Vijayakanth’s wife Premalatha and his brother-in-law L K Sudhish – are now projecting the party as an “alternative to the DMK and AIADMK” once again and their party chief as the “king.” While Premalatha spoke to the media twice in a fortnight about DMDK being the alternative to the existing political parties, Sudhish stoked a controversy by posting a cartoon that appeared in a Tamil daily during the run-up to the 2016 assembly polls showing late M Karunanidhi falling at the feet of Vijayakanth. Though the party has long been claiming as an alternative, it has aligned with AIADMK and BJP twice in the past. The party’s talks with DMK in 2016 and 2019 failed. “People are yearning for a change and they do not want to stick to the two parties DMK and AIADMK that have ruled Tamil Nadu for long. DMDK has a bright chance to form the government in Tamil Nadu,” Premalatha said on August 31. Political analysts say the recent statements from DMDK leaders are nothing but a desperate attempt to project the party as one of the key players and not to “increase its bargaining power” during alliance talks and seat negotiations ahead of the elections. They also say Vijayakanth lost his “political glory” longtime back and is evident from the fact that the DMDK was forced by the AIADMK to agree to four Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and denial of a Rajya Sabha nomination to Sudhish. “It is nothing but posturing and an act to increase bargaining power. The party had lost its relevance long back and is now at the mercy of the BJP. The party’s vote share has also dwindled to less than three percent. And such statements are only to keep reinforcing their relevance,” Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Political Science and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH. Once projected as an alternative to the DMK and AIADMK and launched with much fanfare in 2005 when stalwarts M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa were in active politics, DMDK’s rise was meteoric and so was it fall as its vote share shrunk to a mere 2.19 percent in 2019 from an impressive 10.3 percent in 2009.  With a notable 8.38 percentage in its debut elections in 2006 when Tamil Nadu voted for a new assembly, the party did remarkably well three years later during the 2009 Lok Sabha elections by securing 10.3 percent votes. However, the percentage came down to 7.88 percent in 2011 Tamil Nadu assembly when the DMDK aligned for the first time since inception with the AIADMK to fight the elections. Since 2011, the party’s downfall began, and its vote share has been witnessing a slide every election. While the percentage in 2014 Lok Sabha polls fell to 5.19 percent, it went further down to 2.39 percent in the assembly elections held two years later. An alliance with the AIADMK also could not help the party increase its vote share as the DMDK secured just 2.19 percent of votes in 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/battered-in-successive-elections-dmdk-begins-posturing-ahead-of-assembly-polls-882524.html
04-09-2020||South||Kerala sees highest suicides by unemployed persons||Close on the heels of an unemployed youth ending his life in Kerala that snowballed into a major political row, National Crime Records Bureau's recent report shows that Kerala tops the number of unemployed persons ending their life in 2019. According to the recently released NCRB report, out of 14,019 unemployed persons ending life, majority, 14 percent, was in Kerala with 1,963 suicides, followed by 10.8 percent in Maharashtra with 1,511 suicides, 9.8 percent in Tamil Nadu with 1,368 suicides, 9.2 percent in Karnataka with 1,293 suicides and 6.1 percent in Odisha with 858 suicides. The fresh report is being used by the Opposition Congress in Kerala to further step up the attack against the ruling Left Front government over backdoor appointments and the flaws in recruitment through Public Service Commission, even as the reason for all the suicides need not be unemployment. AICC general secretary and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said that the fresh report had exposed Kerala government's justification that the suicide of youth in Thiruvananthapuram recently citing unemployment was an isolated incident. Kerala is witnessing the highest unemployment rate and the government must take moral responsibility of the death of youths due to unemployment, he said. S Anu, a native of Thiruvananthapuram, was found hanging in his house on Sunday morning. In a suicide note recovered from the house, it was written that unemployment was the cause. He had secured 77th rank in the Public Service Commission recruitment test to the post of civil excise officer in Kerala Excise Department. But he feared that the list got expired in June, even as the PSC authorities now denied it. Kerala is witnessing strong protests against the PSC over the issue. The recent allegations of backdoor appointment of gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh to a state government agency had ignited the protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sees-highest-suicides-by-unemployed-persons-882550.html
04-09-2020||South||Two injured as crude bomb explodes in Kerala||Two youths suffered serious injuries while allegedly making crude bombs in Kerala's Kannur district. The incident, which took place at Kathiroor in the district on Friday afternoon, assumes significance as a political tension was prevailing in the state over the last few days following the twin murder of DYFI activists in Thiruvananthapuram allegedly by Congress workers. Congress offices across Kerala have been attacked following the twin murders. One of the injured was said to be a CPM activist who was exonerated in a political murder case. Sources said, his hands have been severely injured in the explosion. BJP state president K Surendran alleged that the bomb explosion exposed the preparation being made by the ruling CPM to unleash tension in the state. The CPM is suspected of targeting many BJP-RSS workers in Kannur district, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-injured-as-crude-bomb-explodes-in-kerala-882567.html
04-09-2020||South||Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat to face by-polls in November||By-elections to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency, which has fallen vacant following the death of its member H Vasanthakumar, is likely to be held in October-November along with the Assembly elections in Bihar. The Lok Sabha secretariat on Friday announced Kanyakumari seat as vacant, exactly a week after Vasanthakumar, also a successful businessman, breathed his last. The Election Commission is likely to hold by-elections to the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat and over 60 Assembly constituencies in various states that are vacant along with the assembly polls in Bihar in October-November. Vasanthakumar, a two-time Congress MLA, was elected in 2019 after defeating former Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan by a huge margin. The by-election is likely to bring the Congress and the BJP for a face-off yet again in Kanyakumari constituency. The BJP had won the seat in 2014 elections, pushing the Congress and AIADMK to the second and third positions. Jockeying for candidates have already begun in the BJP with its leader Nainar Nagendran expressing interest in contesting the by-elections. The Congress is likely to contest the by-elections as the Kanyakumari seat was allotted to the party during the 2019 polls. Since the bypolls are likely to be held in October-November, the results could indicate which way the political wind is blowing in Tamil Nadu, which will face assembly polls in the first half of 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kanyakumari-lok-sabha-seat-to-face-by-polls-in-november-882572.html
04-09-2020||South||Punjab: Sunny Deol visits Gurdaspur, discusses Covid-19 situation with officials||Gurdaspur BJP MP Sunny Deol on Friday visited his constituency and held discussions with senior officials over the coronavirus pandemic and other issues. The Bollywood actor in the past has faced criticism from his political adversaries, including the Congress, for staying away from his constituency for long periods. This time, he visited Gurdaspur after a gap of about six months. The parliamentarian met Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq and SSP R S Sohal. After meeting the SSP, Deol tweeted, “Positive discussions were held with the SSP related to making people more aware towards corona and on key issues pertaining to Gurdaspur's law and order.” He said in his meeting with the deputy commissioner, the fight against coronavirus and development work being carried out by the Union government were discussed. He is likely to meet senior district officials in Pathankot on Saturday. Two days ago, Deol had met Union minister Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi in connection with development work of his constituency. Meanwhile, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Punjab's Minister for Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, said that Deol was not concerned about people's plight. “We knew right from the start that he will not come here after winning the elections. Has he taken any interest in his constituency? He mostly stays away,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/punjab-sunny-deol-visits-gurdaspur-discusses-covid-19-situation-with-officials-882607.html
04-09-2020||State||Jarkiholi to visit New Delhi to seek environmental clearance for Kalasa-Banduri project||Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that he would be visiting New Delhi on September 13 and 14, to seek environmental clearance for the implementation of Kalasa-Banduri nallah diversion project as per the orders of Mahadayi River Dispute Tribunal Award. Speaking to reporters after a review meeting here on Friday, Jarkiholi said, he had earlier visited the national capital to meet union ministers and officials concerned to seek environmental clearance as per the tribunal's order, but it could not happen due to Covid-19 pandemic. We hope to get the clearance during the visit next week. Centre had earlier given environmental clearance, but it lapsed. New application has to be submitted and follow-up has to be made, he added. Encroachments in rivers Ghataprabha, Malaprabha, Markendeya and Bellary nallah are being feared to be the reasons for the floods being witnessed since two years during monsoon. Committee under Regional Commissioner has been formed and it will conduct survey and submit its report regarding encroachments and desilting the water bodies upto Kudal Sangama in Bagalkot district. Based on the report, all encroachments will be cleared, he informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jarkiholi-to-visit-new-delhi-to-seek-environmental-clearance-for-kalasa-banduri-project-882363.html
04-09-2020||State||India should be an argumentative nation, says India's ambassador to The Netherlands||Indian Ambassador to the Kingdom of The Netherlands Venu Rajamony said India should be an argumentative nation rather than a violent one. He was delivering the keynote address on ‘Turning Diplomatic Experience into Chronicles’, as part of Mysuru Literature Festival 2020, hosted by Mysuru Literary Forum and Charitable Trust and Mysuru Book Clubs - 2015, on the seventh day, on Friday. Co-founder and director of Takshashila Institution Nitin Pai was the moderator. The festival, virtual due to the Covid-19 crisis, the fourth edition since 2017, is being held on weekends from August 14 to September 5. Venu Rajamony said, India has all the potential to grow and it is on the path, but conscious efforts to label India as a ‘Super Power’ is not proper. “There is still a long way for India. Poverty needs to be eliminated, health and education should be reached to all corners of the nation. We need to make our economy a true success story. We need to live within diversity in harmony. We need to protect our minorities. We need to be tolerant to the difference of opinion and debate,” he said. He said the Right to Expression is a valuable feature ingrained in the Constitution, to safeguard democracy. “Nobody should dilute the Right to Speak or Express. Stringent action should be taken against those, who burn books and vandalise if they disagree with the contents,” he said. Mentioning his book ‘What Can We Learn From The Dutch: Rebuilding Kerala Post 2018 Floods’, he said building walls will not check floods. “Over centuries, the Dutch have been finding ways to control high waters. A low-lying area, with 26% of the country below sea level, their vulnerability to floods and experience of past disasters have prompted them to develop the most advanced flood risk and water management systems. They have evolved to live with nature and to give room for water,” he said. Venu Rajamony said, unfortunately, the Dutch-India relations have been long forgotten due to the much stronger connections with the British. He recalled his visits to Mysuru as a student and also as a grown-up. He mentioned the beauty of Brindavan Gardens, Sri Ranganathaswamy temple, which resembles Sri Ananthapadmanabha Swamy temple in his home town of Thiruvananthapuram, and friends like writer Aroon Raman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/india-should-be-an-argumentative-nation-says-indias-ambassador-to-the-netherlands-882551.html
04-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Policy relaxations, increased testing add to Covid-19 surge in Karnataka||Karnataka’s Covid-19 outbreak appears to be getting worse but the government maintains that the rising cases are due to increased testing, even though experts said ill-advised policy relaxations are also to blame. According to an expert, inflow of interstate travellers without scrutiny, scrapping of remaining restrictions and relaxing enforcement of mask and social distancing are contributing to the spike in cases.  Official data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare shows that the number of statewide cases have increased by 75.1% over a 30-day period. On Wednesday, the state saw its highest number of cases, 9,860 new infections, with Bengaluru Urban registering 3,420 cases. Both the BBMP Commissioner N Manjunath Prasad and Dr C N Manjunath, the state nodal officer for testing, insisted that more testing is leading to a surge in cases. “If we were still doing about 30,000 tests per day, our daily figures in the state would be in the 4,000 range,” Dr C N Manjunath said. As per data, on days when the testing is less than 30,000, some 4,000 new cases are found. On September 1, a record high of 83,670 tests were conducted. That day, 9,058 cases were announced. However, Dr Manjunath admitted that the contributing factors driving the outbreak are still there: people coming into the state and reduced social distancing. He suggested that a policy of voluntary disclosures and self-isolation was the order of the day. Meantime, it is not just the cases which have increased. In the last week of August, 279 people have officially died of the disease in the city, which is the highest weekly increase for that month. Domino effect One expert likened restrictions and surveillance relaxations to creating a domino effect. “Relaxing restrictions means more spread of the disease, which the state will have to address by further increasing its testing. Where does it end?” he asked. The expert, who did not want to be named, pointed out that Bengaluru (which holds the majority of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka) has one of the worst positivity rates in the country. The data shows the positivity rate fluctuating wildly from as high as 26.89% percent to a low of 5.8% over the last 15 days. The relaxations may also have sent a signal to the public that all is well, which has prompted more mask and social distancing violations, made worse by a decision to stop penalising violators. In Bengaluru Urban, the Palike said that it scrapped its special programmes to catch violators. “It was hindering ongoing efforts in dealing with black spots, although marshals while on duty have the authority to fine violators,” said BBMP Chief Marshal Officer Rajbir Singh. Consequently, registrations of violations fell from 533 on August 22 to zero on August 31. At its peak, on June 30, 3,323 violations had been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/policy-relaxations-increased-testing-add-to-covid-19-surge-in-karnataka-882219.html
04-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CCB makes first arrest in Sandalwood drug scandal||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police probing alleged drug peddling and substance abuse by Sandalwood actors on Thursday made its first arrest. Ravi Shankar, a 40-year-old clerk at the Regional Transport Office (RTO), Jayanagar, and a close friend of Sandalwood actress Ragini Dwivedi, was arrested by the CCB sleuths. Interestingly, Ragini, who was supposed to appear before the CCB, sought time till Monday. However, the cops directed her to appear before CCB on Friday morning. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), said Ravi was arrested after enough details about his links and involvement in drug peddling were found. “He has been taken into five days police custody for further interrogation,” he said. In the meantime, the CCB police have also detained Rahul Shetty, a real-estate businessman and a close friend of another actress Sanjjanaa Galrani. This apart, the police have also detained another person identified as Karthik Raj, who runs a restaurant in Koramangala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ccb-makes-first-arrest-in-sandalwood-drug-scandal-882222.html
04-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar admitted again to hospital as fever recurs||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, who was discharged after recovering from Covid-19, has been admitted to hospital again after he developed fever and cough, party sources said. Shivakumar has been shifted to Apollo Hospital in Jayanagar, sources said. On August 24, the Congress leader was admitted to Suguna Hospital in Rajajinagar after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was discharged six days later after he “responded well to the treatment.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-admitted-again-to-hospital-as-fever-recurs-882380.html
04-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Officials to expand action against drug supply to tier 2 & 3 cites, also districts: Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said officials have been instructed to extend their action against drugs and ganja supply in tier 2 and 3 cities and in various districts, as he noted that "new dimensions" are emerging from investigation into its menace here. The minister asserted that the government's action against drugs will continue, until it is completely brought under control. "Investigation is going on regarding the drug case and it is progressing at a fast pace and new dimensions are emerging. We have decided to find out the source of this drug menace," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said not only at the level of consumers, instructions have been given to officials to find out from where it is getting supplied, and the work is in progress. "I have asked police to conduct operations against supply of drugs and ganja in tier 2 and tier 3 cities and at district level, I will review its progress through video conferencing tomorrow with SPs and IGs and will be giving certain instructions," he added. Bommai further said the crackdown against drugs coming into the state, that which is in supply inside the state, whether in districts or border areas or in Bengaluru city, will continue. "Our operation against it will continue for some more days, until we completely bring it under control," he said. The recent arrests made by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had unearthed alleged links of drug peddlers with Kannada actors and musicians, which the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police are currently investigating. Responding to a question on CCB police questioning actress Ragini Dwivedi in connection with alleged drug links, Bommai said "it is one part of the investigation, CCB will continue their investigation and take action as per law, I will not interfere."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/officials-to-expand-action-against-drug-supply-to-tier-2-3-cites-also-districts-basavaraj-bommai-882486.html
04-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 9,280 new Covid-19 cases, 116 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported a spike of 9,280 new cases of Covid-19 and 116 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 3,79,486 and death toll to 6,170, the health department said. The day also saw 6,161 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 9,280 fresh cases reported today, 2,963 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of September 4 evening, cumulatively 3,79,486 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 6,170 deaths and 2,74,196 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said out of 99,101 active cases, 98,316 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 785 are in ICU. According to the bulletin, 25 out of total 116 deaths reported today are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru (11), Davangere and Dharwad (10), Ballari (8), Dakshina Kannada (7), Belagavi and Shivamogga (6), Bengaluru Rural and Tumakuru (4), Bidar and Raichur (3); Chikkamaaluru, Gadag, Hassan, Kalaburagi, Udupi and Vijayapura (2), and Bagalkote, Chamarajanagara, Chikkballapura, Kolar, Koppal, Mandya and Uttara Kannada (1).  Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,963, Mysuru 776, Ballari 447, Dakshina Kannada 428, Tumakuru 424, Shivamogga 350, Hassan 340, Dharwad 297, Belagavi 278, Davangere 263, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,41,664 infections, followed by Ballari 23,038 and Mysuru 20,604. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 97,926 discharges, followed by Ballari 17,640 and Mysuru 13,646. A total of 31,97,110 samples were tested so far, out of which 73,192 were tested on Friday alone. Among the samples tested today 31,641 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-9280-new-covid-19-cases-116-deaths-882569.html
04-09-2020||West||Kangana should go to police with proof rather than tweeting: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday said that actor Kangana Ranaut should approach the police with evidence and prove that he threatened her rather than "playing on Twitter". Earlier in the day, Ranaut alleged on Twitter that Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, had threatened her openly and asked her not to return to Mumbai. Speaking to reporters here, Raut said without naming the actor that "instead of playing on Twitter, one should approach the police and government with proof." "Why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied- Kashmir," Ranaut had tweeted, and tagged a September 1 news report where Raut purportedly said that she should not come back to Mumbai if she was afraid of city police. The actor had said she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia". She would require security from Haryana or Himachal Pradesh police and would not accept protection from Mumbai Police to expose the `drug mafia in Bollywood', she had stated. The "Queen" star has been lashing out at the cliques and nepotism in Bollywood since the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-should-go-to-police-with-proof-rather-than-tweeting-sanjay-raut-882196.html
04-09-2020||West||Coronavirus: Rajasthan govt fixes treatment cost at private hospitals||The Rajasthan government on Thursday fixed rates for coronavirus treatment at private hospitals, keeping the charges at Rs 5,000 to Rs 9,900 a day. The decision has come amid reports that private hospitals were charging an exorbitant fee for the treatment. According to a notification issued by the state Medical and Health Department, the cost of treatment in hospitals not certified by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) has been kept at Rs 5,000 to Rs 9,000 per day. In the NABL-accredited hospitals, the charges have been fixed at Rs 5,500 to Rs 9,900 a day. The treatment cost includes Rs 1,200 of a PPE kit. In the notification, the government said on June 20, the department had fixed rates for the treatment of coronavirus at private hospitals of the state. But in that order, it was not clear which medicines or expenses are included. This new rate has been fixed to remove confusion, an official statement said. According to the department, the state government is using the powers provided in Section 4 of Rajasthan Epidemic Ordinance, 2020 to fix the maximum cost of treatment for common people under the protocol prescribed for coronavirus-infected patients in private hospitals of the state. Hospitals have been asked to follow the notification, otherwise, action will be taken against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-rajasthan-govt-fixes-treatment-cost-at-private-hospitals-882208.html
04-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Over 2,700 Mumbaikars fined for not wearing masks||As per the Union government's guidelines following the virus outbreak, the civic body made masks mandatory in public places since April 9. The civic body in Mumbai has collected a total of Rs 27.48 lakh in fines from 2,798 citizens between April 9 and August 31, the official said. At least 9,954 citizens were issued warnings by the civic body's solid waste management department, which is keeping a check on violations, for not wearing masks correctly, he said. The civic body has directed to collect Rs 1,000 fine from violators of the mask rule. According to the civic body, Rs 5.04 lakh were collected in fines in K-West ward that includes Andheri West, which is the highest in the city. This was followed by R-South, which includes western suburb of Kandivali, and C ward of south Bombay with Rs 4.21 lakh and Rs 4.08 lakh respectively, the civic data stated. The civic body further said that Rs 9.45 lakh in fines were collected in May alone, followed by Rs 5.88 lakh and Rs 4.82 lakh in June and April respectively. Mumbai is one of the worst-affected cities in the country in the pandemic, with over 1.5 lakh cases and 7,761 casualties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-over-2700-mumbaikars-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-882321.html
04-09-2020||West||Thane district records 1,590 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deaths||With the latest cases recorded on Thursday, the tally in the district now stands at 1,28,429, of which maximum cases have been reported in Kalyan at 30,054, followed by Navi Mumbai at 27,112, the official said. While Thane city recorded a total of 26,735 cases, Mira Bhayander's total stood at 13,149 and Thane rural has recorded a caseload of 10,000, he said. At least 329 persons tested positive for coronavirus infection in Thane city on Thursday, while Kalyan recorded 405 cases, the official said. With the addition of 29 casualties, the toll in the district has reached 3,643, he said. Thane city for the first time recorded zero casualties on Thursday, while Kalyan recorded eight deaths, he added. The district has recorded a recovery rate of 86.71 per cent (1,11,362) and the mortality rate of 2.84 per cent (3,643), the official said. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 tally of Palghar district stood at 25,511 and casualties were at 522, an official said on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-district-records-1590-new-covid-19-cases-29-deaths-882336.html
04-09-2020||West||Maharashtra legislature's Monsoon Session from September 7 under Covid-19 shadow||As the Maharashtra legislature gears up for its first coronavirus-era session, officials have put in place a slew of measures to ensure members do not contract the infection and house proceedings go on without any hindrance. Compulsory antigen tests for legislators, distribution of Covid-19 kits and a new seating arrangement to ensure physical distancing among members are some of the measures undertaken for the two-day monsoon session beginning here on September 7, Vidhan Bhavan officials said. The shortest-ever monsoon session in the history of the Maharashtra legislature is taking place in the backdrop of a raging Covid-19 pandemic which has already infected more than 8.43 lakh people in the state. The brief session will take up supplementary demands and certain bills, among other legislature work. There will be no question hour, calling attention and debates, parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab told PTI. This is also the first monsoon session of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government which assumed office in November last year. The session has been postponed twice - it was originally scheduled from June 22 and was later shifted to the last week of August. The budget session in March was curtailed by a week after the first coronavirus case in Maharashtra was detected. Since March-end, the state has been under the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, but restrictions have been gradually eased to allow resumption of business activities and normal public life. For the monsoon session, besides the regular areas seating arrangements have been made for legislators in visitors and students gallery to ensure physical distancing between them, the officials said. On September 6, members of both the houses of the legislature will have to undergo antigen tests for detection of coronavirus, they said. Legislators will also be givenspecial kits that will consist of masks and face shields, among other items, the officials said. Personal assistants (PAs) of lawmakers will not be allowed to accompany them inside the house and arrangements for them along with drivers of legislators have been made in the parking area of the assembly complex in south Mumbai, they said. Members with comorbidities (pre-existing health conditions) will be asked by their group leaders to take extra precautions, they said. Nearly half a dozen ministers in Maharashtra have been diagnosed with Covid-19 so far. On Monday, both houses will pay tributes to former president Pranab Mukherjee and ex-Maharashtra chief minister Shivajirao Nilangekar who died recently, and will be adjourned for the day after tabling of supplementary demands and ordinances. On Tuesday, discussion on supplementary demands will take place before their passage in the house. The oppositionis likely to raise issues like the prevailing Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, the controversy over conducting final-year university exams and the Sushant Singh Rajput case, among others, a senior BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-legislatures-monsoon-session-from-september-7-under-covid-19-shadow-882339.html
04-09-2020||West||Maharashtra minister Sunil Kedar tests Covid-19 positive, hospitalised||Maharashtra minister Sunil Kedar, a Congress leader, has tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to a private hospital here, his party said on Friday. "He was admitted to the hospital on Thursday evening after his Covid-19 test came positive," Atul Londhe, state Congress spokesperson, told PTI. Kedar (59) is the cabinet minister for animal husbandary, dairy development and youth welfare & sports. He is the 6th minister in the MVA government to test positive for the infection. Other ministers have recovered from the illness. Londhe said Kedar, the MLA from Saoner in east Vidarbha, had been constantly working on the ground for the last few days to provide relief to flood-hit people of the region||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-sunil-kedar-tests-covid-19-positive-hospitalised-882357.html
04-09-2020||West||Forest squad attacked by encroachers in Baran, one guard critically injured||A forest guard was critically injured in Rajasthan's Baran after he was allegedly run over by a tractor and dragged some 200 metres by 5 to 7 people who attacked his patrolling squad during an anti-encroachment drive on Friday, officials said. The incident took place in the early hours of Friday near Agar forest check post and the forest squad succeeded in detaining one of the encroachers, they said. Assistant Conservator of Forest (Baran) Mohammad Hafeez said the department received information about encroachment being carried out on government land at 11 pm on Thursday. A squad comprising 12 personnel from Shahabad and Baran forest ranges reached the spot at 1.30 am on Friday when five to seven people engaged in the encroachment attacked them with sticks and sharp weapons, Hafeez said. The encroachers then ran their tractor over forest guard, Methun Fogdar (24), and dragged him for around 200 metres, but they fled after the vehicle got stuck in a drain, he added. The forest guard was rushed to a hospital in Baran where he is undergoing treatment, the ACF said, adding he suffered critical injuries. The other personnel of the squad escaped injury, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/forest-squad-attacked-by-encroachers-in-baran-one-guard-critically-injured-882399.html
04-09-2020||West||Five of family die by suicide in Gujarat, financial crisis suspected||Five persons of a family, including three children, were found dead at their home in Dahod town of central Gujarat on Friday. The police suspect it to be a case of suicide caused primarily due to financial stress. According to the police, Saifuddin Dudhiyawala (42), his wife Mezbin (34), and their three children were found dead on Friday morning. The police said Dudhiyawala, a businessman, had suffered a huge loss in the past year. Local sources said he was running a disposable plate making factory in the town, which he had to mortgage. To support the family, he started selling the products of his own factory. Locals said Dudhiyawala had borrowed money and was not able to repay it. The last five months of lockdown and economic slump may have driven the family to take such a step. "It is believed that the creditors may be behind the mental stress the family went through, causing them to take such an extreme step. His brother was also haunted by loan sharks, who also died by suicide. The role of loan sharks can't be ruled out in this case also," the local source said. "Prima facie, it seems a case of suicide due to financial crisis. But, we don't know anything concrete yet. Primary investigation suggests that they died due to consuming some poisonous substance. We will record the statement of the relatives once the final rites are over. So far, we have registered a case of accidental death," the police said. In June, six persons of a family were found dead in a flat in Ahmedabad. Investigation revealed that the family was under huge debt and they were unable to repay it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-of-family-die-by-suicide-in-gujarat-financial-crisis-suspected-882493.html
04-09-2020||West||NCB arrests Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik and Samuel Miranda||Taking the first major step in busting the alleged Bollywood-drug mafia nexus, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested Showik Chakraborty and Samuel Miranda, the two close aides of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. While Showik is brother of Rhea Chakraborty, the live-in partner of the actor, Miranda is former house manager of Sushant. Showik and Samuel Miranda were brought to the NCB’s regional office at Ballard Estate in Mumbai after an over four-hour raid at their residences. The NCB now is expected to call 28-year-old Rhea and her father Lt Col (retd) Dr Indrajit Chakraborty for grilling. Showik and Miranda will be produced in the court on Saturday. The cases against them are vis-a-vis drugs and not the death of the actor. At dawn, NCB sleuths raided the residence of Miranda in Andheri West and the Chakrabortys in Santacruz West for close to four hours and seized digital devices like laptops and smartphones. During the interrogation, Showik had told the agency that he used to procure drugs for Sushant. Later, they were taken to the NCB’s regional headquarters at the Ballard Estate in Mumbai, where they were grilled separately and confronted with each other. The trio – Rhea, Showik and Miranda were among the closest to the actor. Rhea had claimed that Sushant used to smoke marijuana. The current investigation focuses on the procurement of the contraband and supply to the 34-year-old Sushant. In a related development, Abdel Basit Parihar, an alleged drug peddler, has been sent to NCB custody till September 9. Parihar was made to join the investigation based on Zaid Vilatra's interrogation. Both Basit and Zaid are alleged to be involved in drug peddling and supplying contraband to high-profile people. Both Basit and Zaid have links to Showik and Miranda. Sushant’s father Krishna Kishore Singh has blamed the former’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty for the death of the actor, who essayed the role of former Team India skipper and legendary wicketkeeper-batsman MS Dhoni in the film ‘MS Dhoni: The Untold Story’. During the raids, digital devices of Showik and Miranda were checked. WhatsApp chat of Showik, Rhea and Miranda had shown conversation about drugs. In the last few days, Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya has been grilled by ED. Chats between him and Rhea too have revealed the drug angle. Meanwhile, Sushant’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti tweeted: “Good going NCB... Thank You God.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-arrests-rhea-chakrabortys-brother-showik-and-samuel-miranda-882523.html
04-09-2020||West||Maharashtra varsities asked to submit final year exam plan by September 7||The Maharashtra government on Friday asked the universities in the state to submit by September 7 their detailed plan of conducting final year examinations. State Minister for Higher and Technical Education Uday Samant told this to reporters. He said that while the universities were free to chalk out their own schedule of conducting exams, they have to announce the results by October 31. "The state has asked the universities to submit by September 7 their detailed plan of conducting examinations. This would enable the government to hold a meeting with the disaster management committee to decide on the steps needed to be taken against coronavirus spread during the exam," he said. Considering the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the government had sought cancellation of the final year exams. The ruling Shiv Sena's youth wing Yuva Sena had moved the supreme court seeking cancellation of the final year exams of universities across states in view of the Covid-19 crisis. However, the Supreme Court had last week upheld the UGC guidelines and said that no state and university can promote students in the final year/terminal semester without conducting examinations. "The students who are going abroad for higher studies will be getting provisional certificate from their respective colleges and institutes. Several colleges abroad have shown willingness to accept such provisional certificate as a document for confirming the admission," Samant said. Students are allowed to secure admission in a foreign institute of their choice first and submit their final year results later, he added. "We have already given such provisional certificates of their performance to few students so far and their respective institutes abroad have held it valid for confirmation of admission," he said. "Most of the exams would be held either in the form of appearing from home or open-book format. The universities will decide as per their local situation on which option to select for conducting the exams," he said. "The practical or viva should commence from September 15 and should get over by September 30," the minister added. "Even the schedule of backlog papers will be part of the final years student's schedule and their results will be out along with final results," Samant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-varsities-asked-to-submit-final-year-exam-plan-by-september-7-882548.html
04-09-2020||West||Goa announces free treatment, medical examination for plasma donors for a year||In a bid to incentivise plasma donation, amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in Goa, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said that plasma donors among recovered coronavirus patients and their respective families would be eligible for free medical care and health checkup for one year.  Rane also said that with the number of cases rising and with the spike expected to continue for a few days, the state currently needed at least 1,000 plasma units for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.  “The family of the patient will give them free treatment at the Goa Medical College as well as the Directorate of Health Services facilities. They will also be given a free executive check-up,” Rane said.  The Health Minister said that a target had been set for “collecting 1000 units of plasma”.  Rane also said that the State Health Ministry had launched an awareness campaign to put a message across about the importance of donating plasma by Covid-19 patients who have recovered.  Over the last three consecutive days, the state has witnessed a record number of Covid-19 cases. Nearly 200 persons in the state have died after testing positive for Covid-19.  According to Health Ministry statistics nearly 20,000 persons have tested positive for Covid-19, ever since the pandemic broke out in March this year.  Rane also said that one of the main reasons for increased fatalities in Goa is the delay in the admission of Covid-19 patients, which makes treating them difficult.  “People should not wait for the last minute. They should get the patients during the preliminary stage,” Rane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-announces-free-treatment-medical-examination-for-plasma-donors-for-a-year-882584.html
04-09-2020||West||Family of 5 dies by suicide due to financial stress||Five persons of a family, including three children, were found dead at their home in Dahod town of central Gujarat on Friday. Police suspect it a case of suicide caused primarily due to financial stress. According to police, 42 years old Saifuddin Dudhiyawala, his wife Mezbin, 34 and their three children were found dead on Friday morning. Police said that Dudhiyawala was a businessman who had suffered a huge loss in the last year. Local sources said that he was running a disposable plate making factory in the town which he had to mortgage. To support the family, he started selling the products of his own factory. Locals said that Dudhiyawala had incurred debts and was not able to pay back. Last five months of lockdown and economic slump may have driven the family to take such a step. "It is believed that the creditors might be behind the mental stress the family went through causing them to take such an extreme step. His brother was also haunted by loan sharks who also died by suicide. The role of loan sharks can't be ruled out in this case also," the local source said. "Prima facie, it seems a case of suicide due to financial crisis. But, we don't know anything concrete yet. Primary investigation suggests that they died due to consuming some poisonous substance. We will record the statement of the relatives once the final rites are over. So far, we have registered a case of accidental death," Dahod Superintendent of Police Hitesh Joisar told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/family-of-5-dies-by-suicide-due-to-financial-stress-882585.html
04-09-2020||West||Emerging as new hotspot, control room in Rajkot to coordinate hospitals and crematoriums||After Ahmedabad and Surat, Rajkot city is emerging as a new coronavirus hotspot in the state, forcing the government to start new measures to contain the virus and mismanagement. On Friday, the local administration set up a control room to coordinate between hospitals and crematoriums to avoid piling up of dead bodies and delay in conducting the last rites. The decision comes after several local reports suggested more people are dying than are being reported in the city which is home to Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. The reports and pictures widely circulated on social media revealed a large number of dead bodies wrapped in plastic sheets lined up at Rajkot civil hospital for cremation. However, officials have denied the reports which claimed that the "actual death caused by coronavirus is less than what is being reported." When contacted, Rajkot Municipal Commissioner Udit Agrawal denied such reports and told DH, "The control room will be working round the clock and we have appointed a nodal officer for better coordination between crematoriums and hospitals. It has been done in anticipation but as on today, there is no such situation. This is part of the preparation to avoid delays and confusion." Rajkot city reported 105 new positive cases on Friday, the third-highest after Surat's 181 and Ahmedabad's 152 cases. Official figures stated that two patients passed away in Rajkot since Thursday evening but locals have claimed that the actual figure is much higher as the authorities don't count deaths of those who have comorbid conditions.  "The death audit team, consisting of doctors, actually decide it based on medical reports of patients," a senior officer told DH. "People from various parts of Saurashtra region come to Rajkot for treatment, especially to the civil hospital and that's the reason it is always crowded. Since we have to follow guidelines as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in every death, even non-COVID, disposing of the bodies gets delayed as they have to be wrapped up in sheets and handed over to relatives for last rites in presence of designated officials," added the senior officer who is supervising the Covid-19 related work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/emerging-as-new-hotspot-control-room-in-rajkot-to-coordinate-hospitals-and-crematoriums-882592.html
