05-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police raid gamblers in Chamarajanagar district||Hanur police bust a gambling racket with the arrest of 13 persons and seized Rs 4 lakh in cash. The gamblers were involved in playing cards at a farm land in Kamagere Village in Hanur taluk.  After receiving a tip off, a team of police led by Inspector Srikanth, under the guidance of Additional Superintendent of Police Anitha Haddannanar, raided them. The gamblers were warned and released on station bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-raid-gamblers-in-chamarajanagar-district-882730.html
05-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ganja, drugs trade exists in Malavalli: MLA Annadani||MLA K Annadani on Saturday said Malavalli taluk is not spared from ganja trade. The MLA speaking to reporters said, ganja and drug trade exists in Malavalli town and it extended to rural Malvalli also. It is a bad development and the police must act tough against narcotic substance trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ganja-drugs-trade-exists-in-malavalli-mla-annadani-882851.html
05-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada’s Covid-19 tally crosses 14,000-mark||The surge in Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada continued with the district recording 428 fresh cases on Friday. DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that the contact tracing of 168 people was underway, while 197 people were suffering from the symptoms of ILI, 22 had symptoms of SARI, and 41 infected were the primary contacts of already infected people. Mangaluru taluk continued to top the Covid-19 cases with the recording of 222 cases followed by 61 from Bantwal, 54 from Puttur, 45 from Sullia, 28 from Belthangady and 18 from other districts. The Deputy Commissioner said that so far 1,03,065 samples had been collected for testing. The total positive cases in the district had increased to 14,223. The total discharges in the district stand at 10,928 cases with the district registering 222 discharges on Friday. The Covid-19 fatalities have increased to 391 with Dakshina Kannada recording seven more fatalities. Among the fatalities, four were from Mangaluru, one from Puttur and two from other districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-14000-mark-882885.html
05-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||273 students admitted to upgraded Daddalakadu School||A whopping number of 273 students sought fresh admissions to various classes in Daddalakadu Upgraded Government Higher Primary School and High School. The school with the fresh admission now boasts of 782 students. As many as 104 students were admitted to the first standard. A total of 135 students had been enrolled into second standard to eighth standard and 34 students have been enrolled into the ninth standard. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar had visited the school a year ago and the Karenki Sri Durga Friends Club and Sri Durga Charitable Trust President Prakash Anchan had appealed to the minister to sanction a high school. Accordingly, the high school was sanctioned. The school was on the verge of closure with the number of children being reduced to 33 in 2016. It was Karenki Sri Durga Friends Club which adopted the school and upgraded it into a model school. According to Club President Prakash Anchan, a textile merchant being credited with the school's total turnover, the school was on the verge of closure. Members of Sri Durga Friends Club decided to save the school by pulling out their children from English medium schools and enrolling them in the government school. With this, the number of children increased to 230 in 2017, to 500 in 2018, to 650 in 2019. The school even boasts of bus services to ferry the children from faraway places. Additional guest teachers have been appointed to cater to the needs of imparting quality education. Already, a two-storey building for the school has been constructed. With the sanctioning of high school, additional teachers will also be transferred to the school, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/273-students-admitted-to-upgraded-daddalakadu-school-882890.html
05-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Appaji's death must become a lesson for govt: YSV Datta||State JD(S) Campaign Committee Chairman YSV Datta said the government and district administration must learn from death of former MLA of Bhadravathi Appaji Gowda who died for want ventilator on time. Speaking to mediapersons, here on Saturday, he said Gowda who was tested positive for Covid-19 lost his life as he did not get treatment on time. The former MLA, who was suffering from respiratory disorder, was denied treatment in private hospitals in the city. By the time he was shifted to McGann hospital, he had breathed his last. District administration is responsible for Gowda's death, he alleged. He said the number of patients in general hospitals is rising everyday. So, the government must issue an order directing private hospitals to reserve beds for Covid-19 patients without fail. District administration must monitor private hospitals. The government must learn from the death of Appaji Gowda. He urged the government to take measures to contain spread of Covid-19 and patients must get treatment in all private hospitals without fail. Private hospitals should not deny admission just because beds are reserved by important persons. He said Covid-19 test results have created confusion among people as one time the results show positive and the other time negative. What is the reason for it? he questioned and said there seems to secret deal between general and private hospitals. Health service has become a racket in the country. He said though government promised to bear medical expenses of those who are undergoing treatment in private hospitals, they are charging Rs 15,000 per day. It is a clear indication that everything is not fair in private hospitals. So, the government must probe into the functioning of private hospitals. State JD(S) General Secretary M Srikanth, leaders D Aanand, J P Yogish and others were present in press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/appajis-death-must-become-a-lesson-for-govt-ysv-datta-883052.html
05-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Virtual literature fest receives good response||The fourth edition, the Mysuru Literature Festival, which was conducted in the virtual format, due to the Covid crisis, received good response over eight days, weekends from August 14 to September 5. The event was hosted by Mysuru Literary Forum and Charitable Trust and Mysuru Book Clubs - 2015. On the last day of the festival, on Saturday, there were 403 views on the YouTube and the webinar hall was full with 500 attendees. Chairperson of the trust Shubha Sanjay Urs said that overall, over eight days, for 10 sessions, there were a total of 4,800 attendees on the Zoom App, while there were a total of 14,456 viewers on the YouTube. She said, “There were 1,200 viewers over two days, Friday and Saturday, on Facebook Live. A total of 1,160 persons have subscribed to Mysuru Literature Festival channel on YouTube. The registration count for the festival went up to 7,230, by the end of the event. Interestingly, members of many families have sat together and watched the sessions on YouTube, connecting it to their television sets and also to computers and laptops.” “Even as senior citizens took to the digital format and actively participated in the festival, a PUC student and a BSc student managed the entire virtual event with the help of some friends. The tech team of Mysuru Literature Festival handled e-mails to audience for every panel; SMS reminders to attendees; PPT slides and event videos; ghost moderators (curating the questions); and Facebook and Instagram pages,” she added. Shubha Sanjay Urs said, “The entire process was managed by Aryaman M Urs, co-founder of Team Unbound, a 12th standard student at SSVM World School, Coimbatore; and Iciri V Urs, second year BSc student of Mount Carmel College, Bengaluru.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/virtual-literature-fest-receives-good-response-883134.html
05-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Simple dasara: A choice among tradition, tourism and public health||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has already announced that this year, Mysuru Dasara will be simple, in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. However, the actual modalities of the celebrations should be chalked out by the Dasara High Power Committee. Yediyurappa is expected to chair a meeting of the committee in Bengaluru on Tuesday, with Kannada and Culture Minister C T Ravi, Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar, Mayor, MCC Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, MPs, MLAs and MLCs of Mysuru and its neighbourhood. Palace, Wadiyars, Dasara and Mysuru are inseparable. While other states and provinces were facing unrest, violence and sufferings during the freedom struggle, Mysuru was on the path of becoming a welfare state and was finding a prominent place on the world tourist map, under the Wadiyar kings. Due to the presence of various interesting tourist destinations in and around Mysuru, it has transformed into a tourist hub, making tourism and hospitality the key for its economy. The two major tourist seasons of Mysuru are Dasara and Summer vacation. While Summer is a long season, spread over at least three months, from April to June, Dasara is a shorter season, with around one month, starting from the first day of Navaratri. This year, Navaratri begins on October 17 and Dasara or Vijayadashami is on October 26, when Jamboo Savari should be held. There is more than a month for the preparations, in whatever way the government decides to celebrate the state festival or ‘Naada Habba’. S D Mahendra, former chairman of Karnataka Exhibition Authority said that the question, whether to celebrate Dasara or not to? is a difficult one. “If Dasara is celebrated, there is the risk of the spread of the pandemic. If it is not celebrated, thousands of people, who depend on the season for their livelihood, will suffer,” he said. Mahendra said that Dasara Exhibition, which is an integral part of Dasara festivities, since nearly a century, generates employment for thousands of people. “If the officials concerned are confident of implementing Covid guidelines, they can go ahead. For instance, out of 100 acres of the Exhibition Grounds, only around 30 acres of land is used for Dasara Exhibition. This year, stalls can be spread out, on more area, to avoid congestion and crowding,” he said. President of Mysuru Hotel Owners' Association C Narayana Gowda said, “We will wait for the guidelines of the government, to celebrate Dasara. At present, 20% of the hotels and restaurants are closed. Those open are operating on 20% staff strength. The tourism and hospitality industry loses a total of Rs 150 crore, if Dasara is not held on a large scale. Dasara is a festival of the people. If people do not come out and enjoy, how can it be celebrated?” Suma Rajkumar, a magician and ventriloquist, who used to give shows during Dasara said, “Besides finance, participation in Dasara is a moment of pride for artists. Dasara is a good platform for artists to showcase their talent, to a larger audience. For some artists, an opportunity in a Dasara event is a lifetime dream come true. It is better to celebrate Dasara, with necessary guidelines.” Violinist Mysore Manjunath said that Covid has crippled the lives of many, especially of those who depend on people’s support. How long, can one be restricted to four walls? Life should go on. "Already, the state government had allowed the celebration of Ganesha Chaturthi, with some restrictions. Such measures can be taken to celebrate Dasara also. Dasara is not just a festival, it is our culture and heritage. It is also related to financial transactions. There is an opportunity to bring life back on the normal path, by celebrating Dasara,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/simple-dasara-a-choice-among-tradition-tourism-and-public-health-883138.html
05-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Pashu Sanjeevani' launched in Mysuru||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar flagged off ‘Pashu Sanjeevani’, an ambulance to offer treatment to livestock, on Zilla Panchayat premises on Saturday. The state-of-the-art ambulances will reach the doorsteps of farmers to treat the livestock. The ambulance is equipped with an operation theatre, laboratory, scanning unit, oxygen support system, scanning equipment, seating facility for doctors among others. The farmers can contact toll-free helpline 1962, for the ambulance service. The minister said, "The scheme will help cattle owners and farmers. The ambulance, along with veterinarians, will reach the doorsteps of farmers to offer treatment for cattle. The scheme will be extended across the state soon." The minister said, "Dasara high power committee meeting is scheduled for September 8 in Bengaluru. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will chair the meeting. A decision about Dasara celebration will be taken at the Dasara Executive Committee meeting, which will be organised following the high power committee." He said, "The government will not spare anyone, who are involved in the narcotic drug scam. There is no question of protecting anyone, either film stars, politicians or any powerful person. The police will act tough.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pashu-sanjeevani-launched-in-mysuru-883140.html
05-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||No idea on political pressure for release of Ragini Dwivedi: Byrathi Basavaraj||Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Home Minister are determined to curb drugs menace in the state, and that the government is committed to initiate action against those indulged in drugs scam no matter who they are including children of politicians. Speaking to mediapersons, here on Saturday, he said he is not aware of political pressure on police to release actress Ragini Dwivedi in connection with drugs scam. Investigation officers must be aware of it. He also made it clear that he has no idea of Ragini's willingness to embrace BJP in the past. The party's national leaders will take a call in this regard. Reacting to the allegations that State BJP Unit Vice-president B Y Vijayendra's interference in the functioning of the government, he said it is far from truth and Vijayendra has nothing to do with the government. Congress leaders are making such statements to trouble the government. If they have evidence to prove the charges, let them produce, he dared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-idea-on-political-pressure-for-release-of-ragini-dwivedi-byrathi-basavaraj-883054.html
05-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP has no connection with Ragini Dwivedi: C T Ravi||Tourism Minister C T Ravi said BJP has no connection with actor Ragini Dwivedi and the party had not given her any position to her. Based on the evidence, she has been arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) and the investigation is in progress. The government will take stringent action against the wrongdoers, he told media persons.  “Drug mafia is not new to the state. For the first time, the investigation is being conducted in a serious manner. The government will not heed to any pressure,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-has-no-connection-with-ragini-dwivedi-c-t-ravi-883075.html
05-09-2020||Mysuru||Girl killed in Mysuru; honor killing suspected||The death of a 22-year-girl, which was reported recently in rural Mysuru, is suspected to be an honour killing. Meenakshi of Doddakanya in the taluk was found hanging on Wednesday.  The deceased was in love with a boy belonging to another community and her parents and brothers had opposed her affair. Meenakshi had sent an email about her family's opposition to the SP office and Odanadi Seva Samsthe, which work for deprived women. Meenakshi was working as a data entry operator. She had asked her family members to get her married to the boy she was in love with. But the parents and her brothers denied to do so.  According to the sources, her brothers had assaulted her several times over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/girl-killed-in-mysuru-honor-killing-suspected-882828.html
05-09-2020||Mysuru||'Pashu Sanjeevani' animal ambulance service launched in Mysuru||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar flagged off Pashu Sanjeevani, an ambulance facility for livestock. State-of-the-art ambulances will reach the door step of farmers to treat livestock. The ambulances are equipped with features such as operation theatre, laboratory, scanning unit, water unit, oxygen support system, seating facility for doctors among others. The farmers can contact toll-free helpline 1962 to contact the ambulance service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/pashu-sanjeevani-animal-ambulance-service-launched-in-mysuru-882842.html
05-09-2020||National||India, China join other BRICS nations to support WTO||Notwithstanding military stand-off along the boundary between the two nations, India and China on Friday joined Russia, Brazil and South Africa to rally behind the World Trade Organization (WTO), which was at the receiving end of the United States President Donald Trump’s tirade. The five nations re-affirmed their support for “a transparent, open, inclusive and non-discriminatory rules-based multilateral trading system, as embodied in the WTO”. Union External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi participated in a BRICS (a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) video conference on Friday – amid continuing stand-off between Indian Army and the communist country’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The virtual meeting of the BRICS Foreign Ministers was chaired by Sergey Lavrov of Russia. It was also attended by Grace Naledi Pandor of South Africa and Ernesto Araújo of Brazil. The ministers noted that the current interconnected international challenges were “a powerful reminder of the imperative to strengthen cooperation between states” and must “be addressed through reinvigorated diplomacy, strengthened and reformed multilateral systems, including the United Nations, the WTO, the World Health Organization, the International Monetary Fund and other international organisations.” The BRICS Foreign Ministers emphasized the central role of the WTO in promoting predictability, stability and legal certainty for international trade, according to a joint media statement issued after the virtual meeting.   Trump has been running a tirade against the WTO – accusing it of being unfair to the US. He also threatened to withdraw from the organisation, which was established to set rules for international trade and resolve commercial disputes among the countries. Trump's administration has also been blocking new appointments to the WTO Appellate Body, thus paralyzing the dispute settlement mechanism of the organisation. The US President accused the WTO of failing to adequately respond to the unfair trade practices of China. The BRICS nations sent out a message to the US on Friday, by underlining the importance of all the WTO members abiding by its rules and complying with their respective commitments, thus avoiding unilateral and protectionist measures, which run counter to the spirit and the rules of the organisation. The Foreign Ministers of the five member-nations of the bloc “stressed the urgency of ensuring the restoration and preservation of the normal functioning of the WTO Dispute Settlement System”. They also reiterated the importance of reforms in the WTO. The BRICS ministers conveyed grave concern over the major international challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and its serious health, social and economic impacts around the world. They reiterated the “pressing need to preserve jobs and income, in particular for the most vulnerable groups of society”. They underscored the urgency of restoring international growth and international trade, strengthening markets stability and resilience. The ministers stressed the value of cooperation between states, both bilaterally and multilaterally, according to the joint statement issued after the virtual meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-join-other-brics-nations-to-support-wto-882626.html
05-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Centre exhorts states to curb chain of transmission, bring mortality rate below 1%||The Centre on Friday asked 15 districts of four states reporting higher number of Covid-19 deaths and infections to work on drawing up proper containment zones, effective monitoring of home isolation cases, adequate testing, ensuring seamless hospitalisation and reducing the waiting time in triaging. At a review meeting held by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, the district authorities were asked to bring down the response time of ambulances while ensuring zero refusal by them and effective clinical management of hospitalised cases to cut down on the fatalities due to the disease, sources said. These 15 districts across Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have been exhibiting higher active caseload, fatality rates and a surge in COVID cases for the past four weeks. During the meeting held via video-conferencing, Bhushan exhorted the health secretaries of these states to take draw action plans to proactively curb the chain of transmission and bring the Covid-19 mortality rate below one per cent. The 15 districts are Chittoor, Prakasam, Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Koppal, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Ludhiana, Patiala, Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Lucknow and Kanpur Nagar. The Union health secretary is slated to hold a review meeting on 25 more districts from Delhi, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Puducherry and Jharkhand which also have been reporting an increase in daily active cases and deaths due to the coronavirus infection, the sources said. According to the sources, it has come to notice that these districts have been setting up micro-containment zones, which are "highly unscientific as it leads to missing out on close contacts during tracing." The states in Friday's meeting were asked to take a relook into defining containment zones and demarcation of buffer zones in the affected districts for carrying out effective contact-tracing and eventually, breaking the chain of transmission of the infection, the sources added. They have also been advised to carry out proper house-to-house surveys to trace active cases and conduct adequate testing. They have also been asked to effectively monitor patients in home isolation and ensure early hospitalisation in case of disease progression. "Regular physical follow up of patients in home isolation is not happening properly in these districts, as a result of which many are turning critical without the knowledge of the administration and some instances of patients in home isolation dying have also come to the fore," a source said. "It has also come to notice that patients requiring hospitalisation have to wait for long hours at the triaging area of health facilities before they are shifted to the ICU or put on oxygen and ventilators as per requirement. Long waiting time at the triaging areas also leads to spread of infection and further complication of cases," the source said. In addition to the state health secretaries, district collectors, municipal commissioners and other functionaries also participated in the digital review meeting.  The state health secretaries provided an in-depth analysis on the current status of Covid-19 in these districts, covering aspects of containment measures, contact-tracing, surveillance activities, facility-wise case fatality rates, trends in terms of weekly new cases and deaths, etc. and shared their detailed roadmaps and action plans for the next one month. Granularities in terms of split of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests conducted in the districts, re-testing percentage of symptomatic negatives from antigen tests, testing lab utilisation, home isolation status, hospitalisation status and bed occupancies of oxygen-supported beds, ICU beds and ventilator etc, were also shared with the Centre. The states have been asked to implement stringent containment measures and social distancing norms, strict perimeter control, early identification by ramping up testing across the districts, optional utilisation of RT-PCR testing capacity and use of Rapid Antigen tests as a screening test in hotspots and densely populated areas. The states were asked to ensure seamless hospitalisation and early admission for patients requiring medical support, especially in cases of co-morbid and elderly population and follow effective infection control measures in hospitals to safeguard healthcare workers from contracting the infection. District collectors and other functionaries were asked to prepare and update district-specific plans to continue their efforts to manage the pandemic with the same rigor. India's CovidD-19 caseload mounted to 39,36,747 on Friday, with 83,341 infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 68,472 with 1,096 people succumbing to the disease in a day, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-exhorts-states-to-curb-chain-of-transmission-bring-mortality-rate-below-1-882640.html
05-09-2020||National||Rajnath holds over two-hour-long talks with Chinese Defence minister, focus on easing border tension||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday pushed for restoration of status quo ante at all friction points in eastern Ladakh during talks with his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe in Moscow, in the first highest level face-to-face contact between the two sides after the border row erupted in Ladakh in early May. The focus of the talks that lasted nearly two and a half hours was on ways to resolve the prolonged border standoff, sources said. Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and Indian Ambassador to Russia D B Venkatesh Varma were part of the Indian delegation at the talks that began at around 9:30 pm(IST) at a prominent hotel in Moscow following a request from Gen. Wei. "The meeting between Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh and Chinese Defence Minister, General Wei Fenghe in Moscow is over. The meeting lasted for 2 hours and 20 minutes," Singh's office tweeted. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has previously held telephonic talks with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the border standoff. Sources said the Indian delegation strongly objected to Chinese army's fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh and insisted on resolution of the standoff through talks. The Indian side wanted restoration of status quo ante at all friction points in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. Both Singh and Wei are in Moscow to attend a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) defence ministers which took place earlier in the day. Hours before the talks, Singh, in his address at the SCO ministerial meet, said peace and security in the region demands a climate of trust, non-aggression, peaceful resolution of differences and respect for international rules. Singh's comments in the presence of the Chinese defence minister was seen as a veiled message to China over the border row in eastern Ladakh. In his address, Singh referred to the Second World War and said its memories teach the globe the "folies of aggression" of one state upon another that brings "destruction" to all. "Peaceful stable and secure region of SCO member states, which is home to over 40 per cent of the global population, demands a climate of trust and cooperation, non-aggression, respect for international rules and norms, sensitivity to each other's interest and peaceful resolution of differences," Singh said. The meeting took place amid heightened tensions between the two countries triggered by China's fresh attempts to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake. As both sides increased deployment of troops in Ladakh, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane, wrapping up a two-day visit to the region, said the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is "tense" but added that the nation can count on the Indian Army. "The situation along the LAC is tense. We have undertaken precautionary deployment in some areas. The troops are prepared for all contingencies that may arise. All these actions have been carried out only along the LAC," he said after holding a series of meetings with top army commanders. Separately, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said there will be no compromise on India's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and asserted it cannot be "business as usual" in bilateral ties unless there is peace and tranquility in the border areas. At the same time, he said India is open to resolving outstanding issues through dialogue. "This is one of the most serious challenges we have faced in many decades," he said, adding, "we have not seen this magnitude of amassing of forces on the border also in recent years". Shringla was speaking at an Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA) webinar. In the meantime, Brigade commanders of Indian and Chinese armies held a nearly three-hour-long interaction near Chushul in eastern Ladakh, exploring ways to bring down tensions. The outcome of the interaction is not immediately known. Three rounds of Brigade commander-level talks between the two armies earlier this week remained inconclusive. Tensions flared up again in eastern Ladakh after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake five days ago when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the prolonged border row. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India's move. However, India has maintained that the strategic heights are on its side of the LAC. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following China's transgression attempts. Following China's fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake, India has further bolstered its military presence in the region. "It was very satisfying to see our soldiers and local commanders in high morale and good health. It gives me confidence that they are well prepared to safeguard the territorial integrity of our nation. The Indian Army is known for its commitment and resolve," Gen. Naravane said. "We will continue to utilise all existing mechanisms to reduce tension and to ensure that the status quo is not unilaterally changed," he added. "Over the past three months, both sides are engaged in resolving the situation. Military and diplomatic channels are functioning. Indian side is firmly committed to resolve the current situation along the LAC through engagement," Gen. Naravane said. In a statement, the Army said Gen. Naravane interacted with soldiers and local commanders deployed in difficult high-altitude forward areas. It said he appreciated their high morale and standards of professionalism exhibited by the units in safeguarding the country's territorial integrity. The Army chief was briefed about the overall security scenario by Lt Gen. YK Joshi, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Northern Command, and Lt Gen. Harinder Singh, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. In Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing earlier in the day that on issues left over from history, like the boundary issue, China always believes finding a fair, reasonable, mutually acceptable solution through peaceful consultations. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-holds-over-two-hour-long-talks-with-chinese-defence-minister-focus-on-easing-border-tension-882662.html
05-09-2020||National||ICMR issues advisory allowing 'testing on demand' for Covid-19||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Friday issued a new advisory on Covid-19 testing strategy, allowing 'testing on demand' for individuals but left it to the states to modify the approach as per their discretion. It also advised testing on demand for "all individuals undertaking travel to countries or Indian states mandating a negative Covid-19 test at the point of entry". The 'Advisory on Strategy for Covid-19 Testing in India' (version VI) said the state governments can simplify the modalities to facilitate testing on demand. It also suggested that 100 per cent of people living in containment zones should be tested by rapid antigen tests, particularly in cities where there has been widespread transmission of the infection. The ICMR also stressed that no emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of tests, and pregnant women should not be referred for a lack of testing facility. Further, the existing recommendations related to testing for Covid-19 have been extended, elaborated and divided into four parts -- routine surveillance in containment zones and screening at points of entry, routine surveillance in non-containment areas, hospital settings and testing on demand -- and choice of test (RT-PCR, TrueNat or CBNAAT and rapid antigen tests) in order of priority has been listed. Under the category of 'routine surveillance in containment zones and screening at points of entry', the advisory recommended testing of all asymptomatic high-risk individuals (people above 65 and those with co-morbidities etc.) in containment zones. Besides, it advised testing all symptomatic (ILI symptoms) cases, including healthcare and frontline workers. All asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts (in family and workplace, people aged 65 and above, those who are immunocompromised or have co-morbidities etc) of a laboratory-confirmed case are to be tested once between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact. As far as choice of test is concerned, rapid antigen test (RAT) is listed first, followed by RT-PCR or TrueNat or CBNAAT as the second option. "Ideally, it is suggested that 100 per cent people living in containment zones should be tested by RAT, particularly in cities where there has been widespread transmission of infection," the advisory said. Under the category of 'routine surveillance in non-containment areas', the advisory recommended testing all asymptomatic high-risk contacts (contacts in family and workplace, people aged 65 and above, those with co-morbidities etc), with RAT being the first choice of test in order of priority. Besides, it advised testing all symptomatic (ILI symptoms) individuals with history of international travel in the last 14 days, all symptomatic (ILI symptoms) contacts of a laboratory-confirmed case, all symptomatic (ILI symptoms) healthcare and frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation activities and all symptomatic ILI cases among returnees and migrants within seven days of illness, with RT-PCR, TrueNat or CBNAAT being the first choice of test in order of priority. Under the category 'hospital settings', the advisory recommended testing all patients of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), all symptomatic (ILI symptoms) patients presenting in a healthcare setting, asymptomatic high-risk patients who are hospitalised or seeking immediate hospitalisation such as immunocompromised individuals, patients diagnosed with malignant diseases, transplant patients, patients with chronic co-morbidities and people aged 65 and above. It also suggested testing for asymptomatic patients undergoing surgical/non-surgical invasive procedures (not to be tested more than once a week during hospital stay) and all pregnant women in/near labor who are hospitalised for delivery. The ICMR stressed that no emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of test, and pregnant women should not be referred for a lack of testing facility. It added that all arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities. Mothers who test positive for Covid-19 should be advised to wear a mask and undertake frequent handwashing while handling their baby for 14 days. They should also be advised on breast cleaning before feeding the neonate. These measures are likely to reduce transmission of Covid-19 to their babies, the document said. The advisory also recommended testing all symptomatic neonates presenting with acute respiratory/sepsis like illness and patients presenting with atypical manifestations such as stroke, encephalitis, pulmonary embolism, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, progressive gastrointestinal symptoms, Kawasaki Disease (in pediatric age group) based on the discretion of the treating physician. RT-PCR or TrueNat or CBNAAT should be the first choice for tests in order of priority in hospital settings and RAT should be the second choice. The ICMR stated that a single RT-PCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT/RAT positive test is to be considered confirmatory, without any repeat testing, and no re-testing is recommended prior to discharge from a COVID-19 facility after clinical recovery, including for transfer from a COVID area/facility to a non-COVID area/facility. If symptoms develop following a negative RAT test, a repeat RAT or RT-PCR should be done. Home quarantine for 14 days is recommended for all individuals before undergoing elective surgery to minimise chances of infection before the procedure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-issues-advisory-allowing-testing-on-demand-for-covid-19-882665.html
05-09-2020||National||For states where polls are not due, number of voters per polling station to be 1,500: EC||The Election Commission on Friday asked poll authorities of various states, except Bihar and the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and  Ladakh, to rationalise polling stations to ensure that there are not more than 1,500 voters per station. "As one of the precautionary measures of Covid-19 pandemic, the limit of number of electors assigned to a polling station has been restricted to 1,000 in the state of Bihar and certain constituencies of other states where general and by-elections are due in the near future," the EC letter addressed to chief electoral officers of all states except Bihar and UTs of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, said. Bihar is going to the polls later this year. While J-K has a provision for a legislature, the Ladakh UT had no provision for an assembly. At present, Jammu and Kashmir has no assembly and the UT is under Central rule. The EC had earlier said the number of voters per polling station should not be more than 1,000 as one of the measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Bihar is the first state where assembly elections are being held amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The EC said to restrict the number of voters per polling station to 1,000, states where polls and bypolls are due have been asked to create auxiliary polling stations of all the main polling stations having more than 1,000 electors. But for other states where elections or by-elections are not due, the number of voters per polling station would now be 1,500, an EC functionary said explaining the letter. "The Commission, taking all aspects into consideration, has decided that rationalization/re-organization of polling stations, as the case may be, would be carried out in all states/UTs on the basis of 1,500 electors as maximum number for a polling station, " the letter said. In a statement issued on Friday, the EC said it would hold bypolls to one Lok Sabha seat and 64 assembly seats "around the same time" as the Bihar assembly polls. While the dates have not been announced, the Bihar polls could take place in October-November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-states-where-polls-are-not-due-number-of-voters-per-polling-station-to-be-1500-ec-882669.html
05-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 5||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 39 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):   40,79,687 as of September 4 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 70,246   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  29,01,908  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-5-882680.html
05-09-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: Teachers are on a mission to educate come Covid-19, floods or jungle roads||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, get to know the stories of teachers in the hinterlands of Karnataka who bear heavy rain, lack of public transport during the Covid-19 pandemic, and non-motorable jungle roads to discharge their duty, a duty to educate.  Dhanyata M Poovaiah: Hi, this is Dhanyata M Poovaiah and welcome to DH Radio. Pavan Kumar : Hi, this is Pavan Kumar. Today we will talk about those who have nurtured us, shaped us, inspired us and have helped us to face the world. Dhanyata: You guessed it right, yes. It’s about our teachers. To all the teachers out there: A very Happy teachers’ Day. Pavan: Dhanyata, do you remember any memorable moments relating to any of your teachers? Dhanyata: Yes, actually many. When I look back on my school and college days, I feel blessed to have been taught by some wonderful teachers. Actually, I studied Civil Engineering and I revered my Geotechnical Engineering teacher KV Manjunath sir. Whenever I was the only student to have solved a problem, he would make the entire class clap for me and I would be on Cloud 9. There are many such instances. And what about you? Pavan: I remember the days when my primary school teacher ‘Nalini miss’ used to teach me ABCD and the big fat hen rhyme, while I was sitting on her lap. And in my PG course at IIJNM, Ralf Framalino, stood rock solid behind me and encouraged to complete some interesting investigative stories.  Pavan: Those were the days. These are testing times for all of us and most importantly for teachers. Online classes, connectivity issues and what not.  Are you aware that teachers in a remote village are using technology to discharge their duty? Dhanyata: Yes. In urban areas, the terms Wi-Fi, virtual classes are not a new thing. After this pandemic, these terms have become all the more common. However, in rural areas, the scene is quite different. Take, for example, Deria village. Do you know where it is? Pavan: hmmm… Where is it? Dhanyata: Yes, you are right. It’s a tribal hamlet in Joida taluk in Uttara Kannada.  Pavan: What about it? Dhanyata: They say you find diamonds in the rarest of places. And it’s true.  There at sharp 4:30 in the evening, around a dozen children from the Kunbi community assemble at their makeshift classroom, waiting for their teacher to call them from Mysuru which is around 500km away, for their teacher conducts classes on phone. Since mid-June, these children have been religiously attending the class, where they mainly learn English along with a little History, Geography, Science etc. When I spoke to Neha Derekar, a Class 9 student she tells me that what they are learning now will help them later once their schools reopen. Pavan: These children are an inspiration. To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-teachers-are-on-a-mission-to-educate-come-covid-19-floods-or-jungle-roads-882682.html
05-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Rajnath-Wei meet: 'Don't need any translator. We don't believe what they say!'||With tensions running high along the 826-km Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday met his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe in Moscow to find a way out of the crisis that kept the two armies on tenterhooks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rajnath-wei-meet-dont-need-any-translator-we-dont-believe-what-they-say-882685.html
05-09-2020||National||Teachers who went the extra mile to educate children amid Covid-19||The Covid-19 pandemic has had a disastrous impact on several aspects of life. Amidst the global health crisis lies the education system, already vulnerable, attacked even further by the inequalities and challenges that are born from online classes and remote learning.  On the occasion of Teacher’s Day, we look at the effort made by teachers to bridge this gap and provide education to their students irrespective of the circumstances.  1) Teachers helped clean up flood-affected classrooms   Sukumar and Dharmendra cleaned up classrooms in Cheriyaparambu that were damaged due to floods. The story of them cleaning up a government primary school at KP Bane in Cheriyaparambu in Napoklu in Karnataka, won the hearts of netizens. Sukumar and Dharmendra were assisted by local youth who helped them clean up the classrooms.  2) Teachers visit the homes of students to educate them on the pandemic   Teachers of Nitturu and Kempaiahanadoddi villages in Karnataka went to the houses of students to educate children as well as their parents on how to stay safe during the Covid-19 pandemic.  Teachers Sundrappa, P Pavithra and T Veena of Kempaiahanadoddi, and Nagaraju and Pavithra of Nitturu School not only helped pupils know how they could stay in touch with their lessons but also helped them understand ways in which they could protect themselves during the Covid-19 pandemic.  3) Morale boosting messages shared by teachers during the lockdown   During the pandemic, teachers expanded the ambit of their responsibilities from beyond the educational requirements of students to being concerned about their overall wellbeing. Including worrying about their emotional requirements. During the lockdown, reports of teachers sending messages encouraging students to not let their morale down during the 21-day nation-wide lockdown emerged.  4) A teacher created a Covid-19 rhyme for her students  In a bid to spread awareness about the novel coronavirus,  a teacher in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad created a nursery rhyme for students, which would help educate them about best practices to follow during the pandemic, including hand-washing.  Sunita Nagkirti tasked herself with creating a rhyme that would educate students about hand washing for 20 seconds in a creative way.  5) Teachers run an outdoor school   A group of 15 teachers in Chikkamalligawada in Dharwad district took schools to the doorsteps of the students while taking all precautionary measures. Mask wearing, social distancing and hand sanitisation was the norm in these classes, which were held in the street where students live.  Lectures were held for students from class one to 7 between 11 am and 1 pm, six days a week, with subject teachers visiting each area on a rotation basis. Students were taught Kannada, English, Mathematics and other subjects.  6) Teachers educate students through loudspeakers  Shyam Kishore Singh Gandhi, the headmaster of a school in Jharkhand's Dumka district, installed loudspeakers across the village so that students could attend lectures from safe distances. Students send in their queries and questions through any mobile phone they were able to access and their queries were answered the next day.  The headmaster had one wish, he wanted all 200 students who studied in his school to have access to education, irrespective of the hurdles the circumstances pose. He wanted students to not struggle with lessons once the pandemic passed over and hence devised this method to keep them connected with their curriculum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teachers-who-went-the-extra-mile-to-educate-children-amid-covid-19-882686.html
05-09-2020||National||Teachers prevented academic disruption amid Covid-19: M Venkaiah Naidu on Teachers' Day||Teachers' Day is observed to mark the birth anniversary of the country's second president S Radhakrishnan. "Wishing you all a very happy Teachers' Day. Today, let us thank all those teachers who have been working tirelessly through the hardship of the pandemic to prevent academic disruption to students," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. "Let us salute their dedication, courage and their selfless service," he said. Naidu also paid tributes to Radhakrishnan on his birth anniversary. "He was an eminent teacher, philosopher, scholar, statesman and author. His life, work and legacy will keep inspiring every Indian," the vice president said. Later, in a Facebook post, Naidu expressed gratitude to all his teachers who left an indelible impression on him. Observing that the 21st century was an era of disruptions and paradigm shifts, he said that the world is now truly a global village. Naidu emphasised that it is the prime responsibility of teachers of the 21st century to mould responsible global citizens but with deep Indian roots. Noting that lifelong learning is an essential facet of life in Indian tradition,  Naidu said in addition to teachers in formal settings, "we learn from parents, elders and peers and from a variety of sources of wisdom".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teachers-prevented-academic-disruption-amid-covid-19-m-venkaiah-naidu-on-teachers-day-882740.html
05-09-2020||National||India reports 10 lakh Covid-19 cases in 13 days; record 86,432 infections reported in a day||India's Covid-19 infection tally sprinted past 40 lakh, just 13 days after it crossed 30 lakh, with a record 86,432 cases being reported in a day, while recoveries have surged to 31,07,223 on Saturday pushing the recovery rate to 77.23 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 40,23,179, while the death toll climbed to 69,561 with 1,089 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed. India's Covid-19 cases jumped from 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days. It took 16 more days to race past 30 lakh and 13 days more to cross the 40-lakh mark. It took 110 days for the Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh while it had taken 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh post. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the novel coronavirus infection has further declined to 1.73 per cent. There are 8,46,395 active cases of coronavirus infection, which is 21.04 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative total of 4,77,38,491 samples have been tested up to Sept. 4 with 10,59,346 samples being tested on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-10-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-13-days-record-86432-infections-reported-in-a-day-882765.html
05-09-2020||National||India becomes third country to cross 40 lakh coronavirus cases||The 86,432 new cases took India to 40,23,179 infections, third behind the United States which has more than 6.3 million and just trailing Brazil on 4.1 million. While the government has eased restrictions in a bid to revive the economy, India now has the world's fastest-growing number of cases at more than 80,000 a day and the highest daily death toll at more than 1,000. The country's caseload has gone from three to four million in just 13 days, faster than the United States and Brazil. The pandemic is now spreading through rural areas which have poor health facilities but is also resurging in big cities like Delhi and Mumbai. Maharashtra state, which includes Mumbai, has been at the centre of the crisis in India since a nationwide lockdown was imposed in March. It still accounts for nearly a quarter of the new daily cases across the country of 1.3 billion. Shamika Ravi, an economics professor and former government advisor who has closely followed pandemic trends in India, said that India is "nowhere close" to a peak and Maharashtra must become the "focus" of the campaign against the coronavirus. "There is no controlling Covid-19 in India without controlling the outbreak in Maharashtra," she said on Twitter. "Given its economic significance, Maharashtra will continue to influence the spread of infection elsewhere in the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-becomes-third-country-to-cross-40-lakh-coronavirus-cases-882767.html
05-09-2020||National||Covid-19 to hit children, pregnant women the hardest: Experts||As the country marks 'Poshan maah' this month, healthcare experts have called for urgent action to address the impact of Covid-19 on the national nutrition mission, saying the pandemic might affect the health of children and pregnant women the hardest as they are the most vulnerable to undernutrition.  The government is celebrating the National Nutrition Month or 'Poshan Maah' in September during which several programmes to spread awareness on the issues related to malnutrition in children, pregnant women and lactating mothers will be organised. The experts PTI spoke to said this is a time when there is an urgency among all stakeholders to join forces.  On one hand food security needs to be ensured, on the other hand correct nutrition feeding practices need to be promoted in the community, they said.  Adopting system strengthening and social behaviour change strategies together in a sustained effort and investment beyond the Poshan Maah would yield results, they added.  Sujeet Ranjan, executive director at the Coalition for Food and Nutrition Security (CFNS), said the spread of Covid-19 has impacted the health, nutrition, livelihoods and wellbeing of India's most vulnerable populations and it will have lasting effect on people. "One of the fallouts of the Covid-19 containment measures, including the closure of primary schools and Anganwadi centres, is that children in rural India now have to do without that one guaranteed meal, potentially worsening the child malnutrition problem in India," he said. Even though the government has ordered state authorities to ensure provision of take-home rations at the doorstep as well as a cash allowance during the lockdown, efforts to tackle acute malnutrition can still take a hit, he said. However, due to the barriers posed by the Covid crisis there may be multifaceted repercussions on children, Ranjan said. "We can understand that the possible impact would be on the number of meals per day and hence the quantity of food per meal as well. Ensuring diet diversity at the time of Covid also remains a challenge as the main goal during this health crisis and lockdown is the availability of basic food first. Therefore, the quality of the diet is also compromised," he said. He suggested that information technology can be leveraged for ensuring many services related to maternal and child health such as the use of mobile phones for counselling by frontline workers; use of remote health advisory and intervention services for getting all the necessary health information and guidance, strengthening mother and child tracking system, Poshan Helpline number for ensuring healthcare, immunisation services, and regular counselling through nutrition specialists. Khan Amir Maroof, honorary secretary at Maternal Infant and Young Child Nutrition (MIYCN), Indian Association of Preventive & Social Medicine (IAPSM), said the health of children and pregnant women might be hit the hardest as they are the most vulnerable to undernutrition. "The lack of availability of quantity and quality of food is a matter of concern. Both macro and micronutrient deficiencies will have their own effects. In short term, it will lead to malnutrition in terms of undernutrition (low weight for age), followed by higher chances of suffering from infectious diseases such as diarrhea, acute respiratory infections," he said. Maroof said pregnant women are at a higher risk of undernutrition due to the increased nutrition requirement which is not being optimally met during this pandemic. "This effect is intergenerational as the child to-be-born is at high risk of low birth weight or stillbirth. These effects put the family in a vicious loop of disease and undernutrition which is difficult to overcome without external support. For the whole country, this will mean a higher prevalence of malnutrition," he added. He said strategies to mitigate Covid's impact on the health of children and pregnant women need to be tailored to a local context and to the severity of outbreak. Food security allowances whose provision exists under the midday meal scheme can be implemented, either by way of direct cash benefit transfer or food vouchers. Vouchers have an added benefit as compared to cash that we can ensured to some degree that it will be used for food only. Sebanti Ghosh, program director at Alive & Thrive India, said the pandemic has the potential to reverse the hard earned gains in improving health and nutrition of pregnant women and young children as the pandemic and lockdown have adversely affected the delivery of essential health and nutrition services, resulting in reduced coverage of crucial services like institutional delivery, immunization, antenatal care, provision of micronutrient supplies to pregnant women, young children and adolescent girls. "Early detection and treatment of severely acute malnourished children (SAM) must be prioritized and ensured," she said. Chandrakant Pandav, former head at Centre for Community Medicine at AIIMS, suggested that India can mitigate some of the affects of Covid-19. "India's nutrition journey is too important to be derailed by a crisis like Covid-19. There must be a clarion call for the nutrition community in India to rally strongly and to give continued attention to malnutrition in all its forms, generate relevant evidence, and to support and engage all of society to urgently and adequately address malnutrition in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. We have come too far to turn back now," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-to-hit-children-pregnant-women-the-hardest-experts-882775.html
05-09-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind confers National Teachers' Awards||For infusing joyful learning to making maths easy and developing innovative methods of teaching --- 47 teachers from across the country were conferred the National Teachers' Awards by President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday. The national-level awards are given on Teachers' Day to celebrate the unique contribution of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honour those teachers who through their commitment have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students. "Good buildings, expensive equipment or facilities do not make a good school but teachers have a crucial role in building a good school. They are the ones who develop foundation of knowledge and character building in our students," Kovind said at the virtual award ceremony. Lauding the role of teachers during Covid-19 pandemic when schools and colleges are closed, the president said, "We also need to ensure that the medium for availing digital education facility is also available in rural and distant areas." The Ministry of Education invited self-nomination by teachers through online portal for the awards. First level scrutiny was done by District Selection Committee (DSC) headed by the District Education Officer. Based on prescribed selection criteria, DSC shortlisted three names and the same were forwarded to State Selection Committee through an online portal. This year, the candidates appeared before the jury through video conference and made presentations. " The selected awardees with their commitment and industry have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students and community through various activities like improving enrolment and reducing dropouts, adopting joyful and experiential teaching-learning practices. "... development and use of cost-effective teaching-learning materials, organizing extra-curricular and co-curricular activities, spreading social awareness among children, encouraging community participation, appropriate and effective use of ICT in teaching, promotion of nation-building and national integration," Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-confers-national-teachers-awards-882777.html
05-09-2020||National||Pakistani troops shell three sectors along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistani troops engaged in firing and intense mortar shelling in three sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday in violation of a ceasefire agreement, a defence spokesman said. The firing and shelling from across the border in Shahpur, Kirni and Degwar sectors started around 9.15 am. Indian Army personnel guarding the LoC gave a strong and befitting response to the cross-border fire, the spokesman said. He said the exchange of fire was going on when last reports were received. There was no report of any casualty on the Indian side, the spokesman said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistani-troops-shell-three-sectors-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-882780.html
05-09-2020||National||India, China to solve border dispute through dialogue: Wei Fenghe tells Rajnath Singh||India and China will solve border dispute issues through dialogue, will strictly follow bilateral agreements signed in the past, Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghe told Rajnath Singh. In a meeting that lasted two hours and twenty minutes, he added that the two countries will strengthen the regulation of frontline troops and not undertake any provocative actions that might escalate the situation. Rajnath Singh said that the actions of China's PLA, including amassing of large number of troops, their aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo were in violation of the bilateral agreements and not in keeping with the understandings between the two countries. India has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management, but at the same time there should also be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, Rajnath Singh told Defence Minister Wei Fenghe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-to-solve-border-dispute-through-dialogue-wei-fenghe-tells-rajnath-singh-882791.html
05-09-2020||National||NIA books 2 for stealing hardware from under-construction indigenous aircraft carrier||The NIA has filed a charge-sheet against two people for allegedly stealing computer devices from an under-construction indigenous aircraft carrier in Kochi, an official said. Sumit Kumar Singh of Bihar's Munger district and Daya Ram of Rajasthan's Hanumangarh district were charge-sheeted on Friday under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act, an NIA spokesperson said. The case pertains to criminal trespass and theft of critical electronic components, including processors, Random Access Memory (RAM) and Solid State Drives, installed aboard the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) under construction at the Cochin Ship Yard Limited (CSL), between July and September, 2019, he said. The case was originally registered at Ernakulam Town South Police Station in Kochi on September 16 last year on the complaint of the Deputy General Manager, IAC Project, Cochin Shipyard Ltd. The NIA re-registered the case on September 26 last year and took over the investigation from Kerala Police. ​After an extensive and scientific investigation spread over many states for nine months, the NIA zeroed in on the two accused. They were arrested from their respective locations in Bihar and Rajasthan, and after sustained interrogation, they confessed to the crime, the NIA official said. They were engaged as contract employees for painting work aboard the IAC between February and September, 2019. While working aboard the IAC, they observed the computer systems' functioning on the warship and conspired to commit theft of the computer hardware components for monetary gain, the official said. Both the accused, between the second week of July and first week of September last year, trespassed into the IAC and stole critical computer hardware, including processors, RAMs and SSDs with data, knowing that the same pertains to the security of the nation and hence is restricted, the NIA official said. In September last year, the accused sold one stolen processor before the theft was detected, the official said. In late September last year, they left Ernakulam for their native places, along with the remaining stolen property, that was recovered after their arrest by the NIA on June 10 this year, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-books-2-for-stealing-hardware-from-under-construction-indigenous-aircraft-carrier-882797.html
05-09-2020||National||Only country not reaping Covid-19 lockdown strategy benefit appears to be India: P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday attacked the government over the rise in the number of coronavirus cases, claiming that the only country that is not reaping the benefit of the lockdown strategy appears to be India. He also predicted that by September-end, India may have 65 lakh Covid-19 cases. Chidambaram's attack on the government came as India's Covid-19 infection tally sprinted past 40 lakh. The recoveries have surged to 31,07,223 on Saturday, according to data collated by the Union Health Ministry. "I had predicted that total number of infections will reach 55 lakh by September 30. I am wrong. India will reach that number by September 20. By end September, the number may touch 65 lakh," Chidambaram said. The only country that is not reaping the benefit of the lockdown strategy appears to be India, the former Union minister alleged. "PM (Narendra) Modi who promised that we will defeat coronavirus in 21 days must explain why India failed when other countries seem to have succeeded," he said. In another tweet, Chidambaram also hit out at the Ministry of Finance for the state of the economy, saying it does not have "a word of explanation for the unprecedented negative growth in Q1 of 2020-21". "But it is back to its old game of misleading the people of India and predicting a V shaped recovery (from the coronavirus-induced slump)," the former finance minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-country-not-reaping-covid-19-lockdown-strategy-benefit-appears-to-be-india-p-chidambaram-882802.html
05-09-2020||National||Probe on after families allege 5 persons abducted by Chinese Army in Arunachal Pradesh||Arunachal Pradesh police has launched a probe following reports that five people, who had gone hunting in a forest in Upper Subansiri district on the Sino-India border, were allegedly kidnapped by the Chinese military, a senior official said on Saturday. The alleged incident occurred on Friday in Nacho area of the district, their families said. Two others, who were in the group, managed to escape and informed police. "I have sent the officer-in-charge of the Nacho police station to the area to verify the facts and directed him to report immediately. However, the report will be available only by Sunday morning," Superintendent of Police Taru Gussar said. Those allegedly kidnapped have been identified as Toch Singkam, Prasat Ringling, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngaru Diri. All of them belong to the Tagin community. Their family members living at district headquarters Daporijo said some of their relatives had left for Nacho Saturday morning to discuss the matter with the Indian Army. Nacho is around 120 kilometres from the district headquarters. The families urged the authorities to take steps to bring them back. The Army could not be reached for comments. Pasighat West MLA Ninong Ering said that befitting reply must be given the China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) for the incident. Five people from Upper Subansiri district of our state Arunachal Pradesh have reportedly been abducted by Chinas Peoples Liberation Army (PLA). Few months earlier, a similar incident happened. A befitting reply must be given to #PLA and #CCPChina. @PMOIndia, he tweeted. In March, a 21-year-old man was abducted by the PLA from Asapila sector near the McMahon line. While his two friends managed to escape, Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint, his family had said. After 19 days in captivity, the youth was released by the Chinese Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/probe-on-after-families-allege-5-persons-abducted-by-chinese-army-in-arunachal-pradesh-882823.html
05-09-2020||National||Union Home Minister Amit Shah extends greetings on Teachers' Day||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday greeted all teachers, saying they have been playing an unparalleled role in shaping the nation by selflessly guiding millions of souls. "Tributes to an iconic thinker and erudite scholar, former President Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti," he tweeted. "On #TeachersDay, Greetings to the entire teaching fraternity who has been playing an unparalleled role in shaping the nation by selflessly guiding millions of souls," Shah said. Teachers' Day is observed to mark the birth anniversary of the country's second president S Radhakrishnan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-home-minister-amit-shah-extends-greetings-on-teachers-day-882843.html
05-09-2020||National||Minimum govt, maximum privatisation: Rahul Gandhi takes a dig at PM Narendra Modi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the Centre over the issue of recruitment to government posts, alleging that the Modi dispensation's thinking is "minimum government, maximum privatisation". With his tweet attacking the government, Gandhi tagged a media report which said there would be a freeze on creation of new posts except with the approval of the expenditure department. मोदी सरकार की सोच -'Minimum Govt Maximum Privatisation' "Modi government's thinking -- 'Minimum Govt Maximum Privatisation'," Gandhi said in a tweet. The Covid-19 pandemic is just an excuse and the intention is to make government offices "free" of permanent staff, he alleged. "(Intention is to) Rob the future of the youth and promote (his) friends," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi targeting the prime minister, and urged people to speak up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minimum-govt-maximum-privatisation-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-dig-at-pm-narendra-modi-882872.html
05-09-2020||National||Covid-19 spread to rural India raises concerns as tally crosses 40-lakh mark||Though there are no exact numbers about the spread of the virus into rural areas, there is enough evidence to suggest it has reached most corners of India and there is community transmission, say experts. Just two figures could tell the story: an estimated 65 per cent of India’s 1.3 billion population lives in rural areas. And, according to the website How India Lives, 714 districts in India have coronavirus cases, putting 94.76 per cent of the population at risk. “Increasingly, Covid-19 positive persons are being reported from small-sized towns, as well as from rural areas. Sero-surveys have revealed that the disease has spread to most parts of the country indicating community transmission of Covid-19," a group of public health experts said in a statement earlier this week. The experts, from the Indian Public Health Association, Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine and the Indian Association of Epidemiologists, also expressed concern that reports of stigma, fear and discrimination continue even after six months. “A higher number of infections are being reported from semi-urban areas,” said a Health Ministry official as India’s Covid-19 tally raced past the 40 lakh mark on Saturday with 86,432 fresh cases. The death toll also climbed to 69,561 with 1,089 fatalities in a day. In the face of the relentless march of the disease – India took just 13 days to go from 30 lakh to 40 lakh and is the third worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US and Brazil in terms of cases and deaths – the inescapable truth is that India’s villages and semi-urban centres don’t have the same facilities as bigger towns in terms of hospitals and laboratories to treat and test patients. Experts also stress the need for more data. "There is not enough data yet to do a detailed comparison, but anecdotal reports suggest that testing is limited and not accurate enough to be a good measure of trends," Gautam Menon, professor, Departments of Physics and Biology, at Ashoka University said while discussing trends in rural districts. Explaining the trajectory of the disease, Sitabhra Sinha, professor at Chennai’s Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc), told PTI, "As of now, the bulk of the active cases are centred in the major urban metropolitan areas and their immediate surroundings."  "… places like Odisha which are still low in terms of numbers have a high R value - which means over the next few weeks, if the growth rate continues unabated, they may well turn out to be the new frontline in the fight against Covid," he cautioned.  R value is the reproductive number that indicates the number of people getting infected by an already infected person on an average.  The incidence of the disease in the eastern state demonstrates the vulnerability of those in rural areas. Since more than 75 per cent of the state’s population lives in rural areas, it is natural the infection rate is also high among villagers in comparison to towns and cities, an official in Bhubaneswar said. More than 60 per cent of Odisha’s cases are from rural areas and the number is rising as the pandemic gets prolonged, he said. Though the infection was mostly confined to urban areas till April end, it entered rural pockets after migrant workers left places such as Surat, Mumbai and Delhi to return home. Stage one of the infection was from people traveling to foreign countries. Stage two was those returning from the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin locality in March. The third stage of the infection, said Odisha’s Covid-19 spokesperson Subroto Bagchi, came through people with a West Bengal link. And the fourth was when more than six lakh migrants returned to their home state. In neighbouring West Bengal, too, the incidence went up after the migrants started returning. “This also added to the community transmission of the disease," a senior official of the West Bengal health department told PTI.  In the south, Tamil Nadu Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan compared the fight against the coronavirus to a test match. “The more aggressive we test–-conducting about 76,500 RT PCR tests per day—the more the number of cases," said Tamil Nadu Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. The state’s health department will launch a programme to re-emphasise the importance of wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand washing. In Maharashtra, one of the country’s worst hit by the pandemic, rural areas had reported a rise in the number of fresh cases as well as deaths by the end of fifth month of lockdown in the state, said a senior state health official. He also cited the trajectory of the infection in August to make his point. “As of August 26, there were 7,03,823 cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, of which 5,07,022 (72.03 per cent) were from municipal corporation areas. Similarly, out of 22,794 deaths reported, 17,423 (76.43 per cent) had taken place in municipal corporation areas and 5,371 in rural areas. But now the picture is changing,” he said. With sizeable number of people have officially or unofficially travelled to rural areas, the infection has spread there as well followed by more deaths, the official said. “For instance, on August 1, there were 4,22,118 cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra of which 3,36,740 (79.77 per cent) were from municipal coronation areas. Similarly, there were 14,994 total deaths in the state of which 12,543 (83.65 per cent) were from urban areas and 2,451  from rural areas,” he said. “We have to admit that some people have illegally snuck into rural areas and spread the virus,” he said. Efforts are on to ramp up infrastructure at the grassroots level to meet the escalating challenge. In Andhra Pradesh, for instance, every primary health centre (PHC) and community health centre (CHC) in semi-urban and rural parts area is doubling up as a Covid Care Centre. According to government data, about 40 per cent of Covid-19 cases in recent weeks have been reported from rural areas. "We have accordingly improved the infrastructure in PHCs and CHCs, so much so that they are now equipped with oxygen facilities as well to handle the caseload," state Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar told PTI The 104 service (mobile medical units) that makes rounds of villages is also coming handy to treat coronavirus patients at their doorstep. "The good thing about rural areas is that they are not as compact and dense as urban areas, except a few… so proper testing and isolating measures can control the outbreaks,” said Dr Giridhar Babu of the Public Health Foundation of India and a member of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee. In Puducherry, the numbers have gone up from three in April to 5,042 active cases and 10,279 who have been cured and discharged, according to Union Health Ministry figures on Saturday, hospital infrastructure and testing facilities are being improved, said Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao. Kerala, a state grappling with a resurgence in the number of cases, is doubling up on its efforts to make sure that everybody receives high-quality treatment. “Now we have enough Covid First Line Treatment Centres (CFLTC), enough labs for testing, Covid care hospitals, more health workers, Covid brigade and other facilities which would help us to contain the pandemic when it reaches the peak,” said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Officials in Telangana said the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, the state capital region, has been the Covid-19 hotbed in the state but cases in the area have been mostly stable in recent weeks. However, there has been a rise in the numbers in rural Telangana. "We have earlier said the cases would gradually come down in the GHMC area by the end of August. We also said though there would be some uptick, the cases in rural Telangana would be under control by the end of September. The trend is as expected," state Director of Public Health G Srinivas Rao said. Officials in Madhya Pradesh estimate that the infection has spread its footprint in rural areas of 51 of the state’s 52 districts. In neighbouring Gujarat, a bulk of its more than 97,000 cases have emerged from its seven main cities but the rural areas make up the rest In Goa, almost 50 per cent of Covid-19 cases are from rural areas. According to the Health Department’s data, rural areas such as Curchorem, Canacona, Valpoi and Sankhalim are the worst affected. Vasco town was the first point of infection and from there it spread to the villages through government employees who travel from towns to their home back in villages. In Uttar Pradesh, however, officials said the infection is still urban centric. Surveillance teams and ‘gram nigrani samitis’ have been activated and the strategy is to conduct maximum number of tests and do intensive contact tracing. “When the migrants had returned to the state, we had some problems,” an official said, adding that 58,000 ‘nigrani samitis’ are working and the government already has a data base of 35 lakh migrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-spread-to-rural-india-raises-concerns-as-tally-crosses-40-lakh-mark-882883.html
05-09-2020||National||SC admits appeal by real estate developer against conviction in murder of actor Vinod Kumar||The Supreme Court has admitted an appeal filed by real estate developer against his conviction and sentence of life imprisonment imposed by the Karnataka High Court for killing a Kannada actor, Vinod Kumar. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Vineet Saran issued notice to the Karnataka government on a bail plea filed by Govardhan Murthy, promoter of real estate company L G Builders and Developers. The court sought a reply from the state government by October 15. Murthy, led by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, challenged verdict of the HC passed on March 20, 2020, overturning his acquittal in the case. He sought bail in the case, pending consideration of his appeal. According to the prosecution, Murthy wanted to marry daughter of a man, who cancelled the engagement with him and instead negotiated alliance with the deceased actor. This has irked the accused. Further, Vinod, the actor was also in real estate business and has become a competitor to him. On October 6, 2008, the accused, along with five others invited Vinod to his club house, at L G Rose Heritage Layout in Bengaluru where the victim was made to consume an excess of liquor and was then shot at, leading to his death a day later. The trial court, however, acquitted on December 26, 2012 all the accused. On an appeal by the state government, the HC had found the trial court's verdict as "nothing but miscarriage of justice", since it failed to consider the crucial evidence like dying declaration, call details records, recovery of pistol and place of murder, besides other oral testimonies, all indicated only towards the culpability of the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-admits-appeal-by-real-estate-developer-against-conviction-in-murder-of-actor-vinod-kumar-882895.html
05-09-2020||National||Plea filed in Supreme Court for probe into 'India's biggest' franchisee scam||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court by a group of people seeking a probe by the CBI, Enforcement Directorate and SFIO in what they called as the biggest franchisee scam of the country. In a writ petition, Mahender Singh Rana and 37 others alleged they have been cheated and duped by their hard earned money by 'Westland Trade Private Limited' which floated bogus companies Hyper Supermarket, Hyper Mart, Big Mart Super Mart, Louies Salon, Midnight Cafe, Franchisee World, BM Mart, H Mart and S Mart etc. The company took Rs three lakh for running grocery store in May, 2019. It opened stores in Karnataka, Telangana, Goa, Maharashtra, Bihar, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, MP, Delhi and many other states, according to the petition. However, in April, this year, the company defaulted in payment, leaving about 500 investors high and dry. The petitioners sought investigation into criminal offence of cheating, fraud, forgery, money laundering, benami transactions, amassing of disproportionate assets and other economic offences, committed by the fraudsters involved in this gargantuan franchisee scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-supreme-court-for-probe-into-indias-biggest-franchisee-scam-882915.html
05-09-2020||National||National Education Policy a revolutionary reform: Prakash Javadekar||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday termed the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 as a revolutionary reform of the 21st Century. He also expressed confidence that India's Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) would double in the next 10 years from the current level of about 25 per cent. "The NEP 2020 will empower the youth, who will take the nation forward in the 21stcentury. "The policy is such that it will make the teaching-learning experience enjoyable for students and teachers," the Information and Broadcasting Minister said while delivering the key-note address at the centenary year of Teachers' Day celebrations of Parle Tilak Vidyalay Association here via video link. The GER is a statistical measure used in the education sector to determine the number of students enrolled in school at several different grade levels. It is used to show the ratio of the number of students who live in a given country to those who qualify for the particular grade level. Javadekar said students across the country have become aspirational while the economic growth has pushed the parental earnestness to provide good education for their wards. "Wider geographical spread of higher education institutions, especially covering rural areas, and increased demand would be the critical factors that will improve the GER in India," Javadekar said. He said the NEP lays emphasis on foundational and numerical literacy, and that institutes like National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) would give access to all for education. Javadekar added that (aspects like) early childhood education; enquiry-based education; teacher training; foundational and numeric literacy etc have been emphasised (in the NEP 2020). The NEP, approved by the Union cabinet in July this year, outlines the vision of India's new education system. The minister further underlined the importance of early childhood education as the main characteristic of the NEP. He said the age group of 3-8 years is to build cognitive skills, curiosity and mental capacity. He added that education with understanding of the given subject is important rather than rote learning. While activity-based learning is emphasised at the early age, education imparted during classes 9 to 12 would focus on "detailed, relevant and new knowledge", which will induce scientific temper among children, Javadekar said. He also said research and innovation is crucial "to enabling our education mould globally competitive citizens".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-education-policy-a-revolutionary-reform-prakash-javadekar-882934.html
05-09-2020||National||80 new special trains to start from September 12; reservations begin on September 10: Indian Railways||Indian Railways is planning to operate 80 new special trains from September 12, reservations for which will begin from September 10. "Eighty new special trains or 40 pairs of trains will start operations from September 12. Reservations will begin from September 10. This will run in addition to the 230 trains already in operation," Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said on Saturday. He also said that the railways will operate more trains in phases. The officials are closely monitoring the ticket booking pattern and more trains will be operated along the routes where there were long waiting lists and demand for tickets was more, he said. He said the Railways was in touch with states and will run trains whenever there is demand from states for exams or other similar purposes. At present, the Railways is operating 230 special trains connecting major cities across the country. There is a huge demand for tickets in some of these trains as economic activities are picking up in several parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-new-special-trains-to-start-from-september-12-reservations-begin-on-september-10-indian-railways-882937.html
05-09-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind confers National Teachers' Awards; 3 from Karnataka among winners||Three teachers from Karnataka, who used innovative methods such as musical spellings, and mathematics and science laboratories, to teach school students were among the 47 honoured with the National Teachers' Awards on Saturday. President Ram Nath Kovind presented the awards at a ‘virtual’ ceremony in the presence of Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Minister of State for Education Sanjay Dhotre and Secretary, School Education Anita Karwal. The award winning teachers joined the ceremony through video conferencing from their respective schools. Chemmalar Shanmugam, the Head Mistress of the primary section of a Kendriya Vidyalaya No 2 School in Jalhalli, Bengaluru , received the award for teaching English language through classroom games, concerts and dovetailing local issues such as lost lakes of the city to generate interest in studies. High school teacher Surekha Jagannath from the Government High School in Afzalpur in Kalaburgi won the award for over a hundred innovations and experiments in science teaching to promote personalized learning, development of curiosity and creativity in students. Yakub S, a high school teacher from Belthangaddy in Dakshina Kannada district was honoured for setting up the first laboratory for mathematics in any government school “I have created 500 educational videos on YouTube, around 300 focused on mathematics to make the subject interesting for students,” Yakub told DH. He said the videos, explaining mathematics is simple Kannada, were being used to impart education across the state. Yakub said the ‘Maths Magic’ YouTube channel is mainly targeted at high school students. For Shanmugam, use of information communication technology in imparting education was a passion that stood her in good stead during the Covid-19 pandemic. Shanmugham said she now also helped fellow teachers in the Kendriya Vidyalaya Organisation and beyond to use technology in imparting education to students. Addressing the teachers, President Kovind applauded them for making the transition to technology driven teaching in the challenging times of the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is important for all teachers ‘to upgrade and update’ their skills in the field of digital technology so as to make education more effective and also make the students conversant with the new techniques,” the President said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-confers-national-teachers-awards-3-from-karnataka-among-winners-882942.html
05-09-2020||National||Indian Army provides food, medical help to 3 stranded Chinese citizens along LAC in Sikkim||At a time it is engaged in a fierce standoff with China's PLA in eastern Ladakh, the Indian Army on Wednesday provided food, warm clothes and medical assistance to three Chinese citizens who had lost their way in sub-zero temperatures at an altitude of 17,500 feet in a border area in North Sikkim, officials said. The Army personnel deployed in the area also guided the Chinese citizens, including a woman, to return to the Chinese side and reach their destination. The humanitarian gesture by the Army came when it is dealing with aggressive behaviour by the Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The Army, in a statement, said the three Chinese citizens lost their way in the Plateau area of North Sikkim. "Realising danger to the lives of the Chinese citizens in sub-zero temperatures, the soldiers of Indian Army immediately reached out and provided medical assistance including oxygen, food and warm clothes to protect them from the vagaries of extreme altitude and harsh climatic conditions," the Army said. It said the Indian troops also gave them appropriate guidance to reach their destination after which they returned. "The Chinese citizens expressed their gratitude to India and the Indian Army for their prompt assistance," the Army said. The Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a bitter border row in eastern Ladakh for the last four months. The tensions had escalated manifold after 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in a fierce clash between the two sides in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese military is yet to reveal the casualties it suffered in the clash. Tensions flared up again in the region after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong lake around a week back. Following the attempts, India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India's move. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following China's transgression attempts. Defence Ministers of the two countries met on the sidelines of a multilateral meet in Moscow on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-provides-food-medical-help-to-3-stranded-chinese-citizens-along-lac-in-sikkim-882945.html
05-09-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh leaves Russia for Iran||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday left Moscow for Iran where he will meet his Iranian counterpart and discuss bilateral defence ties, a day after he urged the Persian Gulf countries to resolve their differences through dialogue based on mutual respect. Singh was in Moscow on a three-day visit to Russia to attend a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) defence ministers. He also held bilateral talks with his counterparts from Russia, China and the Central Asian countries. "Leaving Moscow for Tehran. I shall be meeting the Defence Minister of Iran, Brigadier General Amir Hatami," Singh said in a tweet. India on Friday said that it was “deeply concerned” about the situation in the Persian Gulf and called upon the countries in the region to resolve their differences by dialogue based on mutual respect. A series of incidents in the Persian Gulf involving Iran, the US and the UAE in recent weeks have flared up tension in the region. “We are deeply concerned about the situation in the Persian Gulf,” Singh said in his address at a meeting of the SCO here. "We call upon countries in the region - all of which are dear and friendly to India, to resolve differences by dialogue based on mutual respect, sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of each other," he said in his address at the combined meeting of defence ministers of the SCO, Collective Security Treaty Organisation and Commonwealth of Independent States member states. Last month, Iranian navy briefly seized control of a Liberian-flagged oil tanker in what the US said were international waters near the Strait of Hormuz, which links the Persian Gulf with the Gulf of Oman to the south and the Arabian Sea beyond. Iran has threatened to disrupt oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz if the United States tries to strangle its economy. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations which accounts for almost 44 per cent of the world population stretching from the Arctic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and from the Pacific Ocean to the Baltic Sea. The aim of the SCO is to maintain peace, stability and security of the region. Iran has observer status in the SCO, which was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the Presidents of Russia, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India and Pakistan were admitted as observers of the grouping in 2005. Both the countries were admitted as full members of the bloc in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-leaves-russia-for-iran-882955.html
05-09-2020||National||No doctor can discuss Sushant Singh Rajput's mental health without consent: Family lawyer||Sushant Singh Rajput's family lawyer Vikas Singh on Saturday said doctors cannot share sensitive information of patients without the consent of their legal heirs. He also said that any doctor who claims to have treated Sushant should discuss his medical history with the family first. "I have seen a disturbing trend that so-called doctors of Sushant are discussing his mental health on news channels," Singh told reporters.  "According to MCI professional rules, no doctor can share sensitive information related to their patient. As Sushant is no more, it can only be done with the permission of his legal heir i.e., his father," he said. The lawyer also refuted the claims of few that Sushant's mother's mental health was not right and clarified that she died due to brain haemorrhage. On the issue of arrest of Showik Chakraborty, brother of main accused Rhea, and Samuel Miranda in connection with the drugs probe linked to the death of the actor by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Singh said there was something very big that Mumbai police wanted to hide and the picture with get clearer as the CBI investigation progresses. The NCB on Friday arrested Showik and Samuel in connection with the drugs probe linked to the death of Rajput. The actor was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-doctor-can-discuss-sushant-singh-rajputs-mental-health-without-consent-family-lawyer-882958.html
05-09-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Rajnath Singh warns China to not make attempts to unilaterally change the LAC's status quo||In your evening brief, From The Newsroom, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh warned Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghe to not make attempts to unilaterally change the LAC's status quo. The railway board chairman said on Saturday that 80 new special trains will be started from September 12, reservations for which will open September 10. Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik was remanded to the custody of Narcotics Control Bureau till September 9.  Here are the top stories of the day, September 5, 2020: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has clearly conveyed to his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe that China must strictly respect the Line of Actual Control and not make attempts to unilaterally change its status quo, asserting India is determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity, officials said on Saturday.  In the first highest-level face-to-face contact between the two sides after border tension erupted in eastern Ladakh in early May, Singh and Wei met for two hours and 20 minutes in Moscow on Friday evening on the sidelines of a meeting of the Defence Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. The railway board chairman said on Saturday that 80 new special trains will be started from September 12, reservations for which will open September 10. This is in addition to 230 trains in operation. He added that special trains will be monitored, and wherever there is demand for a train or waiting list is long, a clone train will be run. Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik was remanded to the custody of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday. Showik’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde pressed for bail, however, the court sent both of them to NCB custody till September 9. Showik and Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda, who were arrested Friday night by the NCB after a day of grilling, was produced before the Esplanade metropolitan court. As Covid-19 cases surge so do worries about measures to contain the spread of the disease that is spreading inexorably through India, initially in urban centres and now increasingly into the hinterland where medical infrastructure is scarce. Though there are no exact numbers about the spread of the virus into rural areas, there is enough evidence to suggest it has reached most corners of India and there is community transmission, say experts. India today recorded the world’s highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with over 86,000 cases reported in the last 24 hours taking the nation’s tally to over 40 lakh. IPL Chairman Brijesh Patel on Saturday confirmed that the schedule for the eagerly anticipated Indian Premier League would be released on Sunday.  "The schedule will be released tomorrow," Patel told news agency ANI. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rajnath-singh-warns-china-to-not-make-attempts-to-unilaterally-change-the-lacs-status-quo-882969.html
05-09-2020||National||Railway accidents killed 24,619 in 2019, says NCRB data||Falling from trains or collisions with people on track have emerged as major reasons for the most number of deaths reported in the railways system last year, says the latest government data. A total of 27,987 cases of railway accidents were reported during 2019 which injured 3,569 persons and 24,619 deaths, said the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). A majority (76.3 %) of railways accident cases occurred due to falling off moving trains or getting run over while trespassing on tracks (21,361 out of the total  27,987 deaths in 2019),  it added. With a large number of deaths due to falling from trains reported in Mumbai suburban trains, NITI Aayog has been asking the Indian Railways to take steps to prevent this, including installing sliding doors in trains. There were 1,788 level-crossing accidents in 2019, up from 1,408 in 2018. Last year, level-crossing accidents killed 1,762 people, while the year before it claimed 1,507 lives, the report says. Uttar Pradesh reported maximum level-crossing incidents (851 out of 1,788 cases) accounting for 47.5 % of these incidents, the data showed.  The railways has been taking a number of steps to reduce such incidents by eliminating unmanned level crossing either by manning them or building flyovers or subways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-accidents-killed-24619-in-2019-says-ncrb-data-882970.html
05-09-2020||National||Home just 30-minute drive from hospital, but Covid-19 duty keeps doctor away for 5 months||"When will you come home?" the daughters of doctor Ajit Jain would ask when they used to talk over phone late at night. The nodal officer for novel coronavirus at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in Delhi has not been home for nearly five months. Duty and fear of spreading the infection among the family members kept him away. When he finally came home, 13 kilometres away in Kamla Nagar and just a half-an-hour drive from his hospital in Dilshad Garden, his two daughters opened the door and hugged him tight. Jain's wife, trying not to be overwhelmed with emotion, performed an 'aarti' and applied a 'tilak' on his forehead, as his son shot a video of the homecoming -- the first time since March 17. A cake was cut and the family dined together in almost six months. "When cases started emerging in March, we understood Covid-19 is one of the biggest challenges mankind has ever confronted," Jain, who availed his first leave on Thursday after working for 170 days on the trot, told PTI. "Initially, I didn't go home for the fear of spreading the infection in my family," the 52-year-old said. "Both my parents are aged above 75. I was worried about them. I didn't want to put their lives in jeopardy." As the number of patients swelled, it seemed impossible to talk to the family on the phone, too. "Saving lives was the first priority. There was so much going on," he says. "I could talk to my family only at night, around 1 or 2 am." Jain's daughter, Aarushi Jain, says the family was really worried for him as the cases kept piling up. "We would ask him 'papa when will you come home?' We saw what happened in Italy, in the US... we were freaking out. So many doctors who contracted the virus are no more among us," she says. "We would wait up till 2 am to talk to him for five minutes, to enquire about his well-being," the daughter says. His son, Amitabh Jain, says he cannot explain how it feels when children cannot see their father around. "I wrote my JEE exam on September 2 (Wednesday). I cannot tell you how badly I wished if papa could take me to the test centre," he says. Though the government made arrangements for the health staff to stay at the Leela Ambience hotel, the doctor spent several nights in the hospital itself. For the initial three months, not once did Jain sleep for 15 minutes in a stretch. His phone just won't stop ringing. The doctor has given his personal mobile number to all coronavirus patients who are undergoing treatment or have been discharged from the hospital after recovery. "The situation was more serious during the lockdown. Patients were more anxious living in closed rooms. They would call after every five minutes... No one could even imagine the entire country would shut down," he says. Talking to the patient personally builds confidence among them and reduces their anxiety and stress, he says. The doctor also formed a team -- including a nurse, nursing orderly and housekeeping staff -- that would talk daily to the patients admitted in the hospital on general things so that they do not feel lonely. Separate teams have been created to call up those who have recovered from the virus to know about their well-being. "After the patient is discharged, the team calls up him/her to take feedback," the doctor says. "This is how we got to know that a few recovered patients were suffering from long-term complications like anxiety, breathlessness, insomnia." The feedback led to the opening of a post-Covid clinic, a first-of-its-kind facility, on the premises of the hospital with medical specialists to treat symptoms particular to their respective fields. The doctor has also created WhatsApp groups and is in "regular touch" with all more than 1,500 patients. "They or their family members call me up directly if they want to discuss something," Jain says. "Sometimes, people give us blessings. Sometimes, they say bad things about us... I am just doing my job."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-just-30-minute-drive-from-hospital-but-covid-19-duty-keeps-doctor-away-for-5-months-882976.html
05-09-2020||National||India's commitment to reform being taken seriously by foreign investors: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said India's commitment to reform is being taken seriously by foreign investors, which is evident from the good inflow of FDI even during the time of Covid-19. Between April-July, the Foreign Direct investment (FDI) into India stood at USD 20 billion. “India's commitment to reform is taken seriously by investors abroad and they take India to be a very desirable destination, otherwise we wouldn't be seeing good amount of FDI coming even during the pandemic time when India, as many of our critics would say, had the strictest lockdown,” Sitharaman said. Releasing the state rankings based on the implementation of State Business Reform Action Plan 2019, Sitharaman said Atmanirbhar Bharat would help India build on its strengths and become self-reliant. “Atmanirbhar Bharat will lead to greater export competitiveness, better pricing and quality of exports, which show the Indian skill of making things to perfection,” she said. Sitharaman said Atmanirbhar Bharat is not for making India inward-looking, but to build on its strengths, one of the ways in which the country can become more competitive. In the states' ease of doing business rankings released on Saturday, Andhra Pradesh retained the top position followed by UP and Telangana at the second and third spots, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-commitment-to-reform-being-taken-seriously-by-foreign-investors-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-882979.html
05-09-2020||National||#MeToo: Disclosure of sexual harassment was for public good, Priya Ramani tells court||Journalist Priya Ramani told a Delhi court on Saturday that her remarks alleging sexual harassment by former Union minister M J Akbar were “her truth” which she disclosed in "good faith" for the "public good" and, therefore, do not amount to defamation. Ramani submitted this before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja through her lawyer during the final hearing of a private criminal defamation complaint filed by Akbar against her. During the #MeToo movement, Ramani in 2018 accused Akbar of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago when he was a journalist. Akbar resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018. Senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Ramani, told the court on Saturday that as per law it is not defamation to impute anything which is true concerning any person if it is for the public good. “A true imputation made in the public good is not defamation... it is not defamation to make an imputation on the character of another when it is made in good faith for the protection of his or other's interest,” she told the court during a virtual hearing. John further said that “Priya Ramani's alleged defamatory tweets and the Vogue article were her truth. I am saying this is my (Ramani's) truth... it is the truth, is in good faith, touching public good.” The court will further hear the arguments on September 8. Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani had defamed him by using adjectives such as 'media's biggest predator' against him that harmed his reputation. M J Akbar has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during the #MeToo campaign against him. Akbar had told the court that the allegations made in an article in the 'Vogue' and the subsequent tweets were defamatory on the face of it as the complainant had deposed them to be false and imaginary and that “immediate damage” was caused to him due to the “false” allegations by Priya Ramani. Ramani had earlier told the court that her “disclosure” of alleged sexual harassment by Akbar has come at “a great personal cost” and she had “nothing to gain” from it. She had said her move would empower women to speak up and make them understand their rights at the workplace. Several women came up with accounts of the alleged sexual harassment by M J Akbar him while they were working as journalists under him. He has termed the allegations “false, fabricated and deeply distressing” and said he was taking appropriate legal action against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metoo-disclosure-of-sexual-harassment-was-for-public-good-priya-ramani-tells-court-882981.html
05-09-2020||National||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh tests negative for Covid-19; ends self-isolation||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday tested negative for the coronavirus infection. This was the third time that the Chief Minister had got himself tested for Covid-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic. Singh also ended his week-long self-isolation after testing negative for the contagion. The CM had gone into seven-day self-quarantine on August 28 after he came in contact with two Congress legislators, Kulbir Singh Zira and Nirmal Singh, who had tested positive after the one-day Punjab Assembly session. Singh, who presided over a virtual meeting of ministers, Congress MLAs and senior officials, disclosed during the interaction that he had got himself tested on Saturday and was found negative, according to a government release here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-tests-negative-for-covid-19-ends-self-isolation-882982.html
05-09-2020||National||Centre asks Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka to focus on aggressive measures to check mortality rate, Covid-19 spread||The Centre on Saturday exhorted Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, accounting for about 46 per cent of active Covid-19 cases and 52 per cent of deaths in the last 24 hours, to focus on aggressive measures to break the chain of transmission and keep mortality rate below 1 per cent. The states have been advised to proactively ensure higher testing, effective clinical management along with efficient monitoring at various levels to lower fatality, the Union Health Ministry said. Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka account for about 46 per cent of active cases reported nationally in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra alone accounts for 22 per cent of all active cases reported in a day, it said. "These three states also account for 52 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths reported across the country in a day. Maharashtra alone accounted for 35 per cent of all deaths registered in 24 hours," the ministry highlighted. The Union Home Ministry also highlighted districts in each of these states that raised concern. The need for effective containment and contact tracing was underlined for Pune, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Sangli, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Raigad, Jalgaon, Solapur, Satara and Palghar districts of Maharashtra. In Andhra Pradesh, Prakasam and Chittoor were highlighted as districts of concern and the need for daily monitoring of facility-wise deaths, strengthening of hospital facilities, increasing the number of ICU, oxygen beds and efficient clinical management were focused upon. For Karnataka, the highlighted districts of Koppal, Mysuru, Davangere and Bellari were advised to optimally utilize RT-PCR testing facilities, strengthen their door-to-door search for active cases and protect their healthcare workers, the ministry said. In cumulative terms, five states account for more than 60 per cent of the total active cases in the country, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum to the active caseload amounting to almost 25 per cent, followed by Andhra Pradesh 12.06 per cent, Karnataka 11.71 per cent, Uttar Pradesh 6.92 per cent and Tamil Nadu 6.10 per cent.  Of these, three states -- Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka -- account for nearly 49 per cent of all active cases and more than 57 per cent of coronavirus-related deaths. Of the total deaths in the country, 70 per cent are recorded in just five states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra alone accounts for 37.33 per cent of the total fatalities, the Health Ministry said. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 40,23,179 on Saturday, with a record 86,432 cases being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 69,561 with 1,089 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, the health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-maharashtra-andhra-pradesh-karnataka-to-focus-on-aggressive-measures-to-check-mortality-rate-covid-19-spread-882985.html
05-09-2020||National||NIA jails two for four years for smuggling fake Indian notes from Bangladesh||A special NIA court here convicted two men on Saturday for circulating Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) smuggled from Bangladesh and sentenced them to four years in prison, an official said. Habibur Rahman (24) and Fakirul Seikh (22), both residents of West Bengal's Malda, were convicted under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). On March 6, 2017, fake notes with a face value of Rs two lakh and Rs 1.90 lakh were seized from the possession of Rahman and Seikh respectively and a case was registered, an NIA spokesperson said. The NIA re-registered the case and filed a charge sheet against the two accused. They had hatched a criminal conspiracy for procuring and circulating FICN in India, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) official said. The fake currency notes were smuggled from Bangladesh and intended to be circulated in different parts of India, he added. After the completion of the trial, the accused were found guilty and convicted by the special NIA court in Kolkata. They were sentenced to four years of imprisonment and slapped with a fine of Rs 3,000 each, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-jails-two-for-four-years-for-smuggling-fake-indian-notes-from-bangladesh-882988.html
05-09-2020||National||Deaths due to consuming spurious liquor rise in Karnataka amid slump in all-India figures||Karnataka has earned the ignominy of having the highest number of deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor in the country last year, overtaking Madhya Pradesh which has halved such deaths from 2018. Altogether 1,296 people, including 108 women, lost their lives by consuming spurious liquor in the country in 1,141 cases last year compared to 1,365 deaths in 1,346 instances in 2018. While the number of deaths across the country saw a decrease, Karnataka recorded an increase to 268 in 2019 from 218 deaths. Of the 268, ten were women. Madhya Pradesh, which topped the list with 410 deaths in 2018, witnessed a decrease by more than half to 190, including 15 women, last year to bag the third position while Punjab with 191 deaths came second. Punjab too witnessed a rise from 159 deaths in 2018. Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand (115 deaths each), Assam (98) and Rajasthan (88) were other states with high number of deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor. Assam's death toll was from just two cases while other states have more or less the same number of cases and victims. The analysis of the 'Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India 2019' report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) showed that people belonging to the 30-45 years age bracket died the most due to consumption of spurious liquor followed by people in 45-60 years age group with 360 deaths. In a shocking revelation, four children, including a girl, below the age of 14 years were also victims in this category while 30 people, including eight girls, were in aged 14 to 18 years. When it came to 45-60 years, there were 360 victims, including 25 women, and in above 60 years category, there were 103, including five women. Officials said though the death figures was just around 1,300 and saw a decrease, it did not mean that the menace of illicit liquor is still there. They said the state Excise Departments should be more vigilant. Among sudden deaths, including heart attacks, Karnataka (4,978) was placed third behind Maharashtra (15,358). A total of 47,295 sudden deaths were reported last year, which was an increase of 4.5%. Among them were six transgenders and 8,064 women. In heart attack deaths, the country witnessed an 8.7% rise last year when 28,005 people, including one each transgender from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Punjab, died. In 2018, the number of victims were 25,764. Maharashtra topped the list with 11268 followed by Kerala (3,077), Gujarat (2,888) and Karnataka (1,554) in heart attack related deaths. The age-group analysis showed that the highest number of victims were 45-60 years age group with 11,402 followed by 30-45 years (7,752) and above 60 years (6,612). Close to half of the 95 children below the age of 14 years who died due to heart attack were girls (44). In the age group of 14-18 years, there were 123 deaths, including 25 girls. According to the report, 2,381 people, including 401, victims were in the age group of 18-30 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deaths-due-to-consuming-spurious-liquor-rise-in-karnataka-amid-slump-in-all-india-figures-882990.html
05-09-2020||National||Bullet train project progressing well, real timeframe for completion in 3-6 months: Indian Railways||The bullet train project was progressing well but the real time frame for project completion could be gauged within the next three to six months when the status of land acquisition will be ascertained, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said on Saturday. "Our designs are ready and we are set to go. It is true that the tenders and land acquisition were delayed a bit due to the coronavirus pandemic, but I can say that the project is progressing well," Yadav said. In the next 3 to 6 months,  we will be able to start the bidding process and within the next three to six months, we will be able to get the status of land acquired and then we will be able to provide a real timeframe for the completion of the project," he said. Of the total required land for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project, around  82% of the land has been acquired in Gujarat, in Maharashtra land acquisition is only at 23%. In projects like the bullet train, work can only begin when a certain amount of land is available, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bullet-train-project-progressing-well-real-timeframe-for-completion-in-3-6-months-indian-railways-882991.html
05-09-2020||National||Maximum temperatures hover around normal levels in Punjab, Haryana||Maximum temperatures stayed close to normal levels in most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, even as rains lashed a few areas. Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, recorded its high at 34.3 degrees Celsius, according to a report of the Meteorological Department. In Haryana, Ambala and Bhiwani had maximum temperatures of 34.1 and 34.9 degrees Celsius, respectively. Hisar, Karnal and Narnaul recorded their maximum temperatures at 36, 34.6 and 34.5 degrees Celsius, respectively, the weather office said. Ambala, Hisar and Narnaul received 0.2, 6 and 9 mm rainfall, respectively. In Punjab, Amritsar's maximum temperature settled at 32.1 degrees Celsius, while maximum temperatures of Ludhiana and Patiala were 34.7 and 33 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana received 0.4 mm rainfall. The MeT department has predicted light to moderate rains at a few places in both states in the next 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maximum-temperatures-hover-around-normal-levels-in-punjab-haryana-883007.html
05-09-2020||National||The difficulty of being Kafeel Khan||When Kafeel Khan walked out of Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura jail after seven months in prison on September 1, he was at the end of a long and difficult journey. Kafeel, a pediatrician from Gorakhpur, first came into the media spotlight after stories emerged that he had arranged oxygen cylinders on his own to save the lives of children at the government-run BRD Medical College hospital on August 10, 2017. As many as 60 children, including newborns, died within a period of four days at the hospital allegedly due to oxygen shortage. Pictures of Kafeel carrying a sick child in his arms had flooded social media; stories of his efforts had made it to the local and national press. In a high-profile and horrific case of medical negligence in Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s own hometown, Kafeel had become an unlikely hero. However, within 48 hours the whole story was turned on its head. Kafeel was now painted as a villain who had indulged in private practice and was accused of taking oxygen cylinders from the government medical college to his nursing home, contributing to the deaths. He was suspended along with others, an FIR was lodged against him and he was arrested a few days later. He spent nine months in jail before being released on bail. Two years after the incident, an official inquiry gave him a clean chit. But his ordeal was far from over. In December 2019, he was arrested on charges of delivering an 'inflammatory' speech against the Citizenship Amendment Act to students of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). Though he was granted bail by a lower court, the government booked him under the National Security Act (NSA) hours before his release. Months later, the Allahabad High Court not only quashed the NSA case against him but also observed that his AMU address gave a "call for national integrity and unity... and deprecated any kind of violence". Kafeel says he has been hounded by the UP government, his family humiliated, and he’s financially broken after a long legal battle and suspension. He fears being implicated in another false case and being arrested again. Such is his apprehension that he has taken refuge in neighbouring Congress-ruled Rajasthan to be 'safe'. Some in UP’s Opposition parties feel Kafeel was targetted because he was a Muslim. Others have said that he was made a scapegoat to save influential senior doctors at BRD Medical College. While many have held that Kafeel's outbursts against Adityanath and the UP administration have cost him dearly. Whatever be the case, his newfound celebrity has made him a political catch for UP’s Opposition parties, who see him as a potential face to win Muslim votes. The Congress seems to have stolen a march over the SP and the BSP for now. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had earlier written to Adityanath seeking Kafeel's release from jail, appears to have succeeded in 'convincing' him that the Congress is with him. The doctor is said to have travelled to Rajasthan on Priyanka’s advice. It remains to be seen if Kafeel, whose release from jail has left the BJP government red-faced, takes the plunge into active politics. With Assembly polls in UP less than two years away, perhaps the doctor is on the cusp of a whole new journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-difficulty-of-being-kafeel-khan-883010.html
05-09-2020||National||DGCA orders resumption of pre-flight alcohol test for pilots, cabin crew||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Friday ordered airlines to resume pre-flight alcohol tests for pilots and cabin crew members. The aviation regulator had on March 29 this year suspended breath analyser (BA) test for "all aviation personnel" like pilots, cabin crew members, ground handling staff and air traffic controllers due to the "extraordinary" circumstances posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and given the directions issued by the high courts in Delhi and Kerala. "In partial modification of the DGCA order... dated 29.03.2020, this is to convey that the employer/organization shall ensure flight crew member and the cabin crew member shall undergo pre-flight BA test," said the regulator in an order dated September 4. This means breath analyser tests will continue to remain suspended for aviation personnel other than pilots and cabin crew members. In domestic flight operations, 10 per cent of pilots and crew members should undergo preflight BA test per day, the DGCA had said on Friday. "For all international operations -- 100 per cent preflight BA examination shall be carried out per day," it said, adding that the other provisions contained in the March 29 DGCA order would continue to apply to every aviation personnel reporting for duty. The March 29 order had stated that every aviation personnel has to submit an undertaking that he or she is not under the influence of alcohol and that he or she has not "consumed alcohol/psychoactive substance in the last 12 hours from the time of reporting for duty". The regulator had noted that if the undertaking submitted by the aviation personnel is violated, their license or approval would be suspended for three years. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July. Domestic flights resumed in India on May 25 after remaining suspended for two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-orders-resumption-of-pre-flight-alcohol-test-for-pilots-cabin-crew-883013.html
05-09-2020||National||Richard Nixon's remarks against Indians reflect his 'vulgarity', 'racism', say former diplomats||Former US president Richard Nixon’s disparaging remarks on Indians, revealed in newly declassified White House tapes, reflect his "vulgarity" and "racism" as well as his anti-India stance driven by his preference for Pakistan, say former Indian diplomats. While former foreign minister Natwar Singh labelled the 37th president of the United States a “third-rate” human being, former diplomat Mani Shankar Aiyar termed him “uncivilised” and former Indian ambassador to the US Meera Shankar recalled his animus with Indira Gandhi. They also spoke of Nixon being outwitted and out-maneuvered by Gandhi. The “newly declassified trove of tapes provides startling evidence of the bigotry” voiced by Nixon, who was president from 1969 to 1974, and his national security advisory Henry Kissinger, Princeton professor Gary Bass has revealed in The New York Times. Asked about Nixon's remarks, Natwar Singh said Nixon’s language reflected "his vulgarity and racism". "Richard Nixon was a third-rate human being and his entire record shows that and also the manner in which he was dismissed," Singh told PTI, referring to the Watergate scandal that led to Nixon's resignation. Nixon had a genuine preference for Pakistan vis-a-vis India and he knew about the genocide that was going on in Bangladesh but turned his eyes the other way. In this, his accomplice was Kissinger, Singh said. "Kissinger, 20 years later at least had the decency to apologise, but Nixon went to his grave and never apologised," said Singh, who has been a decorated diplomat and India's envoy to several countries. Singh also hailed then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi for "completely out-maneuvering" the Americans. Aiyar, a former Union minister and IFS officer who has handled sensitive assignments, also slammed Nixon, describing him as "very vulgar" and "completely uncivilised". "The Nixon tapes have long ago revealed that Nixon was a very vulgar, completely uncivilised and perhaps typical white American male of his generation. The revelations made by Gary Bass only confirm that," Aiyar told PTI. "It is perhaps Indira Gandhi's greatest achievement that she completely outwitted and put to shame this horrible man who was perhaps the only president to be driven out of office for his misdemeanours," said Aiyar, who had just come back from a posting in Hanoi in the early 1970s to when the remarks date back to. According to Aiyar, Nixon was infuriated with Indira Gandhi because she did not behave like other world leaders when the "American boss wags his finger at them". "She just went away disgusted and did her thing...she put them in their place and that is why they hated her," he said of the 1971 Bangladesh War episode. In his opinion piece titled “The Terrible Cost of Presidential Racism”, Bass writes that the full content of the tapes reveal how “U.S. policy toward South Asia under Mr. Nixon was influenced by his hatred of, and sexual repulsion toward, Indians”. In the “stunning" conversation – that takes place at the Oval Office in June 1971 between Nixon,  Kissinger and his chief of staff H.R. Haldeman – the then president asserts in a "venomous tone" that Indian women are "undoubtedly, the most unattractive women in the world", Bass says.  Nixon also calls Indians "most sexless", "nothing" and "pathetic", according to the tapes. Asked whether the remarks were the outcome of personal behaviour or a product of the Cold War era, Shankar said, "I think it would be a combination of personal animus  and perceived complications for the US policy." "He did not get on with Indira Gandhi… for whatever reasons, they did not hit it off, and subsequently there was the whole issue of the opening up to China with Kissinger using Pakistan as the intermediary to pave the way for his confidential diplomacy," she told PTI . Both these issues informed Nixon and Kissinger's behaviour towards India, she said, adding that the cold war coloured the US' perception of India. G Parthasarathy, who has been India's envoy in several countries, said the remarks could be attributed to a "mixture of circumstances".  "Firstly was his own character. He was given to being foul mouthed. Secondly, the dislike for India was very clear and he was planning was a sort of Pakistan, China and the US getting together and that was what we saw in the Bangladesh conflict." "Therefore, if you look back on the vehemence  and venom with which he had spoken, all credit to Mrs Gandhi that she completely out-maneuvered him," he said. Former foreign secretary Salman Haider, however, said the revelations were "very unfortunate" as ties between India and the US have developed in a very satisfactory way and the relations have taken the turn for the best. On November 4, 1971, during a private break from a contentious White House summit with Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India, a rare woman leader at the time, the president harangued Mr. Kissinger about his sexual disgust at Indians, Bass, author of “The Blood Telegram: Nixon, Kissinger and a Forgotten Genocide”, writes.  Referring to Indians, Nixon says to Kissinger, "To me, they turn me off. How the hell do they turn other people on, Henry? Tell me." According to Bass, while Kissinger's response is inaudible in the tapes, it did not discourage the president from his theme. In November 1971, in the middle of a discussion about India-Pakistan tensions with Kissinger and Secretary of State William Rogers, after Rogers mentioned reprimanding Gandhi, the president blurted, "I don't know how they reproduce!"    While Nixon and Kissinger had some reasons to favour Pakistan, an American ally which was secretly helping to bring about their historic opening to China, their biases and emotions contributed to their excessive support for Pakistan's murderous dictatorship throughout its atrocities, Bass says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/richard-nixons-remarks-against-indians-reflect-his-vulgarity-racism-say-former-diplomats-883016.html
05-09-2020||National||Railways to conduct computer-based exams for 1.4 lakh posts from Dec 15||Indian Railways will conduct the first stage of computer-based exams from December 15 to fill around 1.40 lakh posts in three categories. The scrutiny of the applications had been completed but the process of further examination was delayed due to Covid-related restrictions, the railways said in a statement. "Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) of the railways are committed to holding the computer-based test (CBT) for all the notified vacancies and have been actively assessing the ground situation imposed due to pandemic. Now that experience of conduct examination for the JEE for IITs and NEET is there, it was felt that Railways too can start the process which had to be stopped due to COVID  pandemic," the statement said. "SOPs for conducting examination of this magnitude are being framed. Norms of social distancing and other protocols prescribed by the various Central and State authorities need to be followed which are essential in the interest of safety of candidates," the statement added. Earlier, the Indian Railways had notified 3 types of vacancies. These were 35,208 for NTPC (non-technical popular categories like guards, office clerks, commercial clerks etc), 1,663 for isolated & Ministerial categories (Steno & Teaches etc) and 1,03,769 for Level 1 vacancies (track maintainers, pointsman etc). In all, RRBs had notified a total of 1.40 lakh such vacancies for NTPC categories, Level-1 Posts and isolated and miscellaneous categories. Against the above vacancies, RRBs had received more than 2.40 crore applications. The Computer Based Test (CBT) for the above vacancies had to be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and resultant lockdown which was imposed throughout the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-conduct-computer-based-exams-for-14-lakh-posts-from-dec-15-883046.html
05-09-2020||National||National Teachers' Award 2020: MCD teacher, Delhi private school principal among awardees||An MCD school teacher who often goes out of the way to help his students academically and even ferries them to exam centres, and a private school principal who has introduced global citizenship curriculum for students are the two teachers from Delhi who received the national award this year. Surender Singh, who has been a teacher with schools of the North MCD for the last 21 years, has an exceptional record. For the last five times, he has been in-charge of fifth-graders in his school, over 160 of his students cleared the entrance to Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalayas -- exclusive resource-rich schools run by the Delhi government, to which admissions take place through competitive entrance exams. From filling up their application forms, speaking to their parents to hiring a bus on the day of the exam to ferry all the students to their centre, Singh does it all. "Surender Singh has shown himself to be a dedicated and motivated teacher who has worked very hard for the improvement and performance of his school. The school caters to some of the most deprived sections of society and he has worked hard to make the school attractive and effective," his award citation read. "He has untiringly built a strong rapport with the community and has thus helped the school attain an unprecedentedly high enrolment. He is able to maintain regular attendance and minimise drop outs by making the school atmosphere welcoming, creative and one of joyful learning," it added. Jyoti Arora, the principal of Mount Abu School, who is also the governing body member of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), is the other awardee from the national capital. She has introduced the unique global citizenship curriculum in the school to spread awareness about UN Sustainable Development Goals. "Arora runs a well-managed school in which academic, co-curricular activities as well as social and life skills are imparted effectively to students. She has involved the school community, parents and teachers in the development of the school in many versatile ways," the award citation read. "She has brought many reputed resource institutions within the country and from abroad, to help build the best academic, ICT and co-scholastic systems in her school. She has encouraged her teachers to innovate pedagogic and collaborating learning practices and has introduced a unique Global Citizen Curriculum in her school," it added. The two are among 47 teachers who received the National Teachers' Awards from President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday in a virtual ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-teachers-award-2020-mcd-teacher-delhi-private-school-principal-among-awardees-883056.html
05-09-2020||National||NCB arrests Dipesh Sawant, Sushant Singh Rajput's personal staff||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested Dipesh Sawant, a member of Sushant Singh Rajput's personal staff, in connection with a drugs probe linked to the actor's death, officials said. The NCB said with the latest action, the total number of arrested in this "ongoing investigation" has risen to seven. They said Sawant, who was being interrogated since 10 PM last night, has been arrested under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act around 8 PM on Saturday. "He was subjected to interrogation and confrontation with Showik Chakraborty, Samuel Miranda, Zaid Vilatra and Kaizan Ibrahim. "His statement was recorded under section 67 of the NDPS Act and on the basis of enough corroborative evidence, he (Sawant) has been placed under arrest," a senior NCB officer said. Sawant will be produced before the local Esplanade court at 11 AM on Sunday, he said. "His role is same as that of Samuel Miranda that was to procure and handle (drugs). Sawant has some corroborative evidence which we need for further cross examination (of other accused)," NCB Deputy Director (operations) K P S Malhotra told reporters outside the agency's office. A senior NCB officer had earlier said Sawant's role was that of a "witness" in the case. The federal anti-narcotics agency had on Friday arrested Showik Chakraborty (24), the brother of main accused in this case Rhea Chakraborty, and Samuel Miranda, Rajput's house manager. Three of the seven arrested, Showik, Miranda and Vilatra (21), are in NCB custody, the agency said. When the probe in the case began, the agency had arrested two men, Abbas Lakhani and Karan Arora, for alleged drug peddling and officials have claimed that through them they reached Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar who are allegedly directly linked to this drugs case as they were in touch with Miranda. Miranda, they had said, used to allegedly procure drugs from them on the purported instructions of Showik, agency officials said. Officials have said Rhea (28), Rajput's live-in partner, is expected to be summoned for questioning soon. This case has given the NCB an "inkling" into the narcotics network and its penetration in Bollywood or Hindi movie industry, NCB Deputy Director General Mutha Ashok Jain told reporters outside the agency's office on Saturday. Various angles surrounding the death of the 34-year-old actor are being probed by three federal agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The NCB is probing the drug angle in this case under criminal sections of the NDPS Act after the ED shared with it a report following the cloning of two mobile phones of Rhea. Rajput was found dead at his flat in suburban Bandra area on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-arrests-dipesh-sawant-sushant-singh-rajputs-personal-staff-883057.html
05-09-2020||National||India's security would be maintained in 'extended neighbourhood' as well: Gen Bipin Rawat||In the emerging defence paradigm, India's security would be maintained not only along the northern and western borders but in the strategic space of the “extended neighbourhood” as well, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said on Saturday. He also said that India values its emerging relationship with the US and cherishes its traditional relationship with Russia, adding the country shares a mature and robust defence and security framework with both these powers. Addressing a symposium on defence exports, Gen Rawat said the armed forces will have to work through the budgetary constraints by finding the best solutions through new acquisitions and optimisation considering the macro-economic parameters. Referring to proposed reforms in the military structure, Gen Rawat said the Chief of Defence Staff and the theatre commanders would "conjointly" provide “unity of command” while the service headquarters and the "component commanders" could provide “unity of effort”. Under a big-ticket reform initiative, India is working on setting up of a number of theatre commands, integrating some of the commands of the three services, to deal with future security challenges facing the country. Each of the theatre commands will have units of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force and all of them will work as a single entity looking after security challenges in a specified geographical territory under an operational commander. The government had appointed Gen Rawat as India's first Chief of Defence Staff on December 31 last year to bring synergy in the functioning of the three services. Talking about the regional security paradigm, he touched upon key aspects of India's security doctrine. In this context, he mentioned International Border (IB) and Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan as about Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. "In the emerging security paradigm, India’s security would be maintained not, as hitherto, on the IB, LC or the LAC alone, but in the strategic space of the 'extended neighbourhood' and the ‘strategic frontier’," he said without elaborating further. India has been ramping up defence and security ties with a number of countries in its extended neighbourhood like Indonesia, Singapore and several countries in the Gulf region in the last few years. Delving into the evolving security matrix in the region, the Chief of Defence Staff pitched for seamless integration of surveillance and communication resources of the three services, saying such a convergence is essential for evolving a framework for having a composite real-time air situation "picture". Gen Rawat said robust interaction between the CDS, COSC (Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee) and political executive (Cabinet Committee on Security) must ensure single-point military advice, strategic direction and resource optimisation. On the modernisation of the Indian armed forces, he said it has been in line with the changing global security environment and with a focus on the utmost optimisation of resources. "We are witnessing seismic changes in geopolitics shaped by a 'nation first' approach and geo-economics," he said, adding the armed forces should be structured in a manner that they provide the operational flexibility to pursue "wider strategic objectives". The country's first CDS also said the pursuit of disruptive technologies like artificial intelligence, robotics, big data analytics, drone technology, militarisation of space, quantum communications, along with manipulation of social media is leading to new threats, and further complicating the security environment. He said the asymmetric advantages created by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are being seen as opportunities by non-state actors, adding future defence systems must be qualitatively and quantitatively capable of dealing with the new threats. "In this era of multidimensional technology, we must focus on constant innovations and modern technological solutions, to keep ourselves ahead of the adversaries," he said. Gen Rawat said the creation of the Department of Military Affairs headed by the CDS, having a central staffing scheme along with amendments to the business rules, in effect, admits the military into the central edifice of the government of India. "This restructuring of the Ministry of Defence gives us the opportunity to embrace forward-looking strategies to seize and exploit the moment and set in motion a dynamic transformation process," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-security-would-be-maintained-in-extended-neighbourhood-as-well-gen-bipin-rawat-883062.html
05-09-2020||National||KCR government to construct two mosques, temple and a church in new secretariat complex with public money||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao has announced that two mosques, a temple and a church would be constructed at government’s expense in the new secretariat complex. It may be recalled that Rao had planned to construct a new secretariat complex, for around Rs 400 crore. For this purpose, his government had, last month, razed all the 10 existing blocks of the complex to the ground. During the process, a few existing places of worship had been damaged. Religious bodies and political parties have been expressing disquiet over the loss.    On Saturday, Rao met with representatives of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board and other Muslim religious bodies, in the presence of state home minister Mohammed Ali, AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi and MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi. “The CM has decided to construct one temple, two mosques which were damaged while demolishing the old secretarial buildings, at the government cost with all the facilities,” a CMO press release said. The TRS government would construct two mosques, in 750 square yards each (total 1,500 square yards) including one Imam quarters. The new mosques would be constructed at their original location, in the new Secretariat complex, and would be handed over to the state Waqf Board. “The temple will also be constructed in a 1,500 square yard area and will be handed over to the state endowments department. Since there was a demand from the Christian community that they should also have a Church in the new Secretariat, the government will construct a Church,” the release stated.   Foundation stones will be laid for all the places of worship on the same day, after the monsoon session of the Assembly ends. “Telangana state treats all religions equally. It will practice religious tolerance as a symbol of the Ganga-Jamuna tehzeeb,” Rao said. The CM said that works on Islamic Centre in Hyderabad with international standards would be put on fast track soon. “(As) there is a need for (more) burial places, 150 to 200 Khabrastans would be created in Hyderabad,” the CM further said while adding that programmes will be organized for the protection and development of Urdu, the official second language, in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kcr-government-to-construct-two-mosques-temple-and-a-church-in-new-secretariat-complex-with-public-money-883074.html
05-09-2020||National||Two years after Section 377: Judgement that said it with poetry and words from literature||September 6, 2018. Two years ago on the day, the Supreme Court decriminalised homosexuality, using the words of Goethe and Leonard Cohen, Shakespeare and Oscar Wilde to deliver a historic judgment that signalled freedom for millions of people in the LGBTQ+ community. The 495-page path-breaking verdict, delivered by a five-judge constitutional bench headed by then chief justice Dipak Misra, took the help of philosophers and poets to read down parts of a 158-year-old colonial law under Section 377 of the IPC which criminalised consensual gay sex. So be it German writer-philosopher Johann Wolfgang von Goethe’s famous words "I am what I am", British poet Lord Alfred Douglas’ "The Love that dare not speak its name" or Canadian singer-poet Leonard Cohen’s "Democracy is Coming", the document was full of evocative words from the greatest in the world of literature and thought. The bench – that also comprised Justices R F Nariman, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra – delivered its verdict in four separate but concurring judgements. Former CJI Misra set the ball rolling and started his and Justice Khaniwlkar's judgement by quoting Goethe's "I am what I am, so take me as I am" and German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer's "No one can escape from their individuality". In a recently launched book, "Sex and the Supreme Court", a collection of essays on how the law is upholding the dignity of Indian citizen, editor of the book Saurabh Kirpal interprets the usage of famous quotes and phrases -- along with other passages -- given by the judges. “The thrust of the judgement of the Chief Justice was to recognize that a person of alternative sexuality had the right to choose their own partner," Kirpal, who was one of the lawyers for the petitioners in the case, in his essay, 'Pride versus Prejudice: The Struggle against Section 377”. The former CJI's judgement was also peppered with other phrases and quotes of literary greats, including Engish philosopher-economist John Stuart Mill. William Shakespeare’s famous phrase "What's in a name?" was quoted to convey that "what really matters is the essential qualities of the substance and the fundamental characteristics of an entity". Taking a cue from Justice Misra, Justice Nariman started his judgement with "The love that dare not speak its name”, the famous words by Alfred Douglas, the lover of well-known 19th century Irish poet Oscar Wilde. The phrase, from the 1890s poem "Two Loves", is believed to be mentioned in Wilde's trial for 'gross indecency', a charge which criminalised homosexual people. "The Love that dare not speak its name" is usually interpreted as a euphemism for homosexuality -- something that Wilde denied. Wilde was put on trial in 1895 after the details of his affair with men were made public. He was sentenced to two years imprisonment. Homosexuality was a criminal offence in England in the 19th century. It was legalised in England and Wales in 1967, and in Scotland and Ireland in 1980 and 1981, respectively. According to Kirpal, the poem, even though disavowed by Wilde, "speaks of the ignominy of homosexuality that people dare not even mention its existence". "The poem captures the essence of the judgement of Justice Nariman -- a judgement with rich historical context but at the same time the one that looks towards the future. It is a judgement that neatly wraps its value judgements in constitutional theory and practice," he adds. Justice Chandrachud began his judgement with the moving words of the late Leila Seth, the first woman chief justice of a state high court and mother of poet and gay-rights activist Vikram Seth, "What makes life meaningful is love. The right that makes us human is the right to love. To criminalize the expression of that right is profoundly cruel and inhumane. To acquiesce in such criminalization or, worse, to recriminalize it, is to display the very opposite of compassion..." He borrowed lines from Cohen's 1990s hit-song "Democracy" to make a point -- "It's coming through a hole in the air ... It's coming from the feel that this ain't exactly real, or it's real, but it ain't exactly there.. From the fires of the homeless From the ashes of the gay: Democracy is coming..." According to Kirpal, democracy is something that often comes through 'a hole in the air', that is, through the small acts of individuals whose life needs to be changed. The song, he says in the book, seems to capture the ideas of democracy as a participative concept rather than the majoritarian juggernaut that it is sometimes understood to be. Recalling his feelings on judgment day, hotelier Keshav Suri, one of the petitioners in the case, says in the book that he was so happy he could have kissed everyone in the court that day. “The verdict was delivered with such beauty and purity that it made all the struggle worth it. Even British philosopher John Stuart Mill was quoted: 'But society has now fairly got the better of individuality..' It made my heart swell with joy. No one could make us ashamed any more. We didn't have to fear the law. The country's highest court was standing with us," Suri writes. Besides Suri, hotelier Aman Nath, dancer Navtej Jauhar, journalist Sunil Mehra, chef Ritu Dalmia and business executive Ayesha Kapur were among the main petitioners in the case. In 2016, they successfully petitioned the Supreme Court to reconsider its own ruling. In 2013, the apex court had cancelled a Delhi High Court order that decriminalised homosexuality by overturning the outdated law, enacted in 1860 at the behest of Lord Thomas Babington Macaulay. The court said it was up to parliament to take a call on scrapping laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-years-after-section-377-judgement-that-said-it-with-poetry-and-words-from-literature-883082.html
05-09-2020||National||Trump again offers to mediate, but India at ease with Russia’s discreet efforts to defuse tension along its LAC with China||Even as the United States President Donald Trump offered to help resolve the military stand-off between India and China, once again, New Delhi is more at ease with the discreet role the Russian government is playing to defuse tension between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. Trump told journalists in White House late on Friday that his administration was in touch with both New Delhi and Beijing to resolve the “very nasty” stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations. “While we are at it, we are talking about China and India, (they) are going at it pretty good on the border, as you know. It has been very nasty,” said the US President, adding: “And, we stand ready to help, with respect to China and India. If we can do anything, we would love to get involved and help. And we are talking to both countries about that.” This is not the first time that Trump publicly offered to play the role of mediator between India and China. He had made the same offer in May – just weeks after the stand-off started in the wake of the aggressive moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to change the status quo along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh and the Indian Army’s counter deployment. New Delhi, however, cold-shouldered the US President’s offer, which was also outrightly rejected by Beijing. Contrary to the public offers by the US President, Russia has been discreet in its efforts to help defuse tension between India and China. Moscow has been officially maintaining that India and China should resolve the stand-off through bilateral talks. But the top diplomats of Russia have been quietly in touch with Indian and Chinese counterparts and have been trying to resolve tension between the two neighbours. Moscow’s back-channel talks with New Delhi and Beijing played a significant role in setting the stage for bilateral talks between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his counterpart in Chinese Government, Wei Fenghe, on the side-line of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in the capital of Russia on Friday Beijing sought the meeting between Singh and Wei and Moscow nudged New Delhi to accept it, sources told the DH. Singh-Wei meeting was the first face-to-face talks between India and China at the level of the ministers after the stand-off started four months back. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi will also attend another SCO meet in Moscow on September 10. The meet will be hosted by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Lavrov, according to the sources, has been in touch with New Delhi and Beijing over the past few days and made Jaishankar and Wang tentatively agree on holding a bilateral meeting on the side-line of the SCO Foreign Ministers’ conclave in Moscow. Jaishankar and Wang earlier spoke to each other over phone on June 17 – just two days after the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had a violent face-off in Galwan Valley, resulting in casualties on both sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trump-again-offers-to-mediate-but-india-at-ease-with-russia-s-discreet-efforts-to-defuse-tension-along-its-lac-with-china-883083.html
05-09-2020||National||Kerala-based SCTIMST develops technology to curb infections from respiratory secretions||As health workers grapple with the Covid-19 scourge, scientists at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) here has developed canister bags lined with super absorbent material containing an effective disinfectant for the safe management of infected respiratory secretions. The SCTIMST, an Institute of national importance under the Department of Science and Technology, have come up with a method for safe handling and disposal of respiratory secretions in hospitals for ICU patients or those with copious respiratory secretions treated in the wards. "The researchers and scientists at the SCTIMST have developed canister bags lined with super-absorbent material containing an effective disinfectant, named AcryloSorb," a release issued by the institute said. The release said the canister bags can absorb 500 ml of secretions and solidify it immediately and in addition to that, the whole system will be decontaminated within no time because of the presence of disinfectant. The liner structure has a patented design which allows the progressive absorbent availability upwards. Solidification and immediate disinfection occur inside these bags, eliminate the risk of secondary infections by avoiding spilling, and aerosol formation, and thereby protect health workers and promote safe workplace management. "Canister bags are enclosed in a customizable sealer bag which can pack it as spill-proof decontaminated biomedical waste disposable through incineration. The product has been tested as per the International standards," the institute said. The disposal of respiratory secretions of patients suffering from highly contagious diseases such as Covid-19, tuberculosis (TB) and influenza, poses a high risk of infection among health workers. A team, comprising biomaterial scientists and clinicians - Dr Manju S, Dr Manoj Komath, Dr Asha Kishore and Dr Ajay Prasad Hrishi,realized this technology, according to the release. The field trials of the in-house designed suction canister liner bags are being conducted in SCTIMST.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-based-sctimst-develops-technology-to-curb-infections-from-respiratory-secretions-883086.html
05-09-2020||National||First-ever cannabis medicine project coming up in Jammu: Jitendra Singh||The first-ever cannabis medicine project will soon be set up in Jammu with Canadian collaboration, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Saturday. The Minister of State for Prime Minister's Office said it is the first major foreign investment in Jammu and Kashmir after it became a Union Territory (UT). The first-ever cannabis medicine project will be set up with the collaboration of Canada at Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM) in Jammu, he said in a statement. The minister said special permission had to be obtained to produce the pain-relief medicine for patients suffering from cancer, diabetes, etc., using cannabis, which is otherwise restricted for use because of narcotic drug abuse. The medicine prepared from this plant can be utilised even for export to other countries, he said. Singh also reviewed the progress of the construction of north India's first biotech industrial park in Kathua near Jammu. A few other projects are also being set up through the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Union Ministry of Science and Technology in the UT, he said. The review meeting was attended through video conferencing, by Director General CSIR Shekhar Mande, Advisor to Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Rajiv Bhatanagar and Director of IIIM, Jammu, D Srinivasa Reddy. The meeting was also followed by a virtual visit to the site and inspection of the ongoing work on biotech park. While reviewing the project, Singh appreciated the fact that the work on the biotech park was being carried out despite constraints of Covid-19 pandemic. The minister was informed that the deadline for completion of the project had got delayed due to Covid related difficulties and the new deadline would possibly be around February 2021. Singh called for conducting awareness programmes to sensitise people about the new avenues of livelihood, start-up ventures, entrepreneurship and research which will become available when the biotech park becomes functional. Spread over an area of around 10.5 acres, the benefits of the biotech industrial park will also be available to the neighbouring states of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. Referring to the first ever seed processing plant which is almost ready in Kathua, the minister said the biotech park and seed processing plant will be able to supplement each other's resources and this would be in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of doubling farmers' income. The projects will promote economic development and also quality export projects, he said. Singh was also given an update about the lemon grass cultivation project launched by CSIR on his personal intervention. The minister was informed that presently lemon grass cultivation has been undertaken in districts of Kathua, Udhampur, Doda and Kishtwar, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-ever-cannabis-medicine-project-coming-up-in-jammu-jitendra-singh-883089.html
05-09-2020||National||Rajnath Singh, Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghe talk peace, but troops are unlikely to pull out for now||Defence ministers of India and China have agreed to resolve the ongoing Sino-Indian border crisis in eastern Ladakh in a peaceful manner through “dialogue and consultation,” but there would be no immediate withdrawal of the troops because of the trust deficit that exists between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army. On the sidelines of a multi-nation defence ministers’ conference in Moscow, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met his Chinese counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe on Friday for an in-depth discussion about the developments in the India-China border areas. This is the first ever meeting at the Defence Ministers level between the two countries since the Sino-Indian border flared up in May in Ladakh. The meeting continued for two hours and twenty minutes. Singh told Gen Wei that China must respect the Line of Actual Control – the 3,488 km long disputed boundary between the two neighbours – without making attempts to change its status quo unilaterally. Also the PLA troops should work with the Indian side for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas including Pangong Lake and de-escalation in border areas. Doval and Wang had a two hour telephonic conversation in July in the wake of the Galwan valley clash in which 20 Indian soldiers and a sizable number of PLA troops were killed in hand-to-hand combat. On his part, Gen Wei observed that the two countries should strengthen the regulation of frontline troops and not undertake any provocative actions that might escalate the situation, according to a statement issued by the Ministry of Defence. The same statement was also issued by the Ministry of External Affairs. The two ministers agreed that both sides should scrupulously implement the consensus reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping and continued to solve the issues through dialogue and consultation, following various bilateral pacts. Sources, however, said that it was unlikely for the Indian troops to vacate the front in east Ladakh unless there are “visible and verifiable” signs of a PLA retreat. Indian Army is ready for a long haul and made logistics arrangements to sustain the troops in harsh winters of Ladakh where the temperature dips to minus 35 degrees Celsius. The five month long stand-off at several locations on the LAC is the biggest Sino-Indian border crisis since the 1962 war.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-chinese-defence-minister-wei-fenghe-talk-peace-but-troops-are-unlikely-to-pull-out-for-now-883098.html
05-09-2020||National||Indian Navy holds drill with Russia in Bay of Bengal for 2nd day||The Indian and Russian navies on Saturday carried out a range of complex maritime operations as part of a mega military exercise in the Bay of Bengal to further enhance their operational convergence, officials said. The exercise comes at a time India is significantly expanding deployment of its warships in the Indian Ocean region in the wake of the festering border row with China in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical to the country's strategic interests. The officials said a wide spectrum of drills including surface and anti-aircraft drills, helicopter operations, maneuvers and cross-deck flying was carried out for the second consecutive day as part of the 11th edition of the biennial Indo-Russian exercise Indra Navy. "The exercise epitomises the long-term strategic relationship between the two navies," Indian Navy Spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said. The assets deployed in the exercise by the Russian Navy include destroyer Admiral Vinogradov, destroyer Admiral Tributs and fleet tanker Boris Butoma of the Pacific Fleet which are normally based at Vladivostok. The Indian Navy is represented by guided missile destroyer Ranvijay and fleet tanker Shakti, along with their integral helicopters. In July, the Indian Navy carried out a military exercise with a US Navy carrier strike group led by nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Nimitz off the coast of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The USS Nimitz is the world's largest warship. In the exercise with the US Navy, four frontline warships of the Indian Navy participated. The US carrier strike group was transiting through the Indian Ocean Region on its way from the South China Sea. The US Navy carrier strike group comprises USS Nimitz, Ticonderoga-class guided missile cruiser USS Princeton and Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyers USS Sterett and USS Ralph Johnson. The Indian Navy carried out a similar exercises with the Japanese navy in June. The Indian Navy has significantly expanded its deployment in the Indian Ocean region, deploying a plethora of warships and submarines following the border row to send across a message to Beijing. The maritime space around the Malacca Strait is very critical for China's supply chain through sea routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-holds-drill-with-russia-in-bay-of-bengal-for-2nd-day-883114.html
05-09-2020||National||Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah to reopen from Sept 6||The famous Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah here will open after over five months on Sunday, but there will be no Qawwali evenings at the shrine due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the dargah's caretakers said. Safety measures like use of sanitisers and face covers as well as social distancing will be strictly followed at the dargah of Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin, which was closed in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, they said. "We have also covered the graves of Hazarat Nizamuddin Aulia and Amir Khusro (in the dargah complex) with plastic sheets so that people do not touch them while paying obeisance, as it could lead to people getting infected with the virus," Nazim Nizami, one of the caretakers of the shrine, said. The entry and exit points of the dargah will be separate, and markings have been made on the floor to ensure social distancing by devotees, he said. "We will also deploy men at the gates of the dargah to ensure that people enter wearing face covers," Nizami said. Two big sanitiser dispensers have been installed at the main entrance of the dargah. Small dispensers and sanitiser bottles have been kept in the premises for devotees. "In view of the threat of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Qawwali evenings which are hugely famous among followers of the sufi saint will not be held for the time being. We will ensure that people do not sit in the courtyard of the dargah as they used to do before, and leave after paying obeisance," Nizami said. He said that crowd management at the shrine will be further improved after assessing the footfall in the coming days. The dargah located in Hazarat Nizamuddin area of south Delhi was closed with the announcement of Covid-19-induced lockdown in March. Under the 'Unlock' process, religious places in Delhi started opening after June 8, but the dargah remained closed due to increase in COVID-19 cases, caretakers of the shrine said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hazrat-nizamuddin-dargah-to-reopen-from-sept-6-883117.html
05-09-2020||National||Haryana to focus on aerospace, aviation as thrust sector in new industrial policy||Haryana will be the first state in the country to focus on aerospace and aviation as a thrust-sector in its new industrial policy, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Saturday. Chautala held a meeting with officers of various departments here regarding Haryana Enterprises Promotion Policy-2020, according to a government release here. He informed that the state government was finalising the draft of industrial policy to promote industries in the state. He said the new industrial policy, which is being formulated for the year 2020 to 2025, is aimed at attracting more investments into the state and create more job opportunities for youth. The Deputy Chief Minister said a series of meetings is underway to finalise new Haryana Enterprises Promotion Policy-2020. In the meeting held, detailed discussions were held with senior officers of various departments so as to implement the new industrial policy by next month. He said the government has requested MLA, MPs and all industrial associations of the state as well as national level industrial associations like FICCI, ASSOCHAM to give their suggestions for new policy by September 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-to-focus-on-aerospace-aviation-as-thrust-sector-in-new-industrial-policy-883126.html
05-09-2020||National||Delhi sees highest spike in Covid-19 cases in 71 days; death count 4,538||Delhi recorded 2,973 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike here in 71 days, as the tally in the city mounted to over 1.88 lakh, while the death toll climbed to 4,538, authorities said. This is the fifth successive day in September when over 2,000 new cases have been reported in a day. Twenty-five fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. On June 26, the city had recorded 3,460 cases, the highest single-day spike before September 5. On Friday, 13 deaths were reported and the daily case count was 2,914. From September 1, 2 and 3, the fresh cases count stood at 2,312, 2,509 and 2,737, respectively. The active cases tally on Saturday rose to 19,870 from 18,842 the previous day. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 4,513 on Friday. The Saturday bulletin said, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 4,538 and the total number of cases climbed to 1,88,193.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-sees-highest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-71-days-death-count-4538-883135.html
05-09-2020||National||Centre for assessing clinical immunogenicity for viral vaccines inaugurated||The National Immunogenicity and Biologics Evaluation Centre (NIBEC) for assessing clinical immunogenicity of viral vaccines, especially the ones in the pipeline for Covid-19, has been inaugurated, a statement said on Saturday. The facility, established jointly by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and Bharati Vidyapeeth University (BVU), Pune, was inaugurated virtually by Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT, in an e-inauguration ceremony presided by Vishwajeet Kadam, Minister of State in the Maharashtra government. The facility has been established through BVU's constituent unit Interactive Research School for Health Affairs (IRSHA) and BIRAC, a PSU under the DBT.  "Vaccine development requires extensive evaluation in humans to establish safety, immunogenicity and clinical efficacy. Centralised viral and bacterial clinical immunogenicity labs meeting the stringent standards were therefore identified as a critical need for the vaccine industry," the statement said.  With a dedicated area of about 10,000 square feet, the NIBEC was established in a record time of just a year, it added. "It has state of the art one BSL (biosafety level) -3+, 4 BSL-2 and 10 BSL-1 laboratories. "Key immunogenicity evaluation tests like Plaque Reduction Neutralisation Test (PRNT), microneutralisation assay, IgM and IgG ELISA have been developed, standardised and validated for dengue, chikungunya and SARS-CoV-2 viruses," the statement said. The laboratory has already started associating closely with leading Indian vaccine manufacturing companies and national and international institutes engaged in vaccine developments, it said. Swarup said she has very high expectations from the NIBEC with regards to clinical-immunogenicity testing of vaccine candidates, especially with the COVID-19 vaccine in the pipeline. She further elaborated that domestic capabilities maintaining international standards in this space will accelerate and fast-track the development of indigenous vaccines in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-for-assessing-clinical-immunogenicity-for-viral-vaccines-inaugurated-883142.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||Harivansh likely to be NDA candidate again in September 14 Rajya Sabha deputy chairman polls||The election to the post of Deputy Chairman in Rajya Sabha will be held on September 14, the first day of Monsoon Session of Parliament, and JD(U)'s Harivansh Narayan Singh likely to return as NDA candidate.  The post had fell vacant after Harivansh's Rajya Sabha tenure had ended. With his re-election into the Upper House, Harivansh is likely to be the NDA candidate.  The Opposition has not revealed its cards but a senior leader said they are unlikely to give an easy walk over to the NDA, especially against the backdrop of Bihar elections.  The formal process for the election will start from September 7. The BJP had offered the post of Deputy Chairman to JD(U) after the latter returned to the NDA fold following a split in the Grand Alliance in Bihar.  With Bihar elections round the corner, the BJP would also not want to tinker with its relationship with JD(U) whose president Nitish Kumar is the state's Chief Minister.  Harivansh had become Deputy Chairman on August 8, 2018 after senior Congress MP PJ Kurien's tenure as an MP ended. In the election, Harivansh had defeated Congress' BK Hariprasad 125-105.  The Opposition had then hoped to upset the BJP plans and ensure that an Opposition MP remained in the Deputy Chairman's chair. However, BJD rebuffed Congress' appeal to abstain from voting and supported Harivansh.  Harivansh's socialist background also had then helped in garnering votes from parties like INLD, which was not in the NDA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/harivansh-likely-to-be-nda-candidate-again-in-september-14-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-polls-882713.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||Teachers' Day: PM Narendra Modi pays tributes to Dr S Radhakrishnan on September 5||Paying tributes to teachers on the Teachers' Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said people are grateful to them for their contribution towards shaping minds and building our nation.  "Who better than our knowledgeable teachers to deepen our connect with our nation's glorious history. During the recent #MannKiBaat, I had shared an idea of teachers teaching students about lesser known aspects of our great freedom struggle. #OurTeachersOurHeroes," Modi tweeted, posting a clip of his speech in the last month's 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast.  He also paid tributes to former president S Radhakrishnan on his birth anniversary which is celebrated as the Teacher's Day. "We remain grateful to the hardworking teachers for their contributions towards shaping minds and building our nation. On Teachers Day, we express gratitude to our teachers for their remarkable efforts. We pay tributes to Dr S Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti #OurTeachersOurHeroes," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/teachers-day-pm-narendra-modi-pays-tributes-to-dr-s-radhakrishnan-on-september-5-882734.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||No need to panic, Covid-19 situation is completely under control: CM Arvind Kejriwal||The recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi is attributable to doubling of testing, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday as he sought to assure people that the situation in the city is completely under control and there is no need to panic. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said he is not worried about the data, but more concerned about keeping people healthy. On Friday, Delhi recorded 2,914 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike here in 69 days. This is the fourth successive day in September when over 2,000 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in a day. Also, over 36,000 tests were conducted on Friday. "The biggest reason for the increase in the number of positive cases in the last few days is that the Delhi government has doubled daily testing to 40,000 from around 18,000-20,000 a week ago. "You can see this doubling of testing as a big attack on the coronavirus pandemic. We have mounted this big assault against coronavirus. I would ensure testing of everyone every day if it were possible for me," the chief minister said. The government has started testing in markets, bus stands, mohalla clinics. It is a big initiative, Kejriwal said, adding that some people opposed doubling the number of tests, but now everyone is on the same page. "We have doubled tests to identify more infected people so that they are isolated to prevent further spread. Do not think that the situation has deteriorated," he said. The chief minister asserted that Covid-19 cases in the national capital have "slightly" increased in the last few days, but the situation is completely under control and there is no need to panic. Kejriwal said that he has been "honestly" presenting the Covid-19 situation before the people of Delhi from time to time since the virus started spreading four-five months ago. Appealing to Delhiites to follow preventive measures against Covid-19, such as wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing, he reiterated that there is no scope for being negligent. The chief minister asserted that there is no need to worry with the rise in the number of coronavirus cases, adding that he would need to worry if the number of deaths increases. The AAP government has taken several steps to reduce deaths due to the virus, Kejriwal said. "Yesterday, 2,914 cases were reported but only 13 fatalities and the death rate was 0.4 per cent which is the lowest not only in the country but the whole world. "A day earlier, the cases were 2,737 and fatalities were 19 which is 0.6 per cent death rate. Since August 15, the fatality rate in Delhi is about 1 per cent while the national figure is 1.7 per cent," he said. According to the chief minister, the situation in Delhi is much better as the recovery rate here is 87 per cent against the national average of 77 per cent. There is no shortage of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi. Out of 14,000 beds, only 5,000 are occupied, Kejriwal said. "Of those 5,000 beds, 1,600-1,700 are occupied by those who belong to other states." During the media briefing, the chief minister said the government had made plans and if the need arises, it will increase the number of beds, but presently, there are sufficient beds in the hospital. "The number of Delhi patients is not increasing in hospitals. The number of patients is not increasing, deaths are not increasing and people are recovering after infection," he said. Kejriwal warned that some people in Delhi have become lax and negligent and started violating social distancing and not wearing masks. "Some people are becoming negligent, not wearing masks and also not following social distancing. We have to go to our jobs, run the household, take care of children and revive the economy. But, we should not become negligent. So, wear masks and follow social distancing," he said. "Also, some people are not getting tested despite having a fever. Such persons not only endanger their own lives, but they also put their family and neighbours at risk. Covid-19 tests are free, so go for testing and do not be negligent." The Delhi government has improved health services and upgraded its hospitals and mohalla clinics to such an extent in the past five years that people from all over the country come here for treatment, Kejriwal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-need-to-panic-covid-19-situation-is-completely-under-control-cm-arvind-kejriwal-882814.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||Government took care of economy, turned tragedy into opportunity: BJP president J P Nadda||Addressing a meeting of the party's Odisha executive committee, Nadda said that while powerful nations were helpless in combating the pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was clear in his mind as he took the decisive action of imposing the lockdown in order to save the lives of the people. PM Modi made it clear that the lives of 1.3 billion people must be saved. He said Jaan hai to Jahan Hai as public health was at the top of his mind, the BJP chief said. The lockdown was imposed well in time and also implemented effectively across the country as a weapon against the pandemic, he said. Besides taking care of the health-related matters, the Modi government also addressed the economic issues through several programmes such as the 'Garib Kalyan Yojna' and 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', Nadda said. Even the UN secretary-general has acknowledged Indias steps in this regard, he added. The tragedy and challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic were effectively turned into an opportunity by the BJP-led government at the Centre, he said. Nadda's comments came amid the criticism of the government by the opposition over the sharp decline in the GDP. The country's economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 per cent as the coronavirus-related lockdowns weighed on the already-declining consumer demand and investment. Noting that all the political parties except the BJP became "inactive" after the lockdown was imposed, Nadda said his party took to the virtual mode and continued to serve the people. Asserting that the healthcare infrastructure of the country was given a major boost by the government, he said that when the lockdown was imposed India did not have a single Covid hospital, and over 1,500 such facilities with 2.5 lakh beds have been set up in the last few months. Similarly, daily Covid-19 testing has also increased to over 10.10 lakh, he said. Nadda also hit out at the BJD government in Odisha, accusing it of refusing to implement the 'Ayushman Bharat' programme because of narrow and petty politics, depriving 2.74 crore people of quality healthcare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-took-care-of-economy-turned-tragedy-into-opportunity-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-882857.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||Take nation into confidence on India-China border row: Congress tells PM Modi, Rajnath Singh||The Congress on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to take the nation into confidence on talks with China on the border row in Ladakh, saying people want to know about the outcomes of the repeated conversations with the Chinese side. The Opposition party's demand comes a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe held an over two-hour-long meeting in Moscow with a focus on easing escalating border tension in eastern Ladakh. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said it was "Rajdharma" of the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister to take the nation into confidence on the important issue. Listing the various levels of talks held with the Chinese from the foreign ministers level and corps commanders level to the defence ministers' discussions, Surjewala asked what is the outcome of these talks. "What is the conversation about, what is happening. Will Prime Minister Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh take the country into confidence?" he asked. Surjewala also referred to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla's remarks that it was an "unprecedented" situation at the India-China border and "we've never had this sort of a situation since 1962", to underline the seriousness of the issue. "The important part is what is the outcome of the repeated conversations with the Chinese counterparts by our government... How will we ensure that Chinese transgressions are defeated," Surjewala said in a video posted on his Twitter account. He said people want answers to questions such as how the Chinese will be repulsed to "reclaim our motherland". "We hope Prime Minister Modi and the Defence Minister will come forward and take the nation into confidence. That is the true Rajdharma. We will await an answer," he said. Later, at an online briefing, Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said, "We hope that the issue can be resolved through talks." He, however, demanded that the government should give a clear picture of the situation. "Conflicting statements coming from the government is a matter of worry for us," he added. The tension between the two sides had escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/take-nation-into-confidence-on-india-china-border-row-congress-tells-pm-modi-rajnath-singh-882939.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi govt pursuing 'Atma Samparpan Bharat' in the name of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat': Sitaram Yechury||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has hit out at the BJP-led government at the Centre saying it is pursuing the policy of 'Atma Samarpan Bharat' in the name of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' by privatising all government entities and PSUs. He also blamed the Centre of trying to muffle the opposition voices by using draconian laws and slapping sedition charges against them. Yechury, who was speaking at a closed-door virtual meeting of CPI(M) state committee Friday night, apprehended that the coming parliament session has been convened to pass "few ordinances which will further scuttle the democratic rights of the people". Criticising Modi government's foreign policy of "turning the country into a subordinate ally of the USA", he iterated the importance of "peaceful" talks to resolve the ongoing border crisis with China. "Every single Constitutional authority is under attack, undermining their independence. All are being undermined from acting independently in defence of the Indian Constitution. "Democratic rights and civil liberties are under severe attack and any expression of dissent or opposition voice against the government and its policies are termed as `anti-national' and are booked under draconian laws like UAPA, sedition etc.," Yechury said at the virtual meeting which continued till late last night. "In the name of Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India), the government is pursuing the programme Atma Samarpan Bharat (Surrender India) under which government entities and PSUs are being privatised in the name of reforms. The economic growth of the country is at an all-time low and is the lowest among all the other nations," a CPI-M press statement quoted him. On the Sino-India border crisis, Yechury said CPI(M) had during the all-party meeting pointed out the need for talks and diplomacy to resolve the problem. "The external affairs minister is also saying the same thing that talks are the only way to fix the crisis," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-govt-pursuing-atma-samparpan-bharat-in-the-name-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-sitaram-yechury-882948.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||Austerity measures frivolous, stop big projects: Congress||Congress on Saturday termed as “frivolous and trivial” the austerity measures announced by the government to curb expenditure and suggested review of big ticket projects such as the bullet train and redevelopment of central vista. As India battles the Covid-19 pandemic, the Modi government has put curbs on expenditures such as distribution of bags and mementos, papers, discouraging celebration of foundation days besides a rethink on hiring of consultants. “How much are you going to save? Few thousands, few lakhs, that is not going to make any difference, actually the Government should reconsider all those projects by which you are trying to derive publicity… those projects should be stopped,” Congress spokesman Rajeev Shukla told reporters here. Shukla singled out projects such as the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train that is expected to cost Rs one lakh crore and the redevelopment of the Central Vista at a cost of Rs 20,000 crore. “If your economy is not able to bear the burden of that kind of projects, you should stop them temporarily. You can definitely go in for these projects when the economy improves, but, not for now,” the former union minister for planning said. Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram also hit out at the Finance Ministry, accusing it of misleading the people on economic recovery post-Covid-19. “MoF does not have a word of explanation for the unprecedented negative growth in Q1 of 2020-21. But it is back to its old game of misleading the people of India and predicting a V shaped recovery,” Chidambaram said. He was referring to remarks by senior finance ministry officials who predicted a sharp rise in economic growth after contraction to the tune of nearly 24% in the first quarter of 2021 fiscal. ‘The people have not forgotten that the V shaped recovery has been promised by MoF for the last 15 months,” the senior Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/austerity-measures-frivolous-stop-big-projects-congress-882993.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||Be large-hearted, give credit to central schemes instead of hijacking them: Nadda tells Patnaik||BJP President J P Nadda on Saturday said Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik should be "large-hearted" to give credit to the Centre for its welfare schemes, which were being "hijacked" by the BJD government in the state. Nadda said he has received reports of the state government inserting its logo on central schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. "Naveen Babu... 'chhota dil chod dijiye, bada dil rakhiye' (shun meanness and be large hearted)," he said, urging the ruling BJD to acknowledge welfare programmes of the central government in the state. The BJP chief also came down heavily on the Odisha government for not adopting the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, which he said would benefit around 2.40 crore poor people of the state. Those people could not avail the Rs 5-lakh medical coverage because of the BJD government's refusal to adopt the scheme, he said. "It has been two years since the Ayushman Bharat Yojana was introduced, but it has not been implemented in Odisha. Naveen Babu, please do not become a hurdle for the poor, who face difficulties in getting proper healthcare services," Nadda said, addressing the party's state executive meeting through video conference. "The state government is there to look after your (Patnaik's) health issues. But, what about the poor and needy who suffer from different deadly diseases like cancer? I appeal to you to adopt the Ayushman Bharat scheme," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed towards the development of Odisha and has sanctioned several projects for the state and its people, the BJP president said. "I am informed that the state government is taking credit for central schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) by putting its logo on the housing projects. This is not fair to deny credit to the Centre, which funds such schemes," Nadda said. He further said there were reports of corruption in the implementation of the PMAY in the state, reiterating that politics should not come in the way of Implementing programmes meant for the poor. "We have been in politics for decades, but never seen such kind of central funding to states to the tune of thousands of crores. The states should also give credit to the Centre for that," he said. Nadda said the people of Odisha have recognised BJP's contributions and that is why it emerged as the state's main opposition party. "We got 38 per cent votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, much higher than 21 per cent votes in the 2014 polls. "Similarly, the party also bagged 32 per cent votes in the 2019 assembly elections as against 18 per cent five years ago," he said, appealing to BJP workers to ensure that it gets over 50 per cent votes in the next Lok Sabha and assembly elections. Nadda also asked BJP state president Samir Mohanty to prepare a plan for the ensuing urban polls in the state. "Days are not far when we will form the government in Odisha. We take a vow to achieve this," the BJP chief added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/be-large-hearted-give-credit-to-central-schemes-instead-of-hijacking-them-nadda-tells-patnaik-883020.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||Make Sharad Pawar chief after merging NCP with Congress: Ramdas Athawale||Observing that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are not keen on donning the mantle of Congress president, Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Saturday suggested the NCP be merged with the grand old party and Sharad Pawar be made new chief of the merged entity. The Republican Party of India (A) president also said that such decision should be taken jointly by the Congress and Pawar. "Currently, Rahul and Sonia Gandhi are not keen on becoming the Congress president. It is my instruction to Congress of getting NCP merged and making Sharad Pawar party president. The decision should be jointly taken by Pawar and the Congress," Athawale tweeted. Athawale's merger suggestion came against the backdrop of a leadership churn in the Congress, with a group of leaders demanding a "full-time and active leadership". In a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting held last month, party leaders urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session can be convened and authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party. Pawar had quit the Congress in 1999 over the issue of 'foreign origin' of Sonia Gandhi and formed the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/make-sharad-pawar-chief-after-merging-ncp-with-congress-ramdas-athawale-883036.html
05-09-2020||National Politics||Modi drops Question Hour, but forces students to give answers in JEE, NEET papers, says Asaduddin Owaisi||The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government which dropped Question Hour from the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament citing Covid-19, is forcing the students to give answers in JEE (Joint Entrance Examination) and NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test), AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi alleged on Saturday. "One one hand Narendra Modi will not give answers in Question Hour citing Covid-19, on the other hand you ask students to go and answer questions in JEE and NEET. This is his governance," Owaisi told reporters when asked about the Question Hour. "We don't know whether we can raise questions on Covid-19 crisis and have debates on what's happening in eastern Ladakh as there is no Question Hour," Owaisi said. In separate notifications, the two secretariats-Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha- earlier said there will be no breaks as well during the monsoon session to be held from September 14 to October 1, and both Houses will function on Saturdays and Sundays as well. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the session will be held in two shifts -- 9 am to 1 pm and 3 pm to 7 pm. He said the government with its brute majority can bring ordinances and make them into laws. "In an ideal situation we should have Question Hour," the Hyderabad MP added. He saidPrime Ministers of several countries are holding press conferences on coronavirus related issues, whereas Modi just gives video messages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-drops-question-hour-but-forces-students-to-give-answers-in-jee-neet-papers-says-asaduddin-owaisi-883063.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Lucknow Metro to ensure highest standards of health, hygiene: UPMRC MD||Keeping in mind the safety of commuters amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has revised its operational framework to meet the highest standards of health and hygiene. The revamped guidelines extend to every outlet and encompass check-in procedures, station premises and surveillance systems, he said, adding that Lucknow Metro will follow normal timings of operation -- 6 am to 10 pm -- when services resume on September 7. "Lucknow Metro has adopted the highest level of hygiene and safety measures for the well-being of commuters and it is the safest way to travel," UPMRC MD Kumar Keshav said. Keshav said special emphasis is being laid on mopping and cleanliness inside the Metro premises. Signage and markings have been placed within the station premises and inside trains to maintain social distancing. He advised the Metro staff to encourage passengers to use the GoSmart Card which is a contactless form of travel that can reduce the transmission risk of the novel coronavirus. The GoSmart Cards can be recharged online thereby ensuring a safer travel experience as compared to tokens. Commuters can also use these cards for generating tokens from ticket vending machines for their family members. Keshav said station premises of the Lucknow Metro will be sanitised at regular intervals and Metro trains will also be sanitised twice a day. Ahead of restarting of operations of Lucknow Metro amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, he inspected and reviewed the operational preparedness. He also ensured that all the adequate arrangements be made for the sanitisation of Metro premises. During the inspection, he instructed the operational staff such as station controllers, customer care Assistants and security personnel to wear masks and gloves while dealing with commuters and adhere to social distancing norms, the UPMRC said in a press release. Metro services were suspended across the country in late March to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lucknow-metro-to-ensure-highest-standards-of-health-hygiene-upmrc-md-882731.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi residents who went to Murthal eateries should self-isolate, get tested: Official ||People from Delhi who recently visited the two popular eateries in Murthal whose large number of staff have been found to be Covid-19 positive, should immediately self-isolate and get themselves tested after a couple of days, officials said on Friday. Sixty-five workers at Amrik-Sukhdev Dhaba and 10 at Garam Dharam dhaba on the highway had tested positive for novel coronavirus infection, following which both the eateries were sealed on Thursday till further orders, Sonipat's Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said. Both famous eateries are located in Sonipat's Murthal and nearly 50 km away from Delhi, and on regular days a large number of people from the national capital visit these joints for 'parathas' and other delicacies. A senior official of Delhi government said the people who went to these outlets by the highway should immediately self-isolate and go for testing after 3-4 days. "Highway dhabas are dangerous places to go to as of now, as customers can go to any city from that point. So, it's also a logistical nightmare for the surveillance team," the official said on the condition of anonymity. "The best is families should not go out as much as possible. This is still a heath emergency and people should not be complacent, and venture out only if really necessary," he said. Contact tracing will be done by the surveillance team given the constrains in this case, the help of apps might be taken, another official said. "It is very irresponsible on people's part to go out and enjoy, as if everything is normal. They are putting themselves and their family members and others at risk," he said.  Murthal is known for its eateries which dot a stretch on both sides of the Ambala-Delhi national highway. People generally drive in cars in groups to relish the lip-smacking delicacies these dhaba-cum-restaurants are known for. Meanwhile, the Sonipat district administration has launched a massive contact-tracing drive after the 75 workers tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Friday. The Sonipat Deputy Commissioner said sampling work has been initiated at other eateries also. The DC said in the wake of the pandemic, all the eateries had already been directed to maintain a register to record the number of visitors and their contact details. "On the basis of these, we are trying to contact as many as possible who have eaten food at these two dhabas during the past few days," he said. Sonipat's Chief Medical Officer Dr J  S Punia said the majority of those infected at the Sukhdev dhaba were workers who had recently come from Bihar. Delhi recorded 2,914 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest single-day spike here in 69 days, as the tally mounted to over 1.85 lakh, even as a senior official claimed it "wasn't an alarming surge" and so there was no chance of another lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-residents-who-went-to-murthal-eateries-should-self-isolate-get-tested-official-882764.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi expected to receive light rain on Saturday||The national capital is likely to receive light rain on Saturday, the weather department said. Maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle around 35 degrees Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius. The city has recorded just traces of rainfall in the first five days of September. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides official figures for the city, has recorded nil rainfall this month so far. Normally, the observatory records 28.8 mm precipitation during the period. Palam and Lodhi Road weather stations have also reported a rainfall deficiency of 99 and 100 per cent, respectively, this month. Overall, the city has recorded 555.6 mm rainfall against the normal of 552.6 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-expected-to-receive-light-rain-on-saturday-882796.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Double whammy of Covid-19, China border flare-up hits Ladakh||At a time when the world is battling with Covid-19 pandemic, the fresh flare-up between Indian and Chinese troops along LAC has heightened the sense of uncertainty among residents of Ladakh, where coronavirus cases are on the rise. “There is a lot of uncertainty in Ladakh as people face the double whammy of Covid-19 pandemic and tensions on borders. Nobody knows what will happen next moment,” Stanzin Namgyal, a businessman from Leh told DH. Sajjad Hussain Kargili, who contested in the 2019 General Election as an independent candidate from Ladakh is one among them. “New Delhi should take a firm stand to de-escalate the tension along the LAC through diplomacy and also listen to the grievances of people of J&K and Ladakh who have been sidelined since last August,” he said. Kargili said the situation seems to be dire and the possibility of further escalation can’t be ruled out. “Both China and Pakistan are creating trouble for India on borders in Ladakh,” he said. He also said that the union territory administration had “failed” to contain the spread of coronavirus in Ladakh. “Restrictions to contain Covid-19 has badly affected the businesses and peak tourist season in both Kargil and Leh,” Kargili added. Since early May Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a confrontation in several areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Depsang.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/double-whammy-of-covid-19-china-border-flare-up-hits-ladakh-882813.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||7 workers killed as bus collides with truck in Chhattisgarh's Raipur||Seven workers were killed and as many others injured on Saturday when a bus carrying them rammed into a truck on the outskirts of Chhattisgarh capital Raipur, police said. The accident took place in the wee hours on the National Highway-53 near Serikhedi village under Telibandha police station area, they said. "The mishap occurred when the bus carrying 59 workers was heading to Gujarat from neighbouring Odisha," Station House Officer (SHO) Telibandha police station Ramakant Sahu told PTI. As per the preliminary information, the speeding bus rammed into the rear side of the truck when it was taking a turn, he said. "Seven occupants of the bus died on the spot and as many others sustained injuries," he said. Soon after being alerted, a police team rushed to the spot and shifted the injured to a hospital here for treatment and the bodies for post-mortem, he said. All 59 workers hailing from Ganjam district (Odisha) were going to Surat (Gujarat) for working in cloth mills, the SHO said. A case has been registered in this connection and further probe is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-workers-killed-as-bus-collides-with-truck-in-chhattisgarhs-raipur-882819.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Pregnant woman strangulated to death, body thrown into Ganga canal||A pregnant woman was strangulated to death and her body dumped into Ganga canal allegedly by her husband and in-laws when she refused to fulfil their demands for dowry here, police said on Saturday. SHO Rajender Giri said that according to a complaint lodged by the victim's father, Neha (30) got married to Kamal four years ago, but he and his family used to harass her for dowry. He alleged that they had killed his daughter over the same issue. During interrogation, the husband confessed to having killed Neha and having her body thrown into Ganga canal. A case was registered against the husband, father-in-law, mother-in-law and two others, the SHO said, adding that Kamal was arrested. He said they were trying to trace Neha's body. In another incident, the body of an unidentified woman was found in Rajbha on Friday evening. The woman appeared to be in her late 20s and prima facie it seemed that the body was dumped into the canal after killing her, police said, adding that the body has been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pregnant-woman-strangulated-to-death-body-thrown-into-ganga-canal-882820.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||3 dead as load carriers fall into gorge in Ramban on Jammu-Srinagar National Highway||Three people were killed and two others injured on Saturday when two Kashmir-bound load carriers skidded off the road and plunged into a gorge along Jammu-Srinagar National Highway in Ramban district, police said. A mini load carrier, carrying poultry birds to Kashmir, rolled down into about 400-feet gorge near Digdole, at 4.40 am, killing 32-year-old driver Roof Ahmad and a co-passenger Mohammad Usman, a police official said. He said a large number of chicken also perished in the accident. Bodies of both the deceased, hailing from Magerkote village of Ramsoo, were recovered and handed over to their families for last rites after completion of legal formalities, the official said. In another accident, a goods-laden truck plunged into over 100-feet gorge at Chamalwas near Banihal, resulting in the death of a 19-year-old youth and injuries to two others, including the driver. The truck was also on way to Kashmir from Jammu and all the three of its occupants were residents of Pampore area of Pulwama district, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-dead-as-load-carriers-fall-into-gorge-in-ramban-on-jammu-srinagar-national-highway-882844.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||4 dead as SUV falls into nullah in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur||Four men died and three others were injured after an SUV fell into a nullah in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, police said on Saturday. The accident took place near Kharogala on Sangla-Chhitkul link road when the vehicle was going from Raksham to Sangla, they said. Three men died on the spot while one succumbed to injuries on the way to a community health centre (CHC) in Sangla, police said. Three of the deceased, identified as Anshuman (20), Om Krishan (19), Sikander (20), were from Sangla village while the fourth one, Aadesh (20), was a resident of Boning Saaring, they said. The three injured, identified as Paras (20), Ankit (19) and Nikesh (19), were provided first aid and referred to a Rampur hospital. All the injured are residents of Sangla, police said. An investigation is underway to find the cause of the accident while an interim relief of Rs 10,000 to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 5,000 to the injured has been provided, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-dead-as-suv-falls-into-nullah-in-himachal-pradeshs-kinnaur-882848.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Police checkpoints along Jammu-Pathankot highway alerted after carjacking in Punjab||All checkpoints along Jammu-Pathankot highway have been put on alert and security strengthened following an incident of carjacking by unidentified armed persons in the neighbouring Punjab, a police official said on Saturday. The director general of Punjab Police had sounded an alert in his state, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir after three persons snatched a private car from its owner after injuring him with a firearm in Dinanagar area of Gurdaspur on Friday evening. "After receipt of communication from the Punjab DGP, all the checkpoints have been alerted and security strengthened as a preventive measure to deal with any situation," the police official said. He said the patrolling in the areas bordering Punjab was also intensified during the night. "A close vigil is being maintained to nab the assailants if they try to enter Jammu and Kashmir," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-checkpoints-along-jammu-pathankot-highway-alerted-after-carjacking-in-punjab-882858.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Man held after brief exchange of fire in UP's Sambhal: Police||A man who had allegedly looted and murdered a businessman was arrested here after a brief exchange of fire with police on Saturday, officials said. Jitendra Yadav, who was carrying a cash reward of Rs 25,000 on his head, and a police constable sustained injuries in the shootout which took place in Chandausi area here, they said. According to Superintendent of Police Yamuna Prasad, two men on a motorcycle started firing at a police team when they were stopped for checking near Kareli Road under Chandausi police station on Saturday morning. In retaliatory firing, Jitendra Yadav and police constable Mohit were injured, the officer said, adding that Yadav’s associate managed to escape. Police also informed that on July 30, Yadav had allegedly looted and murdered a fertiliser trader Ram Avtar Dixit. Yadav and the police constable have been admitted to a government hospital in Chandausi, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-after-brief-exchange-of-fire-in-ups-sambhal-police-882862.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Don't attempt to unilaterally change status quo along LAC, Rajnath Singh tells Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe||As the situation in eastern Ladakh remains tense, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe that China must strictly respect the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and not make attempts to unilaterally change its status quo. In the first highest level face-to-face contact between the two sides after border tension erupted in eastern Ladakh in early May, Singh told Wei during their talks in Moscow that China must work with the Indian side for complete disengagement of troops at the earliest from all friction points including Pangong Lake, according to an official statement released here on Saturday. The talks on Friday took place on the sidelines of the meeting of Defence Ministers of the 8-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). Official sources said Singh told Wei firmly that India will not "cede an inch of land" and is determined to protect the integrity and sovereignty of the country at "all cost”. They said Singh answered all the points raised by the Chinese side and rebutted their "false claims", adding the keenness for the dialogue by China was accentuated by the occupation of strategic points and heights by the Indian armed forces in Pangong area in the last week of August. Singh also conveyed that China's actions amassing a large number of troops, its aggressive behaviour and attempts to alter the status quo in Ladakh were in violation of bilateral pacts, the statement said. The statement said Singh conveyed to Wei that the current situation should be handled responsibly and that neither side take any further action that could either complicate or escalate matters. The statement said Singh advised it was important that the Chinese side strictly respect the LAC and should not make attempts to unilaterally change the status quo. Singh also conveyed that the two sides should continue their discussions, including through diplomatic and military channels, to ensure complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquility along the LAC at the earliest, it said. The statement said the Chinese Defence Minister conveyed that China too desired to resolve the issues peacefully. "The Defence Minister categorically conveyed India's position on the developments along the LAC including in the Galwan Valley in the Western Sector of the India-China Border areas in the last few months," said the statement released by both the Ministry of External Affairs and Ministry of Defence. The two ministers had frank and in-depth discussions about the developments in the India-China border areas as well as on India-China relations, it said. "The two sides should focus on the overall situation of India-China relations and work together to de-escalate the situation as soon as possible, and maintain peace and tranquility in the India-China border areas. The Chinese Sefence Minister suggested that both sides should maintain communication at all levels including between the two ministers," the statement added. In a reference to the outcome of the two informal summits between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2018 and 2019, Singh said both sides should take guidance from the consensus by the leaders that maintenance of peace and tranquility in border areas was essential for further development of ties and the two sides should not allow differences to become disputes. Wei said that both sides should "scrupulously implement the consensus reached between Modi and Xi and continue to solve the issues through dialogue and consultation, strictly follow the various bilateral agreements, strengthen the regulation of frontline troops and not undertake any provocative actions that might escalate the situation," according to the statement. In Beijing, a statement released by the Chinese Defence ministry said Wei told Singh that recently the relations between the two countries and the two militaries have been seriously affected by the border issue, and it is very important for the two defence ministers to have a face-to-face and candid exchange of views on relevant issues. Gen. Wei also claimed that the responsibility for the border standoff lies "entirely" with the Indian side, adding not an inch of China's territory should be lost, the statement said. The Chinese military has the resolve, capability and confidence to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity, it added. The talks in the Russian capital, lasting two hours and 20 minutes, took place days after tensions flared up again in eastern Ladakh after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the four-month-old border standoff. Following the fresh confrontation, India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region. China has strongly objected to India's move. However, India has maintained that the strategic heights are on its side of the LAC. At the talks with Wei, Singh also clearly stated that while the Indian troops had always taken a very responsible approach towards border management, but at the same time there should be no doubt about "our determination to protect India's sovereignty and territorial integrity." "He(Singh) emphasised that the actions of the Chinese troops, including amassing a large number of troops, their aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo were in violation of the bilateral agreements and not in keeping with the understandings reached between the Special Representatives of the two sides," the Indian statement said. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held over two-hour talks on July 5 following escalation in border tension triggered by fierce clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-attempt-to-unilaterally-change-status-quo-along-lac-rajnath-singh-tells-chinese-counterpart-wei-fenghe-882863.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||20-year-old woman raped in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar||A 20-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a man in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar when she had gone to collect wood with her mother in a forest, police said on Saturday. According to a complaint lodged by the woman's mother, the incident took place on Friday. Two bike-borne men forcibly took the woman to a nearby sugarcane field, where Salman allegedly raped her. A case was registered against Salman and his associate Mayank under relevant sections of the IPC and efforts were underway to nab them, SHO Raj Kumar Rana said. In another incident, a man was booked for allegedly passing inappropriate comments and casteist slurs against a Dalit woman here, police said. An FIR was registered against the accused, identified as Kapil, under relevant sections of the IPC, SHO HN Singh said, adding that a probe into the matter was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-year-old-woman-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-882864.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||3 succumb to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh; death toll at 52||Three more people succumbed to coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll to 52 on Saturday while 22 fresh cases pushed the state's infection tally to 6,852, according to the Health Department. One death each was reported from Una, Kangra and Mandi, as per data issued by the department on Saturday afternoon. Solan accounts for 14 of the total Covid-19 deaths in the state, followed by Kangra (10), Mandi (eight), Hamirpur (five), Una, Chamba and Shimla (four each), and Sirmaur (three). Of the 22 fresh cases, 12 were reported from Mandi, nine from Kangra and one from Kullu, Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said. The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,822, Jindal said. Meanwhile, 12 patients recovered from the infection -- seven in Kangra and five in Una. With this, the total number of recoveries in the state has risen to 4,932, Jindal said, adding that 45 patients have migrated out of the state. Solan has the highest number of active cases in the state at 339, followed by Sirmaur (348), Kangra (319), Una (184), Hamirpur (145), Bilaspur (130), Chamba (111), Shimla (109), Mandi (57), Kullu (47), Kinnaur (32) and Lahaul-Spiti (one).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-succumb-to-covid-19-in-himachal-pradesh-death-toll-at-52-882873.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||6 police personnel suspended for custodial death in Uttar Pradesh||Six police personnel, including an SHO, were suspended and three of them booked for murder in connection with the custodial death of a youth here, officials said on Saturday. According to Superintendent of Police Anoop Kumar Singh, a case under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered last month against Wajid Ali (22) for allegedly harassing a girl. He said Ali was taken into police custody on Friday for questioning and later his body was found hanging in the toilet of Gilaula police station. The SP said the father of the deceased alleged that his son was illegally kept in police custody for two to three days and police indulged in corruption. Singh said Station House Officer Vinod Kumar, three sub-inspectors and two other police personnel have been suspended. On the complaint of the father of the deceased, a case of murder and illegal custody has been registered against the SHO and two other policemen, he said. "An officer of the rank of Deputy SP will be probing the incident. District Magistrate has also ordered a magisterial probe in this matter,” Singh said. The brother of the deceased told reporters that "to release him (Ali), Rs 50,000 was paid to the SHO. But he was demanding additional Rs 2 lakh." He also said some people beat up Ali over a land dispute and then called police to arrest him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-police-personnel-suspended-for-custodial-death-in-uttar-pradesh-882878.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Bus operations resume in Madhya Pradesh after govt announces vehicle tax waiver||Regular bus operations resumed in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, following the state government's announcement that vehicle tax will be waived for the Covid-19 lockdown period. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on Friday announced that the monthly vehicle tax payable on buses will be waived completely for the period from April 1 to August 31 in view of problems faced by bus operators and citizens. Chouhan also announced an exemption of 50 per cent in vehicle tax payable for September and extended the date of depositing the tax amount till September 30, he said. The Madhya Pradesh Bus Owners Association, however, said it will take about a month for bus operations to normalise in the state. "Although we resumed operations on Saturday morning, most buses were almost empty as people are still scared of travelling," the association's vice president Santosh Pandey told PTI. Vehicles have been sanitised and other precautionary measures were also taken, he said, adding that passengers who don't have masks are being given the protective gear on buses. Meanwhile, some bus operators in Bhopal and Indore are also using thermal scanners, eyewitnesses said. Buses operations were suspended in Madhya Pradesh from March 25 after the coronavirus-induced lockdown came into force. While the state government had granted partial permissions for buses when the Centre announced the easing of the lockdown, regular operations could not be restored due to impasse over taxes and among other issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bus-operations-resume-in-madhya-pradesh-after-govt-announces-vehicle-tax-waiver-882899.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||ED arrests ex-Rajasthan health dept official, son in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday said it has arrested a former Rajasthan health department official and his son in connection with a money laundering probe against them linked to a case of alleged possession of disproportionate assets. It said Mahesh Chanda Sharma, who worked in the Health and Medical Department of the Rajasthan government as a nursing tutor (nursing grade- 2) and was posted in the SMS medical college, and his son Mohit Sharma were arrested under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Friday in state capital Jaipur. They were produced before a local court on Friday that sent them to 10 days in ED custody, the agency said in a statement. Mahesh Chand Sharma was also a member of the Indian Nursing Council (INC) in Delhi. "The accused are under custodial interrogation to unearth the illegal assets amassed by Mahesh Chand Sharma using corrupt practices while working as a public servant," the ED said. The agency has slapped criminal charges under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against Mahesh Chand Sharma and others on the basis of an FIR and a charge sheet filed against them by the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB). Sharma, along with an associate, was caught by the Jaipur ACB sometime back while taking a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from a nursing institute in lieu of including its name (which was deleted earlier) on the website of the Indian Nursing Council, the ED said. "The ACB investigation established that the accused had amassed an illicit amount of Rs 10.6 crore which was 372 per cent more than his known or legal source of income," the ED alleged. The ED, during investigation, had raided Mahesh Chand Sharma's residential premises at RAG hospital in Mansarovar, Jaipur and also the premises of his associate Kishan Lal Saini at Naina Vihar in Jaipur's Sanganer area, it said. "These searches resulted in recovery of large number of incriminating documents including property documents related to a number of plots, benami properties and high value financial transactions etc," the federal probe agency said.  The agency, in the past, has attached assets of over Rs 12 crore of Mahesh Chand Sharma freezing his agricultural lands in Jaipur, Tonk and Karauli districts of Rajasthan, and 31 plots and houses at various locations in the state capital. Investigation revealed that Sharma has "accumulated huge money by resorting to corrupt practices and misusing his official position," the ED had said. "This money was used for purchase of agricultural land, residential flats and plots in his name, in the name of his wife and son, company and trust named Safe Infracon Pvt Ltd, Saket Nursing College and RAG trust after layering and integrating the illicit money in the formal financial system in order to project it as untainted," it had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-arrests-ex-rajasthan-health-dept-official-son-in-money-laundering-case-882905.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Mosque in Ayodhya will be of the same size as Babri Masjid; Pushpesh Pant to curate its museum: Trust||A mosque that will come up in Ayodhya pursuant to the Supreme Court verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi case will be of the same size as Babri Masjid, said an office-brearer of the trust formed for its construction. The five-acre complex in Ayodhya's Dhannipur village will also house a hospital, a library and a museum among others, the office-bearer said, adding that retired professor and noted food critic Pushpesh Pant will be consultant curator of the museum. "...the complex of the mosque, which will be built in Dhannipur, will also have facilities like a hospital, a museum at the Indo-Islamic Research Centre. The mosque will be on 15,000 square feet, while the rest of the land will have these facilities," Athar Hussain, the secretary and spokesperson of Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), told PTI on Saturday. "Yesterday, noted food critic Pushpesh Pant gave his consent to curate the museum," Hussain said. The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board has formed the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), a trust, for the construction of the mosque on the five-acre plot. Hussain said Professor S M Akhtar of Jamia Millia Islamia will be the consultant architect of the project. Akhtar, the Head of the Department of Architecture at Jamia Millia Islamia, told PTI earlier that the entire complex will "bring together the ethos of India and the spirit of Islam". The Uttar Pradesh government allotted the five-acre plot in Ayodhya's Dhannipur village for the construction of the mosque on the directive of the Supreme Court. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court had on November 9 last year ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site. Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram temple on August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mosque-in-ayodhya-will-be-of-the-same-size-as-babri-masjid-pushpesh-pant-to-curate-its-museum-trust-882911.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi man held for duping women on matrimony sites||A 38-year-old man was arrested for allegedly duping several women on the pretext of marriage, police said on Saturday. The matter came to light when a woman lodged a complaint against him at Kotla Mubarakpur police station. According to her complaint, the accused, posing as a British citizen, approached her on a matrimony site. Vishal alias Mohit Tokas convinced the complainant that he needs some money and after getting the amount, he will marry her, police said. The woman transferred Rs 1,21,900 into his bank account and after receiving the money, he stopped taking her calls, they said. During the investigation, police checked all the numbers through which the accused had contacted the complainant and found that they were issued on fake IDs, Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. "Police analysed the account in which the complainant transferred the money and found one mobile number of the account holder was attached with that. Police apprehended the accused person on Thursday," Thakur said. In the past, Vishal had duped several other women on matrimony sites after promising to marry them, police said. The accused told police during interrogation that he used to lure divorced women for marriage and would convince them to transfer money into his bank accounts on the pretext of sending them expensive gifts. His four bank accounts containing the cheated amount of Rs 4.5 lakh have been frozen, the DCP said, adding that further investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-man-held-for-duping-women-on-matrimony-sites-882918.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Dhrupad Sansthan forms panel to probe sexual harassment charges against Gundecha brothers||Music school Dhrupad Sansthan here has formed a committee to look into the sexual harassment allegations against two of its teachers. The allegations are against Akhilesh Gundecha and Ramakant Gundecha. "Akhilesh Gundecha has stepped down from his position at the institute," a Santhan office-bearer said, adding that the committee shall look into the allegations levelled against him. Ramakant Gundecha died in November last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dhrupad-sansthan-forms-panel-to-probe-sexual-harassment-charges-against-gundecha-brothers-882926.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Hizbul Mujahideen trying to reestablish its base in North Kashmir: Indian Army||Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) is trying to re-establish its base in north Kashmir, the Army said on Saturday, a day after three militants of the outfit were killed in an encounter with security forces in Baramulla district. Addressing a joint press conference with Deputy Inspector General of Police (North Kashmir Range) Muhammad Sulaiman Choudhary at Pattan, Commander 10 Sector of the Rashtriya Rifles of the Army Brigadier N K Mishra said it was after a long gap that militants belonging to the HM were killed in north Kashmir where, in the recent years, only the ultras from Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad had been neutralised. "The activity of the HM outfit was very less here (in north Kashmir). It seems that Hizbul is trying to re-establish its base in north Kashmir," the Army officer said. However, he said the security forces were alert and ready to foil all the plans of the outfit aimed at its revival in the north Kashmir. "If anyone (among the militants) wishes to join the mainstream, they are always welcome, but if anyone wants to become a terrorist, he will not be given any opportunity," Brigadier Mishra said. The DIG North Kashmir Range said the three militants killed on Friday in Yeddipora area of Pattan in north Kashmir's Baramulla district were affiliated with the HM outfit. "Two of the slain militants were locals and were identified as Shafkat Ali Khan of Rawatpora, Delina and Hanan Bilal Sofi of old town Baramulla. The identity of the third one is being ascertained," he said. Choudhary said two AK-47 riffles, four magazines, one pistol and two pistol magazines. besides incriminating matter, were seized from the site of the encounter. He said the militants were hiding in a house, holding 12 civilians, including children, hostage. The Army officer said that the operation was a deliberate one as the first priority was to evacuate the civilians. An Army Major and two Special Police Officers (SPOs) of J-K Police were injured in the gunbattle, but their condition is said to be stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-mujahideen-trying-to-reestablish-its-base-in-north-kashmir-indian-army-882941.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Reopening of economy, increased testing, no mask use led to rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi: Experts||Delhi has recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in nearly 70 days, which experts are attributing to reopening of economy, ramped-up testing, patients from outside the city coming here for treatment and violation of safety norms by many people in public. The national capital has reported coronavirus cases in excess of 2,000 for four consecutive days since September 1. On Friday, the daily cases count stood at 2,914. When asked about the spiralling cases and chances of another lockdown, a senior official of the Delhi government on Friday said the cases have shown an increase as testing has been ramped up. “It is not that cases are rising alarmingly, and hence, there is no chance of going back to lockdown,” he said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the recent surge in cases in the city is attributable to doubling of testing, as he sought to assure people that the situation is completely under control and there is no need to panic. Medical experts have flagged the surge in cases earlier too and warned people about the perils of not wearing masks in public and violating social distancing norms, but underlined that an economy cannot be kept locked forever. "Yes, a large section of people in Delhi have become complacent that everything is okay now, as economy has reopened and even metro services will resume next week. But, they must understand, this ease in lockdown was given for economic sustenance of the country and not for people to roam around as they were doing it before," Director, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), B L Sherwal told PTI. However, he said, more cases being reported now should not be a worry at the moment, as earlier in May and June such cases were coming in lockdown, and now it is similar without a lockdown. "Hopefully, in few days, after marked rise in cases due to multiple reasons, including opening of economy leading to greater human interaction, increased testing in past one week, the figures, I reckon will stabilise," Sherwal said. RGSSH is one of the major dedicated Covid-19 facilities run by the Delhi government. Delhi recording 2,914 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday was the city's highest single-day spike in 69 days, as the tally mounted to over 1.85 lakh, while the death toll jumped to 4,513. The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Friday stood at 27,731, while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 8,488 in all adding to 36,219, according to the Friday bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. Amid sudden spurt in cases in the last few days in Delhi, medical experts have also warned that many people not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms have contributed to it, and cautioned to still treat the situation as a "health emergency". From doctors at leading hospitals to senior officials of nationwide testing laboratories, all concurred that a "sudden degree of complacency" has crept in the psyche of the masses, especially the youth, who feel that since the lockdown has eased, "all is back to normal". "It is very irresponsible on people's part to go out and enjoy, as if everything is normal. They are either not wearing a mask or slid it on their chin, as if it is a funny thing to do. Such people should be told publicly to adhere to safety norms. They are putting themselves, their family members and others at risk," said Rajesh Rautela, Medical Superintendent of GTB Hospital in east Delhi. Sandeep Budhiraja, Group Medical Director, Max Healthcare, also cautioned the youth to not get swayed in by the lure of social media, as many of those are putting out pictures of going out and socialising in cafes and restaurants, with or without wearing masks. This is such a dangerous trend and youth immediately copy the behaviour of fellow youth, especially if they are social media influencers, he warned. "Yes, social media does affect the psyche and behaviour of people. So, people must behave responsibly," he said, and cautioned that "a young person may get infected and recover from Covid-19, but if they unnecessarily go out and socialise, they run the risk of spreading it to older people around them, including their parents and grandparents". The Delhi Metro all set to resume operations from September 7 in a graded manner, has put all safety and social distancing norms in place to make the travel safer for commuters. However, it appealed to people to use the services only if it is urgent, and not otherwise. Medical experts in Delhi also flagged the spread of Covid-19 cases to semi-urban areas and villages on the outskirts of the national capital. "A pandemic that has originated from outside generally follows this trajectory, from foreign countries to another country, then to bigger cities and from urban areas to rural areas," Sherwal of RGSSH said. Arvind Lal, Executive Chairman, Dr Lal PathLabs cautioned that people should not go out unless extremely necessary, as "they may catch infection from asymptomatic ones". "We are still living in a health emergency, we should not forget that," Lal said. Last week, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the increase in number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi was due to various reasons, including outside patients coming to Delhi for treatment, and increased scale of testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reopening-of-economy-increased-testing-no-mask-use-led-to-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-experts-882946.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Soldier killed, two injured in Pakistani firing along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara||An Army soldier was killed and two others injured in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's frontier Kupwara district on Saturday, a defence spokesman said here. "Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) along the Line of Control in Naugam Sector of Kupwara in the morning by firing mortars and other weapons," defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said. He said a soldier was killed while two others sustained injuries. The injured jawans were evacuated to the 92 Base Hospital here and their condition is stable, Col Kalia said. He said a befitting response was given to Pakistan for its aggression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/soldier-killed-two-injured-in-pakistani-firing-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kupwara-882959.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||PDP expels Nazir Ahmad Yatoo over 'anti-party' activities||The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said on Saturday it has expelled youth leader Nazir Ahmad Yatoo for indulging in "anti-party" activities and repeated acts of "indiscipline". "Taking a strong note of his anti-party activities & repeated acts of indiscipline, party's disciplinary committee today expelled Nazir Ahmad Yattoo from the basic membership of the Party," the PDP said in a tweet. The PDP had last week issued a notice to Yatoo, general secretary of the party's youth wing, over his reported comments in a TV show, saying his statement was not only against the basic values of the party, but was also derogatory in nature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-expels-nazir-ahmad-yatoo-over-anti-party-activities-883017.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||J&K sees record one-day jump of 1,251 Covid-19 cases; 15 more die||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 1,251 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike in infections, pushing the tally to 42,241, while 15 fatalities in the past 24 hours raised the death toll to 770, officials said. This is for the third time in as many days that the number of fresh cases has crossed the 1000-mark in a 24-hour period, the officials said. Among the new cases, 739 were from the Jammu region, while 512 from the Kashmir Valley. Jammu district reported a maximum of 520 new cases, followed by 181 in Srinagar district, the officials said. Jammu on Saturday became the first district in the Union Territory to report over 500 Covid-19 cases in a single day. There are 9,547 active Covid-19 cases in the UT, while 31,924 people have recovered from the infection so far, they said. Meanwhile, 15 people infected with the coronavirus have died in Jammu and Kashmir in the past 24 hours till 5.00 pm on Saturday, the officials said. They said while 10 of the new fatalities took place in Jammu, five were reported from the Kashmir Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-sees-record-one-day-jump-of-1251-covid-19-cases-15-more-die-883025.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Quota for Vaishno Devi pilgrims from outside J&K raised to 500 daily: Official||Nearly three weeks after the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi district was reopened for pilgrimage, the shrine board has increased the quota for pilgrims from outside the Union Territory to 500 daily, officials said on Saturday. The shrine atop the Trikuta hills was reopened on August 16 after a gap of nearly five months due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. A cap of 2,000 pilgrims daily, including 100 from outside Jammu and Kashmir, was imposed initially. "The pilgrimage to the cave shrine is proceeding smoothly and picking up pace with each passing day. Keeping this in view, the quota of pilgrims from outside Jammu and Kashmir has been enhanced to 500 per day, out of a ceiling of 2,000 daily, till further orders," said Ramesh Kumar, the Chief Executive Officer of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. He said the accommodations provided by the shrine board at Bhawan, Adhkuwari, Katra and Jammu have also been opened for the pilgrims, by following all prescribed standard operating procedures (SoPs) because of the pandemic. All other supplementary facilities for the comfort of pilgrims, such as battery-operated vehicles, passenger ropeway and helicopter services, are also operating smoothly by strictly following the social distancing norms and other precautionary measures, Kumar said. "Besides the food stalls in the shrine area en route to Bhawan, free community kitchen at Tarakote Marg and 'prasad Kendra' at Sanjichhat have also been operationalised by the board for the pilgrims," he said. He said online booking for 'Shradha Suman Vishesh Pooja' has also commenced. The pilgrims are allowed to undertake the pilgrimage after registration through online mode only. This has been done to avoid assembly of people at the registration counters, officials said. According to them, it is also mandatory for the pilgrims to wear face masks and to undergo thermal scanning at the entry points. Children below the age of 10 years, pregnant women, persons with co-morbidities and those above 60 years have been advised to avoid undertaking the pilgrimage for their safety from contracting the coronavirus infection, the officials said. They said Covid-19 test reports of pilgrims from outside Jammu and Kashmir and those from 'Red Zone' districts of the Union Territory are being checked at the helipad and the 'yatra' entry points of Darshani Deodi, Banganga and Katra. Only those with negative reports are allowed to move beyond the entry points, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/quota-for-vaishno-devi-pilgrims-from-outside-jk-raised-to-500-daily-official-883037.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||BJP MP Sunny Deol hopes Raina’s family gets justice||Bollywood actor and BJP MP Sunny Deol on Saturday hoped that the family of former India cricketer Suresh Raina would get justice in a case of brutal attack on them allegedly by robbers last month. Deol met Pathankot Senior Superintendent of Police Gulneet Singh Khurana here and discussed the law and order situation. The Gurdaspur MP also enquired about the attack on the relatives of Raina here. “A positive discussion was held with Pathankot SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana regarding the safety of Pathankot district which is under my Lok Sabha constituency. “Got detailed information about the issue of Pathankot's law and order and also the attack on the family of the world's famous player Suresh Raina. Hoping that the family will get justice as soon as possible,” the MP tweeted while condoling the death of two persons in the incident. According to police, some robbers attacked Raina's relatives at their house with an intention of loot at Pathankot's Tharyal village on the intervening night of August 19 and 20. While Raina's uncle Ashok Kumar, 58, died on the spot, his 32-year-old cousin Kaushal succumbed to injuries on August 31 at a private hospital here. Raina had described the attack on his relatives as “beyond horrible” and sought from the Punjab police to look into the incident. Thereafter, the Punjab police announced to form a four-member special investigation team to investigate the incident. Deol had on Friday visited his constituency and held discussions with senior officials over the coronavirus pandemic situation and other issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mp-sunny-deol-hopes-raina-s-family-gets-justice-883040.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Haryana reports its highest one-day jump in Covid-19 deaths, cases||Haryana on Saturday reported its highest single-day jump in number of Covid-19 deaths at 22, while a record spike of 2,289 cases pushed the infection tally to 74,272, according to the state health department's daily bulletin. Just a day earlier, the state had recorded the biggest spike of 1,884 cases and 19 fatalities. The total number of fatalities in the state rose to 781 with the addition of the fresh fatalities. While Kurukshetra and Panchkula reported three deaths each, two fatalities each were from Gurugram, Ambala, Karnal, Hisar and Yamunanagar while one death each took place in Kaithal, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Palwal and Rohtak, the bulletin said. Among the districts which reported big spike in cases on Saturday include Faridabad (284), Gurugram (265), Karnal (238), Panipat (226), Ambala (160), Panchkula (142) and Kurukshetra (100), according to the bulletin. The state has 14,911 active Covid-19 cases while 58,580 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. As of Saturday, the state has a recovery rate of 78.87 per cent, fatality rate of 1.05 per cent while the rate at which infections are doubling is 33 days, the bulletin said. Haryana is conducting 50,040 tests per million for the detection of the novel coronavirus, it said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-reports-its-highest-one-day-jump-in-covid-19-deaths-cases-883078.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Spike in Covid-19 cases in Jammu after 'sweep clean' drive: Officials||Jammu has witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases, registering 2,254 new patients in the past nine days with 520 of them on Saturday alone, owing to a strategic plan to 'sweep clean' the district of the infection through a massive testing exercise, officials said. The health officials said the drive pushed Jammu on the top of the list of the districts having most number of active Covid-19 cases in the entire Union Territory, which has so far recorded 770 deaths linked to the infection since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. They said the Jammu division, comprising 10 districts, had recorded 34 deaths since August 28 with a maximum of 10 fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, raising the total number of fatalities in the region to 91. Jammu district tops the fatality chart with 59 deaths, followed by eight in Kathua district; five each in Rajouri, Doda and Poonch; four in Udhampur; three in Samba and one each in Ramban and Kishtwar districts, the officials said, adding Jammu's Reasi is the only district in the entire UT which has not recorded any coronavirus-related death till date. On August 23, Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam reviewed the Covid-19 mitigation measures in Jammu Division and directed preparation of a strategic plan to 'sweep-clean' districts Jammu, Udhampur and Rajouri of all positive cases through a massive testing exercise in these districts focussed on red zones and other areas with higher incidence of Covid -19 cases. Following the aggressive drive of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), Jammu district registered a three digit figure of 109 cases on August 28 against 194 in Srinagar which was the highest in any of the 20 districts in the Union Territory on that day, the officials said. They said Jammu subsequently replaced Srinagar on the top of the chart with detection of 134 cases on August 29; 258 cases on August 30; 139 on August 31; 121 on September 1; 167 on September 2 and 484 on September 3; 322 on September 4 and 520 on September 5, which was largest single-day spike till date. The other nine districts of Jammu division recorded 1,130 cases in the past nine days, the officials said. With aggressive testing, Jammu district now leads the chart of having the largest number of active cases in the Union Territory at 2,564 followed by Srinagar at 1400, the officials said. They said Jammu and Kashmir's caseload stands at 42,241 -- 31,091 in Kashmir and 11,150 in Jammu region. While 31,924 patients have recovered from the infection, 9,547 cases are still active in the Union Territory which included 5,572 in Kashmir division and 3,975 in Jammu division, the officials said. In the Kashmir Valley, Srinagar accounts for a maximum of 233 deaths from the novel coronavirus, followed by 104 in Baramulla, 64 in Budgam, 56 in Pulwama, 54 in Kupwara, 52 in Anantnag, 37 in Kulgam, 28 in Shopian, 26 in Bandipora and 25 in Ganderbal. Meanwhile, the officials said Akhnoor police station and Pallanwalla police post on the outskirts of Jammu were closed for public till further orders on Saturday after 11 policemen including the Station House Officer (SHO) tested positive for the coronavirus. The step was taken as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the infection, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-jammu-after-sweep-clean-drive-officials-883087.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Haryana reports highest one-day jump in Covid-19 deaths, cases||Haryana on Saturday reported its highest single-day jump in number of Covid-19 deaths at 22, while a record spike of 2,289 cases pushed the infection tally to 74,272, according to the state health department's daily bulletin. Just a day earlier, the state had recorded the biggest spike of 1,884 cases and 19 fatalities. The total number of fatalities in the state rose to 781 with the addition of the fresh fatalities. While Kurukshetra and Panchkula reported three deaths each, two fatalities each were from Gurugram, Ambala, Karnal, Hisar and Yamunanagar while one death each took place in Kaithal, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Palwal and Rohtak, the bulletin said. Among the districts which reported big spike in cases on Saturday include Faridabad (284), Gurugram (265), Karnal (238), Panipat (226), Ambala (160), Panchkula (142) and Kurukshetra (100), according to the bulletin. The state has 14,911 active Covid-19 cases while 58,580 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. As of Saturday, the state has a recovery rate of 78.87 per cent, fatality rate of 1.05 per cent while the rate at which infections are doubling is 33 days, the bulletin said. Haryana is conducting 50,040 tests per million for the detection of the novel coronavirus, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-reports-highest-one-day-jump-in-covid-19-deaths-cases-883088.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Free food packets for poor families to encourage Covid-19 testing in Punjab||The Punjab government on Saturday announced distribution of free food packets to poor families who do not want to get themselves tested for coronavirus for fear of isolation impacting their meagre earnings. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to encourage Covid-19 testing amid rising number of cases and deaths due to the disease in the state, a government release said here. He said the distribution of free food packets would encourage poor families to go for early testing, which was imperative to check the spread of the pandemic and control the increasing fatality rate in Punjab. The programme will start from Patiala, one of the worst affected districts, he said. The chief minister also directed other districts to make similar arrangements for poor coronavirus patients in home isolation so that they get motivated to come out for testing and do not live in fear of losing their earnings during isolation, the release said. Accepting the suggestion of Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, Singh said District Congress Committees (DCCs) and local MLAs will help the district administration in the distribution of such packets. He was chairing a virtual meeting with elected representatives, including state ministers and MLAs, as well as senior officials. This is the first of such meetings the CM plans to hold to fight the malicious propaganda being spread over Covid-19 in villages. Noting that people were also scared of hospitalisation, Singh said his government was encouraging home isolation to combat this fear and had also decided to remove posters or stickers from outside the homes of patients to end the stigma attached to their isolation. The senior Congress leader also asked the ministers to visit hospitals in the districts represented by them, and urged them to encourage party leaders and workers to be more active in combating the pandemic. Stating that nobody knew how long the pandemic would last, he stressed the need to be prepared for a tough and long-drawn battle. Singh assured that despite the financial crunch, all necessary funds would be made available by his government to fight the pandemic. Punjab's COVID-19 tally stands at 61,527 cases with 1,808 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/free-food-packets-for-poor-families-to-encourage-covid-19-testing-in-punjab-883092.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Third phase of 'Back to Village' programme to being from Oct 2 in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday announced the third phase of its ambitious 'Back to Village' (B2V) programme for 10 days starting October 2. The Back to Village programme is aimed to involve the people of the union territory and government officials in a joint effort to deliver the mission of equitable development. The programme is aimed at energising panchayats and directing development efforts in rural areas through community participation. The announcement was made by Principal Secretary, Power Development and Information Departments, Rohit Kansal, who is also the spokesperson for the administration, at a press conference here. Terming the first two phases of the Back to Village (B2V) as huge success, Kansal said it is a unique programme which received "tremendous respect" from the people when 4,000 gazetted officers from the J-K administration visited each and every panchayat of the union territory. He said the flagship programme has generated huge interest, affection and respect among the people and the administration has decided another version of the programme in the form of Phase-III of B2V from October 2-12. "The Phase-I of B2V was an introductory and interactive programme to understand the people's grievances and demands. While Phase-II focused on the devolution of powers to panchayats and tried to understand how these panchayats are functioning and what are the grievances and demands," Kansal said, adding the Phase-III has been designed on the format for grievance redressal. The principal secretary said this time the administration has decided to hold a three-week pre-Back to Village Jan Abhiyan which will be organised from September 10-20 and will have three components. "The three pillars will be the redressal of public grievances (Jan Sunvaiyee), public service delivery (Adhikar Abhiyan) and delivery of development at Gram Panchayat level (Unat Gram Abhiyan)," he said. Highlighting the pre-B2V-3 programme, Kansal said that 'Yaum-e-Block' would be observed for three consecutive weeks at pre-designated locations or at block headquarters every Wednesday with coordination from relevant officers. He said during this period, public grievances would be listened to and tried to be sorted out on the spot or the following week or the next following week. "As many as public grievances would be tried to be disposed of on the spot," he added. Kansal said during this period all deputy commissioners and respective superintendents of police will be available in their office every day except Wednesday and Sunday from 10 am to 11.30 pm, while divisional commissioners will be available from 10.30 am to 11.30 am every Tuesday and Thursday. However, he said, during 'Youm-e-Block', which will be held every Wednesday, all DCs and SPs will visit every block over a period of three weeks. Kansal said all the DCs will try to ensure 100 per cent saturation of all 55 schemes. Explaining the third component of pre-B2V Unat Gram Abhiyan, he said the focus will be on doing development rather than talking development and developmental departments will analyze B2V1 and B2V2 and ensure that the works during these two phases are executed and completed before B2V-3. "For these works, the funds have already been released to all DCs to finish the works taken under these two phase of B2V," he added. This will be the month of progress of grievances and development on public grievances, Kansal said. He said in-charge officers will be administrative secretaries and will make visits to designated districts to have first-hand experiences of all developmental works taken under B2V1 and B2V2. "We are confident that the entire next month will be a festival of public grievance redressal, festival of public service delivery and festival of delivery of development at the gram panchayat level," the government spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/third-phase-of-back-to-village-programme-to-being-from-oct-2-in-jk-883107.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality drops to 'moderate' category||After oscillating between the "good" and "satisfactory" categories for one-and-half-month, the national capital's air quality dropped to the "moderate" category on Saturday. Experts attributed it to lack of favourable wind speed and rains over the last few days. The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 101. The last time Delhi recorded its AQI (124) in the moderate category was on July 15. AQI between 0 and 50 is considered safe, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor. At 301-400, it is considered very poor and 401-500 falls in the severe category. The above 500 is severe as well as the emergency category. A Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) official said the air quality deteriorated slightly due to lack of rains and favourable wind speed. However, rains on Saturday evening will lead to some improvement. On August 31, it recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 41, which was the lowest since the CPCB started maintaining air quality records in 2015. It was the fifth "good" day in terms of air quality this year. AQI values were 45, 50, 50 and 45 on March 28, August 13, August 20 and August 24, respectively. The AQI value remained between 50 and 70 on most days in August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-drops-to-moderate-category-883108.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Several houses damaged as Pakistani troops shell three sectors along LoC in JK's Poonch||Several residential houses were partially damaged as Pakistani troops engaged in firing and intense mortar shelling in three sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, officials said. The firing and shelling from across the border started around 9.15 am in Shahpur, Kirni and Degwar sectors and continued intermittently throughout the day, causing panic among the residents, the officials said. A defence spokesman said the Indian Army personnel guarding the LoC gave a strong and befitting response to the cross-border firing. He said Pakistan initiated the unprovoked ceasefire violation in the three sectors at 9.15 am and later at 5.30 pm after a lull of a few hours during the day. There was no report of any casualty on the Indian side, the spokesman said. However, a police official said several residential houses suffered partial damages after being hit by mortars in Degwar sector. "The shelling from across the border was heavy and lasted for three hours in the morning before starting again in the evening," the official said, adding it stopped in all the three sectors around 7.30 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/several-houses-damaged-as-pakistani-troops-shell-three-sectors-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-883110.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Get tested for Covid-19 at the earliest: Punjab CM's appeal to people||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday appealed to the people of the state to get themselves tested for coronavirus at the earliest, saying any delay could prove fatal for them. He also categorically rejected allegations of organ harvesting of Covid-19 victims, and termed videos on social media claiming such as "rumours and completely baseless". Notably, several rumours, including that of alleged organ harvesting of coronavirus patients, have posed a new challenge to the Punjab Health department as people in some villages are preventing medical teams from collecting samples for testing. "Don't fall prey to such false propaganda, which is being spread only to mislead you," Singh told people, adding the only reason bodies of Covid-19 victims are cremated by people wearing PPE suits is to avoid infection. "Some hypocrites are trying to mislead you on social media with false information. Our former president (Pranab Mukherjee) was also cremated in a similar manner because he had tested positive for coronavirus infection," he pointed out. Urging people not delay testing by ignoring Covid-19 symptoms or by trying medicines on their own, the Singh said all the deaths being reported are of patients in the advanced stage of the disease. The chief minister has appealed to people to follow the instructions of the government and doctors' advice to save themselves and Punjab, according to a state government release. Targetting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), he urged people not to be "misguided" by the "vicious propaganda" of the opposition party. The chief minister said the oximeters that the AAP was offering to give people of Punjab were no substitute for testing. "These oximeters will not tell you if you have coronavirus infection or not. They just measure the oxygen saturation level in the body, and low oxygen level is not necessarily an indication of the infection," he said. AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on September 2 said that his party workers would check the oxygen level of people with oximeters in villages of Punjab. Pointing out that his government has already distributed 10,000 oximeters and was in the process of procuring another 50,000, Singh reiterated that use of these machines only would not save lives. "Going to a hospital only in case of low oxygen level might be too late," he warned. Stressing that this was not the time to indulge in politics but to fight the coronavirus pandemic together, the chief minister said, "Unfortunately, the AAP is busy politicising the crisis even after assuring the state government of their support." "Aren't they ashamed?" he asked rhetorically, adding all parties should support his government and consider the viral disease a common enemy. "Won't they support us if there is a war with Pakistan or China?" He also described as "false propaganda" the AAP's claims that Punjab was doing badly on the coronavirus front as compared to Delhi. "The facts and figures expose these false claims," he said, adding with 1.9 crore population, Delhi has 1.82 lakh cases while Punjab, with 2.80 crore population, has 60,000 cases. "The deaths in Delhi are three-fold as compared to Punjab," Singh said. The Punjab chief minister, however, clarified that he was not citing these numbers because he wanted Delhi to have more cases. "I pray to 'Wahe Guru' (Lord Almighty) that all states, including Delhi, should win the war against coronavirus and succeed in saving lives." Singh assured the people that there is no shortage of beds, medicines, ventilators or doctors to tackle the spike in cases in Punjab. The death toll from COVID-19 in Punjab rose to 1,808 on Saturday with 69 more fatalities while the infection tally jumped to 61,527 with 1,515 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/get-tested-for-covid-19-at-the-earliest-punjab-cms-appeal-to-people-883118.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Sukhbir writes to Lt Gov over exclusion of Punjabi from J&K's official languages||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday wrote to the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir over the exclusion of Punjabi from the union territory's official languages and termed it as "anti-Sikh". He said Punjabi language's due status as one of the J-K's official languages should be immediately restored. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president said the Punjabi language has profound religious, cultural and emotional implications for the Sikh community. "As such, the exclusion of Punjabi as an official language in Jammu and Kashmir is bound to be seen as an anti-minority and is certain to be seen as an anti-Sikh step of the J-K administration," Badal said in a statement here. The Union cabinet a few days ago had approved a bill under which Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, apart from the existing Urdu and English, will be the official languages in the Union territory. Badal, in the letter, sought to draw the attention of the Lt Governor to "reports of the discriminatory exclusion of the Punjabi language as one of the official languages of Jammu and Kashmir". "Punjabi is not only the mother tongue of a very significant part of the people of J-K but it was also a recognised language duly certified in the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir," Badal wrote. He cautioned that decisions such as these provide dangerous propaganda ammunition to those who are always looking for such opportunities to disturb peace and communal harmony in the country, especially in the sensitive border states of Punjab and J-K. Badal termed the move as "violative of the spirit that runs through every word of the Constitution of India which stands for unity in diversity". He said it would deliver a "severe blow" to the idea of cooperative cultural and political federalism in the country. Badal said the SAD has always been at the forefront in the fight for justice for the mother tongue of Punjabis and it "would not hesitate to do so in future also".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sukhbir-writes-to-lt-gov-over-exclusion-of-punjabi-from-jks-official-languages-883119.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Congress demands high-level probe into temple 'land grabbing' attempt in Jammu||The Congress in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday demanded a high-level probe into alleged attempts by the Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC) to grab prime land of an ancient and historic temple in the heart of the city. It also sought sacking of JMC Mayor Chander Mohan Gupta and registration of an FIR in the case. The case came to light after Suresh Kumar Sharma, a retired district and sessions judge, recently approached the local court to restrain the BJP-led JMC from “grabbing” the prime piece of land of Panchvaktra Mahadev temple. Sharma, who was appointed as the caretaker of the temple by the J&K High Court in December 2008, said the JMC has fraudulently claimed that the temple's property belonged to it and subsequently, the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) in joint collaboration with the JMC invited bids for multilevel car parking system and commercial complex at the property of the temple. “We demand registration of an FIR and a high-level probe into the temple land grabbing case besides sacking of the JMC mayor,” the Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) said. A group of the party's senior leaders led by vice-president Raman Bhalla visited the temple complex where they staged a sit-in along with Sharma and other members of the temple management. “The expose has hurt the religious sentiments of the people because Panchvaktra Mahadev temple is the most revered shrine of Jammu province. “It appears that the BJP leaders, who are managing JMC affairs, have joined hands with influential land-mafia to grab the temple's land in the name of constructing a parking lot," the party said. Meanwhile, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) said the matter raised by the caretaker of the historic temple is a very “grave misconduct” and demanded clarification into initiation of tendering process without the consent of the temple management. “Now that the tender stands withdrawn by the NHIDCL on September 3, it is demanded that NHIDCL and Jammu Development Authority should clarify how they initiated tendering process without taking a formal consent from the temple property caretaker,” Working President of VHP, J&K, Rajesh Gupta said. He said the caretaker of temple property and devotees associated with the temple are apprehensive of some nefarious plan by some influential people to grab temple land for ulterior motives under the garb of this project. “VHP stands by their apprehension and warns the authorities from taking up any such move and seeks all details of this project to be made public,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-demands-high-level-probe-into-temple-land-grabbing-attempt-in-jammu-883120.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt sets rates for hospitals treating Covid-19 patients||The Madhya Pradesh government on Saturday decided that private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients could charge only 40 per cent more than rates prevalent in the time before the outbreak. It was also decided that patients being treated at private COVID-19 designated hospitals, which are authorised and in contract with the government, can voluntarily pay their bills. Such hospitals are currently treating patients free of cost. After a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to review the coronavirus situation, Minister for Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang informed that there was some confusion about bills being raised by private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. "It was decided in the meeting that private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients can charge bills on the basis of rates fixed before February this year. They can charge maximum 40 per cent more than the pre-February rates. Say, they were charging Rs 100 in February, then they can charge Rs 140 now," he said. It was decided that patients can voluntarily pay bills, fully or partially, at designated hospitals which are treating free of cost at the moment. A target has been set that 3600 oxygen beds and 564 ICU beds would be added for coronavirus treatment till October 31, which will increases such beds to 11,710 and 2,488 respectively, he said. Sarang said upto 40 per cent of patients, especially those who are asymptomatic, have been kept in home isolation. The minister further said command control centres, with ambulance and doctor round the clock, were being set up in every district to monitor the health of those in home isolation. It was also decided that samples of COVID-19 tests will not be collected from homes now on, and people will have to visit fever clinics for such tests, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-sets-rates-for-hospitals-treating-covid-19-patients-883144.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Himachal Pradesh govt issues SOP for religious places set to open from Sept 10||Prasad offerings will not be allowed in religious places that are set to open for devotees in Himachal Pradesh on September 10, according to guidelines issued by the state government on Saturday. Religious places in the state were closed for general public on March 16 to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.   A day after the state cabinet decided to open places of worship in HP, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the same. As per the three-page SOP issued by a senior government official, no physical offerings like prasad, distribution or sprinkling of holy water will be allowed inside the religious place. The SOP said touching of statues, idols and holy books will also not be allowed. Preferably, separate entry and exit for devotees will be arranged while maintaining physical distance of minimum six feet at all times, it added.   The SOP further stated that specific markings may be made with sufficient distance to manage the queue and ensure physical distancing in the premises. The devotees will wear masks and wash their hands and feet with soap and water before entering the religious places, it added. Shoes and other footwear should be preferably taken off inside their own vehicles, it added. Frequent cleaning and disinfection should be maintained by the management of religious places, it said, while adding that the floors should particularly be cleaned multiple times in the premises. The SOP further stated that in case of a suspect or confirmed case in the premises, the ill person should be isolated in a separate room from others till examination by a competent doctor. The premises will be disinfected if the person is found positive for COVID-19, it added. Langars at religious places should follow physical distancing norms while preparing and distributing it, the SOP added. People who are above 65 years, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years are advised to stay at home, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-himachal-pradesh-govt-issues-sop-for-religious-places-set-to-open-from-sept-10-883149.html
05-09-2020||North and Central||We can give training to councillors of BJP-ruled MCDs on minimising corruption: AAP||Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak on Saturday said if the BJP wants, his party can give training to councillors of the saffron party-led municipal corporations on how to minimise corruption and improve developmental work in Delhi. Addressing a press conference, party's municipal corporation incharge Pathak said the AAP government doubled its budget in the last five years while the municipal corporations had a budget of about Rs 10,000 crore in 2015, which increased to Rs 11,340 crore in 2020. "If the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wants, the Aam Aadmi Party can give training to officials and councillors regarding how to work honestly and improve the developmental work. We want to help the BJP in making the municipal corporations self-reliant and if they want to learn from the AAP, we are ready to help and give training as and when it's needed," he said. Pathak welcomed South MCD mayor Anamika Mithilesh's comment that the municipal corporations will not need any help from the AAP government and she wants to make the Municipal Corporations of Delhi (MCD) self-reliant. "The Aam Aadmi Party welcomes this decision," he said. Pathak said that for the last several months, the employees of the municipal corporation have not received their salaries, because of which they are sitting on a dharna outside the civic center. He said that the AAP is "fully standing" with the employees of the corporation and in this context all the corporators of the Aam Aadmi Party will take out a silent 'padyatra' from Rajghat on Monday. "This padyatra will start from Rajghat to Civic Center and all our corporators will also stage a dharna along with employees who are protesting at the civic center," he added. Reacting to Pathak's comments, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the people of Delhi are watching his statements, which are nothing but "daily outbursts of the AAP's desperation for power at municipal corporations". "AAP leaders should know that at a combined meagre budget of 18,000 crore MCDs employ around 1 lakh staff providing Delhi basic sanitation, health and school services while their Delhi government, which boasts of 60,000 crores budget employs hardly 25,000 staff," he said in a statement. "I suggest Durgesh Pathak should stop worrying about the BJP-ruled MCDs and first educate (Chief Minister) Arvind Kejriwal and his Deputy Manish Sisodia to generate funds to make the Delhi government financially stable," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/we-can-give-training-to-councillors-of-bjp-ruled-mcds-on-minimising-corruption-aap-883151.html
05-09-2020||Opinion||Teachers’ Day: Understanding how teaching became a systemic casualty in India||At its most fundamental, teaching ought to be about a process of intellectual exchange, about transferring ideas from one mind to another.  The India of bygone times, which is promptly repurposed for political interests today, was not only the intellectual wellspring of the world, but comprised a comprehensive “ecosystem” of teaching and learning, as author Sahana Singh has argued. Ashramas, spread all over the country and attracting scholars from far and wide, were set up by gurus possessing specialised insight in different fields. For a student to be sufficiently enriched, travelling was imperative, as the process of education involved accumulating knowledge from various pockets of the country by not only mastering texts but also observing lived realities. What, then, happened to this sublime educational infrastructure of ancient India?  In short, it was brutally dismantled – by the violent debauchery of invading tribes, by the relative complacency of the Mughals in ignoring the intellectual legacy of India, and by the insidiousness of the British in creating an imperial setup of learning catering to colonial interests. Our unwillingness to transform the education system post independence in 1947 has resulted in the Indian classrooms of today, where students mostly learn from teachers what, rather than how, to think. Karthik Muralidharan, one of India’s leading policy experts on education, believes that any education system has three main purposes – equipping the students with skills, facilitating their cultural development and socialisation, and sorting – the filtration of students based on their exam performances, which, in the Indian context, relies disproportionately on rote-learning.  It is this third purpose that the Indian system has become obsessed with, setting off a rat-race where grades have emerged as the be-all and end-all.  The fact that such an obsession cripples students is now common knowledge, an article of hopeless inevitability, to be passed from generation to generation, in keeping with the consequent gulf between education and employability.  Students, however, are not the only stakeholders within a classroom.  What of the teachers, and the art of teaching? How have they become a systemic casualty in a country that once held them in the highest regard? The answer starts with poor pay (often leading to absenteeism) as the first hurdle to teaching in India. Let alone those who are hired on temporary contracts or on a gig-basis, even experienced teachers often rely on private tuitions and coaching centres outside formal institutions to make ends meet or earn a dignified salary. Teachers who make a fortune in some of the elite schools and universities represent a minuscule minority of the masses. Then there is the alarming teacher-student ratio, which makes it impossible for a single teacher to take into account the needs of every single student in the class. As a matter of course, the teacher ends up concentrating on those who appear to pay attention, while the system dismisses the rest as shirkers. Compounding the first two problems is the dearth of proper training schemes for teachers, which means that under-qualified staff are hired frequently, and sometimes, even among considerably qualified academicians, there is little understanding of how to connect with students without spoon-feeding them. But, above all, is the underlying dynamic of interaction that stifles the spirit of teaching in India by discouraging free thinking and open debate.  This dynamic is built around the conception of the teacher as the key constituent of a monologue, not a conversation.  Most classes, be it in primary school or universities, are built around the teacher lecturing for close to an hour, to be interjected only occasionally, summarising information that is already ensconced in hastily drawn reading lists belonging to inadequately engineered syllabi.  The impact is the creation of a power structure where the teacher assumes a position of almost uncontestable authority. Instead of being an enabler to the learning process, the teacher indoctrinates, unable to factor in the multiple requirements that a class full of varyingly competent students would naturally demand. Such a problem becomes even more complicated in institutions where students lack foundational literacy and numeracy (a massive issue in India), and are consistently playing catch up with a teacher who is obliged to complete the syllabi. As a result, creativity, critical thinking, and collaboration – the skills most vital for our current times- cannot flourish in Indian classrooms because teachers are dispossessed of the environment within which to unleash these attributes. By reducing teaching to a one-way-street policed by the need to optimise grades, Indian education leaves no room for the kind of back and forth debates and discussions that are necessary for constructing the personalities of students.  While it is true that India has produced several outstanding teachers, who have become role models and guiding lights for their students, it is also true that such exceptional men and women remain outliers, and it is only through addressing systemic issues that they can become the norm.  The key to unlocking learning in India is to make education – as in ancient India – a symbiotic process, one driven by intellectual exchange, and not the reductive mechanisation of skills that has run rampant for so long.  Once the focus of teaching is transformed, there should be a manifold increase in great teachers in India, who would finally come to excel because of the system, and not in spite of it. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture, and sport) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/teachers-day-understanding-how-teaching-became-a-systemic-casualty-in-india-882753.html
05-09-2020||South||Telangana's Covid-19 tally rises to 1.38 lakh with 2,500 new cases||Telangana posted 2,511 fresh coronavirus cases and 11 related deaths, taking the total infection count in the state to 1.38 lakh. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 305, followed by Rangareddy 184, Nalgonda 170 and Karimnagar 150 districts, a government bulletin said on Friday, providing data as of 8 pm on September 4. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,04,603 while 32,915 are under treatment. As many as 62,132 samples were tested on September 4. Cumulatively, 16.67 lakh samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 44,918, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.63 per cent, while it was 1.73 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 75.5 per cent, while it was 77.24 per cent in the country. The number of individuals in-home and institutional isolation was 25,729. As there is a high incidence of Covid-19 in the age group of 20 to 50 years, the government has requested the people not to step out, unless absolutely necessary. Public should strictly adhere to safety precautions like wearing face masks and maintaining social distance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telanganas-covid-19-tally-rises-to-138-lakh-with-2500-new-cases-882757.html
05-09-2020||South||Telangana Finance Minister T Rao tests Covid-19 positive||Telangana Finance Minister T Harish Rao on Saturday said he tested positive for Covid-19 and was 'fine.' In a tweet, the minister said, "On displaying initial symptoms of coronavirus, I got tested and the report came back positive. My health is fine. I request all those who have come in contact with me in the last few days, to please isolate yourself and get the Covid test done." Harish Rao is the nephew of Chief Minister K Chandrasekahar Rao. Earlier a couple of Telangana ministers who tested positive for the deadly virus have undergone treatment and were cured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-finance-minister-t-rao-tests-covid-19-positive-882821.html
05-09-2020||South||Puducherry records 408 new Covid-19 cases; tally at 16,566||Puducherry continued to witness an upward trend of Covid-19 infections as 408 fresh cases and 18 related deaths were added on Saturday, raising the overall tally to 16,566 in the union territory. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that 18 more people including five women succumbed to the viral infection during the last 24 hours ending 10 am on Saturday. He said 433 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals. Of the total 16,566 Covid-19 cases reported in the Union Territory there were 5,161 active cases, 11,107 patients were treated and discharged and the toll stood at 298. The Director said the fatality rate was 1.8 per cent while recovery rate was 67.05 per cent. The Department of Health has so far tested 81,695 samples and 63,545 out of them were found to be negative. Results of examination of remaining samples were awaited, the Director said. Of the total 408 new cases, which were identified after examination of 1,437 samples, the Puducherry region accounted for 343 followed by 32 in Yanam, 25 in Karaikal and 8 in Mahe region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-records-408-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-16566-882834.html
05-09-2020||South||Leopard creating panic in Karnataka trapped||A leopard that has been creating panic among the people for the last few days at Vijayanagara Kodi in Udupi district, fell into a trap laid by the forest department early on Saturday. The local people had complained to the forest department of the leopard which had ventured out of the forests and devoured livestock and pet animals in recent days. The department took prompt action and laid a cage with a dog as bait in the area where the animal got trapped. Forest department sources said the female leopard was around three-and-a-half years old. The animal will be let off inside the forests later, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/leopard-creating-panic-in-karnataka-trapped-882877.html
05-09-2020||South||Bypolls pose serious concerns to all parties in Kerala||The Election Commission's decision to conduct bypolls to two Assembly seats in Kerala has come as a shock to all major political parties in Kerala for political reasons. Bypolls to Chavara constituency in Kollam and Kuttanad in Alappuzha were overdue following the death of sitting MLAs Vijayan Pillai of the Left front and former minister Thomas Chandy of the NCP, which is also a coalition partner of the Left Front in Kerala, respectively. While the ruling CPM-led Left front is worried about the unfavourable political climate prevailing in the state owing to a series of allegations like the nexus with gold smuggling accused and Sandalwood drug racket, the Congress-led United Democratic Front is concerned as the power tussle within the Kerala Congress (M) might have its repercussions in the bypolls. The Kerala Congress candidates had been contesting for the Kuttanad seat for the last several elections. For the BJP also, the Kuttanad seat could be a cause of concern owing to tussles within the coalition partner Bharatiya Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) led by SNDP leader Vellappally Natesan's son Thushar Vellappally. Though all political parties generally feel that the bypolls are unwanted at this time as the term of the current government is ending by May 2021 and the new MLAs would have hardly a five-month term, no parties would openly demand a review of the decision as it would be misinterpreted by the opposite camps as fear of facing the polls. However, political party representatives may share their views at a meeting with the Election Commission. While CPM State Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said that the Left front was prepared to face people's mandate anytime and was confident of winning both the seats by highlighting the government's achievements, UDF convenor Benny Behennan reacted that the bypolls would be an evaluation of the Pinarayi Vijayan government's performance. Though bypolls often favour ruling parties and both Kuttanad and Chavara seats are Left front's sitting seats, CPM is concerned over the prevailing political climate in Kerala. The nexus of gold smuggling case accused with Kerala Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar, Bineesh Kodiyeri's connections with Sandalwood drug-peddling accused, the alleged nexus of the UAE consulate former officials, accused of gold smuggling, with Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel, widespread protests against the government over backdoor appointments, and several other corruption allegations against the government have cast a shadow over the prospects of the Left front. For the Congress-led UDF, though the political climate was generally favourable, power tussle in Kerala Congress (M) would be a major concern when it comes to the Kuttanad seat. Over the last many elections, a member of the P J Joseph group in Kerala Congress (M) used to be the UDF candidate at Kuttanad. But this time, the rival faction led by Rajya Sabha MP Jose K Mani might also stake claim owing to the infight in the party. While Congress leaders are now trying to settle the tussle on a war-footing basis, the Left front has already sent indirect welcome messages to the Jose K Mani camp. For the BJP also, the Kuttanad seat may see a tussle over candidate selection. The seat was allotted to coalition partner BDJS. But Subash Vasu, who earlier contested from Kuttanad, is now on an open revolt against the BDJS leadership. Simmering infights in BJP state leadership following selection of K Surendran as state president may also come to the fore during the bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bypolls-pose-serious-concerns-to-all-parties-in-kerala-882956.html
05-09-2020||South||Funeral of Kerala custodial death victim held after 40 days of protest by family||The funeral of a Kerala farmer, who died under suspicious circumstances while in custody of forest officials, was held on Saturday, following 40 days of protest by his family. P P Mathai, 40, of Kudappanna near Chittar, about 30 kilometres from Pathanamthitta town, was found dead in a well on July 28 night, hours after he was taken into custody by a team of forest officials on charges of damaging surveillance cameras in the forest. While the forest officials claimed that Mathai jumped into the well after escaping from custody, the family raised suspicions of custodial killing and sought a detailed investigation. The family members, led by Mathai's wife Sheeba, decided not to hold the funeral until they got justice. Despite pressure from government though various sources, including the church leadership, the family was stern on their plea and approached the Kerala High Court seeking a CBI probe. Even as the court ordered CBI probe on August 21, the family maintained that they won't hold the funeral until a re-postmortem of the body was conducted. The postmortem initiated by the CBI on Friday with a panel of doctors was reported to have noticed a few additional injury marks on Mathai's body, while the initial postmortem report suggested that Mathai died due to drowning and there were no other unnatural injuries on the body. Subsequently, the family on Saturday held the funeral with high hopes of getting justice. The body was so far kept at a hospital mortuary. Mathai was running a farm and was the sole bread winner of the family comprising wife, two daughters, aged mother and two sisters. He was taken into custody without following the mandatory procedures. Two forest officials were earlier placed under suspension. There were also allegations that forest officials tried to manipulate records after Mathai's death became controversial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/funeral-of-kerala-custodial-death-victim-held-after-40-days-of-protest-by-family-882960.html
05-09-2020||South||Kerala Opposition steps up pressure for probe against CPM leader's son in connection with drugs racket||With fresh allegations coming up against CPM Kerala secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with drug peddling rackets and Kerala gold smuggling racket, Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front is mounting pressure on the government to order a probe against Bineesh. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday sent a letter to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan demanding a comprehensive probe in the wake of alleged links of those held in Bengaluru for drug peddling with Bineesh and some other known persons in Malayalam film industry. The drug peddling rackets was suspected to have established deep rooted connections in Kerala with nexus with top political leaderships, said Chennithala. There were reports that the drug peddling accused was in touch with a popular Malayalam filmmaker also. The drug peddling racket members also allegedly had a night party at a resort in Kerala during the lockdown. Meanwhile, Muslim Youth League state general secretary P K Firoz said that alleged that Bineesh started a foreign exchange firm in Bengaluru in 2015 and it was also suspected that the firm was started to handle foreign currency earned through drug peddling to tourists. A firm in Thiruvananthapuram from which Kerala gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh was said to have received commissions is suspected to be run by an associate of Bineesh and he could be acting as a benami of Bineesh. Central agencies including the Enforcement Directorate should probe into these aspects also, he demanded. BJP Kerala president K Suredran also demanded that a separate case should be registered in Kerala and a probe initiated as the links of drug peddling rackets in the state came to light. Apart from Bineesh Kodiyeri, many in the Malayalam film industry were found to have links with the drug peddling racket busted in Bengaluru. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's hesitation to order probe raises suspicion whether he had something to hide, said Surendran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposition-steps-up-pressure-for-probe-against-cpm-leaders-son-in-connection-with-drugs-racket-882997.html
05-09-2020||South||Sasikala's lawyer hopes for her early release, AIADMK says no change in stand of keeping her at bay||Late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa's aide V K Sasikala, who is serving a four-year prison term in a Bengaluru prison, is expected to be released soon, her lawyer hoped while the AIADMK asserted that there is no change in its stand of keeping her out of the party. N Raja Senthoor Pandian, lawyer of the jailed confidante of the late AIADMK supremo, said that as per the Karnataka Prison Manual, she is eligible for ordinary remission available to all prisoners and this has not been denied to anyone so far. As per norms, three days of remission for good conduct is available for every month in jail and so far, she has completed 43months, making her eligible for a reduction of 129 days in prison, he told PTI. "The Karnataka Prison Manual does not have any provision barring remission to those convicted for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. As per the manual, I strongly believe that she will be released by the month-end," he said answering a question. When the remission of 129 days is applied, the release will be during the month-end and not the previously expected date of January 2021, he said. Efforts are afoot to pay the fine of Rs 10 crore as per the court order, he said. Sasikala has already spent a total of 35 days in jail in 1997 and 2014 and availed a 17-day-parole in 2017, which is deducted from the period she already served, he said. Asked for his reaction to expectations that Sasikala may be released soon, AIADMK senior leader and Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar told reporters that whether she walked out of jail or not will be based on law and regulations and the outcome was immaterial for the party. As far as AIADMK was concerned, there is no change in its stand, which is that Sasikala, her supporters and in particular her family members, cannot get back to the party, he asserted. After the Supreme Court restored the trial court judgement in toto against Sasikala and two of her close relatives in the disproportionate assets case, (V N Sudhakaran and J Elavarasi), she surrendered before the court in Karnataka on February 15, 2017, and has been lodged in Parappana Agrahara Central Jail. Her two relatives are also undergoing four years simple imprisonment and all three of them were slapped with a fine of Rs 10 crore each. With the death of Jayalalithaa in 2016, who was the first accused in the case, the appeal by Karnataka against her stood abated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikalas-lawyer-hopes-for-her-early-release-aiadmk-says-no-change-in-stand-of-keeping-her-at-bay-883022.html
05-09-2020||South||Telangana Finance Minister Harish Rao tests positive for Covid-19||Telangana Finance Minister and Chief Minister Chandrashekar Rao's nephew Harish Rao has tested positive for Covid-19, two days ahead of the state's assembly session. Harish Rao, a prominent leader in Telangana, confirmed the news on Saturday. “On getting initial symptoms of Coronavirus, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, I request that all those who have come in contact with me in the last few days, please isolate yourself and get Covid test done,” Harish tweeted. On Thursday, Harish participated in a meeting held by CM Rao in the Pragathi Bhavan (CM's office cum official residence) to discuss the government strategy to be adopted in the legislative session beginning on 7 September. According to the CMO officials, ministers KT Rama Rao, Vemula Prashanth Reddy, Etela Rajender, Jagdeesh Reddy, Niranjan Reddy, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Sabita Indrareddy, legislative council chief whip Bodakunti Venkateswarlu, whips Prabhakar, Bhanu Prasad, Damodar Reddy, legislative assembly chief whip Dasyam Vinaya Bhaskar, whips Gampa Govardhan, Gongadi Sunitha, Balka Suman, Guvvala Balraju, Rega Kantha Rao, Arekapudi Gandhi, Rajya Sabha member Santosh Kumar, MLCs Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, Seri Subhash Reddy were also present in the meeting. Several ruling TRS legislators and at-least two ministers - home minister Md Ali and labour minister Malla Reddy had tested positive earlier. Telangana assembly gets 44 extra seats because of Covid-19 Strict Covid-19 measures are being put in place for the monsoon session of the Telangana assembly and council commencing on Monday. Testing and negative reports and face masks are made mandatory for entry into the premises, including for the legislators and press persons. All the MLAs, MLCs and ministers would be provided with Covid-19 kits. Legislative affairs minister Vemula said that all guidelines issued by Parliament are being implemented. “To ensure six feet distance between the members, we are arranging 44 additional seats in the assembly and eight in the council,” he said. Officials have begun Covid-19 testing at the assembly on Friday with speaker Srinivas Reddy and council chairman Sukhender Reddy, who tested negative. Regular sanitisation, availability of two ambulances, expert doctors are some of the other precautions taken. No visitors would be allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-finance-minister-harish-rao-tests-positive-for-covid-19-883026.html
05-09-2020||South||Door-to-door testing of Covid-19 samples launched in Pondicherry||The Puducherry government on Saturday launched door-to-door testing of Covid-19 samples in a bid to check the spike in fresh infections in the Union Territory. "Puducherry is witnessing an increase in number of cases of coronavirus infection. We will zero in more positive cases through door to door testing of samples. Such a system of testing would help identify the actual number of pandemic stricken patients, particularly in areas which were reporting the highest number of positive cases," Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. The Union Territory on Saturday reported 408 fresh cases and 18 deaths, taking the tally to 16,566 and the toll to 298. The minister, addressing a virtual meet after inaugurating such tests in neighbouring Kurunji Nagar and Lawspet blocks, said about 1,500 samples were being tested on an average daily and this number would double with the door to door tests being carried out. He said he had personally seen the relatively better outcome of such visits, where around 45 people from 25 homes had responded positively to the exercise after being told about why they were being done in this manner Rao said if camps were held at sub-centres and also in COVID hospitals, only those in the vicinity of the facilities would turn up while others would stay away. The minister said such door to door visits would be done in all the outlying regions of Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/door-to-door-testing-of-covid-19-samples-launched-in-pondicherry-883079.html
05-09-2020||South||Roads named after Olympian Anju Bobby George, volleyball player Bharathan Nair in Kerala||Olympian Anju Bobby George and legendary volleyball player P Bharathan Nair have been honoured by their hometown in Kerala by having roads named after them, officials said here on Saturday. The Changanassery Municipal Council on Friday passed a resolution to name the roads after the sports greats from their town in Kottayam district, they said. Sajan Francis, Changanassery Municipal Chairman, said it is the duty of the municipality to recognise the achievements of two legendary sports personalities who were born and brought up in Changanassery. "Their contributions should have been recognised much earlier. Better late than never," he said. Talking to PTI, Anju Bobby George said she was grateful to the people of her hometown and leaders of Changanassery Municipal Council for acknowledging her achievements in the world of sports. "It was really an unexpected honour. This is something special because my hometown has acknowledged my achievements," said George, who won a historic bronze medal in the 2003 World Athletics Championship in Paris. Bharathan Nair, a native of Puzhavathu in Changanassery, led the Indian volleyball team at the 1963 Pre- Olympic qualifiers held in New Delhi. He was a member of the Indian team that won the 1958 Asian Games bronze medal. Nair also played in the Indian team that participated in the World Volleyball Championship in Paris in 1956. Bharathan Nair died in 2007 at the age of 81.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/roads-named-after-olympian-anju-bobby-george-volleyball-player-bharathan-nair-in-kerala-883094.html
05-09-2020||South||Kerala sees biggest daily spike of 2,655 Covid-19 cases||Kerala on Saturday reported 2,655 new Covid-19 cases, the highest ever reported in a single day, taking the infection count in the state to 84,758, while the death toll has mounted to 337 with the addition of 11 more fatalities. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said currently, 21,800 people are under treatment in the state for Covid-19, and 62,559 people have so far been cured of the disease. "There are currently 1,98,120 people under observation in various districts of the state and 17,222 are in isolation wards of various hospitals across the state," he said. Out of the fresh cases,2,433 are locally transmitted cases and the contact source in 220 cases was unknown. "At least 38 of them are returnees from foreign countries and 114 from other states," he told reporters. Vijayan said 61 healthcare workers were also among those infected. "At the same time, 2,111 patients under treatment for the disease have recovered today," Vijayan said. Thiruvananthapuram has the highest number of infections on Saturday with 590 cases, followed by 276 from Kasaragod district and 249 in Malappuram district. There are 244 cases from Kozhikode, 222 from Kannur, 186 in Ernakulam, 170 in Kollam, 169 from Thrissur, 148 in Pathanamthitta, 131 from Alappuzha, 119 from Kottayam, 100 in Palakkad, 31 from Idukki district and 20 from Wayanad district. At least 40,162 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, Vijayan said. He said 14 new places were declared as hotspots today while 22 places were exempted. At present, there are 551 hotspots in Kerala. Thiruvananthapuram, the capital district, has 5,044 active Covid-19 cases, followed by Ernakulam with 2,392. Kozhikode has 1,905 cases,Malappuram 1,728, Kasaragod 1,620 and Kollam 1,599.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sees-biggest-daily-spike-of-2655-covid-19-cases-883099.html
05-09-2020||South||Kerala performing well on all Covid-19 parameters, says CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan Saturday said the state was performing well on all Covid-19 parameters as decided by the WHO and ICMR despite the rising number of new active cases. Vijayan said as compared to most of the other States, Kerala has performed well due to proactive Covid-19 mitigation measures taken by the state government. "Even though the numbers of new cases are increasing, we could contain the spread of the pandemic. The level of caution and action taken here as part of the defence activities can be seen in comparison to the situation in other states. Whatever the indicators, we are dealing with this pandemic in a relatively better way," Vijayan said. The chief minister said Kerala has 2,168 cases per million as against the national average of 2,731. The number of cases per million gives an idea about how many people per million people were infected. "Andhra Pradesh has 8,479 cases per million and it is more than 5,000 in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. We must also remember that we are far ahead of these states in terms of population density," he said. He also said that Kerala has a strict discharge policy where the patient is discharged only after the antigen test is negative while in most other States, they are discharged after 10 days, if there are no symptoms. Vijayan also said Kerala has one of the lowest mortality rate of 8.4 deaths per million as compared to the national average of 48 and pointed out the numbers of neighbouring states of Tamil Nadu where it is almost 11 times higher than Kerala while in Karnataka, the death toll is about 12 times higher. "The case fatality rate is the number of deaths per 100 infected persons.In Kerala, it is 0.4 while it is 1.7 in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, and 0.9 in Andhra Pradesh," Vijayan told reporters. The Chief Minister said Kerala is the most populous state in India in terms of the number of elderly and those suffering from diseases like cancer and diabetes. "Yet maintaining the lowest death toll is a testament to the excellence of our work across the country.Kerala is far ahead in terms of tests as well. It follows the methods defined by agencies like the World Health Organization and the ICMR. Accordingly, if we use the scientific indicator Tests per Million by Case per Million, we can see that we are conducting tests in a better way," Vijayan said. The Chief Minister added that even though these parameters are low, the state government will analyze the figures and take all possible steps to reduce the spread of the disease in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-performing-well-on-all-covid-19-parameters-says-cm-883132.html
05-09-2020||State||KCCI opposes shifting of Pr CIT office from Mangaluru to Panaji||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has opposed the merger of the office of Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Pr CIT) (Administration) in Mangaluru. They demanded that the office of the Pr CIT should be retained in Mangaluru and not be shifted to the proposed office in Panaji. The present office of Pr CIT, Mangaluru plays a major role in providing and connecting the taxpayers with the federal tax system of the government. The KCCI said that grievance resolution would be much faster and accessible for such taxpayers if the office was retained in Mangaluru. The taxpayers from remote areas in Dakshina Kannada would find it difficult to take their matters of grievance to the proposed Panaji office in Goa, said KCCI President Isaac Vas, in a memorandum submitted to Pramod Chandra Mody, Chairman, Central Board of Taxes. Geographically, the distance between Mangaluru, Karnataka and Panaji, Goa is around 376 km. The transportation available to travel to Panaji from Mangaluru is either by train or road. Vas added that the travel by train takes a long time and there were no direct trains from Mangaluru to Panaji. The Assessees and authorised representatives would have to get down at Madgaon, Goa, and then travel 36 km either by a bus or a private taxi to reach the destination, he said. The office of Pr CIT, Mangaluru has been an added advantage to the taxpayers in the district who could easily negotiate tax compliance work. The shifting of the office would cause the greatest disadvantage to them and it will lead to heavy inconvenience to the tax professionals at large. The absence of a Pr CIT office would be a huge setback for the development of the city of Mangaluru, said the KCCI president. The Mangaluru Pr CIT office covering DK, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts has been the second-highest tax collection office after Bengaluru in Karnataka.   Flaying the move of the government to shift the office to Goa, MLA U T Khader urged the MPs from the coastal belt to take a delegation to the Finance Minister and stall the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kcci-opposes-shifting-of-pr-cit-office-from-mangaluru-to-panaji-882902.html
05-09-2020||State||Delay in CLAT reason for NLSIU entrance test: Univ tells Karnataka HC||The National Law School of India University (NLSIU) has filed an affidavit before the Karnataka High Court explaining the reasons for the decision to conduct its own entrance test this year. The affidavit has been filed after a division bench reserved its order in a batch of petitions filed challenging the 25% domicile reservation in NLSIU. The affidavit stated that if NLSIU was unable to complete admissions before the end of September 2020, it will result in ‘zero year’ with no admission. “Apart from extremely prejudicial to aspirants desirous of joining NLSIU in the academic year 2020-2021, any change in the academic calendar will also significantly impact the academic programme of second, third, fourth and fifth year students of BA LL.B, as also LL.M students, since the programme is fully integrated and requires a common academic calendar,” the affidavit stated. Pursuant to a decision taken by the executive council, NLSIU had decided to conduct a separate common entrance test at the earliest. The main reason for the decision was delay in conducting the Common Law Admission Test 2020 (CLAT) by the Consortium of National Law Universities, and repeated postponement of the examination due to Covid-19 pandemic. In the affidavit it is stated that NLSIU is placed at a unique disadvantage because of the postponement of the CLAT since it follows a trimester system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/delay-in-clat-reason-for-nlsiu-entrance-test-univ-tells-karnataka-hc-883064.html
05-09-2020||State||PU exam: KSRTC free bus service||Pre-University students appearing for supplementary exams can travel free in KSRTC buses (city, suburban, ordinary and Express buses) to reach their examination centres. Starting from September 7 to 19, students can avail the service by producing admission ticket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pu-exam-ksrtc-free-bus-service-883071.html
05-09-2020||State||Writer rues two extremes in interpreting history||Writer Amish Tripathi said there are two extremes in interpreting our history, which is unfortunate. He was speaking on his book ‘Suheldev: Silent Hero of History,’ as part of the Mysuru Literature Festival 2020 on the eighth and last day on Saturday. The festival, virtual due to Covid-19 crisis, was held on weekends from August 14 to September 5. Tripathi said, “One section is not even ready to speak frankly on the invasions and the sufferings at the hands of foreign invaders, while there is another section which blames the present-day people, fellow Indians, for the crimes committed by foreign invaders. While the former try to paint a rosy picture of the invaders, that they were great musicians, artists and writers who also patronised art and culture, the latter spew venom against our own fellow citizens. Thus, there is a need to tell the truth, plainly”. “According to the book 'Who were the Shudras?' by B R Ambedkar, castes were neither birth-based nor rigid, even 1,500 years ago. Castes becoming rigid became a weakness for India as it promoted divisions, resulting in defeats in the hands of foreign invaders,” Tripathi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/writer-rues-two-extremes-in-interpreting-history-883122.html
05-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Jobless teachers look elsewhere in Covid-19 world||For the past 15 years, Mohan worked as a physical education teacher at a reputed private school in Bengaluru Rural. The income was decent and enough to take care of his family. Now, the 42-year-old is painting buildings to survive. The culprit: the Covid-19 pandemic. With no admissions, scores of teachers in private schools have lost their jobs due to the coronavirus-induced lockdowns. Staring down the barrel, many are doing jobs they wouldn't have contemplated in their wildest dreams. From working as daily wage labourers in farmland to shepherds, teachers are taking up any job they can get to earn their livelihood. "The government considers only those working in government schools as teachers," said Mohan. "Despite several requests, the government did not extend any support to private school teachers. We are forced to take up these jobs to meet expenses. I need to take care of my two kids and wife."  Then there is Renukesh, a 48-year-old Kannada teacher who relocated to his village in Magadi taluk as his school hadn't paid him since March. "I had been working for 21 years at a private school in Bengaluru. As there was no salary, I had to come back to the village. Now I am working as a farm labourer," he said, adding that he also does daily wage work for others. Nijalingappa, a social science teacher at a private school in Bengaluru South, shifted to his village in Chitradurga and has now taken to sheep rearing. "The crisis was so much that I was unable to pay rent in Bengaluru. I had no option than to take up sheep rearing," he said. But Nijalingappa still hopes to return "when normalcy is restored".  The key, according to Murthy, a 29-year-old maths teacher, is to set aside the ego and do whatever it takes to survive. And he is doing just that.  "I have no ego," he said. "I agree that I am trained to be a teacher. But to overcome the present crisis, I am accepting whatever the jobs I am offered. Today I might work as a mason, tomorrow, I will be working on a farm. I just have to survive until schools resume and witness enough admissions."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-jobless-teachers-look-elsewhere-in-covid-19-world-882649.html
05-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Chasing drugs, Karnataka revisits forgotten report from 2012||Karnataka has decided to dust out an 8-year-old report on the drug menace in the state as part of the government’s crackdown on substance abuse and narcotics, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Saturday. Bommai was referring to a 2012 report prepared by the then-Deputy Speaker N Yogish Bhat. “I have asked the additional chief secretary (home) to examine the report, its suggestions and steps will be taken to implement them,” the minister said. Bhat’s report, which was tabled in the Assembly in December 2012, largely focussed on the drugs menace in educational institutions and how students were falling prey to substance abuse. The report also suggested a link between the drug mafia and people going missing. After the report was tabled, Karnataka went into polls and it was forgotten. “We have to make efforts in all directions scientifically and with the use of technology, because the drug problem is a national one,” said Bommai, who held a video conference with police officials on the drugs menace. “The operation currently underway in Bengaluru makes it clear that drugs are coming into our state from other states and overseas,” Bommai said. “We’re taking stock of the situation with police superintendents of all districts,” he said, adding that vigilance will be stepped up in Bengaluru through checkposts and surprise raids. Bommai also discussed with officials the wider drugs network. “How are drugs coming from overseas and how should that be regulated? What routes do they come from? We need to investigate drugs coming from Delhi and Mumbai. Drugs from overseas are being supplied through cargo, courier, post office and the dark web - we need to further infiltrate these networks,” he said. Asked about Tourism Minister CT Ravi’s statement on pressure being exerted on the police, Bommai clarified thus: “What (Ravi) said is right. Since influential people are involved, he said there will be attempts to scupper the investigation. But there’s no question of bowing down to any pressure. Police have been given full powers to take indiscriminate, impartial and lawful action.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chasing-drugs-karnataka-revisits-forgotten-report-from-2012-882910.html
05-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to soon conduct 1 lakh Covid-19 tests per day, says K Sudhakar||Karnataka will soon reach its goal of conducting one lakh Covid-19 tests per day as it has increased the number of labs and the tests done, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said here on Saturday. "From one testing lab for Covid-19 test, we have opened 108 labs in six months. From 300 tests per day, we have increased it to 75,000. This will soon reach the goal of one lakh tests per day," Sudhakar was quoted as saying in a release by his office. He said the state government has shown its commitment to contain the pandemic and has been successful. The Minister was speaking after inaugurating the MVJ Molecular Lab at MVJ Medical College & Research Hospital at nearby Hoskote Stating that Covid-19 can be prevented completely only with the use of a vaccine, he said the death rate in the state was about 1.65 per cent and the aim is to bring it down to less than one per cent. As of September 4 evening, cumulatively 3,79,486 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 6,170 deaths and 2,74,196 discharges. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,41,664 infections. A total of 31,97,110 samples have been tested so far, out of which 73,192 were tested on Friday alone, and among them 31,641 were rapid antigen tests. Stressing the need to improve the quality of the medical education system in Karnataka and also bring about change, Sudhakar said a study of the medical education system in developed nations must be carried out and measures that aid the system here has to be incorporated to make this possible. "A decision will be taken in this regard," he added. The Minister noted that molecular test labs should be opened in government medical colleges and asked the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences to look into it. He said medical universities must collaborate with international medical colleges to send medical students from the states clinical expos and added that this was necessary to provide exposure to newer findings in the field of medicine. "The state government had planned to launch an initiative this year, but it could not be carried out due to Covid pandemic. However, it will be planned next year," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-soon-conduct-1-lakh-covid-19-tests-per-day-says-k-sudhakar-882973.html
05-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka adds 9,746 new Covid-19 cases, 128 deaths pushes toll to 6,298||Karnataka on Saturday reported 9,746 new Covid-19 cases and 128 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 3,89,232 and death toll to 6,298, the Health department said. The day also saw a record 9,102 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 9,746 fresh cases reported today, 3,093 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of September 5 evening, cumulatively 3,89,232 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 6,298 deaths and 2,83,298 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 99,617 active cases, 98,848 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 769 are in ICU. As many as 34 out of total 128 deaths reported on Saturday were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Mysuru (12), Dakshina Kannada (9), Dharwad and Shivamogga (8), Davangere (7), Hassan (6), Ballari (5), Chikkamagaluru, Mandya and Udupi (4). Most of the dead were either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 3,093, followed by Mysuru (790), Belagavi (473), Davangere (395), Dakshina Kannada (377), Ballari (366), Hassan (347), Shivamogga (346), Mandya (246), and Koppal (243). Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,44,757 infections, followed by Ballari (23,404) and Mysuru (21,394). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops with 1,01,152, followed by Ballari (18,217) and Mysuru (14,064). A total of 32,73,871 samples were tested so far, out of which 76,761 were tested on Saturday alone. Among the samples tested today, 35,530 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-adds-9746-new-covid-19-cases-128-deaths-pushes-toll-to-6298-883043.html
05-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY asks American Kannadigas to help develop schools, colleges||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday appealed with North America-based Kannadigas to contribute towards development of educational institutions in Karnataka. Yediyurappa was speaking at the launch of the World Kannada Conference organized by the Association of Kannada Kootas of America (AKKA), a body that represents Kannadigas in the United States of America and Canada. “I request you to lend a helping hand in the development of schools and colleges located in your native place or the ones you studied in,” Yediyurappa said in his virtual address, while expressing gratitude to non-resident Kannadigas for their financial help during the Covid-19 pandemic and the floods. “Generosity is the other name for Kannadigas,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, Kannada & Culture Minister CT Ravi, Puttige Mutt seer Sugunendra Tirtha, Suttur Mutt seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami and Adichunchanagiri Mutt seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-asks-american-kannadigas-to-help-develop-schools-colleges-883109.html
05-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka reports over 9,000 new cases in 24 hours yet again||Karnataka reported more than 9,000 cases yet again on Saturday, with day's tally of 9,746.  However, on the bright side, with 9,102 discharges, the total number of recoveries are now more than 2.83 lakh. The death toll reached 6,317 with 128 fatalities reported on Saturday. The total number of positive cases in the state is now more than 3.89 lakh. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 3,093 cases taking its total positives to more than 1.44 lakh. With 3,226 patients discharged on Saturday, the number of recoveries in the state capital reached more than 1.01 lakh. The districts with the next highest number of cases after the capital include Mysuru (790), Belagavi (473), Davangere (395), and Dakshina Kannada (377). Out of 76,761 total tests done on Saturday, 35,530 were antigen tests and 41,231 were RTPCR tests. Labour and Sugar Minister Shivaram Hebbar and his wife Vanajakshi on Saturday tested positive for novel coronavirus, reports DHNS from Yellapur in Uttara Kannada district. “My wife and I underwent tests at Yellapur taluk hospital. The reports have returned positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Since we both are asymptomatic, doctors have advised us to undergo home quarantine for a week,” the minister told DH. He advised those who’d come in contact with him in the last two days to get tested and take required precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-reports-over-9000-new-cases-in-24-hours-yet-again-883121.html
05-09-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||2 marijuana peddlers arrested in Athani||Two persons from Sangli in Maharashtra allegedly carrying marijuana for sale were nabbed by police at Hanmapur village in Athani taluk on Saturday and contraband weighing about 2 kilogram was recovered from their possession.  Police said that Sagar Bharma Kattikar (27) and Guruling Holeppa Dhole (42), both residents of Jirgal village in Jat taluk in Sangli district in Maharashtra, had been carrying marijuana weighing about 1,990 gram on a motorcycle.  Police team suspected their movement and stopped them for checking. During the checkup, it was found that they had been carrying the contraband in bag. Investigations have been launched to identified the recipients and others involved in the peddling. Athani police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/2-marijuana-peddlers-arrested-in-athani-882906.html
05-09-2020||West||Earthquake of magnitude 4.0 hits 98 kms west of Nashik||An earthquake of magnitude 4.0 occurred 98 km west of Nashik, Maharashtra at 11:41 pm on Friday, according to the National Centre for Seismology.    More details awaited||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/earthquake-of-magnitude-40-hits-98-kms-west-of-nashik-882659.html
05-09-2020||West||Mumbai: Mob kills youth with sword, steal Rs 3 lakh from home||A 21-year-old man was attacked with a sword and killed in Chembur on Friday afternoon by a mob which also stole valuables worth over Rs 3 lakh, police said. An official said the incident happened in Postal Colony at around 2pm and identified the deceased as Utkarsh Vinaya Dhumal. "Dhumal was rushed to hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The mob also hit other people in Dhumal's home. Efforts are on to nab them," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mob-kills-youth-with-sword-steal-rs-3-lakh-from-home-882678.html
05-09-2020||West||Kshitij Thakur launches ‘School at Home’ campaign for underprivileged areas in Palghar district||Coinciding with Teacher's Day, Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) MLA Kshitij Thakur launched a campaign to take education at the doorstep of the underprivileged areas of Palghar district located off Mumbai. The campaign, ‘School at Home’, is teaming up with professors and having them record the syllabus from Class I to Class X in English and Marathi languages. The syllabus will currently televise only SSC board curriculum and follow up with other boards in the future. The videos of these classes will be released through the local cable networks directly on the television sets with the help of social organisations Digital Vasai and Team Vasai First.Thakur, who is an MLA from Nallasopara, said that the move will help thousands of students in Vasai-Virar township and interiors of Palghar district. “The campaign is dedicated to the teachers who have been true warriors in these troubling times. We do not want to restrict the campaign to only Palghar district. Any district of the state wanting to replicate this in an underprivileged area has our full support and cooperation,” he said. The campaign is in association with Vishnu Vaman Thakur Charitable Trust. The syllabus will be aired on two local cable channels viz. Cygnet Marathi (Channel no. 53) and Cygnet Tollywood (Channel no. 56) for Marathi and Semi-English, and English mediums respectively. The Marathi medium syllabus will be televised between 9 am and 12:30 pm and repeated between 4 pm and 6:30 pm. The English medium syllabus will be televised from 9 am to 10 am and repeated from 4 pm to 5 pm. “Online education is the only alternative remaining for Maharashtra, and for the entire country, to exercise during the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic outbreak. However, around 27 per cent students of the state still don’t have access to the internet or even own a smartphone,” said Chinmay Gavhankar of Team Vasai First.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kshitij-thakur-launches-school-at-home-campaign-for-underprivileged-areas-in-palghar-district-882721.html
05-09-2020||West||Bipin Kumar Singh takes charge as Navi Mumbai top cop||Senior IPS officer Bipin Kumar Singh has taken charge as the new police commissioner of Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra. Singh succeeded Sanjay Kumar, who has been appointed as the new Additional Director General of Police (Training and Special Squads). Talking to reporters on Friday, a day after taking charge, Singh said maintaining law and order was his priority. "There are several issues that need to be addressed and maintaining law and order is the priority. But the entire force and citizens are currently fighting the coronavirus pandemic," he said. Meanwhile, Sadanand Date, the first police commissioner of the newly-created Mira Bhayandar Vasai Virar (MBVV) commissionerate, visited Bhayandar and Vasai in the last two days to take stock of the situation in the region. A couple of days back, the state government had announced formation of the new commissionerate. With this, Thane district now has three police commissionerates- two others being Thane and Navi Mumbai. The MBVV commissionerate will cover 20 police stations, of which six are proposed to be set up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bipin-kumar-singh-takes-charge-as-navi-mumbai-top-cop-882810.html
05-09-2020||West||Narcotics seized, two held in Navi Mumbai||Police have arrested two persons from CBD Belapur in Navi Mumbai and seized from them narcotic substance 'methaqualone', an official said on Saturday. The duo, identified as Sarfaraz Rustom Shaikh (36) and Khalid Mohammad Ali Khan (47), both residents of Mumbai, were arrested on Thursday night, he said. "Acting on a tip-off, a police team kept vigil at a specified spot in CBD Belapur and nabbed the duo when they arrived on a two-wheeler," senior inspector Ravindra Budwant said. "During their search, they were found carrying 35 gms of methaqualone worth Rs 85,500," he said. A local court remanded them in police custody till September 7, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/narcotics-seized-two-held-in-navi-mumbai-882855.html
05-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Two 'drug peddlers' arrested by NCB seek bail||Two suspected drug peddlers arrested in connection with the drugs probe linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, on Saturday filed a bail application in a Mumbai court. The duo- Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar- arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), are currently in its custody. Challenging their NCB remand, their lawyer Tarrak Sayyed applied for bail. The NCB had earlier told the court that the two accused in their statements have named several persons and their custody was essential to unearth the main player in the drug syndicate. Rajput's girlfriend and actress Rhea Chakraborty is the main accused in the death case of the 34-year-old actor that is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the NCB and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The NCB has also arrested Rhea's brother Showik and Rajput's house manager Samuel Miranda. The agency is in the process of presenting them in a court here. Showik's role and his purported links with the other arrested accused are under the NCB scanner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-two-drug-peddlers-arrested-by-ncb-seek-bail-882860.html
05-09-2020||West||Amid release of water from Jayakwadi dam, residents put on alert||As the discharge of water from Jayakwadi dam in Maharashtra's Marathwada region has begun, the district administrations of Aurangabad and Nanded have asked the people living along the banks of Godavari and Purna rivers to remain alert, an official said on Saturday. The water storage of Jayakwadi dam at Paithan in Aurangabad district has now reached 97.25 per cent, he said. "The district administrations of Aurangabad and Nanded issued an alert to the people living along the Godavari and Purna rivers after water discharge from Jayakwadi dam began," the official said. The villagers have been advised not to enter the river, an official of Nanded district administration said in a statement issued on Friday night. The inflow of water into Jayakwadi dam has reached 4,306 cusecs. The discharge of water from the dam's right canal is 500 cusecs, while that from the left one is 100 cusecs. According to another official, 1,589 cusecs water is being discharged into the Godavari river through the hydro-electricity project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-release-of-water-from-jayakwadi-dam-residents-put-on-alert-882871.html
05-09-2020||West||Sushant death case: Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik remanded to NCB custody till September 9||Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik was sent to the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday. Showik’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde pressed for bail, however, the court sent both of them to NCB custody till September 9. Showik and Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda, who were arrested Friday night by the NCB after a day of grilling, was produced before the Esplanade metropolitan court. They would be lodged in NCB’s regional office at Ballard Estate in Mumbai.   In a related development, the CBI revisited the duplex flat at the Mount Blanc building at Carter Road in Bandra, where Sushant was found dead on June 14. Sushant’s sister Meetu Singh was also taken to the house where her version of sequence of events was recorded. Sushant’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani, house help Dipesh Sawant, cook-help Neeraj Singh too were taken there. Later, Meetu Singh appeared at the DRDO & Air Force office/transit facility at Kalina, where her statement would be recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-death-case-rhea-chakrabortys-brother-showik-remanded-to-ncb-custody-till-september-9-882874.html
05-09-2020||West||Due to Covid-19, district administration plans to increase beds in Latur||Considering the coronavirus spread in rural areas, the local administration in Maharashtra's Latur district plans to increase the number of oxygen-fitted beds at treatment facilities. Private hospitals in rural areas may also be roped in to cater to Covid-19 patients, district collector G Shreekant told PTI on Friday night. "Due to limited manpower and infrastructure, private hospitals are also being considered for Covid-19 treatment in Latur. We will arrange for oxygen supply at these facilities," the collector said. Currently, there are 2,000 beds including the ones in ICUs and the administration is planning to double them in light of the viral spread, he said. According to the official data, of 9,115 Covid-19 cases reported in Latur district so far, 5,912 alone have been detected in August. A total of 6,569 patients have been discharged from hospitals so far, while 305 have died of the infection till date, it was stated. As many as 2,241 patients are currently undergoing treatment, a district official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/due-to-covid-19-district-administration-plans-to-increase-beds-in-latur-882897.html
05-09-2020||West||Mumbai police cooperating with CBI in Sushant Singh Rajput case: Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday said the Mumbai police is extending full cooperation to the CBI in its probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team has been camping in Mumbai since August 20 to probe the case, which was earlier being handled by the Mumbai police. "The Mumbai police is giving full cooperation and support to the CBI in its inquiry and the investigation underway in Mumbai," Deshmukh said in response to a query. Patna-born Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14, following which the Mumbai police was looking into the matter. However, on August 19, the Supreme Court upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father at Patna against actor Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide, to the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-cooperating-with-cbi-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-882907.html
05-09-2020||West||Amruta Fadnavis defends Kangana Ranaut's remark equating Mumbai to PoK||Amid widespread condemnation of Kangana Ranaut for equating Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir and describing the city as “addicted to blood”, top Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’s wife Amruta came to her defence. Amruta, the wife of former chief minister and now leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, said that freedom of expression cannot be suppressed. “We may not agree with what someone has to say, but we must defend the right to express in democracy! Freedom of speech, freedom of belief, freedom of movement, freedom of press-cannot b suppressed! We can have counter arguments but beating posters of critics with chappals is a new low,” Amruta, a banker and an activist, tweeted. We may not agree with what someone has to say,but we must defend the right to express in democracy!Freedom of speech,freedom of belief,freedom of movement,freedom of press-cannot b suppressed! We can have counter arguments but beating posters of critics with chappals is a new low Meanwhile, a social activist Santosh Deshpande has filed a complaint against her for her comments against the Mumbai police, Maharashtra and film industry. “The tweets by the actress are in bad taste and served to inflame passions among the people… She has abused the freedom of speech and expression, and was misusing social media to spew venom at one and all,” Deshpande pointed out on the reasons behind his complaint. Top leaders from the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and  Congress, and opposition Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, slammed Kangana for her remarks while protests erupted in Mumbai and other cities against the actress. BJP too has distanced from the anti-Mumbai comments of Kangana. As a huge controversy snowballed – in which Kangana dragged the Palghar sadhu mob lynching incident, labelled Mumbai as “addicted to blood”, dared the Maratha Pride of Maharashtra, allegations of an ‘Islam-dominated’ Bollywood, besides comparing Mumbai as POK. Shiv Sena activists reacted with protests, burning her effigy and pictures in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik and other cities. On reports of BJP distancing away, Kangana tweeted: “BJP distanced itself from me ? Really ? When was BJP close to me in the first place? Am I a minister or a politician? I have never spoken to anyone ever in BJP, stop with these conspiracy theories.” “I am an artist at heart I have big plans for my future as a creative person I know after SSR case solved everyone will go back to their lives, but mafia will come for me may be not directly I see now political parties have joined them makes me wonder where does that leave me?,” she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amruta-fadnavis-defends-kangana-ranauts-remark-equating-mumbai-to-pok-882927.html
05-09-2020||West||No Question Hour: TMC says it's 'unjust' to compare 2-day Assembly session with Monsoon Session of Parliament||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday said it is "unjust and unfair" to compare the curtailment of Question Hour during the West Bengal Assembly's upcoming two-day short session with that of a full-fledged Parliament session. West Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee on Friday said there would be no Question Hour during the upcoming two-day monsoon session of the West Bengal Assembly beginning from September 9 due to "paucity of time and the Covid-19 situation". The BJP has termed it a "double standard" of the Trinamool Congress, which had earlier called the decision not to have the Question Hour during the upcoming Parliament session a "murder of democracy". "The criticism is unwarranted. It is not only unfair but unjust as well. There can be no comparison between a two-day (Assembly) session and a full-fledged Parliament session. And regarding the issue of taking questions, whether written questions will be accepted or not will be decided during an all-party meet on September 8," TMCchief whip in the Assembly Nirmal Ghosh said. Echoing Ghosh, TMC party leader in Rajya Sabha Derek O' Brien said it would be inappropriate to compare "apples with oranges". "Comparing an 18-day regular Parliament Monsoonsession with a two-day session of the state Assembly is like comparing apples with oranges. No parliament session of below five days has had a question hour. Only one exception was a special session during the 1962 China war. The Bengal session is just two days long," he said. Noting that allowing written questions deprives the MPs of asking supplementary questions, O'Brien said just like regular sessions the Parliament this time will also function for an equal amount of time in the absence of Private Member's bill. "During a normal session, the Parliament functions for 30 hours a week, of which 2.5 hours are marked for Private Member's bill. But this time the Parliament would function for 28 hours per week, but the slot of Private Member's bill has been cancelled. So the time for normal parliamentary business is same, then what is the need for curtailing question hour," he said. Both the opposition CPI(M) and the BJP have slammed the TMC government in West Bengal for curtailing the Question Hour and termed it a reflection of the "double standard of the TMC". "The TMC is demanding Question Hour during the upcoming Parliament session, scheduled to be held from September 14 to October 1, but it has decided not to include it in the Assembly proceedings in West Bengal. This is nothing but double standard of the party," BJP legislature party leader in West Bengal Assembly Manoj Tigga said. CPI(M) politburo member Mohammed Salim said the state's ruling dispensation should stop throwing crumbs at opposition parties. "Height of doublespeak! You don't allow #QuestionHour where ministers have to stand up and answer Qs from MLAs and be held accountable. Stop throwing crumbs. This is West Bengal legislative Assembly, not your Nabanna!" Salim tweeted. Nabanna is the West Bengal state secretariat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-question-hour-tmc-says-its-unjust-to-compare-2-day-assembly-session-with-monsoon-session-of-parliament-882928.html
05-09-2020||West||Gujarat will be first to implement National Education Policy 2020: CM Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday said his government aims to become the first to implement the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and will soon form a task force to create a road map for the same. Rupani was speaking at an event organised in Gandhinagar to felicitate 44 teachers on the occasion of the Teachers' Day. "The new NEP has been translated into Gujarati, and a task force is being formed to make a road map for Gujarat soon," the chief minister said. On the basis of this road map, the state will make drastic changes in education, right from primary to secondary and higher education, from KG to PG (kindergarten to post graduation), he said. "Gujarat should become the first state to implement the education policy. We should move ahead fast to become a role model for creation of India of the future," Rupani said to the gathering. Governor Acharya Devvrat as well as the cabinet and state ministers of education, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and Vibhavari Dave, and senior officials from the education department were present at the function. "In the age of industrialisation when people care only about themselves and their careers, it is teachers who, despite being paid low salaries, create a new generation and prepare people to take care of India of the future," he said. It is because of the strength of teachers and schools in the state that his government has "reversed the trend" whereby parents are shifting their children from private to government schools, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-will-be-first-to-implement-national-education-policy-2020-cm-vijay-rupani-882944.html
05-09-2020||West||No HC stay on Maharashtra final year undergraduate medical exams||The Bombay High Court on Saturday refused to stay examinations in physical mode of final year undergraduate medical students scheduled to begin in Maharashtra on September 8. A division bench of Justices A A Sayed and S P Tavade was hearing a petition filed by nine undergraduate medical students of various streams of the Maharashtra University of Health Science. The petition challenged the circular issued on August 21 by MUHC pertaining to holding of physical mode of examination for final year students. "In our view, the petitioners have approached the court at the eleventh hour. Hence, we are not inclined to grant any interim relief of staying the examination," the court said in its order. The bench also referred to the order passed by the Supreme Court on August 17 refusing to postpone the JEE-Main and NEET exams and noting that though there is a pandemic situation, life has to go on and the career of students cannot be put in peril for long. The court posted the petition for further hearing on September 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-hc-stay-on-maharashtra-final-year-undergraduate-medical-exams-882977.html
05-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB aiming to uproot Bollywood drug citadel; may involve 'big perons'||As it made the first arrests vis-à-vis the mysterious death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) was working towards uprooting the Bollywood drug citadel. Besides, the NCB, the premier agency, also hinted that the case has international ramifications and some big persons involved. The revelation came when Sushant’s live-in partner actor-model Rhea Chakrabory’s brother Showik and the actor’s house manager Samuel Miranda were sent to four days’ police custody. “The NCB is investigating the drug angle in the late Sushant Singh Rajput case and therefore it is highly substantive and needs to be investigated thoroughly so as to uproot drug citadel in Mumbai, especially in Bollywood,” special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande and NBC intelligence officer K Kiran Babu said in the remand application made before the Esplanade magistrate’s court. Meanwhile, NCB’s deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain said that the NCB is a premier agency and indicated that Rhea would be summoned. “We will be asking her (Rhea) to join the investigation, and maybe to some other people as well,” Jain said. “We will look into the inter-state and international connections in the drugs angle,” the senior officer said, indicating extensive investigations and raids in Mumbai. The magistrate’s court remanded Showik and Miranda till 9 September. On the other hand, Kaizen Ibrahim was sent to judicial remand for 14 days. Two alleged drug peddlers Abdel Basit Parihar and Zaid Vilatra too are in remand till 9 September. “We have four persons with us (Showik, Samuel, Abdel and Zaid)…we will question them and confront them,” NCB officials said. The accused has been booked under various provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. Making a case for Rhea’s custodial interrogation, the NCB has told the court that Showik has to be confronted with her sister and Sushant’s house help Dipesh Sawant. “The custodial interrogation (of Showik) is required to uncover various other linkages of the network who indulged in selling and purchasing narcotics drugs…. The financial trial of all their previous transactions of drug purchase have to be verified,” the remand note states. In what suggests a big possible crackdown, the NCB has told the court that “some characters” are to be verified who as per CDR analysis, WhatsApp chats and preliminary interrogation are deeply entrenched in the drug trafficking which is a serious threat to public safety and health. “As per CDR analysis few characters are absconding and yet to be uncovered,” the court was informed. The NCB said that Showik used to facilitate drug deliveries and payments through credit cards, cash payment gateways for the contraband. Showik’s name cropped up after the NCB’s Mumbai and New Delhi teams on 28 August nabbed Abbas Lakhani and Karn Arora from old Kurla and Chandivali, Powai, each with possession of 46 grams of marijuana/ganja and 13 grams, respectively. They disclosed the involvement of Zaid Vilatra whose home was raided to unearth Rs 9.50 lakh, USD-2,081, 180 British Pounds and UAE 15 Dirhams which they confessed were the proceeds of sale of drugs like marijuana/ganja/bud to many people in the city. Vilatra revealed the name of Abdel Basit Parihar. The NCB described Abdel as an ‘active member’ of a drug syndicate with high profile customer and narcotics suppliers - on his interrogation revealed the further modus operandi of the narco-business. He told the NCB that he purchased the drugs from Vilatra and Kaizan Ebrahim on instructions from Showik, facilitated drugs and was in touch with both Showik and Miranda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-aiming-to-uproot-bollywood-drug-citadel-may-involve-big-perons-882984.html
05-09-2020||West||Over 20,000 youths in Gujarat to get government jobs in five months||Over 20,000 youths in Gujarat will get state government jobs in the next five months, as Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday directed recruitment agencies to fill various posts at the earliest. According to an official release, the chief minister said results of recruitment process for certain posts, which have already been completed, should be declared in the next three to five months. "Over 20,000 youths of the state will get state government jobs in the next five months. The chief minister has taken this decision to give a wide range of opportunities to the youth of the state and provide high-quality tech-savvy manpower to the administration," the release stated. Rupani held a high-level meeting with officials of the Gujarat Public Service Commission, Subordinate Service Selection Board, Panchayat Service Selection Board, home department, general administration department and education department, it was stated. As per the release, recruitment agencies have been asked to immediately complete procedures to fill 8,000 vacancies, for which the first phase of preliminary examination has been completed, and issue appointment letters. Moreover, the recruitment process for 9,650 posts advertised in various departments of the state government should also begin as soon as the Covid-19 situation abates, the release quoted Rupani as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-20000-youths-in-gujarat-to-get-government-jobs-in-five-months-883008.html
05-09-2020||West||Gujarat court orders removal of PM Narendra Modi's name from suit filed by British nationals on 2002 riots||A local court in Sabarkantha district in north Gujarat on Saturday ordered the removal of name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from a civil suit seeking damages in the case of killing of four British nationals during the 2002 post-Godhra riots. The court noted that allegations were "general" and "vague" in nature and no concrete evidence existed to show any "direct or indirect involvement in the alleged act or any specific role from which reasonable ground for malice or intentional acts or omissions can be found, entitling the plaintiff to claim any legal right or relief against defendant No. 1 (Modi) in his personal or official capacity in the suit." Principal senior civil judge, Prantij Suresh Gadhavi pronounced the order on Saturday ordering to remove Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s name, who was the then Chief Minister along with former IPS officers including K Chakravarty and Amitabh Pathak and ex IAS officer Ashok Narayan. The order came on an application moved by advocate S S Shah on behalf of Modi praying to drop the name of the Prime Minister from the civil suit as defendant. He argued that Modi was "joined without any reason and not required to be continued for the alleged tortuous acts of other officers of the State. It is stated that presence of defendant No.1 in the suit is at all not necessary and legally sustainable..." In 2004, Sameema Dawood, a British national, and others had filed filed special civil suit in the local court against Modi, then minister of state for home Gordhan Zadaphia and 12 others, seeking Rs 20 crore as damage “on account of violence in the state wherein the relatives of the plaintiffs are alleged to have been killed…” In 2002, British nationals Saeed Dawood, Shakeel Dawood and Mohammed Aswat were killed by a mob on a National Highway-8 on February 28, 2002 while they were were returning to their village Lajpur, Navsari in south Gujarat after visiting Agra and Jaipur. Three of them were killed on the spot while the dead body of the fourth was never found and he was presumed dead. The incident happened a day after 57 kar sevaks were killed at Godhra railway station which sparked the widespread riots in the the state. In 2015, a special court acquitted all the six accused on the ground that there was not enough evidence. This was one of the nine riot cases probed by Supreme Court appointed-Special Investigation Team. Imran Dawood, relative of the victims, had filed the FIR at Prantij police station and later in 2004 filed a civil suit. During the hearing on application on dropping Modi from the case, Dawood filed an affidavit opposing the move. The order mentions his stand that that Modi was allegedly liable for the incident for being "Chief Minister of State of Gujarat and constitutionally, statutorily and personally liable for being in complete command of the State machinery." The order mentions his allegations as saying that "defendant No. 1 was elected on BJP ticket and Sangh Pracharak of RSS and continued the policy of RSS through defendant No. 8 state of Gujarat." The victims have alleged that "it was the acts and omissions of defendant No. 1, which had resulted into genocidal killings of Muslims." Imran also told the court that his lawyer Anwar Malek wouldn't represent him in the court as lawyer "due to targeted actions against the lawyer. He has also expressed impossibility of securing services of other lawyers." The court has not believed the arguments. Modi's lawyer argued that all aspects of allegations have been covered by Nanavati Commission, which probed the case, and "there is not at all any specific allegations against defendant No. 1 and therefore defendant No. 1 is required to be strike off from the suit proceedings."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-court-orders-removal-of-pm-narendra-modis-name-from-suit-filed-by-british-nationals-on-2002-riots-883039.html
05-09-2020||West||UP criminal camps as fruit-seller in Mumbai, nabbed||This comes right out of a spy thriller. Wanted in two back-to-back murders in Uttar Pradesh, a notorious criminal preferred to disguise himself, create a new identity and become a fruit-seller. But his luck seems to have run out. The accused, Aashu alias Parveen alias Akash Rajendra Singh, a 32-year-youth was finally nabbed by the elite Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai police on Saturday. Singh, who was involved in the murder of a BJP leader and an industrialist, was arrested from Jogeshwari suburbs of Mumbai. Singh is a member of the dreaded Mirchi gang of Western UP. He had allegedly killed a local BJP leader Rakesh Sharma at Dhaulana (Hapur district) in September, 2019. Singh and his accomplices had gunned down a prominent Noida industrialist Gaurav Chandel in January, 2020. Besides, he has another 17 serious cases of murder, kidnappings, extortion and other gangland crimes for which offences are registered against him in UP, Haryana and Delhi, deputy commissioner of police (detection) Akbar Pathan said. The accused managed to escape the clutches of the law for over a year and carried a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh on his head. “After he absconded since a year, the accused was moving around in different cities of states like Punjab, Haryana, even Delhi, and finally located in Mumbai where he worked as a fruit-seller,” Pathan said. Investigations revealed that over the past six months, he kept changing his identity and appearance. Singh has confessed to his crimes and has been handed over to the UP Police for further action, Pathan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/up-criminal-camps-as-fruit-seller-in-mumbai-nabbed-883060.html
05-09-2020||West||CBI visits Sushant Singh Rajput’s home with his sister Meetu||Fast-pacing the investigations after nearly a fortnight, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday revisited the Mumbai home of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput in a bit to seal the crime scene reconstruction process. What made the visit to the duplex flat at the Mount Blanc building at the Carter Road of Bandra more important was the fact that Sushant’s sister Meetu Singh accompanied the CBI team. Sushant’s flatmate and creative art designer Siddharth Pithani, house help Dipesh Sawant, cook Keshav Bachner and help and cook Neeraj Singh were also present. Later Meetu reached the DRDO & Air Force office/transit facility at Kalina, the camp office of the special investigation team (SIT) of the CBI. Meetu Singh was living with Sushant from June 8 to June 12 – after the actor’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty left. Sushant (34), who has acted in a dozen movies including the highly-successful ‘MS Dhoni: The Untold Story’, was found dead on 14 June. In the past, all of them have been grilled by the CBI – but this is for the first time Meetu met the CBI team. Sushant’s family friend Smita Parekh was also seen coming out of the CBI camp office – after recording of her statement. Some other suspects in the case too were grilled, however, there was no official confirmation from the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-visits-sushant-singh-rajput-s-home-with-his-sister-meetu-883061.html
05-09-2020||West||Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases breach 20,000-mark for the first time||The Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra continued to compound with the fresh positive cases breaching the 20,000-mark on Saturday, the highest recorded spike thus far. In the last 24 hours, 20,489 cases were reported taking the progressive total to 8,83,862. The total deaths now stand at 26,276 with 312 fresh deaths being reported. On Saturday, 10,801 patients discharged taking the total to 6,36,574 Covid-19 patients discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 72.01 per cent. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.97 per cent. Out of 45,56,707 laboratory samples, 8,83,862 have been tested positive (19.3%) for Covid-19 until date. Currently 14,81,909 people are in home quarantine and 37,196 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-breach-20000-mark-for-the-first-time-883081.html
05-09-2020||West||Fadnavis has no moral right to criticise Ajit Pawar: Khadse||Senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse on Saturday said his colleague and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had lost the "moral ground" to criticise NCP leader and incumbent deputy CM Ajit Pawar. He also claimed to be in possession of "evidence" that a social activist was made to level false allegations against him. The former minister further said Fadnavis had met Manish Bhangale, who had alleged that Khadse received phone calls from some gangsters. A source close to Fadnavis said the latter had ensured that Bhangale get arrested within 24 hours for raising false allegations against Khadse. He, however, refused to comment on Bhangale or the activist, saying she doesn't belong to the BJP. The source said Khadse had lost his post as a minister in 2016 because of the land grab allegations against him and not due to what was claimed by Bhangale. "I have enough evidence in my hand to prove how social activist Anjali Damania was fed to level allegations against me. I had shown some of the evidences to my party seniors as well," Khadse told reporters in Jalgaon. He said Fadnavis had unsuccessfully tried to form a government by joining hands with Ajit Pawar after the 2019 assembly polls and they even took oath of Constitutional posts. "(Against this backdrop) We have lost the moral ground. Hence Devendraji cannot criticise Ajit Pawar now," Khadse said. Speaking about Bhangale, who was later jailed for levelling false allegations, Khadse said, "I even asked Fadnavis why did he met Bhangale? He (Fadnavis) told me that he had met him for some time because Bhangale had sought an appointment".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-has-no-moral-right-to-criticise-ajit-pawar-khadse-883084.html
05-09-2020||West||Criminal wanted for killing UP BJP leader held in Mumbai||A 32-year-old criminal carrying a reward on his head was nabbed from suburban Mumbai on Saturday in connection with sensational killings of a businessman in Noida and BJP leader Rakesh Sharma in Hapur district of Uttar Pradesh, police said. The accused, Pravin alias Ashu alias Akash Rajendra Singh, heads the infamous Mirchi gang, a crime branch official said. The Uttar Pradesh police had announced a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh on Singh and his gang members, he said. Singh was staying in Mumbai since the last few months by changing his identity and looks. He used to sell fruits at a market in Prem Nagar area of Vile Parle. In September 2019, BJP leader Rakesh Sharma (35) was allegedly shot dead by Singh and his associates in Hapur, the official said. A case of murder has been registered at Dhaulana police station in Hapur, he said. The accused Singh and his henchmen have also been wanted for shooting businessman Gaurav Chandel dead in Noida in January this year and fleeing with his car, the official said. The accused Singh is allegedly involved in more than 19 serious offences, including murders, attempt to murder, thefts, robbery etc, he said, adding that Singh had stayed in various states like Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Maharashtra by changing his identity. "Assistant Police Inspector Sharad Zine, unit- 11, crime branch had received inputs that the accused has been staying at Aluwadi, following which the crime branch laid a trap in the area and apprehended him," senior police inspector Sunil Mane. The accused has been handed over to a team of Uttar Pradesh police which has reached Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/criminal-wanted-for-killing-up-bjp-leader-held-in-mumbai-883095.html
05-09-2020||West||Four mild quakes hit Palghar district in Maharashtra; no casualties||Four low-intensity earthquakes were experienced in Palghar district of Maharashtra, an official said on Saturday. The tremors were recorded from Friday night till early hours of Saturday, he said. The first earthquake of 4.0 magnitude was felt in Dahanu tehsil at 11.41 pm, while the second one of 3.6 magnitude was recorded at 12:05 am in Talasari tehsil and the last one measuring 2.7 on Richter scale was record at 6.36 am, chief of Palghar district disaster control cell Vivekanand Kadam said. There was no report of loss of life or injuries due to the quakes, he said. "The tehsildars of Dahanu and Talasari have been directed to carry out a survey in their respective tehsils to know the after-effects," Kadam added. An official from Talasari police station said people ran out of their houses following the quake and remained out for some time due to fear. Many houses in the tehsil have developed cracks due to the tremors of varying intensity, Dahanu SDO Ashima Mittal said, adding that panchanama of the damages has been completed. Palghar district, especially its Dahanu and Talasari tehsils, has been witnessing low to moderate intensity earthquakes since November 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-mild-quakes-hit-palghar-district-in-maharashtra-no-casualties-883106.html
05-09-2020||West||Gujarat's Covid-19 cases cross 1.03 lakh; 16 die||The Covid-19 tally in Gujarat rose to 1,03,006 with addition of 1,311 cases on Saturday while 16 patients died, including six in Surat, taking the total toll to 3,094, state health department said. At the same time, 1,148 patients were discharged, raising the number of recoveries to 83,546, the department said in its release. With this, the state has achieved a recovery rate of 81.11 per cent, it said. 72,751 coronavirus tests were conducted in Gujarat since Friday evening at the rate of 1,119.24 tests per day per million population, it said. A total of 27,08,120 samples have been tested in the state so far. Of the 16 fatalities, six deaths occurred in Surat, three in Rajkot, two each in Vadodara and Ahmedabad, while one person died each in Gandhinagar and Mehsana. One of the deceased patients was from another state, the department said. At 277, Surat reported the highest number of new cases, followed by Ahmedabad with 167 cases. Rajkot added 145 more patients, it said. Vadodara and Jamnagar also reported more than 100 cases, adding 119 and 111 patients, respectively. Elsewhere, Bhavnagar reported 42 new cases, Gandhinagar 35, Panchmahal 33, Banaskantha 32, Junagadh 30, Amreli and Morbi 28 each, Bharuch 25, Kutch and Surendranagar 20 each, Sabarkantha 19, Mehsana 18, Dahod and Patan 17 each, Devbhumi Dwarka 15, Gir Somnath 14, etc. The state now has 16,366 active cases, it said. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,03,006, new cases 1,311, deaths 3,094, discharged 83,546, active cases 16,366 and people tested so far 27,08,120.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-covid-19-cases-cross-103-lakh-16-die-883141.html
