06-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Ragini Dwivedi is a BJP ambassador: KPCC spokesperson M Lakshmana||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson M Lakshmana said that Sandalwood actor Ragini Dwivedi, who was arrested in connection with a narcotics case, is a BJP ambassador. She had campaigned for BJP candidates in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In a press conference, Lakshmana said, Ragini had campaigned for a BJP candidate for Karnataka Lok Sabha election at Chikkamagaluru Assembly segment, represented by Tourism, Kannada and Culture Minister C T Ravi. B Y Vijayendra, also son of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan had also participated in the campaign. Lakshmana also displayed a few photographs of the campaign. Film director Indrajit Lankesh has given a list of 15 actors, who are linked to a drug scam to the Bengaluru City Crime Branch. A majority of the actors are linked with BJP, he alleged. Lakshmana also alleged that the state government is projecting the drug scam to hide its failures, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ragini-dwivedi-is-a-bjp-ambassador-kpcc-spokesperson-m-lakshmana-883467.html
06-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP disowns Ragini Dwivedi||The state BJP unit on Sunday disowned actor Ragini Dwivedi, following her arrest in connection with a narcotics case. A statement issued by BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said that Ragini was not a member of the BJP, and the party had not assigned her any responsibility for electioneering. She may have been involved in the campaign “on her own”, he said, adding that the party was “neither accountable nor answerable to Ragini Dwivedi’s activities in her personal and professional life. We have nothing to do with it and maintain a distance from it.” BJP is totally against any sort of anti-social activity by anybody and will not support such activities. “Hence, we disown Ragini for her involvement in the drug racket,” the statement added. The saffron party was left red-faced recently, after videos of Ragini campaigning for the BJP during the bypolls held last year went viral on social media. Several images of the actress with BJP leaders were also circulated embarrassing the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-disowns-ragini-dwivedi-883557.html
06-09-2020||National||Indore has lessons for other Smart cities||Indore, the commercial capital and the most populous city of Madhya Pradesh, is ranked among the 20 best-performing cities under the Smart Cities Mission. Indore’s proposal identified projects worth Rs 4,233 cr, with a major focus on the built-in environment and transportation sectors. Apart from the union and state governments’ contribution, The Indore Smart City Development Limited (ISCDL) is raising funds for its projects mainly from private parties. The work under the project is also reflected in the city being tagged the cleanest city for the fourth consecutive year, in 2020.    After facing the mounting challenges of waste management for years, efficient garbage disposal has now become an intrinsic part of Indore’s civic culture and this aspect has been incorporated in the smart city project as well. Landfills, which once towered over the city, have transformed into beautiful gardens.  The city generates nearly 1,115 metric tonnes of garbage every day. Under the Smart Cities Mission, Indore set up GPS-enabled waste collection vans, which were tasked with collecting garbage from people’s homes. There was also a campaign to ensure the waste was segregated at the source before it was disposed. MLA Malini Gaud, who was the Mayor of Indore, says although the Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) put all its might behind the cleanliness drives, the real credit goes to the people of Indore for the city’s makeover. State’s Urban Development and Housing Minister Bhupendra Singh says Indore has become a model for other under-construction smart cities to emulate. While reviewing progress of the smart cities in the state in July, Singh asked CEOs of Bhopal and Gwalior Smart City projects to follow the example of Indore. In February this year, the pace and designs of Indore Smart City projects earned praise of the CEOs of 23 Smart City projects. The CEOs of Smart City projects from six states were invited to discuss challenges in implementation of different development works and share possible solutions. ISCDL CEO Sandeep Soni told them that change in the cultural behaviour of Indore’s residents towards cleanliness has immensely helped the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indore-has-lessons-for-other-smart-cities-883169.html
06-09-2020||National||India now has the world's second highest number of Covid-19 cases; tops Brazil's coronavirus tally||India on Saturday became the world’s second most Covid-19 affected nation, overtaking Brazil. With more than six million cases, the US retains the pole position, followed by India, Brazil and Russia. India has 40,92,550 Covid-19 positive cases, according to DH's tally, against Brazil’s 40,91,550, according to an unofficial worldwide database of Covid-19 cases. It may take a day for the official record to reflect the trend. The gap between the two worst-affected countries was narrowing since India began reporting in excess of 80,000 new cases daily—the highest in India. On Friday, the gap was only 40,000. India currently reports nearly 30% of the new cases being reported globally. Also, 20% of the world’s daily death count comes from India. The trend continued on Saturday when India recorded 86,432 new cases (Friday’s count released by the Health Ministry on Saturday early morning) raising the total positive cases to well past the 40 lakh mark. The speed of expansion is such that the last 10 lakh new cases were added in only 13 days. In comparison, it took 16 days for the tally to touch 3 million. The death toll stands at 69,561 out of which 1089 were added in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka account for 52% of all Covid-19 deaths reported across the country in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra alone accounted for 35% of all deaths reported in the last 24 hours. The three states also account for 46% of active cases reported in the same time frame. The Indian Council of Medical Research released a new testing strategy allowing on-demand testing though it has been left to the states to decide on the modalities. The council also recommends wide-scale use of the rapid-antigen tests for surveillance and screening inside and outside the containment areas. The gold-standard RT-PCR tests have been recommended for hospitals as well as for SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) and ILI (influenza-like illness) patients. The ICMR also stressed that no emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of tests, and pregnant women should not be referred for a lack of testing facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-now-has-the-worlds-second-highest-number-of-covid-19-cases-tops-brazils-coronavirus-tally-883184.html
06-09-2020||National||Two complaints seek FIR against Kangana over PoK comment||Two separate complaints have been filed with the police here against actor Kangana Ranaut over her remark where she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK). While one of the complaints was submitted by Ali Kashif Khan Deshmukh, a lawyer, at Andheri police station on Friday, another was submitted at Azad Maidan police station by a city Congress functionary. Both applications sought registration of an FIR against the actor for `defaming' the Mumbai police and `spreading enmity between two groups' under the relevant IPC sections. However, no FIR has been registered yet as police officials said they were examining the applications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-complaints-seek-fir-against-kangana-over-pok-comment-883200.html
06-09-2020||National||Doctor, wife accused of pouring hot water on minor domestic help arrested||A doctor in Assam Medical College Hospital and his wife, a college principal have been arrested for allegedly pouring hot water on an 11-year-old domestic help in their residence in Dibrugarh district in eastern Assam recently.  Siddhipradad Deori, a doctor in Assam Medical College Hospital and Mitali Konwar Deori, principal of Moran College were absconding since a case was registered for allegedly pouring hot water on the minor boy and not providing treatment to him after the incident. The duo were arrested on Saturday night at a toll gate at Raha in Nagaon in central Assam, when they were on their way from Guwahati to Dibrugarh. The incident came to light after Child Protection Committee, Dibrugarh rescued the minor boy from Deori's house on August 29 with burn injuries on his shoulder and body. The committee raided his house based on a video shared by an unidentified person.  Police said preliminary investigation suggests Deori, in an inebriated state had thrown hot water on the child while he was asleep. His wife, surprisingly did not take the injured child to a hospital. Son and daughter of the couple were also arrested earlier in connection with the case. The Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights also took cognizance of the case and directed police to arrest the couple and book them under section of Juvenile Justice Act, IPC and other relevant acts. It also asked police to fast track the investigation and submit chargesheet on time for justice to the child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctor-wife-accused-of-pouring-hot-water-on-minor-domestic-help-arrested-883206.html
06-09-2020||National||New education policy will make India 'Vishva Guru': J P Nadda||The education policy drafted by the Modi government is in line with the soul of the country and will again make India a "Vishva Guru", BJP president J P Nadda said on Saturday. To mark Teachers' Day, Nadda through video conferencing interacted with teachers from his school and university and asked them about their wellbeing, the BJP said in a statement. Talking about the new education policy with his teachers, Nadda said for the first time after Independence an education policy was drafted which is in line with the soul of India. The new education policy will change the image of the country and it will emerge as a "Vishva Guru", Nadda said, adding that it will create an environment for students to succeed in their lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-will-make-india-vishva-guru-j-p-nadda-883215.html
06-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 6||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 39 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 41,95,753 as of September 6 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 71,588   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  29,01,908  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-6-883216.html
06-09-2020||National||DH Toon | What did the hackers steal?||Twitter on Thursday confirmed that an account linked to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal website was hacked by a group that claimed to be John Wick. The decline in economic activity, reflected in the fall in GDP during the first quarter of the current financial year, has turned out to be much worse than expected. A 23.9% contraction of the economy sets a poor record and shows that the nationwide lockdown which was in place in April and May has taken the economy back to the 2014 level, when Modi took charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-what-did-the-hackers-steal-883219.html
06-09-2020||National||Congratulations India, you have arrested my son: Rhea Chakraborty's father issues statement||In a major step in the ongoing investigation related to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik Chakraborty along with the late actor’s house manager Samuel Miranda. Breaking his silence on the issue, Rhea’s father, Lt Col (retd) Indrajit Chakraborty issued a statement, “Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter." "You have effectively demolished a middle class family. But of course, for the sake of justice everything is justified. Jai hind,” he added. Rhea’s father has also been interrogated by the CBI in connection with Sushant’s death case. NCB sleuths raided the residence of Miranda in Andheri West and the Chakrabortys in Santacruz West for close to four hours and seized digital devices like laptops and smartphones. During the interrogation, Showik had told the agency that he used to procure drugs for Sushant. However, NCB has so far not found any drugs in Showik Chakraborty’s possession. The Narcotics Control Bureau is the latest agency to be drawn into the Sushant Singh Rajput death investigation case. The case is already being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congratulations-india-you-have-arrested-my-son-rhea-chakrabortys-father-issues-statement-883276.html
06-09-2020||National||With highest single-day spike of 90,632 cases, Covid-19 tally in India crosses 41-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 41 lakh with a record 90,632 people being infected in a day, while 31,80,865 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 77.32 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 41,13,811, while the death toll climbed to 70,626 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 1,065 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further declined to 1.72 per cent. There are 8,62,320 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 20.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,88,31,145 samples have been tested up to September 5 with 10,92,654 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-highest-single-day-spike-of-90632-cases-covid-19-tally-in-india-crosses-41-lakh-mark-883277.html
06-09-2020||National||Two years since Article 377 scrapped, LGBTQ community still battling prejudices||Rishabh Singh vividly remembers September 6, 2018, the day he says his life changed. Two years ago on this day, the Supreme Court had struck down the draconian Article 377 that criminalised gay sex. The same day Singh told his parents about his sexual orientation. "I think having that in the back of my mind that even the apex court of the country believes I am not a criminal gave me the confidence to come out of the closet and explain my sexual orientation to my parents," he said. Two years on, Singh says he now considers that date as his second birthday when he was born again as an individual who was more free, confident and relaxed. "It was the first step but I do think the time for the next step has come now. The inequality still blatantly exists in society's mindset towards us whether it is in terms of inheritance laws or surrogacy laws - there is still a long, long road ahead of us," Singh, the techie from Mumbai, said. But Sunaina (name changed), an interior designer, says her life has not changed much since the verdict. "The reason I can't publicly identify myself is itself a proof that acceptance from society is difficult. I belong to a middle class family where even discussion over the subject of homosexuality is forbidden. Let alone coming out to my parents about being one. The verdict did good to us though. We are at least not considered criminals anymore but the mindset of the society is still the same," she said. The Supreme Court, in a landmark judgement on September 6, 2018, unanimously struck down part of the Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which criminalised gay sex, saying that it violated the constitutional right to equality and dignity. Section 377 declared "carnal intercourse against the order of nature" punishable by imprisonment for life. The judgement was widely welcomed by most sections of society, especially the youth who called it a victory of love. Both Singh and Sunaina say they remember celebrating that whole night two years ago even though they constantly were thinking about "what's next?" Shubhankar Chakravorty, a Bengaluru-based writer, says the next move should be to extend the same civil rights to the LGBT population that the straight population enjoys. "LGBT people are too taxpaying, law-abiding citizens, they have every right to the same privileges," he said. "Things have surely changed. LGBT people are now more confident to express themselves, grow personally, and own their relationships without the fear of discrimination and harassment. However, this change has primarily been for the urban, privileged few. Also, the lives of transgender people have not really improved much," Chakravorty said. Bittu Kondaiah, a trans-man, agrees with Chakravorty that the SC verdict did not do much for the transgender community. "But it did ensure that there was one lesser section (of gay community) to get targeted by society. The midset that the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) community can be easily exploited as they have no one who cares about them, that mindset has changed," he said. Anjali Gopalan, a member of Naz Foundation, an NGO that has been at the forefront of the battle against Section 377, said the community has become a lot stronger since the verdict but there are more rights that it needs to be given. "The LGBT community does not have any rights per say which society takes for granted like the right to marriage, inheritance so these are rights that should be there for everyone in society. Unfortunately, the LGBT community has been left out of it and that is something that needs to happen," she said. Tripti Tandon, lawyer and deputy director of Lawyers Collective, said it has been seen that the judgement gave many from the LGBT community the confidence to live their lives on their own terms. "But unfortunately society still has not changed its mindset and that is the reason why the community members who take such steps of staying with their partners or moving away face a lot of violence and hostility and harassment from their parents," Tandon, who was among the members of the team to fight the case in the apex court, said. "The government needs to step in. The government really hasn't done anything. If the government were to take some steps, then the message would go out very clearly in society that these relationships are not to be looked down upon," she added. Divya Dureja, a counselling psychologist and LGBTQIA+ wellness advocate, said there are still inadequacies in the "free and fair rights" of the LGBTQ community members. "When will the state begin to recognise non-hetrosexual unions? How do we address the homelessness, bullying, violence, workplace discrimination still being faced by the members of the LGBTQ community and how can you give support to queer population drowning in mental health conditions," she asked. She said even though the gay community has found some respite from being targeted now that Section 377 has been struck down, crimes and harassment against trans folks and lesbians still continue under the present laws. Akhila Sivadas, the managing trustee and executive director of the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR), a non-profit organisation said while the significance of this ruling to decriminalise homosexuality cannot be reduced, the process of social inclusion and acceptance now assumes even greater importance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-years-since-article-377-scrapped-lgbtq-community-still-battling-prejudices-883281.html
06-09-2020||National||Keshavananda Bharati, key petitioner known for 'basic structure' of Constitution doctrine, passes away||Edaneer mutt seer Keshavananda Bharathi Swamiji passed away early on Sunday. He was 79. The seer had recently completed in 60th Chathurmasya Vratha. The seer whose property rights case in the Supreme Court in 1973 had helped to define basic rights under the Constitution. The case Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalavaru and Ors.v. State of Kerala led to a landmark decision of the Supreme Court of India that outlined the basic structure doctrine of the Constitution. He was a proponent of Advaitha Philosophy. He was also a good classical singer too. Under his guidance, a Yakshagana mela was also took place at the Edaneer mutt in Kasargod. The seer used to render Bhagavatha harikathas. The Edaneer mutt under his guidance was conducting Yakshagana saptaha and Talamaddale programmes every year. The case in which Bharati had challenged a Kerala Land Reform Act nearly four decades ago set the principle that the Supreme Court is the guardian of the basic structure of the Constitution and the verdict involved 13 judges the largest bench ever to sit in the apex court. The case of Kesavananda Bharati vs State of Kerala was heard for 68 days and continues to hold the top spot for the longest proceedings ever to have taken place in the top court. The hearing in the case commenced on October 31, 1972, and concluded on March 23, 1973 and it's the most referred to case name in Indian Constitutional law. When asked about the importance of the verdict, former Judge of Madras High Court Justice K Chandru told PTI: "The Kesavananda Bharati case is significant for its ruling that the Constitution can be amended but not the basic structure." (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keshavananda-bharati-key-petitioner-known-for-basic-structure-of-constitution-doctrine-passes-away-883295.html
06-09-2020||National||Thriveni Earthmovers bags Rs 31,428-crore contract to develop, operate NTPC's coal mine in Chhattisgarh||Mining company Thriveni Earthmovers has bagged a contract worth Rs 31,428 crore from NTPC to develop and operate Talaipalli coal mine in Chhattisgarh alloted to the state-owned power giant. "Thriveni Earthmovers... a Coimbatore-based mining company, has bagged another mine development and operation contract from NTPC on August 26, with a contract value of Rs 31,428 crore," an official on the condition of anonymity said. Earlier, NTPC had terminated the contracts it had awarded to BGR Mining & Infra for development of its coal mines in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh over allegations of corruption against senior officials of the private mining company. NTPC had terminated the contracts for development and operation of Chatti-Bariatu coal mine in Jharkhand and Talaipalli coal mine in Chhattisgarh, according to two separate letters dated July 4, 2019 by NTPC. NTPC had awarded mine development and operation contract of the Chatti-Bariatu mine to BGR in November 2017. In the same month, it had awarded a similar contract for the Talaipalli mine to a consortium of NCC and BGR Mining. Talaipalli coal mine has a production capacity of 18 million tonne of coal per annum. The block was reallocated by the coal ministry to NTPC in 2015. Thriveni Earthmovers specialises in mining natural resource commodities like iron ore, copper, coal, bauxite, among others. The company claims to be one of the leading Mine Developer and Operator (MDO) globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thriveni-earthmovers-bags-rs-31428-crore-contract-to-develop-operate-ntpcs-coal-mine-in-chhattisgarh-883299.html
06-09-2020||National||Rajnath Singh discusses bilateral ties, regional security with Iranian counterpart Brigadier General Amir Hatami||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said he had a "very fruitful" meeting with his Iranian counterpart Brigadier General Amir Hatami and discussed ways to bolster bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on regional security issues, including the situation in Afghanistan. Singh reached Tehran from Moscow on Saturday on a transit halt after concluding his three-day visit to Russia where he attended a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) defence ministers. He also held bilateral talks with his counterparts from Russia, China and the Central Asian countries. "Had a very fruitful meeting with Iranian defence minister Brigadier General Amir Hatami in Tehran. We discussed regional security issues including Afghanistan and the issues of bilateral cooperation," Singh said in a tweet. "Both the Defence Ministers discussed ways to take forward bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on regional security issues, including peace and stability in Afghanistan," Singh's office said in a separate tweet on the meeting held at the request of the Iranian defence minister. The meeting between the two ministers took place in a "cordial and warm atmosphere," it said, adding that the leaders emphasised upon the age-old cultural, linguistic and civilisational ties between India and Iran. Iranian Defence Minister Hatami and his Indian counterpart Singh held talks in Tehran on international, regional and bilateral issues, Iran's official Irna news agency reported on Sunday. Visit of Singh is the first travel of a top Indian official to Iran since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in December 2019, it noted. Iran and India enjoy traditional friendly ties. Iranian and Indian officials hold regular consultations on close cooperation to ensure regional peace and security, the report added. Singh's visit to Iran, a major regional player, is considered to be significant as it came after he voiced India's deep concern about the situation in Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation in the strife-torn Afghanistan after the US signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war in the country. In his address at the combined meeting of defence ministers of the SCO on Friday, in the Russian capital, Singh said that the security situation in Afghanistan remains a concern. According to a recent UN report, as many as 533 Afghan civilians - including more than 150 children - were killed in war-torn Afghanistan due to fighting. At the SCO meeting, Singh said: "India will continue to support the efforts of the people and government of Afghanistan for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled inclusive peace process." India has been a key stakeholder in the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan. It has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process. New Delhi has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. There have been global concerns over Pakistan's support to the Taliban and other terror groups operating in Afghanistan. At the SCO meeting, Singh had also voiced India's concern over the situation in the Gulf region, vital for the country's energy needs. A series of incidents in the Persian Gulf involving Iran and the US in recent months have flared up tension in the region. "We are deeply concerned about the situation in the Persian Gulf,” Singh said in his address at the SCO meeting on Friday. "We call upon countries in the region - all of which are dear and friendly to India, to resolve differences by dialogue based on mutual respect, sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of each other," Singh said. Iran has threatened to disrupt oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz if the US, which has already imposed crippling sanctions on Tehran over its nuclear programme, tries to strangle its economy. India and Iran have strong commercial, energy, cultural and people-to-people links. India-Iran commercial ties were traditionally dominated by Indian import of Iranian crude oil. In 2018-19 India imported USD 12.11 billion worth of crude oil from Iran. However, following the end of the Significant Reduction Exemption period on May 2, 2019, India has suspended importing crude from Iran, according to the Indian Embassy here. The US had asked countries, including India, to cut oil imports from Iran down to "zero" by November 6, 2019 or face sanctions. The bilateral trade during 2019-20 was USD 4.77 billion, a decrease of 71.99 per cent as compared to the trade of USD 17.03 billion 2018-19. What is significant is that Indian exports to Iran between 2011-12 and 2019-20 have grown by 45.60 per cent, according to the website of the mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-discusses-bilateral-ties-regional-security-with-iranian-counterpart-brigadier-general-amir-hatami-883300.html
06-09-2020||National||Companies in India responded well to increased cyberattacks after total chaos during lockdown: EY||Companies in India have adapted well to respond to increased cyberattacks after witnessing "total chaos" in the first three months of coronavirus-induced lockdown, although it will take time for these firms to upgrade their networks, according to a senior official of consultancy firm EY. EY in its Global Integrity Report 2020 had found that cybercriminals, trying to exploit the fears and uncertainties around the virus, have stepped up phishing and ransomware attacks, increasing the risks for organisations already struggling to operate during a pandemic. The rapid shift to employees working remotely also made cybersecurity an even bigger challenge — one that organisations had little time to prepare for and such attacks have happened in various sectors, including healthcare organisations. "But I would say India has adapted well. Today companies have much more handle on what's happening. The first three months (of lockdown) was total chaos. That's when all these ransomware and cyber cases happened quite a lot," Arpinder Singh, India & Emerging Markets Leader – EY Forensic & Integrity Services, told PTI. He further said, "Today, things have opened up and people have started going back to office and also companies have invested to make sure their networks are tighter, infrastructure is tighter. But it will take time upgrading." Recollecting on what happened when the lockdown was first announced in March, Singh said there was so much disruption "that I don't think any company is fully prepared for. No one is fully prepared, even IT companies, that their employees will have to work from home. Most IT companies have desktop, and employees can't carry desktop to home. Even a basic thing like that was not planned." Giving reasons for the unpreparedness, he said, "In India work from home has never been a very popular (concept). Companies have not really supported it like they do in the US or Europe, where it is quite common to work from home even if there is no pandemic. They are much more used to working from home than we are." People have taken computers home, it has taken companies a month or two to set up firewalls or additional security. So that has not been easy, he added. Singh also said with employees working from home, many companies were unable to keep full track of incidents on their network. Besides, there have been cases of companies using outdated servers which exposed the companies to cyber issues. On the nature of cyberattacks, he said, "A lot of the issues are ransomware, where the complete infrastructure of a company is put on a standstill, where they cannot either produce, manufacture or service customers." The EY report had stated that it's critical to develop and implement a cyber breach incident response plan, alongside training employees, considering that most ransomware attacks occur when an employee clicks on a fraudulent email link or attachment. It found that 62 per cent do not have such plans in place, and less than half (49 per cent) were adequately trained. Moreover, organisations remain concerned with the ever-present threat of cyberattacks and 32 per cent believed that cyberattacks were the greatest risk to their organisation. The EY Global Integrity Report 2020 was based on 2,948 surveys done in January and February 2020 in local language with board members, senior managers, managers and employees in a sample of the largest organisations and public bodies in 33 countries and territories worldwide. A further 600 surveys in total were conducted in April 2020 using the same respondent profile across China, Germany, India, Italy, the UK and the US during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/companies-in-india-responded-well-to-increased-cyberattacks-after-total-chaos-during-lockdown-ey-883346.html
06-09-2020||National||FIR against Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair on NCPCR complaint||Delhi Police has registered a case against Mohd Zubair, a vocal government critic who is the co-founder of fact-checking website 'Alt News', accusing him of "threatening and torturing a girl child through Twitter", a charge he described as "absolutely frivolous". The FIR by Delhi Police's Cyber Cell came on Saturday following a complaint filed by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) seeking action against the Zubair under the Information Technology Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). The complaint filed by the NCPCR refers to a photo of a girl and her grandfather posted by Zubair on Twitter during an online interaction with the girl's father. The girl's face was masked in the post but the child rights body claimed that the girl could be identified through her grandfather. Zubair described the complaint as "absolutely frivolous" and said that he would respond legally. Another Alt News co-founder Pratik Sinha said an attempt has been to "hound" Zubair through the "misuse of legal apparatus". "Alt News stands by Mohd Zubair. Zubair has been in the forefront of fighting fake narratives, and his work hurts those who have weaponised misinformation to subvert the Indian democracy," Sinha said in a statement posted on Twitter.  Alt News is a fake news busting website and its posts had angered the right wing Hindutva brigade for exposing inconsistencies in their narrative. Both Zubair and Sinha are also active on social media engaging with supporters as well as detractors. The NCPCR had taken cognizance of a complaint received under section 13 (1)  and (k) of CPCR Act, 2005, which referred to the picture of the minor girl that has been posted on social media with "indecent and disgraceful" comments, NCPCR chief Priyank Kanoongo said. "You look into the matter and take prompt action in respect to the Twitter handle and posts harassing, threatening and stalking the minor girl. Further, you were also requested to ensure the safety of the girl child and initiate appropriate action against the alleged perpetrators," Kanoongo said in his letter. Kanoongo sought action against "online threats and repeated incidents of stalking of a minor girl on Twitter by Zubair". Kanoongo has also written to Twitter seeking action. On Saturday, he tweeted, "According to the ATR received in @NCPCR_ ,an FIR has been lodged against the alleged persons for threatening and torturing a girl child on @Twitter. As per the request made by @TwitterIndia an additional time of 10 days has been provided to them to provide relevant information."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-alt-news-co-founder-mohammed-zubair-on-ncpcr-complaint-883357.html
06-09-2020||National||After JEE Main, National Testing Agency gears up for medical entrance NEET||After JEE Main, the National Testing Agency (NTA) is now gearing up for conducting medical entrance exam NEET scheduled to be held on September 13 for which over 15 lakh candidates have registered. The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE Main), which began on September 1 for admission to engineering colleges, will conclude on Sunday. According to NTA officials, 15.97 lakh candidates from across the country have registered for NEET, which is a pen-paper based test, unlike JEE. In order to maintain social distancing, the NTA has increased the number of centres from 2,546 to 3,843 for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) while the number of candidates per room has been reduced from earlier 24 to 12. "For ensuring social distancing outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates has been staggered. Adequate arrangements have also been made outside the examination centres to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing while waiting," a senior NTA official said. "Candidates have also been issued an advisory guiding them about the 'dos and don'ts' for proper social distancing. We have also written to states governments to extend support in local movement of the candidates so that they are able to reach their examination centres on time," the official added. Making hand sanitizer available at the entrance of the examination centre and inside the exam hall at all times, replacing the process of checking the admit cards of candidates with barcode readers, increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the steps the NTA has taken. "While all the candidates will be asked to go to the exam centres with masks and sanitizer, once they enter the centre, they will have to use the masks provided by the examination authority. "Each candidate will be offered a three-ply mask at the time of entry and are expected to wear the same during the examination in order to avoid any form of unfair means at the time of examination," the official added. While the governments of Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have assured students that they will provide them transportation, a group of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) alumni and students have also launched a portal to provide transport facilities to exam centres for the candidates in need. The Metro Railway in Kolkata is planning to run special services for NEET candidates on September 13 to help them reach their examination centres. "As per the plan, candidates along with guardians will be allowed to board the trains on showing their admit cards," according to Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi. With barely days left for JEE exams to start, the issue had escalated into a full-blown political battle with ministers from Rajasthan and Punjab (Congress), West Bengal (Trinamool Congress), Jharkhand (Jharkhand Mukti Morcha), Maharashtra (Nationalist Congress Party and Shiv Sena) seeking postponement of the exams "in a manner that achieved the twin objectives of ensuring that the academic year of the students is not wasted and their health and safety is not compromised". They filed a petition in the apex court to review its order of conducting JEE and NEET UG 2020 entrance tests during the novel coronavirus crises. However, the plea was dismissed by the Supreme Court. The NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26 and then scheduled for September 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-jee-main-national-testing-agency-gears-up-for-medical-entrance-neet-883358.html
06-09-2020||National||Have no connection with Bhima Koregaon case, NIA trying to harass me: IISER professor Partho Sarathi Ray||Days, after the NIA summoned IISER-Kolkata professor Partho Sarathi Ray for questioning in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence in 2018, the scientist and social activist on Sunday, said he had nothing to do with the incident and the probe agency was trying to "harass him, as has been the case with other intellectuals". Ray also said that there was no charge against him, and he had never visited the Bhima Koregaon memorial in Pune. "The agency (NIA) has summoned me as a witness in the case, under section 160 CrPC. Therefore, there are no charges against me. I have no connection with this case as I have never been to Bhima Koregaon. I wasn't even aware of the incident till I read about it in the newspapers," he told PTI. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has issued a notice to Ray, who is also the convenor of Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC) West Bengal unit, asking him to appear for questioning in its Mumbai office on September 10 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence. The case pertains to an incident of caste violence that took place near the Bhima Koregaon war memorial on January 1, 2018, following alleged provocative speeches at Elgar Parishad conclave a day earlier. Several vehicles were torched and one person killed in the incident, triggering large scale Dalit agitation in Maharashtra. "This is nothing but a tactic to harass and intimidate me, as is being done with academics and intellectuals all over India. I am a biomedical scientist who has been involved in the battle against Covid-19. I have also stood consistently on the side of the persecuted and disadvantaged. It is very unfortunate that I'm being harassed in this manner at this critical time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-no-connection-with-bhima-koregaon-case-nia-trying-to-harass-me-iiser-professor-partho-sarathi-ray-883366.html
06-09-2020||National||Five states, one UT with high Covid-19 caseload asked to scale up testing||The Centre has asked 5 states and one UT from where 35 districts have been reporting high active Covid-19 caseload and fatality rate to strengthen containment measures and scale up testing to bring down positivity rate below five per cent. These 35 districts comprise all 11 districts in Delhi, Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and 24 South Parganas in West Bengal; Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai, Mumbai Suburban, Kolhapur, Sangli, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Raigad, Jalgaon, Solapur, Satara, Palghar, Aurangabad, Dhule and Nanded in Maharashtra; Surat in Gujarat; Pondicherry in Puducherry and East Singhbhum in Jharkhand. In a review meeting held on Saturday, they were asked to ensure strict perimeter control, strengthen the active case search focusing on comorbids and elderly population, early identification by ramping up testing and optional utilization of RT-PCR testing capacity to break the chain of transmission of the disease, the Health ministry said on Sunday. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan held the review meeting through video conference (VC) with health secretaries of five states and one UT on the containment and management of Covid-19 in 35 districts under their jurisdiction. The district collectors and other functionaries were advised to prepare and update district-specific plans to continue their efforts to manage the pandemic. The states were also advised to effectively monitor home isolation cases and early hospitalisation in case of disease progression, seamless hospitalisation and early admission for patients requiring medical support, especially in cases of comorbid and elderly population, besides following effective infection control measures in hospitals to safeguard healthcare workers from contracting the infection. The Union Health Ministry has been proactively monitoring the trajectory of the Covid pandemic and has been undertaking impactful interactions with the state and UT authorities to guide the administration of districts exhibiting a surge in Covid cases and having high active caseload and fatality rate to improve their management of the crisis, the ministry said. In addition to state health secretaries, district collectors, municipal commissioners and other functionaries of the affected districts also participated in the digital meeting. The State Health Secretaries presented a detailed analysis on the current status of Covid-19 in these districts. They covered the aspects of containment measures, contact tracing, surveillance activities, facility-wise case fatality rates, trends in terms of weekly new cases and deaths, etc, the ministry said. They also discussed the detailed roadmaps and action plan for the next one month, it said.   Details in terms of split of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests conducted in the district, re-testing percentage of symptomatic negatives from antigen tests, testing lab utilization, hospitalization status and bed occupancies of oxygen-supported beds, ICU beds and ventilator etc., were also shared with the Centre. India's COVID-19 tally of cases mounted to 41,13,811 with a record 90,632 people being infected in a day, while the death toll climbed to 70,626 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 1,065 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-states-one-ut-with-high-covid-19-caseload-asked-to-scale-up-testing-883367.html
06-09-2020||National||The costs of India’s Covid-19 crisis are too high||By Mihir Sharma, India is reeling from a quadruple whammy that is practically unique even during this pandemic. First, growth has taken a hit that appears to be larger than any of its peers, with GDP shrinking 23.9% in the first post-pandemic quarter. While the economy has re-opened somewhat since then, it remains beset by supply constraints. That means — second — that inflation may have reached almost 7%, according to Bloomberg Economics’ Abhishek Gupta. That’s well out of the Reserve Bank of India’s comfort zone. And, third, all this has hit an economy that was already suffering from slipping potential growth and a major tax revenue crisis following the underperformance of a national goods-and-services tax. It’s now likely that the pandemic has, as feared, moved out of urban areas into India’s vast, and crowded, rural hinterland. Here, health services will be far less equipped for a surge in cases — and distant state machinery itself may not know of localized outbreaks till it is too late.  The government, faced with a crashing economy and with its cupboards completely bare, has no real way to directly improve the welfare of those most affected. Programs like Britain’s furlough scheme or the US’s $600 per week unemployment aid are a distant dream in India. Even if the government had the money — which, thanks to its tax botch-up, it does not — it couldn’t be sure of getting it to the people in need. So, as far as officials are concerned, the only way to get people back on their feet is to gradually lift pandemic-related restrictions. That is precisely what is happening: Restrictions are being removed without any consideration for the increasing caseload and with minimal information about possible infection clusters. Strangely, there’s very little panic in India, either among policymakers or the public in general. Perhaps that’s because the case fatality rate, as far as the government can tell, is well below 2% and thus among the lowest in the world. While there are no signs yet that the health system is overloaded, it may be getting there. Delhi’s most prestigious state-run hospital recently tried to shut down all outpatient work to focus on hospitalizations. In any case, climbing case rates will inevitably increase the stress on India’s inadequate health systems. So it’s entirely possible that the case fatality rate may also, tragically, increase. Worryingly, the drumbeat for a big “stimulus” has begun. The pressure is growing on the finance ministry — which has so far been impressively careful — to start shelling out more cash to the business. Some sectoral associations have even gone to the Supreme Court demanding the judges ensure they don’t have to pay interest on their loans. The fact is, however, that a “second stimulus” — especially one directed at business — would be fiscally dangerous. It would also be wasted money because neither the consumer nor business sentiment is going to revive while case numbers are growing so fast. Everyone can see the curve and nobody knows how bad it may still get. Meanwhile, as the Delhi hospital’s attempt to cut off routine health services indicates, the silent costs of the pandemic are building up. The immunization program, for example, has essentially been halted, which means that a generation of children will be particularly vulnerable to communicable diseases such as measles. Millions of kids who already receive an education that is not up to global standards cannot go to school. And, unlike in the West, only a quarter of students in India can access online classes. Given that this generation is the one that will have to take India’s last shot at prosperity, that’s especially bad news. India won’t get a proper sense of the extent of these silent costs for some time, certainly not before next year. The finance ministry and the government more broadly should resist calls to spend money now that it does not have. It’s going to need that ammunition even more soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-costs-of-india-s-covid-19-crisis-are-too-high-883373.html
06-09-2020||National||Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 77.32%, with record 73,642 coronavirus recoveries||With a record 73,642 patients having recuperated in a day, India's Covid-19 recoveries have surged to nearly 32 lakh, pushing the recovery rate to 77.32 per cent while the case fatality rate, one of the lowest globally, has further dropped to 1.72 per cent as on date, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. There are 8,62,320 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country accounting for only 20.96 per cent of the total caseload, it highlighted.  "The spike in the daily recovered Covid-19 patients continues in the country. For the second successive day, India has clocked a record recovery of more than 70,000 patients in a single day," the ministry said. A total of 73,642 patients have recovered and been discharged from either home or facility isolation or hospitals in a day, according to health ministry data updated at 8 am. "With this surge in numbers of patients getting recovered on a daily basis, India's recovery rate has been further pushed upwards to 77.32 per cent," the ministry said. Sustained efforts by the Centre, state and union territory governments have substantially resulted in higher number of people getting identified at an early stage for the infection through very high levels of testing, it underlined.  This has enabled their timely treatment, guided by the Standard Treatment Protocol for both home or facility isolation and hospitalisation.  The Centre, in collaboration with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi has led the process of continuous upgradation of clinical management skills of the ICU doctors in the dedicated Covid hospitals across the country.  "These measures have resulted in saving more lives. India's Covid-19 case fatality rate, one of the lowest globally, continues to further compress. It is pegged at 1.72 per cent as on date," the ministry said.  The recoveries exceeded active cases of the infection by 23,18,545.   India's Covid-19 tally of cases mounted to 41,13,811 with a record 90,632 people being infected in a day,  while the death toll climbed to 70,626 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 1,065 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-7732-with-record-73642-coronavirus-recoveries-883390.html
06-09-2020||National||Kesavananda Bharati was deeply attached to India's rich culture, great Constitution: PM Modi||Paying tributes to seer Kesavananda Bharati, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday remembered him for his contributions towards community service and empowering the downtrodden.  In a tweet, Modi said the spiritual leader was deeply attached to India's rich culture and great Constitution, and that he will continue to inspire generations.  Kesavananda Bharati, a petitioner in a Supreme Court case that led to the landmark doctrine of the basic structure of the Constitution, died in Kerala on Sunday. He was 79. The prime minister tweeted, "We will always remember Pujya Kesavananda Bharati Ji for his contributions towards community service and empowering the downtrodden. We will always remember Pujya Kesavananda Bharati Ji for his contributions towards community service and empowering the downtrodden. He was deeply attached to India’s rich culture and our great Constitution. He will continue to inspire generations. Om Shanti. "He was deeply attached to India's rich culture and our great Constitution. He will continue to inspire generations. Om Shanti."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kesavananda-bharati-was-deeply-attached-to-indias-rich-culture-great-constitution-pm-modi-883393.html
06-09-2020||National||Pakistan summons senior Indian diplomat over 'ceasefire violations'||Pakistan on Sunday summoned a senior diplomat from the Indian High Commission here to register its protest over the alleged ceasefire violations by the Indian forces along the Line of Control (LoC). In a statement, the Foreign Office said that due to "indiscriminate and unprovoked firing" in the Rakhchikri Sector of the LoC on Saturday, one civilian sustained serious injuries. The Indian forces along "the LoC and the Working Boundary (WB) have continuously been targeting civilian populated areas with artillery fire, heavy-caliber mortars and automatic weapons,” the statement alleged. It claimed that 17 people have been killed and 168 others injured in 2,158 incidents of ceasefire violations this year. The Indian side was called upon to respect the 2003 Ceasefire Understanding; investigate this and other such incidents of ceasefire violations and maintain peace along the LoC and the WB, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-summons-senior-indian-diplomat-over-ceasefire-violations-883396.html
06-09-2020||National||Kesavananda Bharati case shaped future of India as a democratic republic||Known as the Kesavananda Bharati case (1973), it established that Parliament cannot alter the Basic Structure of the Constitution. The 13-judge Constitution bench (maximum strength) of the Supreme Court by a majority judgement of 7:6 laid down this concept, in a departure from its previous view that Parliament can amend any part of the Constitution, including fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III as per requirement under Article 368 of the Constitution. The landmark ruling gave the Supreme Court the power to examine or review any constitutional amendment at the threshold of Basic Structure doctrine. So, any law passed by Parliament has to pass through this test. It also marked a 'Lakshman Rekha' for Parliament to save the country from the tyranny of the elected representatives and thereby establishing the supremacy of the Constitution. Resultantly, Parliament as representative body could not enjoy untrammeled power to redraft the Constitution. The case saw all the thirteen judges of the Supreme Court to assemble for the longest time of 68 days in almost five months to decide what came to be known as defining moments for constitutionalism and democratic power of the country. Though as many as 11 separate opinions were made, the majority view held that Parliament had power to amend any part but it could not destroy and deface the Basic Structure or very framework of the Constitution. The majority view was given by then CJI S M Sikri, Justices K S Hegde, A K Mukherjea, J M Shelat, A N Grover, P Jaganmohan Reddy and H R Khanna. Justices A N Ray, D G Palekar, K K Mathews, M H Beg, S N Dwivedi and Y V Chandrachud, however, had differed. The Basic Structure was defined as indestructible and immune from amendments. It came to be described as supremacy of the Constitution, republican and democratic form of government, parliamentary democracy, secular character, separations of powers between the legislature, executive and judiciary, federal character, individual freedoms, welfare state and unity and integrity of the nation. The list was illustrative not exhaustive. The judgement has riled the Indira Gandhi government so much so that it did not name the successor of then Chief Justice of India S M Sikri by following the long-standing practice of giving the post to the senior most judge. In an unprecedented decision, the government named Justice A N Ray, who had then ruled in its favour, as the CJI, forcing three judges senior to him to resign in protest. The government's run-in with the judiciary, started with the case, finally led to imposition of national emergency on June 25, 1975, which continued for 21 months as a black mark in our democracy. During the emergency period, an unsuccessful attempt was made to review the judgement by setting up the 13-judge bench by the then CJI. However, the bench was dissolved after two days of hearing. By the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, sweeping changes, including power of Parliament to amend the Constitution, were made. However, in the case of Minerva Mills Vs Union of India, the Supreme Court struck down the efforts to establish parliamentary supremacy over the Constitution. The impact of Kesavananda case can be felt in subsequent days and years in numerous judgements. Notably, when BJP government in states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan were dismissed after Babri Masjid demolition on December 6, 1992, the top court upheld the decision of P V Narasimha Rao government, saying it was necessary to uphold the principle of secularism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kesavananda-bharati-case-shaped-future-of-india-as-a-democratic-republic-883406.html
06-09-2020||National||Ensure follow up of updated advisory allowing Covid-19 testing on-demand: Centre to states||The Centre has asked all states and Union Territories to ensure necessary follow up of its updated advisory on Covid-19 testing strategy, allowing 'testing on-demand', to achieve a higher number of examination with greater flexibility and simplicity. The 'Advisory on Strategy for Covid-19 Testing in India' (version VI) lists the scope for testing in containment zones, non-containment areas, in hospitals, and also for the first time provides for testing on-demand with simplified modalities to be decided by the states and Union territories. It also indicates the choice of testing in order of priority for each of the settings. A letter was jointly written by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava to chief secretaries and administrators highlighted that having adequate testing capacities and simplified testing protocol are important components in the management of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The country has so far conducted more than 4.66 crore tests in more than 1,600 laboratories in the country, they said in the letter, adding there has been tremendous progress in upscaling testing infrastructure both in terms of the number of laboratories and daily testing capacity. "It is a matter of great pride that for the last two days (Wednesday and Thursday), the country has been testing in excess of 11.5 lakh samples every day which is the highest daily testing average anywhere in the world," the letter stated. With this significant increase in the testing facilities and infrastructure, the need for further refinement in the existing Covid-19 testing strategy to make it more comprehensive has been felt. After due deliberations by national experts, the National Task Force on Covid-19 has formulated a reviewed and simplified advisory 'Strategy for Covid-19 testing in India'. "We are sure that with the increased levels of testing and enhanced testing infrastructure, this advisory would further encourage the states to have even higher levels of testing, covering a wide range of persons with greater flexibility and simplification. "It is requested that this advisory may kindly be disseminated to all concerned for necessary follow up at the earliest," the letter stated. The updated advisory on Covid-19 testing strategy has also allowed testing on demand for "all individuals undertaking travel to countries or Indian states mandating a negative Covid-19 test at the point of entry". It also suggested that all the people living in containment zones should be tested by rapid antigen tests, particularly in cities where there has been a widespread transmission of the infection. The ICMR also stressed that no emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of tests, and pregnant women should not be referred to another hospital for lack of testing facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-follow-up-of-updated-advisory-allowing-covid-19-testing-on-demand-centre-to-states-883411.html
06-09-2020||National||Are militants shifting base from south to north Kashmir?||After a spate of encounters in the south of Kashmir for the last five years, militants are apparently shifting base to north Kashmir with some of the deadliest attacks taking place in the frontier region in recent months. Since 2015, the counter-insurgency operations had been largely taking place in southern districts of Shopian, Pulwama, Kulgam and Anantnag which produced some of the most-wanted militant commanders like Burhan Wani, Zakir Musa and Reyaz Naikoo.  As security forces were successful in eliminating hundreds of ultras in the last five years in the south, including Wani, Musa and Naikoo, it seems the militant handlers have restrategised by shifting focus to Baramulla, Kupwara and Bandipora districts in the north which also shares a border with Pakistan. In June this year after a series of attacks and encounters in Baramulla and Kupwara, Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar had said that their focus will be shifted now to north Kashmir. Since April, militants carried out several deadly attacks on security forces in Baramulla and Kupwara districts. In a 36-hour-long encounter in Kreeri area of Baramulla, five security force personnel and three militants were killed on August 17-18. Interestingly, after the deadly encounter ended, militants released a first-ever video of the attack on the security forces which police termed as an attempt by the ultras to “glamorize terrorism.” In another deadly attack on May 3, five security personnel, including a Colonel, a Major and a sub-inspector were killed during an 18-hour anti-militancy operation in Handwara area of Kupwara. Four other deadly attacks on CRPF in recent months in Baramulla and Kupwara left several paramilitary personnel dead. On Saturday Deputy Inspector General (DIG) police of north Kashmir Sulaiman Chowdry said it seems Hizb-ul-Mujahideen is desperately trying to re-establish its base in the north. He was referring to the killing of three Hizbul militants in Pattan area of Baramulla on Friday. “These killings are an indication. However, all such designs will be foiled,” he said. A senior police officer said there is little doubt that the militants were finding south Kashmir too hot to operate in and were desperate to shift towards northern districts. “Militants are clearly shifting their activities to north Kashmir districts with two main objectives. One is their belief that shifting the focus of security forces from south Kashmir areas would ease pressure on their networks,” he said. “Secondly, militants feel that forest areas of Baramulla, Kupwara and Bandipora would provide them safer hideouts than south. Also getting weapons from Pakistan is easier in the north than south Kashmir,” the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/are-militants-shifting-base-from-south-to-north-kashmir-883415.html
06-09-2020||National||T-Series serves legal notice to social video apps for copyright infringement||Music company T-Series has issued notices to many social video platforms, including Bolo Indya, Mitron, MX Player's Takatak, Triller and Josh, for copyright violations and warned them against using the work of the company on their platforms in any form. The Super Cassettes Industries Private Limited, which operates under the brand name T-Series, has asked each of these short-video platforms to pay around Rs 3.5 crore in damage and "render accounts of all revenues illegally earned" by the platforms from the copyrighted content, as per infringement notice. The company has also served notice to Chinese app Snack Video which is operational in India and filed a lawsuit against short-video app Roposo. When contacted, T-Series-appointed Ira Law firm confirmed the issuance of notices to these platforms. Geetanjali Visvanathan, Partner at Ira Law, said legal notice to the named video apps have been served and a lawsuit against Roposo has been filed but did not make any further comments. Bolo Indya in response to an e-mail query sent by PTI said it does not offer audio and video library as a feature to users as of date and thus there is no base for any breach of music rights. "We are a UGC (user-generated content) platform and due to the ban of Chinese applications, a lot of content creators started to upload those videos which they created on those apps. These videos weren't created on our platform and any such video reported from time to time, where any possible breach of IPR is there, is immediately removed from the platform," Bolo Indya founder Varun Saxena said. He said that his firm always requests music companies to work collaboratively with it like they do with YouTube and report any copyrighted content. "When in future we will launch audio library as a function, we will work in a very collaborative manner with all the leading music companies as we respect their rights and are committed to build a cohesive and strongly synergetic environment of all Indian companies growing together," Saxena said. Triller declined to comment on the matter and other companies did not revert to the query sent to them in this regard. The demand for new video-based social media apps rose in the country after the government banned popular Chinese apps Tiktok, Helo, Likee, Bigo Live etc. T-Series said that its proprietary repertoire comprises over 40,000 videos and more than 1.5 lakh songs, accounting for more than 20,000 hours of music available in various languages including Hindi, Punjabi, Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, and Bhojpuri etc. The music and entertainment company said most of the major global internet giants such as Facebook, Amazon, etc, and top mobile application owners such as Amazon Prime, Amazon Music, Gaana, Saavn, Wynk, Spotify, etc, have already taken licences from T-Series for use of its copyrighted content.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/t-series-serves-legal-notice-to-social-video-apps-for-copyright-infringement-883418.html
06-09-2020||National||UP Congress trying to win young voters through quiz competition on Rajiv Gandhi||The Uttar Pradesh unit of Congress has decided to rope in young voters as its followers through a quiz competition on former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, a party spokesperson said on Sunday. The quiz competition on Gandhi’s personality and achievements will be held online on September 13 and 14, he said. "The preparation for the quiz competition will enable participants to know more about the personality and achievements of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. The competition is meant for youngsters in the age group of 16-22 years, and till now over 5 lakh aspirants have registered themselves for the competition," UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh told PTI. He added that all the frontal organisations of the party have been given responsibility for this. "We are expecting more than 20 lakh youths to participate in the competition," he said. Singh said after the quiz competition, the party will establish communication with them. When asked to explain the rationale behind the quiz competition, Singh said, "Party leadership is of the view that youths should come forward. Thanks to the bad policies of the BJP government, the youths are envisaging a dark future in the current circumstances."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-congress-trying-to-win-young-voters-through-quiz-competition-on-rajiv-gandhi-883422.html
06-09-2020||National||60% respondents favour availing ‘Digital Health ID’ but don’t want to share personal data: Survey||Around 60 per cent of respondents favoured availing ‘Digital Health ID' to be created under the Centre's National Digital Health Mission, but do not want to share sensitive personal data beyond health and medical records, a recent survey said. The survey was conducted by LocalCircles, a community social media platform. According to the survey, 59 per cent of respondents said they want to avail‘Digital Health ID' under the Digital Health Mission programme, but do not want to share sensitive personal data beyond health and medical records. It said 23 per cent respondents supported creating the health ID, saying it could help in faster access to healthcare. While 18 per cent said it should not be created as it could lead to personal sensitive data getting compromised. Around 9,000 people responded to the question on whether Digital Health ID should be created under the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), it said. The social media platform received around 34,000 responses on four questions related to the draft National Health Data Management Policy, which proposes to create Digital Health IDs for all Indians. “Around 8,600 responses were received on a question on how and where their digital health ID data should be stored to which 57 per cent said the data storage should only be done for health information and the same be done at central level. They also said that authorisation should be required for its use by any health facility,” the survey said. When asked about making aggregate or anonymised data of people available for the purpose of research or promotion of diagnostic solutions, to external agencies, 48 per cent respondents said they do not approve of it, while 45 per cent said they were ‘okay’ with it and 6 per cent were unsure. Akshay Gupta, General Manager, LocalCircles said the survey results will be submitted to key stakeholders associated with the Digital Health ID initiative, so that citizen inputs can be kept at the forefront as the government lays out the blueprint of the initiative. To safeguard confidential health data collected from people under NDHM, the government has proposed a framework and a set of minimum standards for data privacy protection to be followed across the board in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The National Health Authority (NHA), the central agency responsible for the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana and has been mandated to design and roll out NDHM in the country, has released the draft 'Health Data Management Policy' in the public domain. The document has been put up on the official website of NDHM seeking comments and feedback from the public. The dateline of consultation has been extended till September 21. The ambitious NDHM programme was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Independence Day speech. As per the draft proposal, everyone enrolled for the mission will get a Health ID free of cost and will have complete control over his or her individual personal data. Any personal data can be collected only on consent from the individual and people will be allowed to revoke their consent for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/60-respondents-favour-availing-digital-health-id-but-don-t-want-to-share-personal-data-survey-883425.html
06-09-2020||National||From the Newsroom: BCCI releases schedule of IPL 2020 UAE||In your evening brief, From the Newsroom, BCCI released the IPL 2020 schedule, and Mumbai Indians will battle Chennai Super Kings on September 19 in the UAE. India recorded a spike of over 90,000 coronavirus cases pushing the tally to over 41 lakhs. Rhea Chakraborty revealed Sushant Singh Rajput was a habitual marijuana smoker and Kesavananda Bharati, the chief pontiff of the Edneer Mutt situated at Kasargod in Kerala passed away. For more details on today's top stories, tune in to today's episode.  Here are the top stories of the day, September 6, 2020: The BCCI released the schedule of the 13th edition of the Indian Premier League. The tournament will begin on September 19th and will kick off with a clash between defending champions Mumbai Indians and the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings at 7:30 pm on its first day.  The tournament will be played across three locations in the United Arab Emirates- Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah.  India's coronavirus tally crossed the 41-lakh mark, with a record spike exceeding 90,000 cases in 24 hours. While over 31 lakh have recuperated, the national recovery rate stands at 77.32 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. There are over 8.5 lakh active coronavirus cases in the country, making it the second-worst hit country in the world. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said he had a "very fruitful" meeting with his Iranian counterpart Brigadier General Amir Hatami and discussed ways to bolster bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on regional security issues, including the situation in Afghanistan. Singh reached Tehran from Moscow on Saturday on a transit halt where he attended a meeting of the defence minister from Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. He also held bilateral talks with his counterparts from Russia, China and Central Asian countries. There's a development in the Sushant Singh Rajput Case, as Rhea Chakraborty was grilled by the Narcotics Control Bureau today. Showik Chakraborty, Sushant's personal staff have been questioned along with Rhea. In the interview with NCB, Rhea had denied consuming drugs but admitted that Sushant was a habitual marijuana smoker. However, conversations related to contraband drugs have surfaced on her WhatsApp chats. Rhea’s father, Lt Col Indrajit Chakraborty, a retired army officer issued a statement, it said, “Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter." Kesavananda Bharati, the chief pontiff of the Edneer Mutt situated at Kasargod in Kerala, who paved the way for the landmark Supreme Court ruling protecting the basic structure of Indian Constitution, died at the age of 79 on Sunday.  Popular for the Keshavananda Bharati vs State of Kerala case, Bharati, initiated a legal battle to protect the mutt's property. He challenged the Kerala Land Reforms Act that imposed restrictions on land holdings and provided for distributing land to the landless tillers in 1970. Three Constitutional amendments also came under the question of violating fundamental rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bcci-releases-schedule-of-ipl-2020-uae-883431.html
06-09-2020||National||Jharkhand sees 1,774 new Covid-19 cases, 7 fresh deaths||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally inched towards the 50,000-mark on Sunday with the detection of 1,774 new cases, while seven fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 462, a health bulletin said. The fresh infections have taken the state's caseload to 49,817, it said. Ranchi district reported the highest number of new cases at 656, followed by East Singhbhum (244), West Singhbhum (164) and Dhanbad (145), the bulletin said. There are now 15,025 active Covid-19 cases in the state, while 34,330 people have been cured of the disease so far, it said. The state has tested 39,777 samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-sees-1774-new-covid-19-cases-7-fresh-deaths-883433.html
06-09-2020||National||Immense self-discipline, caution exercised at places of worship during pandemic, says Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||Immense self-discipline and caution were exercised at places of worship in India during the coronavirus pandemic, setting an example for the entire world, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Sunday. He said followers of almost all religions of the world reside in India and various festivals and other auspicious occasions were observed during the coronavirus crisis. "The people of the country displayed restraint, caution, sensibility, and celebrated all the festivals taking all precautions and followed the guidelines of social distancing to help to curb the coronavirus infection," Naqvi said after paying obeisance at the Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah where he prayed for the health and well-being of the people of the country. The dargah in south Delhi opened on Sunday after over five months, but there will be no Qawwali evenings at the shrine due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The minister said all religious and social organisations displayed immense self-restraint, self-discipline and caution during the pandemic. Also, self-restraint, self-discipline and caution were exercised at places of worship in India which has set an example for the world, he said. While several places of worship have reopened, some states are yet to allow the reopening of religious places. Naqvi said the great Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin's teaching and message of peace, humanity, harmony, unity, and brotherhood break the barriers of religion, region and country. "We should carry forward his message of welfare of mankind with all honesty and sincerity. Teaching and principles of Sufi saints have played an important role in fulfilling the dream of 'Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat'," he said. Naqvi said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi led India's response to the coronavirus crisis from the front and his effective efforts have helped in mitigating the challenges posed by Covid-19 to a large extent. The steps taken by the Modi government in the healthcare sector have ensured that despite the huge population, India has been successful in containing the effects of the pandemic to a great extent which is evident from the higher recovery rate of coronavirus patients in the country, the minister said. India has not only become self-reliant in the health sector, but it has also helped other nations, he said, claiming India has turned a crisis into an opportunity. "We need to take precautions and not panic in this situation. We have to move forward with a commitment to restraint, precaution, sensibility to ensure 'Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi'," Naqvi said. Earlier in the day, Naqvi also addressed the 'Kshamapana and Vishwa Mangal Maitri Diwas' of the Jain community through video conference. While addressing the event, Naqvi said the Jain religion's philosophy is based on equality, non-violence, spiritual freedom, self-discipline which is more meaningful and purposeful even today for the entire world. The Jain religion's teaching and principles not only affect Indian culture positively but its message of 'Live and Let live' is more relevant to the entire humanity of the world, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/immense-self-discipline-caution-exercised-at-places-of-worship-during-pandemic-says-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-883449.html
06-09-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh records 10,794 fresh Covid-19 cases; tally inches closer to 5 lakh mark||The coronavirus positives increased by the new normal 10,000-plus but the number of active cases dropped below the one-lakh mark in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. With the addition of 10,794 in 24 hours ending 9 am on Sunday, the aggregate Covid-19 cases now reached 4.98 lakh just short of the five-lakh mark. The latest bulletin said 11,915 patients had recovered from the infection and walked home but another 70 succumbed in 24 hours. A total of 3.94 lakh coronavirus patients had so far been cured while 4,417 died. The number of active cases now stood at 99,689, the bulletin said. With the caseload increasing daily by thousands, the infection positivity rate shot further up to 12.13 per cent after a total of 41.07 lakh sample tests were conducted. The recovery rate too showed an improvement to 79.10 per cent while the mortality rate remained stable at 0.89 per cent, according to the bulletin. SPS Nellore district is now turning out to be the latest hotbed in the state. It reported 1,299 fresh cases in 24 hours, pushing its overall tally to 37,278. However, only 6,673 cases are active in the district. East Godavari added 1,244, West Godavari 1,101 and Prakasam 1,042 new cases in 24 hours. Chittoor and Kadapa reported more than 900 cases each and Srikakulam over 800. Anantapuramu, with 753 fresh cases, crossed 45,000 mark while Guntur, with 703 additions, went past the 40,000 mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-records-10794-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-inches-closer-to-5-lakh-mark-883460.html
06-09-2020||National||Less than 20% respondents plan to travel during festive season, says survey||The much-awaited festive season is unlikely to bring any cheers to the travel industry, including the airline sector, as less than 20 per cent of people polled plan to travel during October-November amid the pandemic, a survey said. The festive season in India falls between October and November every year during which festivals such as Dussehra, Durga Puja and Diwali are celebrated. Moreover, the majority of those having travel plans said that they do not want to make their booking till they get closer to their travel date, according to the survey conducted by online platform LocalCircles. The survey was conducted to get citizen pulse on how people in India are planning to travel in the upcoming festive season, given the current situation with Covid-19. The survey received over 25,000 responses from people located in 239 districts of India, according to the online platform. According to the health ministry data, the total coronavirus cases mounted to 41,13,811, while the death toll climbed to 70,626. "Only 19 per cent citizens (respondents of the survey) say they will undertake festive travel this year due to Covid-19. Of those who plan to travel, only 23 per cent say they will travel by a flight and another 38 per cent plan to travel by car or a cab," LocalCircles survey revealed. In the first question, citizens were asked about the kind of travel they plan to undertake in the upcoming festive season, that is between October-December, it said adding, "as many as 69 per cent respondents said that they will not be travelling this year and would stay at home." Three per cent of the respondents said they will travel to a holiday destination, while 13 per cent said they will visit family and friends, and while another 3 per cent said they will do both, as per the survey. However, 12 per cent respondents were unsure about what they would do, it said. According to LocalCircles August and September each year are the travel booking months for citizens in India with Durga Puja, Dussehra, Diwali and Chhath festival all typically falling in October-November.  People in many parts of India plan their travel back home or vacations during this time, it said adding, this year, however, looks drastically different due to the fast spreading Covid-19 pandemic, lockdowns, unlocks  and just a lot of caution amongst people, it said. Though India opened domestic air and train travel in June the daily caseload has grown by 10 times during this period, the survey said. The Unlock 4.0 came into effect on September 1 with quarantine restrictions now removed by most states, many continue to be cautious and unwilling to travel, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-20-respondents-plan-to-travel-during-festive-season-says-survey-883462.html
06-09-2020||National||Delhi Metro resumption: CISF outlines airport-like 'touch-free' security check for commuters||The CISF has planned an airport-like "contact-free" security check for the Delhi Metro and will deploy modified hand-held and doorframe metal detectors for scanning passengers, who will be required to put metallic objects such as belts and pens in their bags. The security drill changes have been outlined in the CISF’s 'business continuity plan' for the Delhi Metro which resumes its services from Monday in a "staggered" manner. Before Covid-19 struck, CISF personnel, who guard the metro network, spread over 230 stations, used to scan passengers from proximity and even touch them during security checks. The passengers were also allowed to keep their wallets and belts on the body. Officials in the paramilitary force, however, said things will change now as social distancing and other public health norms need to be strictly followed to prevent the spread of coronavirus. As per the new 'business continuity plan' prepared by the force for resumption of the metro services, the personnel will scan commuters using a hand-held metal detector which has been attached to a lean wooden stick so that there is a safe physical distance between the scanner and the passenger. The plan has been prepared to ensure the health and security of metro staff and the passengers are not compromised, and the rapid rail transport system, often called the 'life line' of Delhi-NCR, has a robust counterterror cover during the Covid-19 pandemic period. "The CISF will provide an airport-like touch-free or contact-free security service at the Delhi Metro from Monday keeping in mind the anti-coronavirus spread guidelines of the government. "Apart from enhancing the length of the hand-held metal detectors, we have also re-calibrated the doorframe metal detectors that are placed just before a commuter climbs on a small stool for their frisking," a senior officer of the force told PTI. The Central Industrial Security Force also guards the civil airports of the country and as per protocols prevalent here, its personnel do not touch a passenger with their hands or security gadgets unless necessary. Suspect airport passengers, however, are subjected to intense manual frisking and pat-down search. The Delhi Metro services were suspended on March 22 in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The operations on its 'yellow line' (Samyapur Badli to HUDA City Centre) will resume from Monday followed by other lines in a phased manner. The CISF officer added that the doorframe detectors have been recalibrated in such a manner that they will beep along that body part where it is suspected that the passenger is carrying a metallic object. As per the new procedures, passengers will be asked to put all the objects on their body including metallic ones like belts and pens in their bags and if someone does not have a bag they are supposed to keep them in their hands, he said. But unlike at airports, no plastic trays will be provided to the passengers to keep their belongings for scanning, he said. "Even after taking out all the objects, if the door-frame detector picks a beep then the passenger will again be asked to clean himself of all the items on their body and if the situation persists they will be minutely frisked by the hand-held scanner albeit from a distance and without any touch," the officer explained. The business continuity plan of the force, that has been reported earlier, had said that "contactless frisking shall be carried out of the passengers using hand-held metal detectors at a minimum distance of 2.5 cms." The officer said the passengers will be requested by on-duty CISF personnel to open and show the contents of their bags in case they find it suspicious even after making it pass through the x-ray scanner. All the force personnel on duty would be wearing masks and gloves and those who frisk will also use face shields to ensure that both the jawan and the passengers are safe, he added. Some CISF personnel will be deputed to guide passengers undertake these new drills, the officer said. "The personnel are being provided with re-usable gloves which will be replaced after a certain cycle. All the weapons used by the personnel will also be sanitised regularly," he said. Mobile and armed quick reaction teams of CISF commandos will patrol the station area and keep an eye on the operations from vantage positions, he said. As per the CISF plan, physical distancing norms will be "strictly" enforced inside the station area and a two-metre distance shall be maintained between the frisking and the line-up points and one-metre between passengers waiting at the security point. "Electronic and manual surveillance will be intensified to have close monitoring on all activities in metro premises," the plan has said. The CISF has deployed a contingent of about 10,000 men and women personnel to guard the Delhi Metro network, except the Rapid Metro in Gurgaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-metro-resumption-cisf-outlines-airport-like-touch-free-security-check-for-commuters-883465.html
06-09-2020||National||Dubai Health Authority to enhance exchange of best practices with India||The Dubai Health Authority (DHA) and India are collaborating to further enhance cooperation in the medical field amid the coronavirus pandemic as part of their constant endeavour to foster knowledge-transfer and provide high-quality care to patients. A meeting was held recently between Director-General of the DHA, Humaid Al-Qutami and the Indian Consul General, Dr Aman Puri to discuss the possible collaboration, according to a statement. The statement said the DHA and India are collaborating to further enhance cooperation in the medical field amid Covid-19. Al-Qutami highlighted the long-standing relationship between the UAE and India in several fields including the health sector, the statement said. The two also discussed ways to explore and enhance cooperation between the two countries in the medical field. Puri said that Covid-19 has reinforced the importance of collaboration between countries and health systems. He discussed collaboration opportunities and knowledge-transfer in various medical fields particularly between the DHA and National Health Authority of India. The two sides will discuss knowledge transfer, exchange of best practices and collaboration in all aspects of healthcare delivery in both countries, said the statement. On August 18, Indian health officials held a webinar to discuss public and mental health, and to explore collaborative healthcare opportunities. In December 2019, a delegation headed by Al-Qutami had visited India on an official tour. The delegation had visited several hospitals in India to explore collaborative opportunities. Specific areas of collaboration included mental health, organ transplant, medical research, cancer care, cardiology, health innovation, mental health services and geriatric services. India's Covid-19 count has crossed over 41 lakh. More than 70,000 people have died due to the infection in the country. The UAE has so far reported 73,984 cases with 388 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dubai-health-authority-to-enhance-exchange-of-best-practices-with-india-883468.html
06-09-2020||National||Delhi's peak power demand goes up by over 50% since easing of lockdown restrictions||The peak power demand of Delhi has increased by over 50 per cent with the resumption of normal activities following the easing of lockdown restrictions, discom officials said on Sunday. The peak power demand in the city has been muted this year as compared to the last year due to the lockdown and weather conditions. However, since the easing of restrictions on May 18, Delhi's peak power demand has increased by over 50 per cent. If we compare the peak power demand since April, it has already increased by over 87 per cent," a discom official said.  After the end of lockdown 3.0 on May 17 and easing of restrictions, Delhi's peak power demand started increasing and the gap narrowed, officials said. "In fact, in July and August, Delhi's peak power demand surpassed last year's peak power demand on the corresponding days on 13 occasions -- seven in July, six in August -- by up to 19 per cent," an official said. A spokesperson of the Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) said the peak demand dipped from 1,238 MW in March, when the lockdown was clamped but rose steadily with the unlock relaxations. "The peak demand dipped to 1,002 MW in the TPDDL distribution areas in April. It rose to 1,556 MW in May, 1,814 MW in June and 1,854 MW in July," he said. The cooling load is the main factor behind the increase in Delhi's power load, an official of BSES discoms BYPL and BRPL said. "Commensurate with Delhi's growing appetite for power, its electricity infrastructure must also keep pace. The BSES will continue to successfully meet the ever-increasing power demand and as always, be an active partner in the future development of the city, he said. During the lockdown, the BSES strengthened its network and energised two 66/11 KV grids that will benefit over two lakh residents of the city, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-peak-power-demand-goes-up-by-over-50-since-easing-of-lockdown-restrictions-883471.html
06-09-2020||National||Indian army contacts PLA regarding 'missing' youths from Arunachal: Kiren Rijiju||Union Sports and Youth Welfare minister Kiren Rijiju, on Sunday, said the Indian army contacted PLA of China over hotline for information regarding five youths, who reportedly went missing on Friday along the Mcmahon line in upper Subansiri district in Arunachal Pradesh. "The Indian Army has already sent hotline message to the counterpart PLA establishment at the border point in Arunachal Pradesh. A response is awaited," Rijiju tweeted replying to a query regarding updates on the five youths. Rijiju is a Lok Sabha member from Arunachal Pradesh. This comes a day after Congress MLA from Pasighat West constituency in Arunachal Pradesh, Ninong Ering tweeted that five youths had been "abducted" by PLA from a place called Sera 7, an interior place close to the border which still does not have a road and telephone connection. It takes about 10 to 12 days on foot to reach Sera 7 from Nacho, a circle headquarters in Upper Subansiri district, officials said. Prakash Ringling, brother of Prasad Ringling, one of the youths posted on Facebook, on Friday, that five persons under Nacho circle including his brother, were abducted by troops of PLA from Sera-7. He also sought help of the administration and army to bring them back. Sources said officials took the reports seriously as it emerged amid the growing tension between the troops of India and China in Ladakh. Arunachal police sought army's help and even send a team of police to verify the reports but they are yet to come back. "Police is on their job. But so far there is no update on this," Deputy commissioner of Upper Subansiri, Kanto Danggen said on Sunday. Ering, in a tweet on Sunday evening thanked Rijiju and hoped for early response from PLA. The McMahon Line demarcates the boundary between the Tibet autonomous region of China and Arunachal Pradesh, which Beijing claims as its own. The McMahon Line is not properly demarcated and small cement pillars erected on the Indian side often get covered under jungles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-contacts-pla-regarding-missing-youths-from-arunachal-kiren-rijiju-883479.html
06-09-2020||National||Bengal BJP chief says TMC workers to be beaten up with shoes, ruling party leader hits back||Political diatribe in West Bengal hit a new low on Sunday, with the BJP's state unit president Dilip Ghosh asserting that workers of the ruling party will be beaten up with shoes, and TMC MP Kalyan Bandopadhyay challenging him to put his words into action. Ghosh also alleged that a section of the state's police force was intimidating his party workers, and those involved would not be allowed to go scot-free. "The TMC will be vanquished in the 2021 Assembly elections. Its workers will be stripped on road intersections and beaten up with shoes," Ghosh said while addressing a group of party workers at Ghola in North 24 Parganas district. He accused the TMC leaders of "looting people's money to fund their children's education". "Some police personnel are working at the behest of the ruling party. I am noting everything in my diary. Those unleashing violence on BJP workers will be brought to book after the 2021 state polls," the BJP MP from Medinipur said. Claiming that law and order has "collapsed" in Bengal, Ghosh said, "Every morning, we wake up to the news of violence, and killings. Is this why people changed the government?" The TMC had given a clarion call for 'poriborton' (change) and won elections in West Bengal in 2011, defeating the CPI(M)-led Left Front's 34-year rule. Ghosh, however, claimed, "It is the BJP that is fighting to bring about a change in the state. More than 100 BJP workers have given their lives, the fight will continue until the change is brought about in Bengal." Taking exception to his remarks, TMC MP Kalyan Bandopadhyay dared Ghosh to thrash him with shoes. He also called the BJP MP "uneducated and uncultured". "If he has the guts, let him beat me first with shoes, I challenge him," the Lok Sabha MP from Serampore said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-bjp-chief-says-tmc-workers-to-be-beaten-up-with-shoes-ruling-party-leader-hits-back-883480.html
06-09-2020||National||More states, UTs join 'one nation, one ration card' initiative||In the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, more states and union territories are joining efforts to digitise the public distribution system to allow citizens access subsidised food grains anywhere in the country. The ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ initiative of the government seeks to ensure that more than 81 crore beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) get access to food grains anywhere in the country, should they choose to leave the towns and villages in search of jobs elsewhere. The initiative got a fresh push during the Covid-19 outbreak and with the Centre setting a stiff deadline of March next year to get all states and union territories onboard. In September, union territories of Ladakh and Lakshadweep joined the national portability cluster comprising 24 states and union territories. “More than 65 crore beneficiaries across 26 states and union territories that comprise 80% of the NFSA beneficiaries are now potentially enabled with the option to lift their subsidised food grains through the One Nation, One Ration Card system,” a senior Food Ministry official said. However, the challenge before the government is to convince states such as West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Chhatisgarh and Assam to join initiative. These states contend that they have better public distribution schemes than the NFSA and efforts were on get them onboard. Under the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ eligible beneficiaries can avail their entitled food grains from any fair price shop in the country using the same ration card, which is linked to the Aadhaar card. The initiative is expected to benefit migrant workers, who can avail the subsidised food grains entitled to them at their city of work, while the family can claim their entitlements in their place of residence. The Integrated Management of Public Distribution System (IM-PDS) forms the backbone of the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ initiative. The ministry is also planning to launch a mobile application that would allow migrant workers to register and avail their entitled subsidised food grains under the NFSA using the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ system. The government is also planning to set up a national helpline number to help migrant workers claim their benefits under the initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-states-uts-join-one-nation-one-ration-card-initiative-883481.html
06-09-2020||National||Govt releases draft guidelines on advertising; to treat non-legible disclaimers as misleading advertisements||The government has come out with a comprehensive set of draft guidelines on advertising under which 'disclaimers' that are not easily noticeable by or legible or easily understandable to an ordinary consumer will be treated as misleading advertisements under the Consumer Protection Act. The violation of these guidelines would face action by the recently established Central Consumer Protection Authority. The draft guidelines, on which the Consumer Affairs Ministry has sought public comments by September 18, are applicable to companies whose products or services are advertised as well as to advertisement agencies and endorsers. According to the draft guidelines, a disclaimer should be clear, prominent enough and legible. "It should be clearly visible to a normally-sighted person reading the marketing communication once, from a reasonable distance and at a reasonable speed." The disclaimers used in advertisements should be in "same language" as the claim of the advertisement, the font should be in the "same font" as the claim and place disclaimers on packaging in a "prominent and visible space". If the claim is presented as voice over (VO), then the disclaimer should be displayed in sync with the VO, it said. That apart, a disclaimer should not attempt to hide material information with respect to the claim, the omission/ absence of which is likely to make the advertisement deceptive or conceal its commercial intent. A disclaimer should not attempt to correct a misleading claim made in an advertisement, it added. The draft guidelines also specify that an advertisement should not describe a product or service as "free", "without charge" or other similar terms, if the consumer has to pay anything other than the cost while purchasing a product or service for delivery of the same. On those who endorse advertisements, the guidelines propose that they should take due care to ensure that all descriptions, claims and comparisons that they endorse or that are made in advertisements they appear in are capable of being objectively ascertained and are capable of substantiation. Endorsers should also take due care to ensure that an advert "does not convey ... express or implied representations that would be false, misleading or deceptive if made by the trader or manufacturer or advertiser of the relevant product or service." If an endorsement of a product or service is made through a testimonial, the guidelines propose that such endorsement should reflect the genuine, reasonably current opinion of the endorser, and should be based on either adequate information about or experience with the product or service being endorsed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-releases-draft-guidelines-on-advertising-to-treat-non-legible-disclaimers-as-misleading-advertisements-883485.html
06-09-2020||National||Microfinance player urges govt to curb rumours about loan waivers amid Covid-19||A microfinance player on Sunday charged that some fraudulent elements are spreading rumours about loan waivers amid the coronavirus pandemic and urged the government to take action against them. The microfinance sector has faced some new problems amidst the continuing outbreak of coronavirus and the recent lockdown caused due to it, Satya Micro Capital said in a statement. Taking advantage of the situation, some anti-social elements are misleading people by spreading rumours about loan waivers, Satya Micro Capital Managing Director and CEO Vivek Tiwari alleged. "Most of these unscrupulous groups take people for a ride by cleverly carrying out membership campaigns and collecting Rs 500-1,000 from the members in the name of carrying out fight or protest, or to launch agitation for debt forgiveness, while using the collected funds for their personal benefits. However, most of the people remain careful about their credit score and do not fall prey to anyone," Tiwari claimed. He said microfinance companies have played a significant role in tackling major issues like poverty, unemployment, lack of financial self-sufficiency, digital illiteracy, declining livelihood opportunities and the huge gap between the rich and the poor, among others. "Keeping in view the sensitivity of the issue, it has become imperative that the government must curb such fraudulent elements and take legitimate action against those who generate and encourage any kind of skepticism. "Simultaneously, it is also advisable for the government to set up a couple of grievance redressal cells for MFIs where appropriate solutions to such issues can be provided," Satya Micro Capital said in the release. Microfinance loans in India are offered comparatively at the lowest, cheapest and decreasing interest rate, the microfinance lender claimed. The average lending rate for microfinance institutions in India is around 22.5 per cent. On the other hand, small institutions are also offering their financial services at an average lending rate of 24.5-25 per cent. More than two-thirds of this rate is passed on to bank's interest and the remaining one-third goes to increased operating cost and infrastructure, while there is always scope for further reduction in this rate of interest, it added. Satya Micro Capital has operations in 22 states, including Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, according to its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/microfinance-player-urges-govt-to-curb-rumours-about-loan-waivers-amid-covid-19-883493.html
06-09-2020||National||South Western Railways to run 40 pairs of special train services from September 12||The South Western Railways has said it will run 40 pairs of special train services from September 12 on specific routes. According to a statement issued by the SWR on Saturday, these services shall be in addition to the Shramik specials and the special trains, which are already in operation. These trains will be restricted stoppages in view of the suggestions of the state government, the railways said. This besides, services of seven pairs of trains of South Western Railway shall also start with effect from September 12. These trains will operate between Bengaluru-Mysuru, Bengaluru Cantonment-Guwahati, Yesvantpur Bikaner, Mysuru Jaipur, MysuruSolapur, GorakhpurYesvantpur and KSR Bengaluru New Delhi. The Railways said all the precautionary measures will be in place such as social distancing, thermal screening and wearing of face masks by passengers will be strictly followed. The SWR said only reserved passengers will be allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south-western-railways-to-run-40-pairs-of-special-train-services-from-september-12-883498.html
06-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Focus should be on preventing deaths, rather than containment, say experts||India should focus more on preventing Covid-19 deaths in big cities rather than expanding the testing net to pick up more positive cases for containment in such urban centres, public health specialists have advised going against the government’s policy of aggressive testing. In large cities where the viral infection has spread substantially, there is no advantage of creating containment zones and aggressive testing; rather the focus should be to prevent deaths from Covid-19 and not on containing the infection, they said. This is the opinion of some of India’s leading medical researchers and public health experts belonging to Indian Public Health Association, Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine and Indian Association of Epidemiologists, who recently released their second status report on the covid-19 pandemic. The number of fresh infections broke a new record on Sunday as 90,632 new cases were registered as per the official data. The death count stands at 70,626, out of which 1065 were added in the last 24 hours. The total number of Covid-19 cases stands at 41.13 lakhs. Public health experts said that the strategy of “Test, Track, Treat and Isolate” focusing on early identification of the cases to limit their transmission to others and for effective clinical management was helpful when the epidemic was at its very early stage to avoid its foothold in the community. “For big cities with more than 50 lakh population and medium-sized cities with a population size between five lakh and 50 lakh, the current strategy of universal testing is a waste of resources as the focus should be on death aversion,” Sanghamitra Ghosh, secretary general, Indian Public Health Association told DH. Since the virus has already widely spread in the community in many geographical areas, current strategy would not serve the intended objectives, the experts reported. “Moreover, confirmed cases represent only a fraction of the total estimated cases as is indicated by sero-surveillance surveys. Hence, a greater number of tests being carried out will yield a greater number of detected cases without any benefit in reducing the deaths which should be the primary goal,” they said. The advice goes against the ICMR’s new testing strategy in which the council suggested wide-scale expansion of rapid-antigen tests and permitted on-demand testing for the citizens without any need for a medical prescription. “There is a need to re-assess the thrust on testing strategy and shift to syndromic management, especially in the high sero-prevalence states and districts for efficient management of resources,” they said, citing the examples of Japan and Sri Lanka which have one of the lowest testing rates and lowest fatality. While testing and containment were still useful for rural areas or small towns with low caseload and cities with moderate infection spread, in big cities, the health department should watch out for individuals with symptoms who should be treated following a doctor’s advice irrespective of the test results, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-focus-should-be-on-preventing-deaths-rather-than-containment-say-experts-883520.html
06-09-2020||National||Delhi records over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases||Delhi recorded 3,256 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally to over 1.91 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4567, authorities said. Twenty-nine fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours. As many as 26,829 rapid antigen tests and 9,217 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The number of Containment zones stands at 1,076. The total number of cases stands at 1,91,499, of which 1,65,973 patients have either been discharged, recovered or migrated. The number of active cases stands at 20,909.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-records-over-3000-new-covid-19-cases-883525.html
06-09-2020||National||Indian, Chinese militaries hold Brigade Commander-level interaction in eastern Ladakh||Indian and Chinese militaries on Sunday held another round of talks in eastern Ladakh in an attempt to calm tensions even as the situation remained "delicate" with both sides further rushing in additional troops and weapons following last week's confrontations, government sources said. The nearly four-hour brigade commander-level interaction near Chushul could not produce any tangible outcome, they said. The sources said the Indian Army has been on a very high level of alert and is ready to deal with any eventuality in the area. The overall situation in the region continued to be delicate, they said. Tension escalated in the region after Indian troops foiled attempts by Chinese military to occupy Indian territories in the southern bank of Pangong lake area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. Following the confrontation, India occupied a number of strategic heights in the Chushul sector overlooking crucial bases of the Chinese military. Since then, China has deployed additional troops, tanks and anti-tank guided missiles in the area. India too has strengthened its combat capabilities following reinforcements by the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA). The two sides held extensive talks on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, each lasting over six hours, but no concrete result emerged from the negotiations. In talks with his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe on Friday in Moscow, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh conveyed that China's actions like amassing a large number of troops, its aggressive behaviour and attempts to alter the status quo in Ladakh were in violation of bilateral pacts. He also told Wei that China must strictly respect the Line of Actual Control(LAC) and not make attempts to unilaterally change its status quo. Sources said that Singh told Wei firmly that India will not "cede an inch of land" and is determined to protect the integrity and sovereignty of the country at "all costs”. On Monday, the Indian Army said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. The two sides were earlier engaged in a confrontation on the northern bank of Pangong lake but it was for the first time such an incident occurred on its southern bank. There have been reports that China has deployed J-20 long-range fighter jets and several other key assets in strategically located Hotan airbase which is around 310 km from eastern Ladakh. In the last three months, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The fresh attempt by China to change the status quo in the Pangong lake area is the first major incident in the area after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. China also suffered casualties but is yet to make the details public. According to an American intelligence report, it was 35. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-militaries-hold-brigade-commander-level-interaction-in-eastern-ladakh-883529.html
06-09-2020||National||HP govt considering to provide security to Kangana Ranaut: CM||The Himachal Pradesh government is considering to provide security to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, Chief Minister Jairam Thakur said here on Sunday. Talking to reporters after a BJP legislature party meet, the chief minister said the state government is considering to provide security to Kangana for her Mumbai visit on September 9. Thakur said Kangana's sister called him on Saturday and her father too formally wrote to the Himachal police, requesting security for his daughter. The chief minister, however, refused to say anything on Kangana Ranaut's recent remarks on actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide case, stating that the matter is being investigated. He also refused to say anything on the alleged threats given by Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut to the actor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hp-govt-considering-to-provide-security-to-kangana-ranaut-cm-883531.html
06-09-2020||National||ICG pollution response ship joins firefighting onboard oil tanker off Lankan coast||A specialised Indian Coast Guard (ICG) pollution response ship, Samudra Paheredar, joined the firefighting operation onboard an oil tanker off the Sri Lankan coast on Sunday, the coast guard said. The Indian Coast Guard has launched the firefighting and pollution response operation for MT New Diamond off Sri Lanka on September 3. The Indian Coast Guard is the competent authority under the South Asian Cooperative for Environment Protection (SACEP) for coordinating pollution response in the South Region Sea Area. "Specialised ICG pollution response ship Samudra Paheredar arrived at the scene of the incident today at 0300 hours and joined the firefighting operation. The ship is equipped with an ocean boom, four oil skimmers and oil spill dispersant to handle pollution response in event of an oil slick," a statement issued by the coast guard said. "No oil spill has so far been reported and the fire is localised," it added. In the morning, Coast Guard Dornier 755 was tasked from the Mattala International Airport in Sri Lanka for an aerial recce. Another CG Dornier sortie is planned for aerial assessment, the statement said. "#Aerial reconnaissance continuing & flames still visible with smoke emanating from superstructure. Air-Dropping of Dry Chemical Powder being undertaken. #FirefightingatSea @SpokespersonMoD @DefenceMinIndia @MEAIndia @IndiainSL. "#OnSceneCommander #INSSahyadri reports fire on #MTNewDiamond under control. Aerial reconnaissance being undertaken to assess the present situation, to be followed by boarding of ship. @SpokespersonMoD @DefenceMinIndia @MEAIndia @srilanka_navy @PetroleumMin @PIB_India #MTNewDiamond," the Indian Navy said in a tweet. "#Update Fire under control. @SpokespersonMoD @DefenceMinIndia @PetroleumMin @srilanka_navy @IndiainSL," it said in a subsequent tweet. The inertness of the cargo is being maintained with sustained firefighting operations, no oil spill has been reported, the fire remains localised and the cargo hold is reported to be safe, the coast guard statement said. "Fire appears to be doused and no flame and smoke is visible. Situation is being monitored for further action," it added. Continuous boundary-cooling is in progress and no further increase in the crack or any significant change in the trim or list has been observed, the statement said. "Continuous liaison and coordination is being maintained with the Sri Lankan Navy/Coast Guard and other authorities for augmentation and effective response," it said.   ICG ships Sujay, Shaurya, Sarang and pollution response vessel Samudra Paheredar are continuously engaged in the firefighting operation on rotation, using a specialised external firefighting system, the statement said. ICG fast patrol vessels Ameya and Abheek embarked with the dry chemical powder and oil spill dispersants are maintained in a close vicinity to render assistance as required. Sri Lankan ships Samudra, Udara, SLCGS Samaraksha, SLCGS Samudra Raksha, SLN FACs P 462 and 464, along with Indian Navy's INS Sahyadri, are in the area. CG Helicopter ex-ICGS Sujay is being launched regularly for aerial assessment and planning the further course of action. Aerial recce by Sri Lankan Air Force Beachcraft and spraying of water through Bambi Bucket by Sri Lankan Air Force MI-17 are also in progress, the statement said. "Tow changed from Tug APL Winger and shifted to TTT 01. MT New Diamond is presently under tow with TTT 01. Tug Ravana, Tug Vasabha, Tug Yanel and Tug ALP Winger are continuing with the firefighting operations," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icg-pollution-response-ship-joins-firefighting-onboard-oil-tanker-off-lankan-coast-883535.html
06-09-2020||National||Moon may be rusting along poles, suggest images sent by Chandrayaan-1||Images sent by Chandrayaan-1, India's first lunar mission, suggest that the Moon may be rusting along the poles, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Sunday. Chandrayaan-1 was launched in 2008. “ISRO's maiden mission to the Moon has sent images which show that the Moon may be rusting along the poles. “The sign of this finding is that even though the surface of the Moon is known to have iron-rich rocks, it is not known for the presence of water and oxygen, which are the two elements needed to interact with iron to create rust,” said Singh, who is the Minister of State for the Department of Space.     Scientists at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) say that this could be because the Earth's atmosphere is lending a helping hand which, in other words, means that the Earth's atmosphere could be protecting the Moon as well, the statement said.  “The Chandrayaan-1 Moon data indicates that the Moon's poles are home to water, this is what the scientists are trying to decipher,” the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moon-may-be-rusting-along-poles-suggest-images-sent-by-chandrayaan-1-883564.html
06-09-2020||National||Fire onboard oil tanker off Sri Lanka's coast completely extinguished : Navy||The fire onboard an oil tanker off Sri Lanka's eastern waters has been completely extinguished, nearly 79 hours after the incident was reported, the Navy said on Sunday. The ship was carrying 270,000 metric tonnes of crude oil from Kuwait to India and caught fire on Thursday. The Sri Lankan Navy on Friday confirmed that a Filipino sailor died in the boiler explosion in the engine room of the Panama registered tanker MT New Diamond. Indian ships supported the Lankan Navy to douse the flames on the tanker off the coast of Sangamankanda in the eastern district of Ampara. "Nearly 79 hours after the distress was reported, the Sri Lanka Navy and other stakeholders were able to bring the fire under control at around 3.00 pm Sunday," the Navy said in a statement. The ship was sailing 38 nautical miles off Sangamankanda Point when it caught fire with an explosion in a boiler in the ship's main engine room. The Navy said the Dry Chemical Powder (DCP) sacks tested by the Sri Lanka Air Force delivered successful results to smother the raging flames onboard. However, the Navy warned that although the fire has now been completely extinguished, there is a possibility of a recurrence of the fire due to the high temperature inside the ship and environmental influences. A team of 10 British and Netherlands experts, including salvage operations experts, assessors and a legal adviser arrived in Sri Lanka Sunday morning under the facilitation of the company that works as the commercial and technical operator of the tanker. The Sri Lanka Navy said the commercial owners of the tanker had appointed an international Singapore-based company as its salvage expert. The team of experts will make an assessment of the damage caused to the ship. Accordingly, the proceedings regarding the ship will be decided on their recommendations. ri Some 5 ships of Indian coast guard and one Indian Navy ship engaged in fire fighting, the Navy said. Further, the Sri Lanka Navy will continue to provide assistance to the distressed ship until it leaves the Sri Lanka’s Maritime Search and Rescue Region. The tanker had 23 crew members - 18 Filipinos and five Greeks. Twenty-two of the 23 member crew had been safely rescued off the tanker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-onboard-oil-tanker-off-sri-lankas-coast-completely-extinguished-navy-883565.html
06-09-2020||National||Jharkhand couple who drove 1,200km to write exam get air tickets for return journey||The 27-year-old Jharkhand man, who drove over 1,200 km on a scooter with his pregnant wife sitting pillion so that she could appear in an exam for aspiring teachers, got air tickets for their return journey from here. The tribal couple, Dhananjay Kumar (27) and his wife Soni Hembram (22), travelled on the two-wheeler from Ganta Tola village in Godda district of Jharkhand to reach Gwalior, a centre for DEd (Diploma in Education) exam, required to be cleared by those wanting to take up teaching jobs. The wish to see his wife become a schoolteacher inspired Kumar, who himself studied till class 8, to undertake the arduous journey, covering more than 1,200 km across four states, braving rains and bad roads in the midst of Covid-19-enforced lockdown. After the couple's story appeared in media, the Adani Foundation offered them air tickets for their return journey to reach their home in Jharkhand. "Dhananjay and Soni's marathon travel was a journey of survival, resilience & great optimism. We @AdaniFoundation are humbled to arrange for their comfortable return journey to Godda & thankful to the local media for bringing this inspiring story to light," the Foundation's chairperson Priti Adani said in a tweet on Saturday. Dhananjay Kumar on Sunday told PTI that Adani Foundation has provided them with air tickets from Gwalior to Ranchi for September 16. Since there is no direct flight from Gwalior to Ranchi, we will reach there via Hyderabad, he said, adding that he will reach his home in Godda district by road from Ranchi. He informed that the foundation will also arrange to send back his scooter, which he used for reaching Gwalior, to his home in Jharkhand. Kumar also said that he has received a phone call from the district administration of Godda (Jharkhand) saying that they will arrange a vehicle for them to reach home from Ranchi. Meanwhile, Gwalior's district administration has arranged the accommodation for the couple near the examination centre, he informed. So far, the couple was living about 15-km away from the centre on rented accommodation. Kumar said that the district administration has also arranged the health check-up of his pregnant wife and she was found completely healthy. The couple had mortgaged their jewellery to raise Rs 10,000 to meet their expenses to reach Gwalior. Dhananjay said that a Mumbai-based girl also deposited Rs 10,000 in his account to take back jewellery which he had mortgaged. Some people from Godda also called him promising to arrange a job for him, he said. The couple had arrived here on August 30 for DEd exam being conducted by the MP Board of Secondary Education. The examination will continue till September 11. "We started off on August 28 morning and en route stayed a night each in Muzaffarpur (Bihar) and Lucknow to reach Gwalior on our scooter," said Kumar, who was working as a cook with a caterer before he lost his job three months ago because of the lockdown. Kumar's wife Soni earlier said that I thought that it won't be possible for me to appear in this examination but after seeing my husband's determination and courage, I got ready for this long journey. "We faced a lot of trouble due to rains. I got a mild fever en route, but now everything is okay. I will apply for a teaching job in Jharkhand and I am sure I will get selected," Soni, who got married to Kumar in December last year, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-couple-who-drove-1200km-to-write-exam-get-air-tickets-for-return-journey-883569.html
06-09-2020||National||Congress to launch mega convention in Bihar with eye on polls||The Congress will launch a mega virtual convention in Bihar on Monday to reach out to the people of the state ahead of the assembly polls, a party spokesperson said. The Bihar Kranti Virtual Mahasammelan will be launched from West Champaran keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, party spokesman Vindo Rathor said on Sunday. It will be held assembly constituency-wise in each district in two phases, he said. In the first phase, it will be held in the 84 constituencies in the 19 districts of north Bihar till September 16, Rathor said. The dates for the convention in the 19 districts in south Bihar will be announced later, he said. The party's national general secretary and Bihar in-charge Shakti Singh Gohil and secretary Ajay Kapoor will address the convention from New Delhi. Screening committee chairman Avinash Pandey, MP Raj Babbar and All India Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev will also join the mega meet from Delhi, he said. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha, Congress Legislature Party leader Sadanand Singh, Bihar Congress campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Prasad Singh and a host of other leaders will participate in it from the party's state unit headquarters in Patna, Rathor said. The party's district presidents, MPs, MLAs, MLCs and other leaders will also address the convention, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-launch-mega-convention-in-bihar-with-eye-on-polls-883596.html
06-09-2020||National||Have no connection with Bhima Koregaon case, NIA trying to harass me: IISER prof||Days, after the NIA summoned IISER-Kolkata professor Partho Sarathi Ray for questioning in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence in 2018, the scientist and social activist on Sunday, said he had nothing to do with the incident and the probe agency was trying to "harass him, as has been the case with other intellectuals". Over 200 intellectuals and rights activists also criticised the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for summoning Ray in the case in an open letter, claiming that it is a "sinister attempt in the fascist regime's witch-hunt at silencing the voices of dissent and protest." The professor of Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research's (IISER) Kolkata unit said that there was no charge against him, and he had never visited the Bhima Koregaon memorial in Pune. "The agency (NIA) has summoned me as a witness in the case, under section 160 CrPC. Therefore, there are no charges against me. I have no connection with this case as I have never been to Bhima Koregaon. I wasn't even aware of the incident till I read about it in newspapers," he told PTI. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has issued a notice to Ray, who is also the convenor of Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee's (PPSC) West Bengal unit, asking him to appear for questioning in its Mumbai office on September 10 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence. The case pertains to an incident of caste violence that took place near the Bhima Koregaon war memorial on January 1, 2018, following alleged provocative speeches at Elgar Parishad conclave a day earlier. Several vehicles were torched and one person killed in the incident, triggering large scale Dalit agitation in Maharashtra. "This is nothing but a tactic to harass and intimidate me, as is being done with academics and intellectuals all over India. I am a biomedical scientist who has been involved in the battle against Covid-19. "I have also stood consistently on the side of the persecuted and disadvantaged. It is very unfortunate that I'm being harassed in this manner at this critical time," he said. The open letter written by rights activists and intellectuals said that Ray has been involved in peaceful, democratic people's movements, especially the struggle for the rights of poor and marginalised Dalits and Adivasis. His tireless work in defence of civil liberties and for the release of political prisoners is exemplary, said the letter released on Sunday. "The harassment of Dr Ray by the NIA is yet another sinister attempt in the fascist regime's witch-hunt at silencing the voices of dissent and protest. "We, the undersigned, strongly condemn this brazen assault on democratic activities and demand immediate withdrawal of NIA's menacing, threatening interrogation notice," it read. The letter was signed, among others, by historian Sumit Sarkar, actor Sabyasachi Chakroborty, human rights activist Dr Binayak Sen and advocate and CPI(M) leader Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-no-connection-with-bhima-koregaon-case-nia-trying-to-harass-me-iiser-prof-883599.html
06-09-2020||National Politics||President Kovind, PM Modi to address Governor's conference on National Education Policy||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the inaugural session of the Governors' Conference on National Education Policy on Monday. The conference titled ‘Role of NEP-2020 in Transforming Higher Education’ has been organised by the Ministry of Education and is scheduled to be attended by education ministers of all states, vice chancellors of universities and senior officials. The deliberations, to be held through video conference, are part of the ongoing consultation process for the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020) unveiled by the government last month. An official statement described the NEP-2020 as the first education policy of the 21st century which was announced after 34 years, to roll out reforms in both school and higher education. Earlier, the Ministry of Education and University Grants Commission had organized a “Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under National Education Policy-2020”, where the Prime Minister has asked officials to chart out a roadmap of implementation of the policy by the end of this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/president-kovind-pm-modi-to-address-governors-conference-on-national-education-policy-883266.html
06-09-2020||National Politics||No ban on hiring for government jobs, says Centre after Rahul Gandhi alleges freezing of govt jobs||Hours after Congress MP Rahul Gandhi raised questions on the freezing of government jobs, the Ministry of Finance clarified that there were no restrictions on filling up posts in the Government of India, on Saturday. The circular tweeted by the Ministry of Finance stated, “There is no restriction or ban on filling up of posts in Govt of India. Normal recruitments through govt agencies like Staff Selection Commission, UPSC, Rlwy Recruitment Board, etc will continue as usual without any curbs." The Department of Expenditure circular, issued on Friday, highlighted the need to curb spending amid the current economic crisis, but will not impact or curtail recruitment for government jobs. "The Dept. of Expenditure circular dated 04 Sept 2020 deals with internal procedure for creation of posts and does NOT in any way affect or curtail recruitment," the Ministry of Finance tweeted to clarify some points of the circular. The circular also adds that there will be a “ban on creation of new posts, except with the approval of Department of Expenditure, in Ministries/Departments, Attached Offices, Subordinate Offices, Statutory Bodies and Autonomous Bodies." To curtail expenditure, there will be no printing/ publishing of books, documents, etc done on imported paper. Events such as celebrations on Founder’s day, etc might be curtailed, if not avoided, the circular added. The row surfaced after Rahul Gandhi raised questions of the minimization of the government's working and it's aim on maximizing privatization. He tweeted, "Covid is just an excuse, the government’s plan is to free government offices of all permanent staff, steal the youth’s future and propel his own friends forward.” मोदी सरकार की सोच -'Minimum Govt Maximum Privatisation'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-ban-on-hiring-for-government-jobs-says-centre-after-rahul-gandhi-alleges-freezing-of-govt-jobs-883274.html
06-09-2020||National Politics||GST not a tax system, but an attack on the poor: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Sunday kept up the heat on the Modi government describing the Goods and Services Tax (GST) rolled out by it as an “absolute failure”. “GST is not a tax system, it is an attack on the poor,” Rahul said in a short video, the third in the series on the economy. Rahul has been targeting the Modi government over its handling of the economy claiming that three-pronged attack – demonetisation, faulty GST and lockdown was aimed at hurting the small and medium businesses, farmers and labourers. “NDA's GST is completely different. Four different tax slabs, up to 28%, complicated and difficult to understand. Small and medium businesses cannot pay this tax. The big companies can easily pay it by putting 5-10-15 accountants to do the job,” Rahul said. The former Congress President said it was the result of NDA’s GST that the Centre has been unable to provide GST compensation to the state governments.  GDP में ऐतिहासिक गिरावट का एक और बड़ा कारण है- मोदी सरकार का गब्बर सिंह टैक्स (GST)। इससे बहुत कुछ बर्बाद हुआ जैसे-▪️लाखों छोटे व्यापार▪️करोड़ों नौकरियाँ और युवाओं का भविष्य▪️राज्यों की आर्थिक स्थिति। GST मतलब आर्थिक सर्वनाश। “The states are unable to give money to state employees, teachers, etc. Hence this GST is an absolute failure. Not only is it unsuccessful, it is an attack on the poor and on the small and medium businesses,” he said. The sharp attack also comes ahead of the monsoon session of the Parliament when the opposition was planning to corner the government on issues such as the state of the economy, Chinese transgressions in Ladakh, the handling of the Covid-19 situation. Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram offered a six-point action plan to stimulate demand and revive the economy, with an advice to borrow money without any hesitation. “Transfer some cash to the poorest 50% of families; offer food grains to all families, those who need it will take it; increase spending on infrastructure projects; use food grain stocks to pay wages in kind and start massive public works; recapitalise banks to enable them to lend; and pay arrears of GST compensation to states,” Chidambaram said. “All the above will need money. Borrow. Do not hesitate,” the senior Congress leader said. To raise money, Chidambaram asked the government to relax the FRBM norms and borrow more this year; accelerate disinvestment; use the offer of USD 6.5 billion by IMF, WB, ADB; and as a last resort, monetise part of the deficit||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gst-not-a-tax-system-but-an-attack-on-the-poor-rahul-gandhi-883308.html
06-09-2020||National Politics||Borrow more to stimulate demand, revive economy: Chidambaram to governemnt||Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Sunday suggested the government to borrow more to help stimulate demand and revive the country's economy. The senior Congress leader also suggested some measures to raise money which include relaxing FRBM norms, accelerating disinvestment and borrowing money from global banks. As part of his measures to revive the economy, he sought transferring cash to the poorest 50 per cent of families, offering them foodgrains and increasing spending on infrastructure, besides paying arrears of GST compensation to states. "Here are some concrete steps to stimulate demand/consumption and revive the economy: Transfer some cash to the poorest 50 percent of families. Offer food grain to all families, those who need will take it. Increase spending on infrastructure projects. Use food grain stock to pay wages in kind and start massive public works. Recapitalize banks to enable them to lend and Pay the arrears of GST compensation to the States," he said on Twitter. "All of the above will need money. Borrow. Don't hesitate," he suggested. "Here are some concrete steps to raise money:  Relax the FRBM norm and borrow more this year. Accelerate disinvestment. Use the offer of USD 6.5 billion by IMF, WB, ADB etc. As a last resort, monetise part of the deficit," he tweeted. Chidambaram has been urging the government to take concrete measures to revive the economy and has called upon it to provide GST compensation to states, as promised to them at the time of GST implementation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/borrow-more-to-stimulate-demand-revive-economy-chidambaram-to-governemnt-883330.html
06-09-2020||National Politics||Nirmala Sitharaman blaming gods for failure of economy: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday alleged that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was blaming gods for failure of India's economy. In his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaks on all issues, but refuses to touch the issue of "failing economy" and related issues. Sitharaman last month said the economy has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, which is an "Act of God", and it will see a contraction in the current fiscal. "If gods are pronounced culprits, in which court should the trial be conducted?" Raut wrote, responding to Sitharaman's remarks. "From demonetisation to lockdown, the economy is completely paralysed. But the Union finance minister directly blamed gods for it. This is an insult of Hindutva. What kind of Hindutva is this?" he asked. Raut said the minister's comments did not suit India which calls itself an emerging economic superpower. He said the country's economy was crumbling even before the Covid-19 pandemic. "In the first quarter of the current financial year, the GDP has come down by 23.9 per cent and this is due to human error and careless attitude," he said. "Coronavirus pandemic and crumbled economy is god's will. Then what is the need for government and military. God will see to everything," he said. Raut said in legal terms, an act of god is a natural catastrophe which no one can prevent, such as an earthquake, a tidal wave, a volcanic eruption, a hurricane or a tornado, "Acts of god are legal excuse for delay or failure in fulfilling an obligation or to complete a construction project," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nirmala-sitharaman-blaming-gods-for-failure-of-economy-sanjay-raut-883339.html
06-09-2020||National Politics||Chhattisgarh fixes cost for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals||The Chhattisgarh government has fixed the cost of Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals in the wake of a rise in the number of coronavirus cases in the state, an official said on Sunday. Patients will have to bear the cost of treatment in the private hospitals, which have been classified in A, B and C categories in various districts, based on the medical facilities available there, he said. The order was issued on Saturday under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, the Chhattisgarh Public Health Act, 1949, and the Chhattisgarh Epidemic Diseases Covid-19 Regulations, 2020, the public relations department official said. Hospitals in major districts like Raipur, Durg, Rajnandgaon, Bilaspur, Korba and Raigarh have been listed in 'A' category, while those in Surguja, Mahasamund, Dhamtari, Kanker, Janjgir-Champa, Balodabazar-Bhatapara, Kabirdham and Bastar districts are in 'B' category. Hospitals in remaining 14 districts of the state have been placed in 'C' category, he said. The 'A' category hospitals accredited by the National Accreditation Board of Hospitals (NABH) can charge Rs 6,200 per day from moderately sick patients, Rs 12,000 per day for severely ill patients and Rs 17,000 per day for very severely ill patients, the official said. The non-NABH accredited hospitals can charge Rs 6,200, Rs 10,000 and Rs 14,000 from moderate, severe and very severely ill patients, respectively, he said. Hospitals in the 'B' category can charge 80 per cent of the rate fixed for three categories of patients in the 'A' category hospitals, while hospitals in the 'C' category can charge 60 per cent of it, he said. Violation of the order will attract punishment, the official said. The state government has also decided to provide online medical consultancy to Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and are undergoing treatment at home, at Rs 250 per day for 10 days, he said. "The decision has been taken as asymptomatic patients wanted to undergo treatment in home isolation," he said. The Covid-19 cases have been steadily rising in the state and the number is likely to go up further in near future, the official said. Till Saturday, the state reported 43,163 Covid-19 cases and 356 deaths due to the disease. As of now, there are 22,320 active Covid-19 cases in the state while 20,487 people have recovered from the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chhattisgarh-fixes-cost-for-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals-883365.html
06-09-2020||National Politics||Monsoon Session: Opposition planning joint offensive against government in Parliament||Leaders of various opposition parties are expected to meet later this week to formulate a joint floor strategy in both the houses of Parliament, they said. The Monsoon session of Parliament will commence on September 14 amid Covid-induced changes in its proceedings. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has convened a meeting of the party's strategy group on September 8, the sources said. Opposition leaders are keen that various like-minded parties should work closely with each other to take on the government in Parliament. This was expressed by Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray and JMM's Hemant Soren at a recent meeting of non-NDA chief ministers with Congress president Sonia Gandhi on JEE/NEET and GST issues. The Congress strategy group has already met once and discussed the issues to be raised during the session. Senior Congress leaders have also been asked to contact UPA allies and other like-minded parties to put up a united fight against the government, both inside and outside Parliament. TMC leader Derek O'Brien had earlier said that like-minded opposition parties will work together in Parliament and find common ground on public issues. There will be a lot of teamwork among such parties in Parliament, he had said. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on Sunday that consultations are underway for a joint opposition strategy. CPI leader D Raja also said that meetings of opposition leaders will be soon held in this regard. With tensions escalating in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control with China, the opposition will demand answers from the government on the issue. The rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases will also come up for discussion. The opposition will also raise the heat in Parliament on the row over social media giant Facebook and allegations that it is soft on ruling party members when it came to applying hate speech rules. The holding of various examinations including the NEET will also come up for discussion in Parliament. The opposition has accused the government of risking the lives of students and youths by holding the exams at a time when coronavirus cases are rising every day. Congress is also set to oppose the ordinances issued by the government in the recent past. The government has issued as many as 11 ordinances. Congress Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh, who is also the convenor of the strategy group, is learnt to have told the party leaders at the last strategy meeting about the merits and demerits of these ordinances, the sources said. The leaders of opposition parties are likely to raise the issue of doing away with the Question Hour in this session. Officials have said that there will be no question hour and private members' bills, and the Zero Hour will be restricted. The Congress leaders in both houses will be writing to the Rajya Sabha chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker seeking restoration of the Question Hour. The Congress, the sources say, will demand short duration discussions and Calling Attention Motions on issues of Chinese aggression on India at the border, the economic slowdown and the collapse of GDP to record lows, unemployment and migrants' problems, besides on grant of GST compensation to states and the Facebook controversy. Meanwhile, hectic preparations are on for the upcoming session which will be the first of its kind in Parliament's history due to unprecedented measures necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. While last-minute preparations are on including seating arrangements, security agencies are finalising plans for allowing entry to MPs, their support staff and the media. The chambers of both houses and the various galleries will be used to seat the MPs. The MPs, their support staff, Parliament and security staff, and the media will have to undergo Covid-19 tests prior to the session which will end on October 1 without a break. Except for the first day, the Rajya Sabha will sit in the morning from 9 AM to 1 PM, the Lok Sabha will sit in the evening from 3 PM to 7 PM, officials said. The Monsoon session is likely to be adjourned on the first day due to the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee, who has been the leader of both the Houses. Besides, sitting Rajya Sabha members Amar Singh and M P Veerendra Kumar, and Lok Sabha member H Vasanthakumar have died during the inter-session period. The secretariats of both the houses have already issued nine-page guidelines emphasising on safety measures during the upcoming session and urging members to wear masks, maintain a physical distance of six feet and keep hands clean.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/monsoon-session-opposition-planning-joint-offensive-against-government-in-parliament-883439.html
06-09-2020||National Politics||Expelled Uttar Pradesh Congress leaders urge Sonia Gandhi to 'rise above affinity for family' to revive party||Nine expelled Congress leaders have written to party president Sonia Gandhi, asking her to "rise above the affinity for the family (parivaar ke moh)" and run the organisation by establishing mutual trust and restoring the constitutional and democratic values. The letter from the UP veterans comes days after 23 senior Congress leaders wrote to Gandhi, saying uncertainty over the party leadership has "demoralised Congress workers". They also said over-centralisation and micro-management have always proven counter-productive. In the letter dated September 2 and addressed to Gandhi, the nine Congress leaders, including former MP Santosh Singh and former minister Satyadev Tripathi, said Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi built the Congress and the country with democratic values. But it's ironical that for sometime, the way in which the party is being run, there is confusion ('asmanjas') and depression ('avsaad') among the ordinary Congress worker, they added. "At a time, when the country's democratic values and social fabric is lying scattered, the need of the country is that Congress remain alive, dynamic and strong. You please rise above the affinity for the family, and as per traditions, restore the expression of thoughts, constitutional and democratic values, and run the organisation by establishing communication and mutual trust," the leaders urged Gandhi. Singh and Tripathi were among the 10 senior leaders who were expelled from the primary membership of the Congress on November 24 last year for six years for allegedly tarnishing the party's image and opposing its leadership's decisions at public forums.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/expelled-uttar-pradesh-congress-leaders-urge-sonia-gandhi-to-rise-above-affinity-for-family-to-revive-party-883495.html
06-09-2020||National Politics||Chirag Paswan slams Nitish Kumar ahead of LJP meet to decide ties with JD(U) in Bihar polls||The Lok Janshakti Party will hold a crucial meeting of its Bihar leaders on Monday to decide whether to fight against the JD(U) in the upcoming state assembly polls amid worsening ties between the two members of the ruling NDA. On the eve of the meeting, LJP president Chirag Paswan fired yet another salvo at JD(U) president and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, saying his decision to provide government jobs to kin of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes community members who were killed is "nothing but an election-related announcement". In a letter to the Bihar chief minister, he accused Kumar of not fulfilling earlier promises made to SCs and STs, including giving them three dismil of land. The LJP president said that "if the Nitish Kumar government was sincere", it should give jobs to a family member of all those from the communities who were killed during its 15-year rule. The LJP, whose main face is Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, and the JD(U) have been sniping at each other for months. Kumar's decision to join hands with former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Dalit leader like the Paswans with a history of targeting the LJP, has further soured their ties. While aiming at Kumar, Chirag Paswan has refrained from attacking the BJP and has even been lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi. One of the options that Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan's party, now headed by his son Chirag Paswan, may consider is to remain a part of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre but to fight outside the coalition's fold in the state, while not contesting against the saffron party, sources said. It may be noted that the LJP had in February 2005 fought against the RJD in the Bihar assembly polls, even though both regional parties were part of the Congress-led UPA government at the Centre. The LJP put up candidates against the RJD while maintaining its ties with the Congress. This had led to the formation of a hung assembly in the state, ending Lalu Prasad Yadav's RJD's 15-year rule, and another assembly poll held a few months later saw the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) and BJP alliance storming to power with their maiden majority. While BJP leaders, including its national president J P Nadda, have been insisting that all three NDA parties will fight the upcoming polls together, sources said a sense of unease has crept in, with Kumar working to strengthen his position by actively wooing leaders from the RJD and tying up with Manjhi. The JD(U) has also made it clear that it will not hold any seat-sharing talks with the LJP, as its ties have been traditionally with the BJP. The Election Commission is likely to announce the schedule for the Bihar polls sometime this month. Polls to the 243-seat assembly are likely to be held in October-November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chirag-paswan-slams-nitish-kumar-ahead-of-ljp-meet-to-decide-ties-with-jdu-in-bihar-polls-883509.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Central teams to assist Punjab, Chandigarh in strengthening containment measures, testing to reduce Covid-19 deaths||The Union Health Ministry has decided to deploy central teams in Punjab and Chandigarh to assist them in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of Covid-19 patients with an aim to reduce the mortality rate. Punjab's Covid-19 tally is 61,527, while it has 15,870 active cases as on date. The state has registered 1,808 deaths. "The testing per million figure for the state is 37,546 (India's average figure is 34593.1 at present). With 4.97 per cent, it hovers at the lower spectrum of cumulative positivity," the ministry said. The UT of Chandigarh has 2,140 active cases, while its cumulative cases stand at 5,502. Testing per million and cumulative positivity rate stand at 38,054 and 11.99 per cent, respectively. "The high-level teams will assist the state and the UT in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of COVID patients with the aim to reduce mortality and save lives," the ministry said. "They shall also guide them in effectively addressing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up," it said. The two-member teams will comprise a community medicine expert from PGIMER, Chandigarh and an epidemiologist from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). These teams shall be stationed in Punjab and Chandigarh for 10 days to provide extended guidance in managing coronavirus infection. The Centre is actively supporting the states and UTs that are seeing a sudden surge in the number of cases and those that are reporting high mortality by deputing multi-sectoral central teams. Many such teams have visited several states and UTs in the past few months. The teams interact with the field authorities to get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them. The Union Health Ministry has been engaging with several states and UTs that are witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases and high mortality in some districts during the past two days. Those states and UTs have been advised to proactively undertake comprehensive measures to break the chain of transmission of the infectious disease and lower mortality, such that it eventually dips below one per cent, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-teams-to-assist-punjab-chandigarh-in-strengthening-containment-measures-testing-to-reduce-covid-19-deaths-883303.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||CM Arvind Kejriwal kickstarts Delhi government's anti-dengue campaign||The Delhi government's 10-week anti-dengue campaign kickstarted on Sunday, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal checking his house for stagnant water. The campaign seeks to build greater awareness on prevention of vector-borne diseases in Delhi. "Honourable Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal kickstarted the anti-dengue campaign by removing the stagnant clean water at his residence. He said that like last year, two crore Delhiites will come together to make this initiative successful and ro defeat dengue," the Chief Minister's Office tweeted. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, cabinet ministers Rajendra Pal Gautam and Kailash Gahlot shared pictures and videos on Twitter as part of the campaign. Sisodia tweeted in Hindi, "Often we feel that there is not a single place in our house where there is stagnant water but if you take 10 minutes to check properly, you will find stagnant water somewhere. That's why it is important to join the #10Hafte10Baje10Minute campaign -- to protect your family from dengue @ArvindKejriwal." Kejriwal also took to social media to urge people to participate in the campaign. "Last year, two crore people of Delhi had defeated dengue. Let's start the next 10-week battle against dengue from today At 10 am, I will check my house whether there is any stagnant water. You must also. We have to defeat dengue again this time," he said in a tweet in Hindi. The campaign, which began on September 6, will continue every Sunday. The "10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute" campaign last year had garnered the support of many celebrities as well as officials of the government and other autonomous bodies. Due to this mass campaign last year, which was launched in September too, there were only 2,036 reported cases and two deaths due to dengue, as compared to 2015, when the dengue cases were 15,867 and there were 60 deaths, the government had claimed. Kejriwal had appealed to Delhi ministers, MLAs and the citizens to begin the mega campaign from their own homes and spend 10 minutes every Sunday to make sure there is no stagnant water in their homes and surroundings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-arvind-kejriwal-kickstarts-delhi-governments-anti-dengue-campaign-883309.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 patient jumps to death, third such incident at TMU hospital in Uttar Pradesh||This is the third such incident in which a coronavirus patient has jumped to death at Teerthanker Mahaveer University (TMU) hospital, they said. Last month, two Covid-19 patients -- a 28-year-old woman and a bank manager -- allegedly died by suicide at the hospital, the officials said. Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Choudhury said he has ordered a magisterial inquiry into all the three incidents of suicides in the hospital. According to police sources, head constable Diwakar Sharma was admitted to TMU hospital on Saturday after he was found Covid-19 positive. Sources said the policeman was allegedly trying to escape from the hospital but the medical staff stopped him. Later, he allegedly jumped from a window of the medical facility and died on the spot, they said. The senior superintendent of police said the constable was disturbed due to his family circumstances and got fed up after finding that he is Covid-19 positive. The mental condition of a Covid-19 patient should also be examined during treatment, the SSP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patient-jumps-to-death-third-such-incident-at-tmu-hospital-in-uttar-pradesh-883320.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Peak power demand in Delhi increases by over 50%||Peak power demand in the city has been muted this year as compared to the last year due to lockdown and weather conditions. "However, since easing of restrictions on May 18, 2020, Delhi's peak power demand has increased by over 50 per cent. If we compare the peak power demand since April 2020, it has already increased by over 87 per cent," said the DISCOM officials.  After the end of the lockdown 3.0 on May 17 and the easing of restrictions, Delhi's peak power has started increasing and the gap narrowed, they said.  "In fact, in July and August, Delhi's peak power demand surpassed last year's peak power demand on corresponding days  on 13 occasions – seven in July and six in August- by up to 19 per cent." Cooling load is the main factor behind the increase in Delhi's power load, said an official.   “Commensurate with Delhi's growing appetite for power, its electricity infrastructure must also keep pace. BSES will continue to successfully meet the ever-increasing power demand and as always, be an active partner in the future development of the city,” he said. During the lockdown, BSES strengthened its network and energised two 66/11 KV grids, that will benefit over two lakh residents in the city, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/peak-power-demand-in-delhi-increases-by-over-50-883322.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Plea in Supreme Court for investigation of Noida-based 'franchise racket'||A plea seeking investigation by multiple agencies in an alleged "franchise racket" has been filed in the Supreme Court. The petition filed by 38 individuals has alleged they have been cheated and duped by 'Westland Trade Private Limited' which floated bogus companies Hyper Supermarket, Hyper Mart etc. It has sought an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) & SFIO (Serious Fraud Investigation Office) or by a Special Investigation Team to investigate various offences including money laundering and black money hoarding by directors & beneficiaries of the company. The plea alleged that the company collected franchise fees of Rs three lakh and assured certain payouts and attracted 500 investors. However, the company defaulted in the payment during the lockdown and sent an email in May saying it was enforcing Force Majure (unforeseeable circumstances that prevent someone from fulfilling a contract) clause listed in the agreement, according to the plea. “The injury is large because under a well planned conspiracy, directors, sleeping partners and employees deceived the petitioners by fraudulently and dishonestly inducing them to deliver their hard earned money," the plea alleged. A man was arrested in Uttar Pradesh's Noida in August in connection with a 'franchise fraud' in which scores of people have been allegedly duped to the tune of around Rs 30 crore. According to police, a group of people in the National Capital Region (NCR) had floated a company, “Hypermart”, registered in Sector 63 of Noida, and five-six more such firms to target people with offer of giving them a “franchise store” of the firm in their city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-supreme-court-for-investigation-of-noida-based-franchise-racket-883334.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Massive blood donation drive in Rajasthan to mark Sachin Pilot's 43rd birthday||As former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot turns 43 on Monday, his supporters plan to celebrate his birthday in a novel way -- organising blood donation camps across the state with an aim to set a record in collecting units of blood. Pilot has himself appealed to people to not come to Jaipur and crowd in times of the Covid-19 pandemic, asking party workers and supporters to come forward and donate blood instead. Though the drive comes as a gesture of social service to mark his birthday, it is also seen by many as political messaging conveying that Pilot still enjoys the support of party cadres and youngsters throughout the state despite not being the Rajasthan Congress chief and deputy chief minister after he rebelled against Ashok Gehlot's leadership. The political standoff in the state was resolved last month after the former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi met Pilot in the national capital and a three-member AICC panel was formed to look into issues raised by him. Pilot's supporters aim to carry out blood donation camps in all the 200 assembly segments of Rajasthan and create a record by collecting thousands of units of blood. "I have made an appeal to everyone to not congregate in Jaipur in order to wish or greet me on my birthday on the 7th of September. The health and safety of the people is of paramount importance and we all have to follow the protocol and guidelines issued by the authorities," he said in a statement ahead of his birthday. As hospitals and blood banks are facing shortages of minimum reserves because the number of donors has reduced drastically in the recent months due to the fear of coronavirus, it will be helpful if party workers and volunteers come forward and donate blood in these challenging times, he said. "That would be a humane gesture and will be a great service in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by helping all those in need. The support and affection of the people of Rajasthan has been a great source of strength for me in my public life and I am thankful for the blessings I have received," Pilot said. Mahesh Sharma, Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary, said blood donation camps will be organised in all 200 assembly segments and nearly 450 locations have already been finalised where the camps will be set up. "Pilot ji himself has said that all Covid-19 protocols must be followed and people should not come to wish him in Jaipur. He has said that tree plantation and blood donation would be the best idea if they want to celebrate his birthday staying wherever they are," he said. Sharma said youngsters and supporters of Pilot are determined to set a record in collection of units of blood. Asked about reports of Pilot supporters aiming to set a record by collecting 43,000 units of blood, six-time MLA Hemaram Chaudhary said there is tremendous enthusiasm among youngsters and it seems that the target set by them will be achieved comfortably. He said that in several places so many people have already come forward for joining the blood donation drive that it may exceed the capacity of blood banks. Cooperative Minister Udailal Anjana also said that there was enthusiasm among party workers for Pilot's birthday and it could be seen in various hoardings put up across the state, wishing Pilot on his birthday. Pilot will also be doing a live session on his social media platforms where people will be able to connect with him personally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/massive-blood-donation-drive-in-rajasthan-to-mark-sachin-pilots-43rd-birthday-883341.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Man held for attempting to rape six-year-old||A middle-aged man allegedly attempted to rape a six-year-old girl in a village here, police said on Sunday. The incident was reported in Titawi area and the accused has been arrested, they said. According to the complaint lodged in the case, the accused took the girl near a garden and tried to rape her, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-attempting-to-rape-six-year-old-883356.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Security forces recover bodies of two local militants from river in Jammu and Kashmir's Bandipora||Security forces have recovered the bodies of two local militants who drowned in a river while trying to cross the Line of Control (LoC) in Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Sunday. Police along with the Army recovered the two bodies, besides arms and ammunition, from the Kishanganga river in Tulail area of Gurez sector in north Kashmir on Saturday, a police official said. He said the bodies were shifted to Gurez hospital for medical and legal formalities. Incriminating material, including four AK-47 magazines, 115 AK-47 rounds, 17 pistol-9mm rounds, a hand grenade, a wireless set, four wrist watches, a pouch, a jacket and matrix sheets, the official said. He said as per the documents recovered, one of them has been identified as Sameer Ahmad Dar, a resident of Dogripora area of south Kashmir's Pulwama district. "As per police records, he was missing since May 2018 and had joined proscribed terror outfit HM (Hizbul Mujahideen) after crossing the LoC. While the identity of the other deceased is being ascertained, and their families have been called for their identification," the official said.  He said the preliminary investigation revealed both of them were local militants and were active across the border. "In a bid to infiltrate back onto this side, both of them have died due to drowning while crossing the river," he said. A case has been registered and further investigation is underway, the official added. Meanwhile, the security forces have recovered a M-4 rifle from the site of an encounter with militants in Kupwara district of north Kashmir, the police official said. He said the security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in the forest area of Dana Behak Hemli Top in Warnow Kupwara on Saturday after specific inputs about the presence of militants there. During the search operation, the hiding militants opened fire at the search party of the forces, which was retaliated leading to an encounter, the official said. He said some incriminating material, including one M-4 rifle and two rucksacks, have been recovered from the encounter site. The search operation is underway, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-recover-bodies-of-two-local-militants-from-river-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-bandipora-883372.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Normal rainfall in Rajasthan so far this monsoon||Rajasthan has recorded normal rainfall during the monsoon season so far with 17 of its 33 districts falling under the normal rainfall category, according to a report of the state water resources department. The state recorded 474.37 mm rains from June 1 to September 5, which is 2.3 per cent more than the average rainfall of 463.67 mm, the report said. Last year, during this period, the rainfall in the state was 6.94 per cent more than the average. Apart from 17 districts which received normal rainfall, nine received excess rainfall (20 per cent to 59 per cent of the average), six are under deficit rainfall category (-20 per cent to -59 per cent of the average) and one falls under abnormal rainfall (60 per cent or more) category, according to the report. Jaislmer district in Western Rajasthan, which is mainly a desert area, received the highest rainfall of this season, whereas Ganganagar, which shares border with Jaisalmer, recorded the lowest rainfall this year with 31 per cent deficit, it said. With 272.83 mm, which is 87.9 per cent more than the average rainfall, Jaisalmer is the only district where abnormal rains occurred this year, the report said. Few areas of the district, including Ramgarh, are facing flood like situation for the last two days due and several people have been shifted to safer places. Barring Jodhpur division, which received excess rainfall, rest six divisions of Ajmer, Kota, Jaipur, Bikaner, Udaipur and Bharatpur recorded normal rainfall, the report said. The district which recorded excess rainfall are Banswara, Barmer, Churu, Dungarpur, Jalore, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Rajsamand and Udaipur, it said. Alwar, Bundi, Dholpur, Ganganagar, Kota and Tonk have received deficit rains, according to the report. Ajmer, Baran, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Dausa, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Pali, Pratapgarh, Sawaimadhopur, Sikar and Sirohi are under the normal rainfall category, it said. There was no district with scanty rainfall (-60 per cent or less rainfall) this year. The report also said 119 out of the total 742 dams are completely filled, 390 are partially filled and 233 are still empty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/normal-rainfall-in-rajasthan-so-far-this-monsoon-883376.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||To curb suicidal tendencies, Madhya Pradesh hospital sets up patient-kin meet||The Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College and Hospital (NSCBMCH) in Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh has established live interaction with families to curb depression and suicidal tendencies among Covid-19 patients. The experiment began after two coronavirus positive patients tried to kill themselves at the state-run facility. "Since September 1, we are allowing the patients to meet their family members to do away or minimize depression which they undergo during treatment," NSCBMCH Dean Dr PK Kasar told PTI on Sunday. "A glass partition with a hole that separates patients from kin is in place for the interaction. Already, more than ten patients have talked to their families. We are studying patient behaviour and pros and cons of the interaction," the dean added. On September 4, a 65-year-old patient had committed suicide, though he had met with his family before he took the extreme step, said Kasar. "Our staffers have also averted two suicide bids in August. This made us sit up and give serious thought to this issue. We roped in psychiatrists to talk and comfort these patients. We then started arranging such interactions following all protocols in place to stem the outbreak," he said. Currently, 260 people are undergoing treatment for the infection at NSCBMCH, Kasar informed. As on Saturday, the district has 1,139 active cases, while 96 people have died of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/to-curb-suicidal-tendencies-madhya-pradesh-hospital-sets-up-patient-kin-meet-883379.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Kejriwal kickstarts Delhi govt's anti-dengue campaign||The Delhi government's 10-week anti-dengue campaign commenced on Sunday, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal inspecting his house for any signs of stagnant clean water and draining it. The '10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute' campaign seeks to build awareness about prevention of vector-borne diseases. Kejriwal said that like last time, two crore people of Delhi will join hands and work together to fight against dengue.  "The rainy season is here again, and it is the first week of September. We all know that at this point, the breeding of mosquitoes that spread dengue is at a peak. We have to save ourselves and our family from dengue," he said. Last year, Delhi participated in a massive campaign against dengue, '10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute - Har Ravivar, Dengue Par Vaar' and this year, we will do that again, he added. Citing numbers, he said that last year, there were only 1,400-1,500 dengue cases in Delhi, which was a "big achievement for us because this number was around 14,000-15,000 a few years back". "Like last year, today is the first Sunday, and for the next 10 Sundays, please spend 10 minutes to inspect your homes for stagnant clean water at 10 am. Please drain the standing water and replace it," he urged people. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, cabinet ministers Rajendra Pal Gautam and Kailash Gahlot shared pictures and videos on Twitter as part of the campaign. Sisodia tweeted in Hindi, "Often we feel that there is not a single place in our house where there is stagnant water but if you take 10 minutes to check properly, you will find stagnant water somewhere. That's why it is important to join the #10Hafte10Baje10Minute campaign - to protect your family from dengue @ArvindKejriwal." Kejriwal also tweeted about kick-starting the campaign. "The people of Delhi have once again started a war against dengue. On the first Sunday of this 10-week massive campaign, I have also changed the clean water accumulated in my house and eliminated the possibility of mosquito-borne diseases," he tweeted. He also asked people to check their homes for just 10 minutes for the next 10 weeks, every Sunday at 10 am. "Along with saving our families from dengue, we have to save Delhi from dengue. I am sure the people of Delhi will defeat dengue this time as well," he tweeted. Last year, through the '10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute' campaign, which was launched in September last year, there were only 2,036 cases in Delhi and two deaths due to dengue, as compared to 2015, when the dengue cases were 15,867 and there were 60 deaths, a statement from the government said. The campaign also garnered the support of many celebrities as well as officials of the government and other autonomous bodies, it said. Under the campaign, citizens must inspect their homes for any possible sources of stagnant clean water, which can lead to the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes that spread vector-borne diseases like dengue, malaria, and Chikungunya.  Kejriwal has appealed to the ministers, MLAs, and the citizens to begin the mega campaign from their own homes and spend 10 minutes every Sunday to make sure there is no stagnant water in their homes and surroundings. After the first week of the launch of the flagship programme, a doctor will share advises on the dos and don'ts to prevent dengue in the second week, the statement said.  The campaign also seeks to engage the residents to pick up their phones and call 10 of their friends or relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue, it said. The Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) will be asked to come together and help in the fight against dengue and promote the campaign.  Many celebrities and social media influencers will also take part in the campaign by recording a video of themselves on following the good practices advised during the campaign and subsequently sharing it through their social media channels, the statement said. At various stages, children will be encouraged to take part in the campaign by assigning them homework on behalf of the schools and asking them to call their friends to encourage them to take part in the campaign as well, it said. Neighbourhoods will be encouraged to follow the good practices of preventing dengue and promote them in their surrounding areas, it said. Offices will be encouraged to follow the good practices of preventing dengue and promote them in their offices and surrounding areas, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-kickstarts-delhi-govts-anti-dengue-campaign-883405.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||February riots: Delhi police arrest man who shot dead law student in Shiv Vihar||The Delhi police crime branch team probing the February riots said Sunday that a man, who carried a reward of Rs. 1 lakh on his arrest for allegedly killing a 26-year-old law student near a school in Northeast Delhi, has been arrested. Mustaqeem, 25, alias Sameer Saifi, a resident old Mustafabad, who allegedly shot dead Rahul Solanki near Rajdhani Public School in Shiv Vihar on February 24, was arrested by a special investigation team on September 3, police said. He has been sent to judicial custody, they said. Mustaqeem joined the protest against CAA and NRC near Farukia Masjid, they added. Solanki was pursuing LLB from a private college in Ghaziabad and had stepped out of his home to buy milk when he was killed. The SIT has arrested seven other accused -- Arif, Anis, Sirajuddin, Salman, Sonu, Saifi and Irshad -- in the Solanki case and they have been charge-sheeted for actively participating in the riots with a common objective to cause death, burn properties on February 24, police said. Solanki was shot dead near Rajdhani Public School and a case was registered at Dayalpur police station. Later, the investigation was handed over to the SIT. During the investigation, eyewitnesses described the person who opened fire on Solanki. They identified the accused from his clothes and appearance after they were shown a video of the incident, a senior police officer said. "We had deployed our sources in Mustafabad to identify the alleged shooter on the basis of his description. Our team questioned hundreds from the area and verified their presence at the spot through physical and technical means. But we did not find any information. After six months, on September 3, one of our sources informed us and he was apprehended from Bhajanpura Majar," the officer said. Mustaqeem denied his involvement Initially but accepted after detailed questioning, he said. The country-made pistol used in the crime was recovered along with five live cartridges at his instance. A mobile phone and the clothes, including the jeans pant, shoes and helmet, which he was wearing at the time of committing the crime have also been found, police said. Mustaqeem studied up to class 10 but dropped out to work as a carpenter, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/february-riots-delhi-police-arrest-man-who-shot-dead-law-student-in-shiv-vihar-883407.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Congress' Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda tests Covid-19 positive||Congress' Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The 42-year-old, who is the lone opposition MP from Haryana, is currently in Delhi. "My Corona# Covid19 report has returned positive. As per the advice of doctors, other tests are being conducted," Deepender tweeted. Deepender, who is the son of former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, in his tweet added that "with the prayers of all of you, I will recover soon..” He asked people who may have come in his contact during the past few days to isolate themselves and get tested. Deepender had recently toured the Baroda assembly constituency in Sonipat district in view of the upcoming bypoll.  The by-election has been necessitated after the death of Congress legislator Shri Krishan Hooda in April. Other parliamentarians from Haryana who recently contracted Covid-19 are Union Minister of State Krishan Pal Gurjar (Faridabad), Sanjay Bhatia (Karnal), Brijendra Singh (Hisar) and Nayab Singh Saini (Kurukshetra). All of them are BJP Lok Sabha MPs. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had also tested positive for the disease. His Cabinet colleagues Ranjit Singh Chautala, J P Dalal, Mool Chand Sharma and Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta were among some legislators who have contracted the infection recently. The state currently has over nearly 75,000 Covid-19 cases and over 780 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-rajya-sabha-mp-deepender-hooda-tests-covid-19-positive-883408.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Three-time former MLA Nirvendra Kumar Mishra lynched in Uttar Pradesh||In a shocking incident, a three-time former Uttar Pradesh lawmaker was allegedly lynched following a dispute over property in the state's Lakhimpur Kheri district, about 150 kilometres from here, on Sunday. The son of the MLA also suffered serious injuries while trying to save the latter and was admitted to the hospital. According to the police sources here, Nirvendra Kumar Mishra, a three time independent MLA from Nighasan assembly constituency in the district, was attacked by armed miscreants, when he tried to stop them from taking possession of a piece of land near Trikolia Bus stand in the district. There was a dispute between Mishra and one Sameer Gupta over the land and the matter was currently sub-judice. Sources said that the miscreants hit septuagenarian ex-MLA with rods and sticks. His son was also attacked, when he tried to rescue his father. Mishra, who sustained serious injuries, was rushed to the hospital but was declared dead by the doctors. Police, however, claimed that Mishra suffered a heart attack after falling down during the scuffle. Mishra's son rejected the police claim and said that his father was beaten to death. An irate mob, comprising supporters of the ex-MLA, later blocked traffic on the main highway demanding arrest of the culprits. Tension prevailed in the area, sources said. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav condemned the killing of the former MLA and said that no one was safe in the BJP regime in the state. UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Laloo said that there was no law and order in the state. It was the second case of mob lynching in the state in the past three days. Earlier a Muslim youth was lynched over suspicion of theft by a frenzied mob in UP's Bareilly district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-time-former-mla-nirvendra-kumar-mishra-lynched-in-uttar-pradesh-883409.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: 80% rise in home isolation cases; over 65% jump in containment zones count in Delhi||There has been a rise of 80 per cent in the number of home isolation cases of Covid-19 in the national capital in the last 16 days, and parallely the containment zones count too has spiralled up to 976 over the same period, according to official data. Amid steady rise in fresh and active coronavirus cases in the last several days, the number of people in home isolation here on Saturday reached the five-figure mark again after over a month’s time. The number of home isolation cases of Covid-19 on September 5 stood at 10,514. The corresponding figure a day before was 9,822, according to the Delhi health department. On August 21, the home isolation cases count was 5,818, so from that date, the rise is of 80 per cent in 16 days. Parallely, the number of containment zones too have multiplied from 589 on August 21 to 976 on September 5, according to official figures. The Delhi government had been laying a lot of emphasis on home isolation, especially for asymptomatic patients as part of its Covid-19 management strategy in the past several months. Medical experts have flagged that asymptomatic patients who may not have been tested, and roaming around in the open, could be one of the factors leading to rise in fresh cases in last one week or so. Delhi recorded 2,973 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike in 71 days, as the tally in the city mounted to over 1.88 lakh, even as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asserted that the situation in the city was completely under control. This was the fifth successive day in September when over 2,000 new cases have been reported in a day. Also, over 38,000 tests were conducted on Saturday. Twenty-five fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,538, according to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department on Saturday. The active cases tally on Saturday rose to 19,870 from 18,842 the previous day. The national capital had seen a huge surge in cases in June and on June 23, it had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947, till date. On June 26, the city had recorded 3,460 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike before September 5. The home isolation figures on July 1 stood at 16,703 with 437 containment zones marked in the city. On July 31, while the home isolation cases count had come down to 5,763, the containment zones had risen to 692, according to official data. On August 3, the number of Covid-19 patients under home isolation, and containment zones count, both came down to 5,577 and 496, respectively. Since, last week of August, the number of home isolation cases and containment zones count, both have been steadily increasing. On August 25, there were 5,949 home isolation cases and 654 containment zones or localised areas from where infections were reported. It rose to 6,850 with 763 zones on August 28; and then to 7,876 home isolation cases with 833 containment zones on August 31; and 8,407 home quarantined cases with 894 zones on September 2. On September 5, the home isolation cases jumped to 9,822 while the containment zones count stood at 946. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported from August 30-September 5 in that order are: 14,389 tests (1,358 cases); 20,437 (2,024); 24,198 (2,312); 28,835 (2,509); 32,834 (2,737); 36,219 (2,914) and 38,895 tests (2,973 cases). The positivity rate on Saturday stood at 7.6 per cent while the recovery rate was over 87 per cent, as per the bulletin. According to the bulletin, 1,63,785 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. The first COVID-19 case in Delhi was reported on March 1. In the last week of March, a nationwide lockdown was imposed in view of the Covid-19 situation across the country. While the economy has slowly been allowed to reopen since June, there has been an increase in cases in Delhi since Unlock 1.0. Medical experts have conjectured that the rise in number of cases in the national capital in the last few days, could be attributed to patients from outside Delhi coming here to seek treatment, reopening of the economy and many people not wearing masks in public or observing social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-80-rise-in-home-isolation-cases-over-65-jump-in-containment-zones-count-in-delhi-883458.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Highest single-day spike of 1,316 Covid-19 cases in J&K, tally rises to 43,557; 14 more die in UT||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike of 1,316 fresh Covid-19 cases, raising the tally to 43,557, while 14 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 784, officials said. "There were 1,316 new cases of coronavirus in the past 24 hours. This is for the fourth time in as many days that the number of fresh cases has crossed 1,000 in a 24-hour period, while it is also the highest single-day spike in the union territory so far," they said. Among the new cases, 668 were from the Jammu region and 648 from the Kashmir Valley, the officials said. Jammu district reported the highest number of 451 new cases, followed by 185 in Srinagar district, they said. Jammu on Saturday had became the first district in the union territory to have recorded more than 500 positive cases in a single day. There are 10,446 active coronavirus cases in the UT now, while 32,327 patients have recovered, the officials said. As many as 14 persons infected with coronavirus died in Jammu and Kashmir in the past 24 hours till 5.00 pm on Sunday. The deaths included seven each in the Jammu region and the Kashmir valley, they said. The death toll in the union territory has reached 784.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/highest-single-day-spike-of-1316-covid-19-cases-in-jk-tally-rises-to-43557-14-more-die-in-ut-883474.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Govt teacher killed during scuffle over land dispute in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||A government school headmaster was killed on Sunday during a scuffle with his neighbours over a land dispute in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, police said. Mohammad Younis, 52, was hit on the head during the scuffle at village Qasba, they said. Police have registered a case and arrested two persons so far. The body was handed over to his family for last rites after completion of legal formalities, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-teacher-killed-during-scuffle-over-land-dispute-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-883478.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah reopens for devotees||The famous Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah, which was closed over five months ago after the outbreak of the coronavirus, opened for devotees on Sunday, with a "moderate" number of people visiting the shrine to pay obeisance to the Sufi saint. Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi was among the people who paid obeisance to Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia on the first of the reopening of the shrine, caretakers of the dargah said. The minister appreciated measures taken by the shrine to protect the devotee from the coronavirus disease, they said. The graves of Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia and Amir Khusro in the dargah complex have been covered from all sides with plastic sheets "so that people do not touch them while paying obeisance, as it could lead to people getting infected with the virus," Nazim Nizami, one of the caretakers of the shrine, said. Qawwali evenings devoted to the Sufi saint have been suspended for the time being to avoid gatherings in the shrine's courtyard. "We were able to manage well the devotees who turned up in moderate numbers on the first day of the opening of the dargah. The number of devotees was more in the morning hours and it reduced in the afternoon, and again increased in the evening," Nizami said. People adhered to various safety measures like use of sanitisers and face covers as well as social distancing, he said. There were separate entry and exit gates for devotees, and markings were made on the floor to ensure social distancing by them, Nizami said. "The Qawwali evenings, which are hugely famous among followers of the Sufi saint, have been suspended for the time being. We are not allowing people to sit in the courtyard of the dargah, as they used to do before, and (asking them to) leave after paying obeisance," he said. Nizami said that crowd management at the shrine will be further improved after assessing footfall in the coming days. The dargah located in the Hazarat Nizamuddin area of south Delhi was closed with the announcement of the lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak in March. Under the 'Unlock' process, religious places in Delhi started opening after June 8, but the dargah remained closed due to increase in Covid-19 cases, caretakers of the shrine said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-hazrat-nizamuddin-dargah-reopens-for-devotees-883488.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Health ministry lauds UP govt's Covid command centres' role in pandemic management||Many states and Union territories have designed innovative measures to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, with the Uttar Pradesh government setting up integrated Covid control and command centres in every district as well as the state headquarters with representation of all relevant departments to address the rising number of positive cases, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. These integrated Covid control and command centres were set up on July 18. These centres are primarily for ensuring an effective coordination among the relevant departments for non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs), the ministry said in a statement. They also facilitate a prompt referral of Covid-19 patients to the appropriate level of dedicated Covid facilities, it added. The centres coordinate with the zonal units to ensure a prompt testing of the symptomatic patients and contacts, intimation of the laboratory status, facilitation of transport and facility allocation in case of admission, besides a regular follow-up of the cases in home isolation. Uttar Pradesh has also developed a Unified State Covid Portal: upCovid19tracks.in. It captures all information related to surveillance, testing and treatment of Covid patients, the ministry said. Regular trainings are being provided to ensure quality of data and data management at the district level. Since its development, the portal has further evolved with more understanding of the disease and interventions and feedback from the users at the state and district levels. Availability of digitalised data has facilitated decentralised as well as granular analysis for prompt decision-making and response. The portal has also benefitted through interoperability with the Government of India portal. The Uttar Pradesh government has also procured 1,000 high-flow nasal canula (HFNCs) from the state funds. Half of those have been installed and are being utilised for non-invasive management of the patients in the state. As the pandemic enters the ninth month in India, the Centre has steadfastly led the response and management strategy for Covid-19 with a sharp focus on the management of the pandemic in the states and Union territories, the ministry said. "The state and UT governments have, in close coordination and integral collaboration, implemented the Centre-led policies and interventions. Many have also designed customised innovative measures to fight the pandemic. These are being emulated by others, thereby facilitating a wider implementation of regional ideas and best practices," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/health-ministry-lauds-up-govts-covid-command-centres-role-in-pandemic-management-883494.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||North East Delhi’s anti-CAA riots outcome of well-hatched conspiracy of accused: Court||A Delhi court has said the February 24 anti-CAA riots in North East Delhi, involving the murder of a head constable of the city police, was an outcome of a well-hatched conspiracy among rioters. Delhi Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purushottam Pathak made this observation while taking cognisance of the charge sheet filed by the city police against 17 accused involved in the murder of Head Constable Ratan Lal during the riots in Chand Bagh area of North East Delhi. "From the statements of witnesses and the charge sheet, it was prima facie revealed that the riots dated February 24 wherein one police official was murdered, several police officials and public persons were injured and several properties were burnt and destroyed, was an outcome of a well-hatched conspiracy amongst the accused persons. "They planned the manner of committing riots, murder and other offences as alleged and they were instrumental in gathering of unlawful assembly at Chand Bagh in conspiracy with each other having common intention and unlawful object," the court said. While taking cognisance of the charge sheet, indicting the accused persons on 17 counts of various penal offences, ranging from rioting and unlawful assembly to murder and attempt to murder, the court, however, did not take cognisance of the offence of promoting hatred between people of different religions. The court did not take note of the offence under section 153-A due to the Delhi police's failure to get the mandatory sanction for the prosecution of accused on charges of triggering hatred between different communities. The court took cognisance of the charge sheet on September 1 and ordered all 17 accused to appear before it on September 10. The 17 accused who were ordered to appear before the court are Mohd Saleem Khan, Salim Malik, Mohd Jalaluddin, Arif, Mohd Ayub, Mohd Yunus, Mohd Danish, Shahnawaz, Ibrahim, Furqan, Badrul Hasan, Mohd Sadiq, Shadab Ahmed, Imran Ansari, Adil, Nasir and Suvaleen. While ordering production of accused before it, the court also declared two of them -- Suleman Siddiqui and Ravish -- proclaimed offenders for avoiding court summons and arrest warrants. "Due to the non-appearance despite several calls and due service under section 82 of the CrPc, accused namely Suleman Siddiqui and Ravish are declared proclaimed offenders," the court said in its order. Giving its rationale for not taking cognizance of the offence of promotion of hatred between different groups and communities of people, the court said, “I am not inclined to take cognisance of the offence under section 153-A of the IPC as for taking its cognisance, previous sanctions are mandatory to be filed by the agency but the same has not been filed till date. "IO (investigating officer) has informed that in the present case a letter dated February 13 has been sent to the competent authority but it was not clear as to how much time it will take for obtaining sanction. Any delay in proceeding further in the matter will unnecessarily defeat the purpose for which the special courts for trial of riot cases have been created. Accordingly, I deem it fit to take cognisance of all the offences as discussed," the judge said. Taking note of the post mortem examination report of the slain policeman, the court said that HC Ratan Lal suffered gunshot injuries apart from 21 other wounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/north-east-delhi-s-anti-caa-riots-outcome-of-well-hatched-conspiracy-of-accused-court-883508.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Congress govt not bothered about rise in rape, atrocities against Dalits in Rajasthan: BJP||Targeting the Congress dispensation in Rajasthan over the law-and-order situation, BJP state general secretary Madan Dilwar on Sunday alleged that cases of rape and atrocities against Dalits have increased but "the government is not bothered". He claimed that several incidents of rape of minors have happened in the state and the police were not lodging FIRs in most of the matters. "Cases of atrocities against Dalits have increased in the 20 months of Congress rule which is a matter of serious concern. The government and police have failed to control the crime, and the criminals are fearless," the BJP MLA told reporters here. He said 11,151 cases of murder, attempt to murder, rape, molestation and other incidents were registered from December 2018 to July 2020 which raises a question mark on the government's handling of law and order. Party secretary Jitendra Gothwal said that 6,794 cases of atrocities against Dalit were registered in Rajasthan in 2019 which is 47.47 per cent than in 2018. "If the government fails to control the situation, the BJP will launch an agitation in the coming days," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-govt-not-bothered-about-rise-in-rape-atrocities-against-dalits-in-rajasthan-bjp-883515.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||2 dead, 6 injured in Uttar Pradesh lightning strike||Two people died and six others got injured here on Sunday after they were caught in a lightning strike, officials said. District Magistrate Ravish Kumar Gupta said the deceased have been identified as Gangadeen (24) and Budhiram (30) of Itthawa village. He added that six others were injured in the incident and they have been hospitalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-dead-6-injured-in-uttar-pradesh-lightning-strike-883523.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||UP Elections: 'Dissenters' missing from Congress' poll panels for UP||Moving in early, the Congress party on Sunday constituted party panels to prepare for the 2022 assembly elections that found no place for ‘dissenters’ Raj Babbar, Jitin Prasada and former union minister R P N Singh, known for his plainspeak at internal meetings. The committees have a mix of veterans and youth as members with BSP imports Naseemuddin Siddiqui and Raja Ram Pal finding prominent places. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has constituted the Manifesto Committee, Outreach Committee, Membership Committee, Programme Implementation Committee, Training and Cadre Development Committee, Panchayati Raj Election Committee, and Media and Communication Advisory Committee of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee, AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal said in a statement. Senior leaders Salman Khursheed, Pramod Tiwari, Noor Bano, Nirmal Khatri, Rashid Alvi found a place among youngsters Supriya Shrinate, Lalitesh Pati Tripathi, Imran Masood, Keshav Chand Yadav and Amitabh Dubey. Khursheed, the former Law Minister, P L Punia, Vivek Bansal, Aradhana Misra, Dubey, Shrinate have been tasked to draft the party’s manifesto for the 2022 assembly elections. Tiwari, Masood, former union minister Pradeep Jain ‘Aditya’, Gajraj Singh, Naseemuddin Siddiqui and Bal Kumar Patel will be in charge of the party’s outreach efforts. Alvi has been appointed to the Media Advisory Committee. Former Lok Sabha member Noor Bano is on the Programme Implementation Committee. Former UP Congress chief Nirmal Khatri is a part of the Training and Cadre Development Committee. Anughrah Narayan Singh is a member of the Membership Committee and Rajesh Mishra is on the Panchyat Raj Election Committee. Former Union Minister Prasada and former UP Congress chief Babbar were among the 23 signatories to the letter to Congress President seeking sweeping changes in the organisation. R P N Singh, AICC in-charge of Jharkhand, is known for his plain speaking nature at internal meetings of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-elections-dissenters-missing-from-congress-poll-panels-for-up-883532.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Need to remove fear of coronavirus from people's mind: Bupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bupesh Baghel on Sunday called for the need to remove the fear of Covid-19 from the mind of people, especially patients, amid the rising infection count in the state, an official said. Baghel also said that the state has so far won half the battle against the pandemic and it has to be won completely without getting tired, he said. The chief minister said this while taking stock of the coronavirus situation in the state during a review meeting with his cabinet colleagues, district collectors, Superintendents of Police (SPs) and health officials via video conference. "With spiralling Covid-19 cases in the state, a fear factor has entered the mind of people, especially the patients, and there is a need to eliminate it. Similarly, there is a need to boost the morale of coronavirus patients admitted in hospitals," the chief minister said in the meeting. Doctors should make regular routine rounds to follow up the status of patients in wards. Telemedicine or video/WhatsApp call can be used for giving advice, he said. "We have won half the fight and it is the peak period of the pandemic. Under these circumstances, the war has to be won without getting tired and halting at any point. The joint efforts of health and all departments' officials and employees will naturally pay off soon," he said. He asked the collectors to make proper arrangements for treatment at the district level, so that patients do not have to turn up to cities for it. If one or two members of any family test positive, then all other family members and their close contacts should be provided prophylactic drug kits as a precautionary measure. They should be advised to follow the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and take all necessary preventive medicines, he said. Asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients should advised be a to stay in home isolation and should be provided medical consultancy through online or phone calls, he said. During the meeting, ministers also gave suggestions to contain the spread of infection, he added. Till Saturday, the state had recorded 43,163 Covid-19 cases. Of these cases, 22,320 were active cases as 20,487 people have been recovered and 356 have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/need-to-remove-fear-of-coronavirus-from-peoples-mind-bupesh-baghel-883549.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||International flight ops from Kushinagar airport in next 2 months: Yogi Adityanath||International flight operations from the Kushinagar airport will commence in the next months, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said Sunday, according to a state government statement. The Union Cabinet had on June 24 approved the Kushinagar airport's status as an international facility, stating it will offer improved connectivity to the important Buddhist pilgrimage site. Adityanath Sunday met Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri at Kushinagar and discussed the progress in the project. “Within the next two months, International flights will commence operations from this airport,” Yogi was quoted as saying in the government statement. Once this airport begins operating international flights, it will become fourth international facility in the state. At present, two international airports -- Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport at Lucknow and Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport at Varanasi -- are operational in the state, the UP government said. An international airport is under construction at Gautam Buddh Nagar. "Kushinagar is the Central point of Buddhist circuit. A large number of followers of Buddhism come here, as this is the place where Lord Buddha attained Mahanirvana. He had given his first sermon at Sarnath,” Adityanath said. People from Sri Lanka, Thailand, Laos, Japan, Singapore and other countries wanted air connectivity with Kushinagar, he said. Puri said, "Permission for flight service has been given on 18 new routes. Apart from this, other airports will be constructed/developed."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/international-flight-ops-from-kushinagar-airport-in-next-2-months-yogi-adityanath-883558.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: 1,593 fresh cases in Rajasthan; tally rises to 90,956||Rajasthan on Sunday reported 1,593 Covid-19 cases, which pushed the state's infection tally to 90,956, according to an official statement. The state also reported 15 fatalities from the coronavirus and the death toll now stands at 1,137, it said. Three deaths each were reported from Bikaner and Jodhpur, two each from Jaipur and Jhalawar, and one each from Ajmer, Alwar, Kota, Dausa and Chittorgarh, the statement said. The highest number of fresh cases was reported from Jaipur where 310 persons tested Covid-19 positive. Jodhpur reported 254 fresh cases, Kota (195), Ajmer (108), Alwar (104), Bikaner (94), Jhalawar (70), Pali (45), Baran (38), Bundi (37), Chittorgarh (36), Bhilwara (36), Nagaur (35), Banswara (22), Bharatpur (21), Barmer (19), Rajsamand (27), Dholpur (25), Udaipur (18), Sirohi (17), Jhunjhunu (15), Churu (14), Ganganagar (14) and Sawai Madhopur (12), the statement said Six fresh cases were reported from Tonk, five each from Dungarpur and Jaisalmer, three from Karauli and two each from Dausa, Hanumangarh, Pratapgarh and Sikar, it said. The statement said a total of 74,861 Covid-19 patients have recovered and of them, 73,715 have been discharged. It said that 14,958 cases are active in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-1593-fresh-cases-in-rajasthan-tally-rises-to-90956-883559.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Terrorist hideout busted in J&K's Doda, Pika gun seized||An underground militant hideout was busted on Sunday in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir, leading to the recovery of a Pika gun, a senior police officer said. The hideout was busted during a search operation by Special Operations Group (SOG) of local police at Godu village in Chirala forest area of Thathri sub-division, Doda’s Senior Superintendent of Police Mumtaz Ahmed said. "The recovered weapon had gathered rust, indicating that it was an old hideout and was used by terrorists who operated in the district over a decade ago,” the officer told PTI. He said the hideout was unearthed due to the accurate intelligence developed by SOG. The well-synchronized operation was launched about 24 hours ago but no one was arrested in the case. A case under relevant sections of law has been registered at police station Thathri and further investigation is on, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-hideout-busted-in-jks-doda-pika-gun-seized-883582.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab reports highest single-day spike of 1,946||Punjab reported the sharpest single-day spike of 1,946 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, pushing the Covid-19 tally to 63,473 in the state. The previous record of new cases reported in a day was 1,746 on August 27. Fifty-four more Covid-19 deaths took the toll to 1,862 in the state, according to a government medical bulletin. Thirteen deaths were reported from Ludhiana, eight from Patiala, six from Kapurthala, five from Amritsar, three each from Faridkot, Moga, Jalandhar and Bathinda, two from Pathankot, Muktsar and Hoshiarpur and one each from Barnala, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, it said. Among places which reported new cases included Jalandhar (261), Pathankot (205), Gurdaspur (186), Bathinda (168), Ludhiana (161), Mohali (154), Patiala (150), Hoshiarpur (135), Amritsar (133) and Faridkot (88). Punjab has been seeing a surge in the number of coronavirus cases and adding over 1,000 coronavirus cases every day for a few days. A total of 1,606 coronavirus patients were discharged from several places including Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Mohali, Sangrur, Bathinda, Pathankot and Hoshiarpur after recovering from infection. So far 45,455 people have been cured of the contagion. There are 16,156 active Covid-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin. Seventy one critical patients are on ventilator support while 571 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 11,93,260 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-1946-883584.html
06-09-2020||North and Central||UP BJP launches e-book highlighting 'services' rendered by its workers during coronavirus lockdown||An e-book detailing about various "services" rendered by BJP workers during the coronavirus-induced lockdown was launched here at the party office on Sunday, a statement said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who addressed the gathering online, said, "The work done by the BJP workers during the COVID-19 pandemic is unforgettable and it was praised everywhere." He said the party workers were providing food and other essentials to stranded people as well as to those returning their homes. "The party workers exemplified 'nar seva' (serving people) as 'Narayan seva' (serving the God)," Adityanath added. Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, UP BJP chief Swatantradev Singh and general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal among other leaders were present at the e-book launch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bjp-launches-e-book-highlighting-services-rendered-by-its-workers-during-coronavirus-lockdown-883592.html
06-09-2020||Opinion||A massive revival project is needed just to keep economy afloat||The coronavirus has shrunk everything in its way, including economies. The Indian economy is no exception. While experts are debating the decimals and comparative indices, the common man on the street seems to be smart enough to know that something called ‘recession’ has hit him. And the impact of it could be harder and more severe than that of Covid-19 itself. A World Bank study has projected unprecedented economic contraction in the months to come. The report says that the world economy could shrink between 5.2% and 8% in the current fiscal year. The economies of the developed countries are likely to shrink more than that of the developing countries. In 2019, before the Covid-19 pandemic, the size of the global economy was estimated at around $86.6 trillion. Even if the global economy shrinks by the lower estimate of 5-6%, world GDP would fall by about $4-5 trillion – a huge loss at a time when higher GDP growth is needed to pull hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, including in India. The economic contraction is affected by and will have a cascading effect on a number of other factors, like the disruption of the supply chain, ineffective trade agreements, suspension of manufacturing units and sluggish demand. In India, this will result in worsening unemployment. Like in other emerging economies, the informal sector will suffer the most. Roughly half of India’s GDP, and 80-90% of non-agricultural employment, comes from the informal sector. One important point of advice to all governments is the need to provide massive stimulus schemes to revive the sagging economies. The fall in global per capita income is expected to be phenomenal. The state of the Indian economy has never been as woeful as it is now. In fact, the economic contraction for the quarterending June 2020 is reported to be 23.9%, which is the worst that any country in the world has suffered. After all, we had the harshest (and earliest and longest) lockdown of all countries in the world. Now, merely stating the obvious — that even the economies of the G-7 countries have contracted — provides no relief to the suffering masses who are staring at a bleak future. One may not fault the government entirely for this setback as a result of the Covid-19 lockdown. The pandemic, after all, was an ‘act of God’, according to the Finance Minister. But the economic wizards in the government should be aware and acknowledge that sectors like construction, trade, automobiles, manufacturing, mining and the service industry have all registered double-digit falls, which is the cumulative effect of the sluggish growth even during the pre-Covid-19 months. Only the agriculture sector is reported to have grown by about 3.4%, mainly due to a good monsoon. The finance ministry is worried about the negative indicators in capital formation, which has fallen by about 47%, even as private spending in the quarter ending June has fallen by about 27%. Just four months into the fiscal, the government has already exceeded the fiscal deficit target set for the whole year, thanks to the huge fall in revenue receipts for the first quarter and rising expenditure, including on the stimulus measures it has announced. The government will have to make a realistic assessment of the effects of the stimulus package, the moratorium on debt repayment and other tax and GST reliefs offered. One important issue that the government needs to take into consideration are the problems in data collection by the Central Statistical Organisation as far as sectoral setbacks and fall in informal sector revenue and employment are concerned. No lending institution can withstand bad loans, or non-performing assets (NPA), beyond a limit. While the public sector banks’ NPAs stand at over Rs 7 lakh crore, that of the private banks have crossed Rs 2 lakh crore. By the time the loan moratorium period ends, many enterprises would have reached a point of no return, and NPAs could balloon. The government alone cannot handle the situation in ensuring that businesses survive. A total overhauling of the market mechanism is required at this juncture. One part of this would be to increase, in the short term, the number of domestic infrastructure projects, facilitate project exports by the private sector, hiving off Lines of Credit (LOC) projects to the private sector or fast-tracking them via a PPP model. There is also potential for India to improve its economic diplomacy and enter markets from where China may retreat for whatever reason. Ministries and departments should not be allowed to delay and dither in this approach. The last five years have witnessed a gradual fall in GDP growth, and indeed, this year, it is set to shrink considerably. Covid-19 affects everyone but the weak and the ailing ones with lower immunity are affected more. The pandemic’s effect on economies is similar – economies that were already experiencing weaknesses are the worst affected. The Indian economy is a case in point. A weak and ailing economy which was struggling to build immunity and insulate itself from future shocks has been hit where it hurts most. The Prime Minister’s appeal to speed up Make in India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat should be given a policy framework urgently. As the lockdown is relaxed, a massive economic revival project is needed to keep the economy afloat and help it reach shore safely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-massive-revival-project-is-needed-just-to-keep-economy-afloat-883163.html
06-09-2020||Opinion||Of race, language, religion, colour and politics||Of my travels, I reserve a special place for Africa. Our family trip to Kenya included Nairobi, Lake Nakuru and Maasai Mara. The energy of the Kenyan dancers, the sprawling grasslands of the Mara, and the diversity of the wildlife are all experiences to treasure. The Maasai of the Mara live by simple rules. As an example, they believe that all the cattle, all over the world, belong to them and the Maasai have the right to take them back! Their God, Engai, is the Lord of all cattle; who is sometimes black and good, and, sometimes red and vengeful; who can be masculine or feminine; who lives in his mountain abode when not on duty. Like the Maasai, there are thousands of tribes with a diversity of languages and cultures. While it seems astounding, modern humans, irrespective of race, language, religion, color, and politics, can all call Africa their homeland. By most scientific accounts, Africa was home to all modern humans until some 50,000 years ago. It has been argued that when humans migrated out of Africa, they already possessed the gift of speech and communication. Some 30,000 years ago, mutations produced lighter-coloured skin in some humans, before the divergence of the European and East Asian populations. Modern humans, for all their existence, have had some form of religion. Of course, politics probably pre-dates even the tribes. Though not supported completely by biology, people who want to assert their racial superiority might cite the acquisition of Neanderthal DNA after the migration out of Africa as a basis for racial differentiation and superiority. Race, language, religion and politics are more social constructs than biological and have no basis for measuring superiority. Colour is a biological mutation but, again, does not offer a measure for superiority. Everyone in this world wants to feel special. Racial superiority is a crutch used by individuals and groups who, due to lack of skills and confidence in themselves, fall back on an imagined past that they think makes them special. There is insufficient genetic difference between human populations to make geographic groups more, or less, intelligent than others, and certainly not by the colour of the skin. Certain geographic groups have indulged in more widespread aggression and mindless violence than others at some point of time in their history, which has resulted in the economic division of the world into the global north and the global south. This economic divide, hence, is no basis for racial superiority. The killing of George Floyd and continued police violence in the US against black Americans is probably due to mistrust and fear rather than feelings of racial superiority anymore. When you forcibly dislocate from their homes and lands more than 12 million people over more than 300 years and transport them to a distant continent, maybe you cannot repair the damage caused by just giving the victims freedom and affirmative action. Also, segregation was outlawed only as recently as 1964, and segregation of residential areas and school districts continues by virtue of affordability and colour affinity in residential preferences. This results in continued differences in socio-economic status, and subsequent difference in crime rates which are confounded by biased law enforcement. In this environment, it is fantastic that the US elected their first African American president, Barack Obama, in 2008, and Kamala Harris has become the first African American to run for vice president this time. It is also fantastic that both Obama and Harris accept their identities in totality. Kamala Harris proudly mentions her Indian roots from her mother’s side, too. In India, our equivalent of the racial superiority problem has been packaged into castes. A place to easily find the continued presence of discrimination is in matrimonial columns, which include requirements of colour and ‘bridge noses’ for suitable brides. A sentence of spoken language can be used to identify the sub-caste and region of the individual even within the same language fold. The use of ‘Ch’ and ‘Sh’ vs ‘Sa’, as an example, can discriminate castes and economic identities. Honour killings and religious bigotry span across economic and education ranks. India has come a long way, though, with many of our respected politicians, artists, technologists and corporate leaders coming from the traditionally discriminated sections of our society. The Maasai say, “there is no gecko that does not claim to possess the longest tail!” The diversity of cultures and the pride in one’s own culture is what makes for a beautiful tapestry of human existence. The differences are to be celebrated and commonalities understood. How do you solve for a post-race world, though, remains a dilemma and a known unknown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/of-race-language-religion-colour-and-politics-883166.html
06-09-2020||Opinion||Save the PM, frisk the peacocks||Remember when there was a plot to assassinate the prime minister but somehow only one pro-government private news channel had the mega-breaking-exclusive-explosive details? What do you mean, which time? Every time those fine PR executives think it’s time to distract from the government’s giant cockups. Anyway, I wish for the PM to remain safe, so I suggest they start frisking the peacocks. I hope you have all seen that painful prime ministerial video featuring peacocks, only some of which were birds, and one of which changed its plumage six times in the course of one minute and forty-seven seconds. Peacocks seem to be the only living things around the PM, besides the television crew that choreographs his every unguarded moment, whether it is meditating in a cave, doing yoga, or feeding other peacocks. But threat perception is a serious business, and it’s best not to get complacent. If his Twitter account could be so easily hacked, it’s probably just a matter of time before an anti-national peafowl could endanger his life. But I don’t know how the PM would feel about subjecting his feathery friends to a security check, given his enormous feeling for animals. We were recently offered a story by no less than the senior deputy editor of a news magazine, on how the death of two ducks in Gujarat greatly moved Modi. We already knew that the Prime Sevak feels sad when a car runs over a puppy, but this story was also about his love for cattle and sheep and goats. The author of the story tweeted it with the slightly desperate comment, “Shows his empathy”. I can’t imagine why the PM’s media cheerleaders would feel the need to project him as a feeling human. That he already is should be clear from the fact that in his most recent Mann ki Baat monologue to the nation — even though China is pushing into India, even though the GDP has contracted by 24%, even though Covid-19 has gripped the world by the throat and throttled it, even though there’s a jobs crisis, even though so many people have been unjustly imprisoned — the PM’s message to the nation, his innermost thought and desire, was that people looking to get a pet dog really should consider Indian breeds. Maybe this is his version of reviving what business folks are pleased to call the ‘animal spirits’ of the market? But this assassination plot is, after all, just a strategic obsession of the fevered news channel team. Nobody else buys it. The real news, apparently, broadcast 24/7 by every news media in the country, is l’affaire Sushant Singh Rajput. I haven’t been following this national crisis, but that’s probably because my priorities are so messed up. I’m really negative, and a Chrislamocommie element bent on destroying India by insistently pointing out that India is being destroyed by the approval and cooperation of far too many Indians who bow to Modi’s disastrous government. So not that anyone cares, but it is my duty to say that while everyone’s eyeballs are falling out watching Rhea Chakraborty, the coronavirus health emergency has been reduced to yet another digital stack, the Environmental Impact Assessment now ensures that you can decimate forests and rivers as long as you pay some kind of penalty, electoral bonds and stolen elections are still a thing, and nobody has a job. But don’t let me interrupt your hawk-like scrutiny of every tiny fold in the death of a Bollywood actor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/save-the-pm-frisk-the-peacocks-883167.html
06-09-2020||Opinion||Bengaluru | Of heritage lost and found||We live in a city that is unaware of its heritage, and uncaring of attempts to protect it. So many of the iconic buildings that once characterised Bengaluru have been razed. Buildings like Victoria Hotel and Cash Pharmacy in the Cantonment have been torn down and converted into malls and offices. Sampangi lake and Dharmambudhi lake, created centuries ago by the hard labour of local communities, were filled in, cemented over, and became locations for the Kanteerava Stadium and the Majestic Bus Stand. Cubbon Park and Lal Bagh have steadily lost green cover to buildings, roads, Metro construction, and other activities deemed essential for ‘development’ of the city. The thousands of large open wells that supplied Bengaluru with water in the 1880s are gone, having given way to apartments, offices and malls. Heritage trees are the worst casualties of our casual disregard for the past. Bengaluru’s large avenues were lined with magnificent rain trees, copper pods, African tulips and Tabebuias. Many were planted decades ago, but some were older than a century. Tens of thousands of such trees were cleared to make way for ‘progress’ – adding underpasses, flyovers, high-speed corridors, and Metro lines to the city. At the periphery, centuries-old banyan and peepal trees were destroyed to make way for widening the ring road and peripheral arterial roads. The casualness with which orders are given for massacre of these giant trees is remarkable – they are not even counted accurately, missing out many trees that are later chopped. What we do not know of, we will not miss – so goes the argument. But it is incorrect. Heritage trees have extraordinary life histories. On the road from Sarjapura to Attibele stands a magnificent banyan tree that is centuries old. Local residents claim that it is at least 350 years old. This tree has witnessed the rule of Magadi Kempe Gowda, Shahji, Venkoji, the Mughals, Chikkaraja Wodeyar, Hyder Ali, Tipu Sultan and the British. It has seen the fall of the British empire, celebrated the dawn of independent India and watched the changes in the landscape as the sleepy villages around it gave way to waves of IT capital-infused companies and real estate projects. The tree nurtured generations of shepherds and farmers who grazed their herds, and offered prayers for the rains and harvest to the local deity whose shrine is tucked within. Birds, snakes and other wildlife make their home in its branches. Walking into the shelter of this massive tree is like walking into a forest. This magnificent, irreplaceable tree was going to be cut down to make way for the road to Attibele some years back. Local residents organised themselves to save the tree. Other heritage trees were less fortunate. Thousands of such centuries-old banyan and peepal trees have been lost to road widening across India in recent years. Their ecological, social and cultural roles in our lives are irreplaceable. Certainly, these cannot be replaced by the compensatory plantation of saplings in distant locations, as road widening plans promise (they also fail to fulfil even this basic promise). Just like we need to document and save our heritage buildings and lakes, we need to document our heritage trees. These trees are miracles of nature. Take the centuries-old tamarind tree in the Nallur Amaroy thopu near the Bengaluru airport, for instance. Split by lightning into two parts, it inexplicably survives, thriving and bearing fruit. These trees have borne witness to great events of the past. Each heritage tree has a personality and character of its own and has survived stressful events with incredible resilience. We must identify them and build them into the fabric of the contemporary city. If Bengaluru is to truly become a ‘world-class’ city of the 21st century, it must move away from the current approach of disregarding the city’s historical roots – instead building on its foundation of ecological heritage with respect and care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bengaluru-of-heritage-lost-and-found-883168.html
06-09-2020||Opinion||Carriage, carnage and commerce||Aside from yet another technological gizmo such as the smartphone, is there something else we can look forward to in the coming decade? There is a short answer and a long answer. The short answer is, yes – soon you will be able to talk to friends and family even if you are atop Mt Everest or in the middle of the Sahara Desert, download movies at lightning speed and watch them at your convenience or, for that matter, have your food and medical supplies air-dropped by drones from the nearest Amazon fulfilment centre. All made possible by 6G, the next evolution in mobile communication coupled with Amazon’s plan to launch over 3,200 satellites in the coming months in order to make cloud computing and the internet available in even the remotest sites of the globe. Plus, wearable digital sensing devices such as Elon Musk’s Neuralink brain-computer chip (We will all become humanoids soon enough?) and Amazon’s Halo, a wrist band which purports to being capable of speech analysis to gauge the speaker’s moods and emotions. Amazon would like to make angels of all of us. Bezos, Musk and Zuckerberg – the new Trinity. As for the long answer, it is a little bit more complicated since it involves three inter-related things — transportation technology, commerce and wars. Especially wars. With or without boots on the ground. Trade wars, information wars, data wars, cyber wars, space wars, etc. The playbook that is being followed was first written well over 500 years ago, with periodic updates to suit the prevailing political climes and take advantage of advancements in transport mechanisms. Starting in the late 15th century, carracks (sailing ships) were used by the Portuguese for trade between Europe and Asia. In the 16th century, carracks were used for European trade with the newly found wealth of the trans-Atlantic trade between Europe and Africa and then the Americas. In the first half of 17th century, wind-powered galleons using sails and human-powered galleys were the principal vehicles used by the Spanish and Portuguese armadas in projecting their military prowess and safeguarding trade routes in support of commerce. In the second half of the 17th century, there were a series of naval battles among various European powers over trade and overseas colonies. Some 150 years later, after the invention of the steam engine by James Watt, steam-powered ships enabled Britain to become the chief maritime power – it established colonies across the globe and monopolised commerce. In addition, steam-powered locomotives enabled the creation of elaborate railroad networks for the transport of goods and troops, once again to promote and protect commerce. In the latter half of the 19th century, the advent of the internal combustion engine completely changed the transportation landscape across the globe, both on land and on the waterways. The earliest advances in aviation and aviation warfare in the first half of the 20th century can also be attributed to the internal combustion engine. In tracing the evolution of computer technology over the past 200 years, we can also discern a similar pattern. Funded by the British Navy, Charles Babbage’s efforts to automate mathematical calculations led to his designing the Difference and Analytical Engines — steam powered computers — in the mid-19th century. This gave way to the invention of electromechanical computers in the 1930s and 1940s in Germany and the US, largely motivated by efforts to improve the accuracy of bomb delivery systems during World War II. Three decades later, electronic computer-controlled command and control systems, especially in defence, became standard and this, in turn, spurred the development of computer-to-computer communications (the US Defense Department’s ARPANET), which has evolved into today’s internet. Whether it is transporting physical goods, such as food, using vehicles (cars, ships, planes) on the one hand, or transporting data using wired and wireless channels (fibre optic cables, satellites) on the other, they aren’t really all that different, are they? Keeping the shipping lanes open in the South China Sea, banning or not banning TikTok, and keeping the data channels open on the internet – you see any difference? I don’t. All in support of commerce. And wars. Of all kinds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/carriage-carnage-and-commerce-883171.html
06-09-2020||Opinion||‘I keep my promises,’ US President Donald Trump said. Does he? Let’s check.||“… and I will have Mexico pay for that wall.” Mexico is not paying for it. Trump has not succeeded in repealing the Affordable Care Act, although he is still pursuing a lawsuit that would overturn it. He has never explained what would replace it. Trump has appointed conservative (and young) judges across the federal bench, and this will be a major element of his legacy. He was helped by the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who blocked Obama from filling vacancies; Trump thus inherited an unusually large number of positions to fill. Trump never tried to pass an infrastructure bill. The United States did overthrow the caliphate of the Islamic State — a process begun under Obama. But ISIS continues to operate at a reduced level. Peace between Israel and the Palestinians is as elusive as ever. However, Arab states such as the United Arab Emirates have warmed to Israel. The obvious exception is Russia, which interfered in the 2016 presidential election and now appears to be interfering in the 2020 election as well. Russia has injured American troops in Syria, and it is said to have paid bounties to Afghan militants for killing American troops. Well, no.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/i-keep-my-promises-us-president-donald-trump-said-does-he-let-s-check-883197.html
06-09-2020||South||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu allows air-conditioning in restaurants||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday issued a Government Order permitting functioning of restaurants with air conditioning facility. "Following the Standard Operating Procedures already issued by the government, restaurants are permitted to function from 6 am to 8 pm with air conditioning facility by following the guidelines issued by the Government of India for air conditioning and ventilation," the GO said. The move is in continuation of relaxationsannounced under the current 'Unlock' 4 phase. Also, restaurants could offer take away services till 9 pm and tea shops are allowed to function from 6 am to 8 pm as per the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tamil-nadu-allows-air-conditioning-in-restaurants-883207.html
06-09-2020||South||Andaman and Nicobar islands record 35 new Covid-19 cases, tally at 3,292||The Covid-19 tally of Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 3,292 on Sunday as 35 more people tested positive for the infection, while one more fatality pushed the Union territory's coronavirus death toll to 50, a health official said. Three new patients have travel history, while 32 fresh cases were detected during contact tracing, he said. The fresh infections have pushed the number of active Covid-19 cases in the archipelago to 338, the official said. Forty-one more people have been cured of the disease, taking the number of recoveries to 2,904, he said. A total of 37,825 samples have been sent for Covid-19 tests till Saturday, of which 37,650 reports were received and 175 are awaited, the official said. Meanwhile, a nonagenarian woman has recovered from the disease and was discharged from the Govind Ballabh Pant Hospital here, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andaman-and-nicobar-islands-record-35-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-3292-883253.html
06-09-2020||South||'Hindi Theriyathu Poda' t-shirts set Tamil Twitter on fire||Four t-shirts with strong words. Two celebrities. And a powerful message against “Hindi imposition” in Tamil Nadu. A picture of popular music composer Yuvan Shankar Raja and a young actor, ‘Metro’ Shirish, wearing designer t-shirts that say they are Tamil-speaking Indians and do not know Hindi has set the Tamil Twitter on fire. Raja, an accomplished composer himself, and son of legendary music director Ilaiyaraaja, wearing a t-shirt with an image of poet-saint Thiruvalluvar and “I am a Tamizh pesum Indian” printed on it is listening to Shirish whose t-shirt says Hindi Theriyadhu Poda (I do not know Hindi. Go man). This picture with a caption “deep in discussion, good things coming our way...!” posted by Shirish at 5.37 pm on Saturday set off a frenzied action on Twitter with appreciation pouring in from various quarters for the celebrities and the design, which many say is the brain-child of a DMK leader, for the “strong message.” Soon, one of the popular verses used on the t-shirts, Hindu Theriyathu Poda, was converted into a hashtag in both Tamil and English along with #TamilSpeaking Indian that trended for the whole of Sunday.  #HindiTheriyathuPoda had over 1.75 lakh mentions on Twitter at the time of writing. As a retaliatory action, another hashtag, DMK Venam Poda (No need for DMK. Go man), was also trended on Twitter on Sunday afternoon with over 37,000 mentions. The BJP also took objection to the t-shirts and trending of anti-Hindi hashtags on Twitter, accusing the DMK of being behind the move.   By Sunday evening, the t-shirts became both a fashion and a political statement with people posting pictures wearing them on social media. DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin was seen wearing the t-shirt during a virtual meeting on Sunday evening. The release of the t-shirts come close on the heels of Tamil Nadu opposing “imposition of Hindi” by Centre on non-Hindi speaking states after DMK MP Kanimozhi was asked by a CISF personnel at Chennai Airport if she was Indian for not knowing Hindi and a Secretary-level officer asked doctors from the state to leave a virtual conference for not knowing the language. The t-shirts that come in four designs are being marketed by a woman entrepreneur, who says she has received numerous calls and messages for orders since Saturday evening. Besides the two designs that Yuvan and Shirish wore, the t-shirts have two more models with “I am Indian. I don’t speak Hindi” and “Tamil Speaking Indian” with pictures of poet Bharathiar, Thiruvalluvar, Periyar and M Karunanidhi printed on them. Twitter users said the t-shirts reflect the “current mood” in Tamil Nadu which is against Hindi imposition. The #HindiTheriyathuPoda in English and Tamil and #TamilSpeakingIndian hashtags were trending on Twitter with people using the hashtags to air their views on “Hindi imposition.” “Rather than saying I don’t know India it is good for a Tamil to ask people to learn Tamil. This is what the New Education Policy says and how will people who do not have the thought of spreading Tamil know this?” BJP spokesperson Narayanan Tirupathy asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hindi-theriyathu-poda-t-shirts-set-tamil-twitter-on-fire-883268.html
06-09-2020||South||Telangana records 2,574 new Covid-19 cases; tally rises to 1.40 lakh||Telangana reported 2,574 new Covid-19 cases, taking the overall infection tally to 1,40,969 while nine more deaths pushed the toll to 886 on Sunday, the state government said. The active cases under treatment stood at 32,553 after cumulative recoveries of 1,07,530, a bulletin providing data as of 8 pm on September 5 said. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of fresh cases at 325, followed by Rangareddy (197), Medchal Malkajgiri (185) and Nalgonda (158) districts. As many as 62,736 samples were tested on September 5, taking the total specimens examined to 17,30,389. The samples tested per million population was 46,608, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.62 per cent, while it was 1.71 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 76.2 per cent against the national average of 77.29 per cent. A total of 25,449 people were in home or institutional isolation. There were sufficient beds available in government hospitals and based on the clinical requirements, patients would be admitted there and provided treatment free of cost, the bulletin said adding the facilities also have adequate quantities of personal protection equipment (PPE) and medicines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-records-2574-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-140-lakh-883290.html
06-09-2020||South||Covid-19 patient sexually abused by ambulance driver in Kerala||A 19-year old girl who tested Covid-19 positive was sexually harassed by an ambulance driver while being taken to a Covid care centre from home late on Saturday night at Pathanamthitta district in Kerala. The accused, identified as Naufal of Kayamkulam in Alappuzha district, was an accused in criminal cases, including an attempt to murder, earlier also. The incident took place in an ambulance engaged by the Kerala Health Department through a private agency. According to police, the accused allegedly sexually assaulted the girl while she was being taken to a Covid-19 care centre in Pandalam from Adoor. There was another woman in the ambulance while the girl was collected from her house after being tested Covid positive. But she was dropped on the way. Then he took the ambulance to an isolated ground near Aaranmula and sexually assaulted the girl. Video footage of the accused tendering an apology to the victim was recorded on the victim's mobile phone. The incident came to light as the victim revealed to the authorities at the Covid-19 care centre the ordeal she faced. There was no nurse in the ambulance while the girl was being taken to the care centre from her house. The opposition Congress and BJP accused the government of the serious lapses in ensuring the safety of the girl. BJP Kerala president K Surendran demanded Health Minister KK Shailaja's resignation taking moral responsibility of the incident.  The opposition parties also asked how a person with a criminal track record was engaged as an ambulance driver. Protest marches were staged at various parts of the state in this connection. Kerala Health Minister KK Shailaja said that the ambulance driver would be terminated from service by the agency with immediate effect and the police would take stern action. The ambulance service operator, GVK Emergency Management and Research Institute was also instructed that only those who produce police clearance certificate should be engaged for working in the ambulance. The agency maintained that Naufal was engaged as an ambulance driver considering his prior experience, she said. Pathanamthitta district police chief KG Simon said that the accused was immediately nabbed and all evidences against him collected. The National Commission for Women sought a report from Kerala state police chief on the incident, while the Kerala Women's Commission also registered a case suo motto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-patient-sexually-abused-by-ambulance-driver-in-kerala-883316.html
06-09-2020||South||Wooden chariot of famous temple in Andhra Pradesh gutted in fire||The wooden chariot of the famous Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh was gutted in a fire mishap in the wee hours of Sunday. The state government ordered an inquiry into the incident to establish the cause of the fire. "We have appointed Endowments Additional Commissioner Ramachandra Mohan as the inquiry officer. He has been asked to coordinate with the police and determine the cause of the fire," Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas said here. The 40-feet high chariot made of teak wood was parked in a shed on the temple premises.  The chariot is normally used only during the 'Radhotsavam' at the Lords celestial wedding festivities.   Police said they were investigating whether an electrical short circuit caused the mishap or if any arson was involved. There was a similar incident in SPS Nellore district a few months ago, where it turned out that a mentally ill person set a temple chariot on fire. "We are probing all such angles in this case as well," a senior police official said over phone from Kakinada. The Endowments Minister, who expressed anguish over the incident, said appropriate action would be taken after the investigation by the Additional Commissioner was completed.   He also spoke to the East Godavari district Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem and directed that a thorough investigation be conducted. He told the SP to take stern action if it turned out to be an act of arson. Velampalli also asked the Endowments authorities to take immediate steps for building a new chariot. Meanwhile, state BJP president Somu Veerraju condemned the incident and requested Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to bring the guilty to book in three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wooden-chariot-of-famous-temple-in-andhra-pradesh-gutted-in-fire-883323.html
06-09-2020||South||Telangana legislature session begins from September 7 amid Covid-19 preventive measures||The monsoon session of Telangana Legislature commencing on Monday with preventive measures for Covid-19 will debate various issues, including measures taken to contain the spread of the pandemic, GST compensation and recent fire accident at Srisailam Hydel project. All members, including ministers, Telangana legislature employees and media personnel will have to undergo Covid-19 test and only those found negative would be allowed to enter the assembly or the Legislative Council premises, a senior state government official said on Sunday. While seating arrangements have been made to keep a six- feet distance from each member, every mike and the entire House has been sanitised thoroughly for extra protection, the official said. "While wearing a mask is compulsory, visitors are not allowed to witness the proceedings," he said. Assembly Speaker P Srinivas Reddy had said all measures being taken in Parliament and legislatures of other states would be followed here also. The session will discuss and debate threadbare issues such as Covid-19 spread in the state, measures being taken to contain it and the fire that claimed nine lives at Srisailam hydel project, an official release from the Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's office had earlier said. It is also expected to witness debates and discussions on achievements made in the power sector, New Revenue Act and the illegal construction of project by the Andhra Pradesh government under the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme. Injustices meted out to the state while implementing the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and the financial and economic losses due to the financial policies of the Centre were also likely to be discussed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-legislature-session-begins-from-september-7-amid-covid-19-preventive-measures-883355.html
06-09-2020||South||Edneer Mutt pontiff, who paved way for protecting basic structure doctrine of Constitution, passes away||Kesavananda Bharati, chief pontiff of the Edneer Mutt at Kasargod in Kerala, who paved the way for the landmark judgement of Supreme Court for protecting the basic structure doctrine of Indian Constitution, died at the age of 79 on Sunday. Bharati was under treatment for sometime after suffering breathing difficulties. His end came during the early hours of Sunday at the mutt, and his last rites were performed at the mutt premises by afternoon. Bharati, who became the head of the mutt at an younger age in 1961, initiated a legal battle to protect the mutt's property. He challenged the Kerala Land Reforms Act that imposed restrictions on land holdings and provided for distributing land to the landless tillers in 1970. Three Constitutional amendments were also brought under the question of violating fundamental rights. On April 24, 1973, a 13-member bench of the Supreme Court headed by then Chief Justice S M Sikri, after 68 days marathon hearing, issued the landmark judgment with a thin majority of 7:6 that basic structure of the Constitution could not be altered by the Parliament. Though the mutt's properties could not be recovered with the case, the judgment indeed formed a firm basis for limiting the powers of Parliament for making amendments that affect the fundamental rights. The Kesavananda Bharati v/s State of Kerala case has been widely referred in many future legal battles over Constitution amendments and several books on the case were also published. It was also the case that witnessed the longest argument in the court and the Constitutions of different countries were also considered during the arguments. The over 700 page judgment was even later referred to as one that saved the Indian Constitution and protected fundamental rights. Bharati, who was born to Manchthaya Sreedhara Bhatt and Padmavathi Amma, belonged to the lineage of Sri Thotakacharya, one of the first four disciples of Sri Adi Shankaracharya. He was a Yakshagana proponent and had also written many devotional songs and also sang many Kannada, Malayalam, Tulu, Sanskrit and Hindi devotional songs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a condolence message that Pujya Kesavananda Bharati Ji would be always remembered for his contributions towards community service and empowering the downtrodden. He was deeply attached to India’s rich culture and our great Constitution. He will continue to inspire generations. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a condolence message that apart from being known worldwide with the landmark case,he made valuable contribution in the field of education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/edneer-mutt-pontiff-who-paved-way-for-protecting-basic-structure-doctrine-of-constitution-passes-away-883378.html
06-09-2020||South||Judith Ravin takes over as US Consul-General in Chennai||Senior diplomat Judith Ravin on Sunday assumed charge as Consul General of the United States of America here. The US Consulate here covers the southern states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, and the Union Territories of Andaman and Nicobar, Puducherry, and Lakshadweep. Ravin, who succeeded Robert Burgess, was the Public Affairs Counselor at the US Embassy in Lima, Peru, before coming to Chennai. Prior to that, she worked in Washington, D.C., as the International Relations Officer General in the Office of the Haiti Special Coordinator. “It is my great privilege to represent the United States in South India, especially at this historically difficult time of the Covid-19 pandemic. I look forward to advancing the shared goals of the United States and India in Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and the three Union Territories of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, and Puducherry,” she said in a statement. Ravin’s other diplomatic posts include Islamabad, Pakistan; Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic; Khartoum, Sudan; Yaoundé, Cameroon; and Ciudad Juárez, Mexico. The US Consulate said Ravin did her undergraduate work at universities in France and Spain in addition to the United States. She holds a master’s degree in Romance Languages and Literatures from Harvard University and speaks fluent Spanish and French. Before joining the US Department of State in 2003, Ravin worked for several years in Asia, Africa, and Latin America as an editor, translator, and journalist. She is also a co-author of Beyond Our Degrees of Separation: Washington Monsoons and Islamabad Blues (2017) and the author of Ballet in the Cane Fields: Vignettes from a Dominican Wanderlogue (2014).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/judith-ravin-takes-over-as-us-consul-general-in-chennai-883381.html
06-09-2020||South||Gold smugglers knock down DRI officials near Kozhikode international airport; two held||A gold smuggling racket knocked down two officials of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence near Kozhikode international airport on Sunday. While two persons were held two managed to escape. Two DRI official suffered injuries in the accident. Though there were reports that around four kilograms of gold was recovered from the vehicle, DRI officials were yet to confirm it. The incident took place at a time when probe was progressing into a major gold smuggling racket involving UAE consulate former employees in Kerala. Following a tip off regarding gold smuggling, DRI officials tried to intercept the vehicle near the airport. The vehicle that stopped near the DRI officials quickly tried to speed away knocking down two DRI officials. But the driver lost control on the vehicle and the vehicle rammed into a tree. While two persons in the vehicle managed to escape, two were nabbed by the DRI officials. Two DRI officials injured were rushed to a nearby hospital and their condition was stated to be out of danger. In a subsequent search in the vehicle, gold was reported to be recovered from the vehicle. The local police registered an attempt to murder case. The injured DRI officials were identified as Albert George and Najeem. Gold smuggling was quite rampant through Kerala airports. After the recent seizure of 30 kilogram gold from diplomatic baggage in Thiruvananthapuram, the rackets were mainly focusing on the other airports in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smugglers-knock-down-dri-officials-near-kozhikode-international-airport-two-held-883416.html
06-09-2020||South||Crime branch to probe cheating case against Manjeshwar MLA||With more cheating complaints coming up against Manjeshwar MLA and IUML leader in Kasargod, M C Kamaruddin, the investigation against him was handed over to the district crime branch. So far 12 cases were registered against the MLA on the basis of complaints of cheating investors of a jewellery shop headed by the MLA. A case for dishonouring a cheque for Rs 78 lakh was also initiated against Kamaruddin. More complaints were likely to come up. District police chief Shilpa Dyavaiah said that the investigation was handed over to the district crime branch as an indepth probe was required and the number of complaints were increasing. The allegations pertained to Kasargod-based Fashion Gold Jewellery business. Kamaruddin is the chairman of the shop. Managing director T K Pookoya Thangal was also arraigned in the case. The jewellery shops having branches in Kasargod and Kannur districts pulled shutters earlier this year citing business loss. There were around 800 investors in the firm the total investments would be several crores of rupees, said a local police source. The MLA recently alleged that the cases were politically motivated as the dues to the investors were being settled, while the CPM local leadership had alleged that nine mahal committees in the district illegally made investments in the MLA's jewellery business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/crime-branch-to-probe-cheating-case-against-manjeshwar-mla-883424.html
06-09-2020||South||Kerala daily Covid-19 cases cross 3,000-mark||Daily Covid-19 cases in Kerala crossed the 3,000-mark on Sunday as 3,082 fresh cases were reported. The fresh spike could be also seen as an indicator of the projections of health experts and the Kerala government that there could be an alarming increase in Covid-19 cases in the state after the Onam festival season. So far the highest number of daily cases was around 2650. The total active cases reached 22,676 by Sunday. With ten more Covid-19 deaths, the total Covid-19 deaths in the state reached 347. The state could heave a sigh of relief over comparatively high recovery numbers. On Sunday 2,196 recovered from Covid. A total of 64,755 persons so far recovered from COVID in Kerala. Experts had projected that the state might witness 5,000 to 10,000 daily fresh cases in September. Hence the state government was setting up more first-line treatment centres. State capital Thiruvananthapuram was having the highest number of active cases, around 5,000. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that any further total lockdown may not help in containing the spread. The emphasis would be given on massive awareness and enforcement, he said. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala has been steadily increasing as the number of daily tests was increased. At present, around 40,000 tests are being done daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-daily-covid-19-cases-cross-3000-mark-883483.html
06-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Physical distancing & Covid-19 rules go for a toss on Sunday in Chennai||For the first time in over five months, Chennaiites got to step out of their homes on a Sunday to explore the city and resume normal activities. But the biggest casualty was Covid-19 preventive measures like physical distancing and wearing of masks as people, especially youngsters, threw the rules to the wind and enjoyed their Sunday. With the government opening up almost every economic activity except schools, universities, and cinema theatres, it also decided to do away with the Sunday lockdown, a common feature for the past few months. Traffic on the roads in Chennai was normal with people visiting shopping malls and going to restaurants, playgrounds in the city were crowded on Sunday with youngsters thronging them, majority of them not wearing masks. Television footage showed large number of vehicles waiting to enter Ooty, the picturesque tourist spot, since it being the first Sunday people are allowed to come out of their homes. The government had last week made it mandatory for people travelling to Ooty to get an e-pass approved by the district administration. However, many from districts close to Nilgiris flouted the rules by queuing up to Ooty. In Chennai’s Thiagaraya Nagar, scores of youngsters were seen playing cricket for the whole of Sunday with many not wearing masks. Also, physical distancing went for a toss. The scene was no better in other playgrounds in other parts of Chennai as physical distancing rules were flouted to the core. The open flouting of the rules came two days after the government made non-compliance of Covid-19 rules as compoundable offence. As pictures of people crowding grounds and public places made it to social media, doctors took to Twitter to tell people not to be complacent. “Dear citizens of Chennai, please help the government by wearing masks and staying home as much as possible! If #COVID19 spreads fast - it strains the health systems, health care workers and all frontline workers who are working day and night to serve you,” Dr Prabhdeep Kaur of the National Institute of Epidemiology, said.  Dr Sumanth C Raman, a physician by profession, said: “Hardly any masks seen. What is wrong with their parents? This is just irresponsible,” in response to a set of pictures that clearly showed youngsters were flouting rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-physical-distancing-covid-19-rules-go-for-a-toss-on-sunday-in-chennai-883486.html
06-09-2020||South||Fears of oil spill dissipates, fire in vessel off Sri Lankan coast almost put off||The fears of an oil spill due to a fire in a crude laden vessel off the Sri Lankan coast appears to have dissipated with the authorities on Sunday saying here that the blaze has almost been doused. While intense fire-fighting efforts taken up by the Indian Coast Guard and Sri Lankan Air Force and Navy since September 3 had led to localisation of the fire in the ship, a defence release said no oil spill has been reported. "Fire appears to be doused and no flame and smoke are visible. The situation is being monitored for further action," the release said, adding that the inertness of cargo was being maintained. The ship's storage area, which has about three lakh tonnes of crude oil, is reported to be safe. Panama registered MT (Motor Tanker) New Diamond, a Greek-owned vessel and under charter by Indian Oil Corporation was carrying 2,70,000 tonnes of crude oil from Kuwait to India's Paradip port when its engine room caught fire off Sangamankanda's coast in Lanka's eastern district of Ampara. Indian Coast Guard (ICG) and Sri Lankan ships, fast patrol vessels and tugs have been deployed in the fire fighting exercise. T he oil tanker, which was taken to safe waters, is being held by a tug about 42 miles from the nearest coast for preventing drifting of the ship and to facilitate fire fighting. The various assets deployed are equipped with fire extinguishers like Dry Chemical Powder and Aqueous Film- Forming Foam Concentrates besides Oil Spill Dispersants and oil skimmers to handle the situation in the event of an oil slick. Specialised ICG pollution Response ship Samudra Paheredar, equipped with ocean boom and oil skimmers reached the oil tanker's location today. "Continuous boundary cooling is in progress with the use of AFFF and water spraying. No further increase in the crack or any significant change in trim or list has been observed." The ICG launched the operations, being the competent authority under South Asian Co-operative for Environment Protection for responding and coordinating pollution response in the South Region Sea Area. The tanker had burst into flames, leaving one of its 24 crew members missing and another injured while explosions and a crack was noticed on September 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fears-of-oil-spill-dissipates-fire-in-vessel-off-sri-lankan-coast-almost-put-off-883500.html
06-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 recoveries cross 4 lakh; 5,783 new cases||Tamil Nadu on Sunday witnessed a significant milestone as the number of Covid-19 recoveries crossed the 4 lakh mark with 5,820 more patients getting discharged in the state, the health department said. The day also saw 5,783 new infections being reported, taking the aggregate to 4.63 lakh, while 88 deaths pushed the toll to 7,836, a bulletin issued by the health department said. With 5,820 people getting cured, total recoveries in the state was 4.04 lakh till date. The active coronavirus cases in the state stood at 51,458, the bulletin said. The state capital recorded 965 cases in the last 24 hours totalling to 1.41 lakh till date, while neighbouring Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts cumulatively added 803 fresh cases to the infection table. The total number of samples tested on Sunday was 85,974, taking the overall to 52.98 lakh so far, the bulletin said. Among the 88 deceased, six were without comorbidities. A 19-year-old girl with complaints of fever for five days, pain in the abdomen and vomiting died on August 30, minutes after she was admitted to the district hospital. Later, tests confirmed that the patient was Covid-19 positive, the bulletin said. Three of those died were nonagenarians. Besides Chennai, Coimbatore and Cuddalore recorded 538 and 388 new cases respectively while many districts reported over 100 new Covid-19 infections that were reported today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-covid-19-recoveries-cross-4-lakh-5783-new-cases-883511.html
06-09-2020||South||Headmistress made to apologise for Onam message in Kerala||In a bizarre incident, a nun, who is the headmistress of a school at Kottayam in Kerala, was made to apologise at a police station for an Onam message that allegedly hurt sentiments of a section and the video of the headmistress apologising is being widely circulated in the social media. Headmistress of St Teresa's Girls High School Nedumkunnam sister Diya, about 20 kilometres from Kottayam town, was made to apologise for an Onam message as Hindu Aikya Vedi activists alleged that the message hurt sentiments of devotees of Vamana, an incarnation of Lord Vishnu. Kottayam district police chief Jaidev G told DH that a report was sought from the Deputy Superintendent of Police concerned about the incident. Police officials were maintaining that the headmistress volunteered to apologise and some Hindu Aikya Vedi workers only recorded it and posted on social media without the knowledge of police. In her Onam message, the sister recollected the popular myth over Onam that King Mahabali, known for his generosity, was pushed down by Vamana. Though the message was given in closed group of school students and parents, it was spread on social media alleging that the nun hurt sentiments of Vamana devotees. On September 1, a group of Hindu Aikya Vedi workers staged a protest against the school and approached the Karukachal police station. Subsequently, a video of the nun that it was due to her ignorance that she posted such a message and tendering apology was spread by Hindi Aikya Vedi leaders, including state president Sasikala Teacher. Karuakachal circle inspector Sajeev Mon said the police neither summoned the headmistress to the police station nor asked her to apologise. She volunteered to come to the station to talk to those who came with a complaint after the police informed her about the complaint. Police allowed them to have a conciliatory talk and they settled the matter themselves. But someone recorded it an spread on social media. Since the nun did not give any complaint against it, no further action was taken yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/headmistress-made-to-apologise-for-onam-message-in-kerala-883540.html
06-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM gives nod to hike taxes levied by Transport dept||In dire need of funds for his numerous freebie schemes, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has given his nod for enhancement of various taxes by the Transport Department that could net an additional sum of Rs 400 crore to the exchequer per annum. Consequently, life tax on two-wheelers and four- wheelers will go up by one to three per cent. Besides, the Transport Department proposed a hike in quarterly tax on goods carriages in varied percentages and also the Green Tax on aged vehicles, highly-placed official sources revealed. Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) reportedly opposed the proposed hike in taxes, saying it would have a negative impact but the Chief Minister was determined on raising resources for his freebie schemes, the sources added. The last hike in transport taxes was enforced exactly a decade ago when the state was united. The relevant file has now been sent to the Finance Department and formal orders enforcing the tax hike will be issued next week, the sources said. The Transport Department earned a revenue of Rs 3,181.78 crore in financial year 2019-20 as against the target of Rs 4,000 crore. In 2018-19, it netted Rs 3,224.98 crore against a target of Rs 3,687.50 crore. "We could not really achieve the targets in the last two years, basically due to drop in sale of cars in particular but it has been worse so far this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. The hike this year may only make good some of the loss though it may not exactly fetch additional revenue," a top official of the Transport Department said. Statistics reveal that there are 1.02 crore two-wheelers in the state and about nine lakh are added every year, fetching a revenue in life tax of Rs 568.48 crore last year. The department proposed a one per cent hike from the existing nine per cent in life tax on two-wheelers priced up to Rs 50,000 and 1-3 per cent on those above Rs 50,000. This could net additional revenue of Rs 173.75 crore per annum. Around 75,000 four-wheelers, including cars, jeeps and omnibuses (10-seater), are added every year to the existing 9. 91 lakh in the state. The Department collected a sum of Rs 943.47 crore in life tax on four-wheelers in two slabs of 12 and 14 per cent. The Department proposed a one per cent hike in tax on four-wheelers costing up to Rs 8 lakh, 1-3 per cent on those priced between Rs 8 lakh and Rs 15 lakh, 1-2 per cent on vehicles priced up to Rs 20 lakh and 1-3 per cent on those above Rs 20 lakh. The Transport Department also proposed a varied tax structure on goods carriages, based on the laden weight of the cargo, with a 10-15 per cent hike on existing rates. Similarly, Green Tax will also be increased depending on the age of the vehicles, except autorickshaws. The department is currently earning a meagre Rs 5 crore per annum as Green Tax but it will rise to Rs 35 crore after the hike, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-gives-nod-to-hike-taxes-levied-by-transport-dept-883555.html
06-09-2020||South||AIADMK govt has 'failed' in maintaining law and order: DMK||The AIADMK government has miserably failed in maintenance of law and order in Tamil Nadu, DMK president M K Stalin alleged here on Sunday. The National Crime Records Bureau data for 2017 and 2018 showed that cases under the Indian Penal Code and the local and special laws saw a rise in Tamil Nadu and the incidence of crime "increased 18.61 per cent," the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly alleged. Coimbatore and Chennai have seen an increase in murders and the AIADMK government has created a "dangerous situation of insecurity for people in both the cities," Stalin alleged in a statement. Similarly, crimes against women saw a 40.79 per cent rise in Coimbatore and 18.54 per cent increase in Chennai, he claimed. Sarcastically, he alleged, "transforming Coimbatore and Chennai as cities that have no safety for women is the achievement of K Palaniswami's regime." Also, crimes against children in Tamil Nadu have witnessed a 17.74 per cent rise, he alleged. The government "miserably failed" in the maintenance of law and order, Stalin alleged and condemned Chief Minister K Palaniswami for "putting a question mark" over the safety and security of people by being "responsible for the deterioration" of law and order and for "politicising" the excellent Tamil Nadu Police department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-govt-has-failed-in-maintaining-law-and-order-dmk-883574.html
06-09-2020||South||Heavy rain lashes Kerala, 2 districts on alert||Heavy rain lashed parts of Kerala Sunday and its two districts are on alert, while two people died and seven houses were destroyed in rain-related incidents elsewhere, even as monsoon was “feeble” at its current position. The national capital, meanwhile, experienced a humid day with the maximum temperature settling at 35.5 degrees Celsius, a notch above season's normal. According to the weatherman, the relative humidity oscillated between 61 per cent and 100 per cent in the national capital. Heavy rains lashed several parts of the southern state of Kerala due to a low pressure in the Arabian Sea, prompting the Met department to issue an orange alert for two districts of the state. Parts of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Thrissur districts received heavy rainfall. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea in the next 48 hours. The Met department has issued an orange alert (warning of heavy rainfall) for Kollam and Alappuzha districts, and yellow alert in 10 districts and Lakshadweep islands. "Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over Southeast and adjoining Eastcentral Arabian Sea, a Low Pressure Area has formed over Southeast and adjoining Eastcentral Arabian Sea in the morning of today (September 6). It is very likely to move slightly northwards during the next 48 hours and weaken thereafter," an IMD statement said. The MeT department has forecast partly cloudy sky with possibility of light rain and thundershowers on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rain-lashes-kerala-2-districts-on-alert-883583.html
06-09-2020||State||Karnataka: Man murdered over financial matter in Kalaburagi||A 32-year-old man has been murdered with lethal weapons by his friends over a financial matter at Syed Galli in Kalaburagi on Friday late night. The police gave the name of the deceased as Abdul Enshad, a resident of the Roza layout. The deceased didn't return Rs 3,000 borrowed from his friends. Ravi Guttedar, Suryakanth Matapati, Bhima, Arun and Sharanu are stated to  be the accused. The police of Roza police station have arrested Ravi and Suryakanth on Saturday afternoon. Enshad was running a grocery shop and had good acquaintance with the accused. He had borrowed Rs 3,000 from his friends few days ago. They had quarrelled several times with Enshad over returning of borrowed money, they explained. The accused took away the deceased who was near his house on Friday night around 12.30 am and murdered. He has been stabbed on his stomach and in other parts, the police explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-man-murdered-over-financial-matter-in-kalaburagi-883198.html
06-09-2020||State||Spoorthi Y Agnihotri emerges as SSLC topper for Mysuru||Spoorthi Y Agnihotri of Marimallappa's School has emerged as district topper and one of the second toppers for the state in SSLC examination by scoring 624 out of 625 marks. Agnihotri had obtained less 618 marks but she applied for revaluation of answer scripts which resulted in her scoring 624 out of 625 marks and emerging as a topper. Earlier, three students, who had secured 623 out of 625 were the district toppers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/spoorthi-y-agnihotri-emerges-as-sslc-topper-for-mysuru-883280.html
06-09-2020||State||Jain seer writes to Suresh Kumar over glaring errors on Jainism in Karnataka history textbook||Jain Kashi Mutt seer Bhattaraka Charukeerthi Swami has written to Minister for Primary and Secondary Education Suresh Kumar on stalling the distribution of II PUC history textbook in the Kannada language which has glaring mistakes about Bhagawan Mahaveera and the Jain religion. Having noticed the mistake, Jain Kashi Mutt seer Bhattaraka Charukeerthi Swami has written to the Minister to not distribute the textbooks to students until the corrections were incorporated. A few paragraphs on page 33, 34 and 35 in the textbook had mistakes related to Mahaveera’s history and his message. The text gives the meaning that Bhagawan Mahaveera was married. In Shwethambara sect there is a belief that Mahaveera was married before becoming Bhagawan. But the Digambara sect believes that he was ‘Balabrahmachari’. Further, the seer said the textbook declares that Jainism was popular only in Kosala, Vanga and Magadha, which is not true. The first Theerthankara’s birth year declared as  Shalivahana Shaka is also not true. He said celibacy was one of the sacred vows introduced by Mahaveera while the rest of vows - non-violence, truth, ‘asteya’ (not stealing), and ‘aparigrapha’ (non-acquisition)  were propagated by the previous Theerthankaras. “The history textbook of II PUC declares these vows as Panchasheela, but it should be mentioned as Pancha anuvrata,” said the seer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jain-seer-writes-to-suresh-kumar-over-glaring-errors-on-jainism-in-karnataka-history-textbook-883392.html
06-09-2020||State||Enhance reservation or face music, Valmiki seer warns BSY||Rajanahalli Valmiki Peeta Seer Prasannananda Swamiji said a delegation of leaders of the community would meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on September 21 and urge him to enhance reservation for the community.   "If not we would teach a lesson to the government," Swamiji said while speaking at a consultative meeting with ministers, legislators of the community on the reservation at Rajanahalli in Harihar taluk on Sunday. He said BJP came to power in the name of Lord Rama and Valmiki is the author of Ramayana. So the BJP-led government should meet the demands of the community.  The seer said despite several appeals, the successive governments failed to enhance reservation for the community. But the centre has given 10% reservation for upper castes despite not staging any protest. Politicians of all parties must come together and make a decision in favour of the community. If the reservation is not enhanced, the community would chalk out agitation plans, the seer added.  Legislators of the community stated that they are ready to step down from their positions if the seer asks them to do so.  Reacting to it, former minister Satish Jarkiholi said that resignation is not the solution. "Let us fight together till the demand is met. Sriramulu is part of the government. Let us fight under his leadership. The government must clear how it gave 10% reservation to upper castes. Sriramulu said he had stated that he would strive for the implementation of 7.5% reservation for the community if Yediyurappa became the chief minister. He would stick to his words even today. " The seer said "let us appeal to the chief minister again under the leadership of Satish Jarkiholi and Sriramulu to enhance reservation for the community. It must be discussed in the assembly. If the government fails o meet the demand, we will fight again. " mlas S V Ramachandrappa, Ganesh E Tukaram, Raghumurhrthy, Anil Chikkamadu, Pratap Gowda, MP Devendrappa, former MLA Raja Venkatappa Nayaka were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/enhance-reservation-or-face-music-valmiki-seer-warns-bsy-883423.html
06-09-2020||State||Ro-Ro service rolls off from Bale to Nelmangala||The trial run of Roll-On-Roll-Off (RORO), carrying road vehicles, on open flat railway wagons was carried out from Bale (Solapur) to Nelmangala (Bengaluru) by Central Railway on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his recent Independence Day speech, has envisaged multimodal connectivity to take India to the next level of development. Railways provide hassle-free and environmentally friendly transport to medium to large quantum of freight,  according to a press statement. Rail transport is most fuel-efficient of all means of transport and is much safer than the road. Roll-on-Roll-off is a multimodal delivery model have several advantages like faster movement of goods and essentials, reducing time taken by trucks to reach destinations due to traffic congestion in between cities. It also reduces congestion on the roads, saves precious fuel and reduces carbon footprint. Bengaluru and Solapur cities are thriving business cities, rich in Agri-products. Substantial road traffic carrying a large number of commodities moves between these two cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ro-ro-service-rolls-off-from-bale-to-nelmangala-883496.html
06-09-2020||State||Karnataka seeks Smart City project for 4 more cities||Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj said that the state government has written to Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs seeking him to include four more cities of Karnataka in Smart City project. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, the minister said that Karnataka had recommended the Centre to include Ballari, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi and Mysuru under the the latter’s flagship programme of Smart City. The minister admitted that pace of works under the Smart City project in seven cities selected earlier was not satisfactory. He, however, added that he would not debate over the reasons for the delay and would ensure that the pending projects are completed at the earliest. Basavaraj added that there was no dearth of funds for taking up of development works in urban areas. “The fall in GST collection and other taxes has not hampered our works as we have received sufficient funds from the Centre,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-seeks-smart-city-project-for-4-more-cities-883541.html
06-09-2020||State||Concrete slabs of RTPS Unit III collapse, no casualties||A portion of concrete slab of Unit III of the Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) has collapsed. However, no casualties have been reported in the incident that came to light muchlater. The concrete slabs of 45 metre, 80 metre and 200 metre of the 210 MW capacity Unit III have collapsed. The site has been cordoned off following the incident. Works are underway to fix the slabs, RTPS officials told reporters. Power generation at all the RTPS units have been stopped due to low power demand. The KPCL will soon take up the modernisation of the 30-year-old Unit III at a cost of Rs 30 crore. “Modernisation of RTPS Unit III will be entrusted to the BHEL engineers. A process has been set in motion to replace old equipment and machinery, RTPS Executive Director K Venkatachalapathy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/concrete-slabs-of-rtps-unit-iii-collapse-no-casualties-883547.html
06-09-2020||State||Karnataka: Railways to resume seven more trains from Sept 12||The South Western Railway will start seven pairs of trains from September 12 as part of the process to bring normalcy in passenger movement. In a release, the SWR said the composition and timings of the trains would be same as of existing regular services but stoppages would be restricted in view of suggestions from the state government. These will be fully reserved trains. Among the seven trains is the KSR Bengaluru–Mysuru–KSR Bengaluru Special Express (06539 / 06540) all days except Sunday. The train will depart KSR Bengaluru at 5.20 pm and arrive Mysuru at 8.20 pm. In the return direction, the train will depart Mysuru at 6.10 am and arrive at KSR Bengaluru at 9.15 am. The six other trains are Bengaluru Cantonment-Guwahati-Bengaluru Cantonment Special Express (02509 / 02510), Yeshwanthpur-Bikaner-Yeshwanthpur Special Express (06587 / 06588. Mysuru-Jaipur-Mysuru Special Express (02975 / 02976), Mysuru-Solapur-Mysuru Special Express (06535 / 06536), Gorakhpur-Yeshwanthpur-Gorakhpur Special Express (02591 / 02592) and KSR Bengaluru-New Delhi-KSR Bengaluru Special Express (02627 / 02628).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-railways-to-resume-seven-more-trains-from-sept-12-883550.html
06-09-2020||State||Flood relief: Central team to meet Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||A six-member central team will visit Karnataka for a three-day tour from tomorrow to assess the extent of damage caused by floods in parts of Karnataka in August this year. The team headed by K V Pratap, joint secretary to the Ministry of Home Affairs, will hold a meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and other senior officials on Monday. During the meeting, the government is expected to seek funds for the damages caused during the floods. Karnataka had suffered losses due to heavy rainfall and flooding for the third consecutive year. The state government has estimated losses to the tune of Rs 4,800 crore caused due to floods, according to Revenue Minister R Ashoka. The team is expected to visit Kodagu, Belagavi and other districts to ascertain the damages suffered. They will also hold meetings with the Revenue department officials, before returning to Delhi to finalise the compensation under National Disaster Relief Fund for Karnataka. CM to meet ministers Ahead of the upcoming legislature session on September 21, Yediyurappa will also a hold a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues. The meeting, according to sources, is expected to iron out the differences between some ministers in the Cabinet, along with other issues related to the upcoming session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-relief-central-team-to-meet-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-883556.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Award-winning teachers from Karnataka give a lesson in innovation||Initiative and imagination seemed to be the hallmarks of three teachers from Karnataka who were among the 47 honoured with the National Awards of Teachers on Saturday.    Using innovative methods like musical spellings, and mathematics and science laboratories, the teachers showed that it’s not just students of elite schools who are entitled to quality education.     President Ram Nath Kovind gave away the awards at a “virtual” ceremony. The teachers joined the ceremony through video conferencing. Chemmalar Shanmugam, the head mistress of the primary section of a Kendriya Vidyalaya No 2 School in Jalahalli, Bengaluru, received the award for teaching English through classroom games, concerts and dovetailing local issues like lost lakes of the city to generate interest in studies. High school teacher Surekha Jagannath from the Government High School in Afzalpur in Kalaburagi won the award for over a hundred innovations and experiments in science teaching to promote personalised learning development of curiosity and creativity in students. Yakub S, a high school teacher from Belthangady in Dakshina Kannada district, was honoured for setting up the first laboratory for mathematics in any government school.  “I have created 500 educational videos on YouTube, around 300 focused on mathematics to make the subject interesting for students,” Yakub told DH.  He said the videos, explaining mathematics is simple Kannada, were being used to impart education across the state.  Yakub said the ‘Maths Magic’ YouTube channel is targeted at high school students. For Shanmugam, use of information communication technology in imparting education was a passion that stood her in good stead during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/award-winning-teachers-from-karnataka-give-a-lesson-in-innovation-883183.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka asks Centre to include Mysuru, Ballari in Smart City project||Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj said Karnataka government has written a letter to Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs urging it to include four more cities in the Smart City project. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, he said Karnataka government has recommended including Ballari, Vijaypura, Kalaburagi and Mysuru under the Union government flagship programme of Smart City. While the minister acknowledged that works under the Smart City project in seven cities that were selected earlier are not up to the satisfactory level, he said he would not debate over the reasons for the delay in the completion of the project, but would ensure that the pending projects are completed at the earliest. He claimed that after he took over as the minister, development works in the department had an improved pace. No dearth of funds The minister also said that there was no dearth of funds for taking up of development works in urban areas. The fall in GST collection and other taxes has not hampered our works as we have received sufficient funds from the Union government also. The central government has also released Rs 500 crore under the Smart City project for the State this year, he said.He blamed Covid-19 and heavy rains for the delay in implementing a few of the development works across the State. “Road and other development work done during monsoon will not be of a good standard. So, we are slowing up things a bit,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-asks-centre-to-include-mysuru-ballari-in-smart-city-project-883310.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Labour Minister A Shivaram Hebbar on Sunday said he and his wife have tested positive for the coronavirus and would be under treatment in their home itself being asymptomatic. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa wished the 63-year old leader a speedy recovery and prayed that he continued with his good works. "Me and my wife underwent Covid-19 test and have been found positive for the virus. Since there are no symptoms of coronavirus, we decided to remain in home quarantine on doctors' advice and are getting treatment at home," Hebbar tweeted. He expressed confidence that he and his wife would soon recover. Prior to him, Yediyurappa, forest minister Anand Singh, Tourism Minister C T Ravi, Health Minister Sriramulu, Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Siddaramaiah and Congress state chief D K Shivakumar had tested positive for Covid-19 and completely recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-labour-minister-shivaram-hebbar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-883332.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP disowns Ragini Dwivedi after her arrest in narcotics case||The state BJP unit on Sunday disowned actor Ragini Dwivedi, following her arrest in connection with a narcotics case. A statement issued by BJP spokesperson Capt Ganesh Karnik said that Ragini was not a member of the BJP, and the party had not party assigned her any responsibility for electioneering. She may have involved in the campaign "on her own", he said, adding that the party was "neither accountable nor answerable to Ragini Dwivedi's activities in her personal and professional life. "We have nothing to do with it and maintain a distance from it," he said. BJP is totally against any sort of anti-social activity by anybody and will not support such activities. Hence, we disown Ragini for her involvement in the drug racket, the statement added. The saffron party was left red-faced recently, after videos of Ragini campaigning for the BJP during the by-polls held last year went viral on social media. Several images of the actress with BJP leaders were also circulated, embarrassing the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-disowns-ragini-dwivedi-after-her-arrest-in-narcotics-case-883403.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Initiate strict action against drug peddlers, consumers: Siddaramaiah to Karnataka government||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah urged the BS Yediyurappa government to initiate strict action against illegal drug peddlers and consumers, here Sunday. In a series of tweets, he said that the government should refrain from protecting those who had links to BJP leaders. "CM of Karnataka should initiate strict action against illegal drug peddlers & consumers. There are allegations that some of the accused has connections with Karnataka BJP leaders, and ministers are trying to protect them. This should not happen," he said. Seeking details from Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai regarding the number of arrests made, he said that there were allegations that police officers were involved in the drug racket. "What action has been taken on those officers? How many are involved?," he questioned. Committees to monitor drug usage has to be set up at taluk, district and state levels, he said, seeking details on the number of such committees  constituted by the government. War on drugs: Kateel BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the police department has literally declared a war on the drug racket. "For us, drug buyers, sellers and suppliers are anti-social elements and are thorns in the path of our youth's future," he added. He urged the public to come forward to inform the police and assured that BJP "would protect them from any troubles."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/initiate-strict-action-against-drug-peddlers-consumers-siddaramaiah-to-karnataka-government-883527.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kids interact with Danish Sait, win prizes in DH 'Fun Quiz'||Ten school-aged children went home with cash prizes, plus scholarships on Saturday after participating in  "Fun Quiz" organised by Deccan Herald in association with Deeksha, an education services company. The two-hour quiz which was conducted on Saturday evening, saw 10 children from Grades 9 to 10, compete for the honor of winning the Rs 25,000 top prize while interacting with the stand-up comedian Danish Sait who hosted the last of three segments, called “Kahoot.” Bringing his trademark multi-personality performances to the small screen, Sait regaled children and audience-members with his impersonations of local caricatures aspiring to carve their own unique, if unintentionally hilarious, identities. The quiz, which first began scouting for quick-thinking schoolchildren in grades 8 through 11, saw two preliminary rounds conducted on August 22 and 29, with 5,529 registrations. Children who aced both rounds were considered for the top 10. "They were shortlisted based on accuracy and speed," organisers said. Among them were: Arjan Singh (Grade 9), Dhyan Vas (Grade 11), Sampreet Vasishta (Grade 10), Kushagra (Grade 9), Pragun Pudukoli (Glade 10), Abhineet Komanduri (Grade 11), Satvik R K (Grade 10), Manasa (Grade 10), Sricharan Anand (Grade 9), Sudeepthi Ramesh (Grade 11). Dyan of the National Public School in Indiranagar won the Rs 25,000 first prize, while Satvik of Sri Kumaran’s Children’s Home won the Rs 15,000- second place. The third place was taken by Sudeepthi of Sri Aurobindo Memorial School who was awarded Rs 5,000. Sait was quick to point out to the winners that ranks and positions are only good for the moment and that life is a great equalizer. Those who didn’t take home the cash prizes were nevertheless handed scholarships. “You shouldn’t dwell on not winning today. After all, you were selected as finalists from a crowd of over 5,000 kids,” Danish said. The quiz required the contestants to carry out lateral thinking across multiple languages, Kannada, English and Hindi, to sometimes come up with the right answer. Much of the questions involved general knowledge. There were also slightly more complex word and picture association puzzles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kids-interact-with-danish-sait-win-prizes-in-dh-fun-quiz-883538.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stone masonry in Karnataka govt buildings set to be history||Using stone-masonry for construction of government buildings - such as Vidhana Soudha and DC offices in some districts - will be a thing of the past as the Technical Working Group for Preparation of Uniform Schedule of Rates (SR) has recommended the government to discontinue the method for superstructures, citing high costs. The Uniform SR, when implemented, will also put an end to the use of teakwood, rosewood and nandi wood for doors and windows, and use of all types of marbles for construction. With this, "the total number of SRs will be six, compared to 32 SRs earlier," the report said, noting that there was considerable variation in the basic cost of materials "ranging upto 100%" when different department procured items for construction and other works. Commenting on stone masonry buildings, the Group noted that it cost twice than brick work and may be dropped from the SR for super structure beyond plinth, the report said. The eight-member technical working group under retired chief engineer R Jai Prasad constituted by the government in April this year, fixed uniform rates for various materials and services used by various works taken up by government departments. The "prevalence" of engineering wings in various departments and civic bodies had lead to a large number of SRs with wide variations from each other, which are now reduced to six. "For Electrical works the SRs of three departments, that is escoms, KPTCL and PWD Electrical are clubbed taking out common items from each of SRs, taking PWD Electrical as base which will be the only SR. However, the other two departments can have their SR providing for organization specific items not provided elsewhere," the report said. Likewise, for Water supply and UGD - BWSSB SR will be considered. The Group fixed common rates for around 1,500 materials and services, wages to labourers employed by various department for works, common rates for earth work using both mechanical and manual means, common SRs for RCC concrete works, rates for different grades of concrete among others. B Guruprasad, Secretary to government, Public Works Department, told DH that  a meeting with all departments concerned was held recently regarding uniform SR. All have accepted the proposals and a meeting will be held by the end of this month to finalise it, he said. "The SR has also addressed ambiguities concerning labour rates and SR charges. Labour rates will also be uniform henceforth," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stone-masonry-in-karnataka-govt-buildings-set-to-be-history-883539.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka clocks 9,319 new coronavirus cases, 95 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday registered 9,319 fresh Covid-19 cases and 95 related deaths, pushing the total infections to 3.98 lakh, the health department said. The total number of infections comprise 2.92 lakh discharges, whereas there were 99,266 active cases in the state including 775 in the ICU, the department said in a statement. The spike in cases was led by Bengaluru urban district, where 2,824 people tested positive for the virus. Mysuru was the second biggest contributor after Bengaluru Urban, with 686 fresh cases and five deaths on Sunday. According to the health bulletin, 427 Covid-19 cases were reported in Belagavi, 396 in Ballari, 326 in Dakshina Kannada, 324 in Hassan, 329 in Shivamogga, 311 in Dharwad, followed by others. A majority of those who died of the deadly virus were above 50 years of age. Most of the deceased had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness or the Influenza-Like Illness. The health department said as on Sunday 4.94 lakh people were home quarantined whereas in the past 14 days, 7.86 lakh primary contacts and 10.90 lakh secondary contacts have been traced. As many as 72,684 tests were done on Sunday, taking the total number of tests so far to 33.48 lakh, the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-clocks-9319-new-coronavirus-cases-95-deaths-883562.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka continues to report single-day tally of 9,000-plus cases||Karnataka continued the trend of reporting the single-day tally of 9,000-plus Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, the state saw 9,319 fresh infections.   The highest concentration of cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban with 2,824 new infections, which is 30% of the total cases revealed in the state on Sunday. The rest of the day's caseload was strewn across the state’s 29 remaining districts, with the next highest numbers being in Mysuru (686), Belagavi (427), Ballari (396), Shivamogga (329), Dakshina Kannada (326) and Hassan (324). There were also 95 new deaths reported, the majority of which (38) were reported from Bengaluru Urban. Ballari and Belagavi recorded eight fatalities each while the remaining were distributed across 18 districts. The youngest fatality was a 26-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). He died on August 10, three days after being identified as Covid-19 positive. According to the government he did not have any comorbidities. The oldest fatality was a 92-year-old man from Ballari, also with symptoms of SARI, who died on September 4. The state also discharged 9,575 people, which is more than the number of new cases disclosed on Sunday, out of which 47.4% (4,540 cases) were in Bengaluru Urban. Bengaluru situation The largest concentration of new cases in Bengaluru were in the city’s West Zone (23%), followed by South Zone (17%), Bommanahalli (16%) and East (14%). According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), it carried out 28,728 tests on Sunday. The city’s positivity rate is 14.28%, which is down by 0.83% from last Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-continues-to-report-single-day-tally-of-9000-plus-cases-883563.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt prepares comprehensive presentation on flood damage to show to Central team||The Karnataka government has prepared a comprehensive presentation, assessing the flood-related damage at between Rs 9,000 crore and Rs 10,000 crore, to be shown to the central team arriving in the state on a three-day visit from September 7, a senior official said on Sunday. "The presentation will include a short video on the extent of the damage in the state due to the floods, which was lower than last year, but still somewhere between Rs 9,000 crore-Rs 10,000 crore," he told PTI. He said the six-member central team would be led by K V Pratap, Joint Secretary in the Home Ministry. They would meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his ministerial colleagues and senior government officials on Monday afternoon at the office-cum-residence of the Chief Minister, he said. On Tuesday morning, two members of the team would visit Kodagu, another two would go to Belagavi and the others, to Bagalkote and Gadag, he said. "These teams will return on Wednesday afternoon and there will be a debriefing session. They will return to Delhi the same evening," the official said. Heavy rains had lashed several parts of Karnataka in July and August, killing 46 people and damaging more than 1,000 houses. Standing crops in thousands of hectares were washed away. The torrential rains led to heavy inflows in dams and excess water was released||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-prepares-comprehensive-presentation-on-flood-damage-to-show-to-central-team-883571.html
06-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NEP: Karnataka task force to submit report in 4 days||The task force constituted for the implementation of the New Education Policy will submit its report to the government in four days, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has said. "The government has made all the preparations for the implementation of the New Education Policy. The task force report will mention about the mode of implementation. The government will take further steps based on this report," Ashwath Narayan said. He was speaking at a video conference with Union Human Resources Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and BJP national organising secreary B L Santhosh. He said that interactions have been held with the vice chancellors of all the universities in the state about NEP. People from all section of society have responded positively for the policy, he informed the Union minister. Ashwath Narayan, who is also the Higher Education Minister said that the process had been set in motion for bringing amendments to the laws and rules to facilitate implementation of NEP. "The new policy will result in decentralization of power and educational institutions will get more authority," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nep-karnataka-task-force-to-submit-report-in-4-days-883573.html
06-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Rhea Chakraborty grilled by NCB||In a big to net big fish of the narcotics supplies to Bollywood personalities, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday grilled actor-model Rhea Chakraborty, the live-in partner of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea was grilled at the third floor of Exchange Building at Ballard Estate, the NCB zonal office in Mumbai. In the morning, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) joint director Sameer Wankhede, who is now attached to the NCB, went to the PrimRose Apartments at Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz for investigations. The 28-year-old Rhea was later escorted by the Mumbai police to the NCB office in Mumbai. Rhea’s 24-year-old brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda and house help Dipesh Sawant are already in the custody of the NCB along with two peddlers Abdel Basit Parihar and Zaid Vilatra. During the interrogation, Rhea was questioned separately and confronted with other accused. Meanwhile, Rhea’s family made its first comments and broke the silence since the death of Sushant. “Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter. You have effectively demolished a middle-class family. But of course, for the sake of justice, everything is justified. Jai Hind,” said Lt Col (retd) Dr Indrajit Chakraborty, the father of Rhea and Showik. Their lawyer Satish Maneshinde said that Rhea will cooperate with the investigations. “Rhea Chakraborty is ready for arrest as this is a witch hunt and if loving someone is a crime she will face the consequences of her love,” he said. Maneshinde further noted that being innocent Rhea has not approached any court for an anticipatory bail in all the cases foisted by Bihar Police now with the Central Bureau of Investigation, Enforcement Directorate and Narcotics Control Bureau. Sawant, who was arrested on Saturday night, was produced before a holiday court which remanded him to custody till 9 September. “He (Dipesh Sawant) was in their (NCB) custody since Sept 4, without his family being informed. He should've been produced before court within 24 hours. We've filed a plea against him being kept in custody for over 24 hours. The court has called for a reply from NCB,” Sawant's lawyer Rajendra Rathod said. It may be recalled that Rhea had earlier denied taking drugs but admitted that Sushant used to take marijuana and despite efforts, she could not control him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-rhea-chakraborty-grilled-by-ncb-883245.html
06-09-2020||West||August sees fastest growth of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, registers over 3.70 lakh cases||Maharashtra reported the fastest growth in coronavirus infection in August, registering over 3.70 lakh cases, a senior state health official said. According to data of the Maharashtra health department, the state reported 3,76,587 Covid-19 cases last month, 2,41,820 cases in July and 1,04,748 cases in June. "On August 1, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state was 4,31,719, which jumped to 8,08,306 on September 1. This is probably the fastest growth of cases in the state since January," the health official said. One of the reasons for the growth in number of positive cases is the increased number of tests, he said, adding that last month, the state carried out 20,16,809 tests. "The number of tests conducted till August 1 was 21,94,943, which rose to 42,11,752 on September 1. The state is aggressively testing which is helping in detection of the infected people," the official said. The official informed that the number Covid-19 cases and deaths is continuously going up in the state. Between August 1 and 5, the number of Covid-19 cases rose by 36,546, and between September 1 and 5, the number went up by 75,556, the official said. Besides, the state reported 15,316 deaths due to the disease till August 1 and the number went up to 24,903 on September 1, as per the data. "Between August 1 and 5, 1,160 people died due to Covid-19 and between September 1 and 5, 1,373 people died," the official said. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis has said the state needs to conduct more tests. "Out of the daily tests, a sizable number is of the antigen tests which are not completely reliable. The RT-PCR tests, which are more reliable, should be done on a large scale, which will be able to tell the ground reality about the coronavirus," he said. However, the health official said the antigen tests are comparatively cheaper than the RT-PCR tests and hence, conducted more as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/august-sees-fastest-growth-of-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-registers-over-370-lakh-cases-883275.html
06-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Work from home hits productivity of Mumbaikars||The Covid-19 pandemic has popularized the concept of work from home, but Mumbai professionals say space crunch in apartments and lack of robust internet connectivity has hampered their work, though saving on travel time has been an advantage for some. Many people also complain of lack of professional environment and privacy at home, but say this is the new normal which they have to accept. Vijay Singh, a city-based journalist, told PTI that while working from home, he has been facing issues like poor internet and mobile phone connectivity. "Work from home has become a compulsion with the Covid-19 numbers going up," he says. Varun Singh, the founder of Squarefeatindia, a real estate news portal, says lack of proper working space and privacy is a big hindrance as most of the homes in Mumbai are small. Majority of homes in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region are one bedroom-hall-kitchen (BHK) apartments measuring 325 to 425 square feet, he says. "Those working from home are occupying the space that, in their absence, used to be normally occupied by other family members. Now, working people have to share the space at home with their children and other family members," he says. Also, many people have just one laptop, which is also to be used by children for their online classes. The mobile phone data gets exhausted and not all homes have Wifi connections, he says. Amid the current situation, many developers are trying to promote the concept of office space in 1.5 BHKs, Singh says. Shweta Kulkarni, a public relations professional, says she misses the office environment while working from home while the positive side is that commuting time is saved. "Even for those living in two BHKs, if more than one or two persons are working from home, then it creates a problem. Productivity and work performance are hampered while working from home," she says. Nilesh Shinde, who works in a private firm, says there no office-like settings at home. "You have to feel like working in the office to boost your productivity," he says. For some like Prajakta Seth, who works in an investment firm, work from home means longer working hours. "There are also problems like lack of space and privacy. I have also been experiencing backache and can't concentrate on work," she says. Akhilesh Singh, a software professional, says he bought an office chair and desk since he needs to increase his work productivity. "But, the problem is the lack of space at home. I manage somehow. We have to learn to adjust to the new normal," he says. Sunil Banerjee, a media professional, says working from home is a tricky situation as he has to find a proper place to work and also dress up properly for formal meetings held online. "I have created my office in my balcony from where I can also watch TV to keep a tab on the news. But as a journalist, I miss going to press rooms of the state secretariat, police, civic body and the Press Club where a lot of information is shared. Nowadays, people avoid speaking over the telephone," he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-work-from-home-hits-productivity-of-mumbaikars-883297.html
06-09-2020||West||Two-day Maharashtra Assembly's Monsoon Session to start on September 7||The worsening Covid-19 situation, the lockdown and unlocking process, death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the lynching of sadhus in Palghar are some of the issues that are likely to figure during the two-day Monsoon Session – the shortest-ever in Maharashtra. The session on Monday and Tuesday is being held in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic that is sweeping the globe. The financial capital of Mumbai and Maharashtra are the worst-ever in terms of total progressive cases and death toll. This is the shortest ever Monsoon Session in the history of the Maharashtra legislature – it was initially scheduled from 22 June and then shifted to 3 August and then 7-8 September. The budget session in March has to be curtailed by a week when the coronavirus was found first on two Pune residents who arrived from Dubai and later in Mumbai. Among the ministers who were diagnosed of Covid-19 and have now recovered and resumed work are housing minister Jitendra Awhad, public works department minister Ashok Chavan, social justice minister Dhananjay Munde, textile minister Aslam Shaikh. Assembly Speaker Nana Patole too has tested positive.  Seating arrangements have been made for the legislators in the visitors and students gallery for maintaining physical distance. Wearing masks have been made compulsory and sanitizer dispensing bottles have been kept at various places. All members will have to undergo rapid antigen tests. They will also be given special kits including masks, face shields as protection from Covid-19. PAs of the members will not be allowed in the Assembly building and arrangements for them have been made in the parking area along with the drivers. On Monday, both houses will pay condolences to former president Pranab Mukherjee and former Maharashtra chief minister Shivajirao Nilangekar-Patil who passed away recently. Both Houses will be adjourned for the day after tabling of supplementary demands and ordinances. On Tuesday, the discussion on supplementary demands will take place before passage on the floor of the house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-day-maharashtra-assemblys-monsoon-session-to-start-on-september-7-883319.html
06-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: 4 held for looting Rs 7.73 lakh from bank in Jalna||Four people were arrested in Jalna in Maharashtra for allegedly carting away the cash safe of a bank containing Rs 7.73 lakh, a Crime Branch official said on Sunday. The incident took place on Friday morning in the district cooperative bank in Ghanswangi and the money was part of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sanman Nidhi Yojana disbursements, said Crime Branch official Rajendra Singh Gour. "The robbers entered the bank and took away the cash safe in a tempo after they failed to break it. We first held main accused Hardeep Singh Bablu Singh Tak (29), who then named four accomplices, three of whom were arrested on Saturday," Gour said. He said Rs 1.44 lakh of the loot has been recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-4-held-for-looting-rs-773-lakh-from-bank-in-jalna-883370.html
06-09-2020||West||SSR case: Man held for online videos spreading fake news||A man has been arrested for uploading videos on YouTube which were allegedly spreading fake news in connection with the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death and defaming the Maharashtra government and Mumbai Police, an official said on Sunday. The action was taken by the Mumbai Police's cyber wing against the accused, Omar Sarvagnya, after the videos were found to be defamatory and damaging the image of the state government and the city police, he said. A case was registered against him last month under Indian Penal Code Sections 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes), 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), the police official said. "We found the videos to be defamatory and damaging the image of the Maharashtra government and Mumbai Police. Following an investigation, we issued summons to him under section 41(A) of the Criminal Procedure Code to appear before the investigating officer," he said. The accused was subsequently arrested and later released on bail, the official said. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in Bandra area here on June 14 following which the Mumbai Police registered a case of accidental death and recorded statements of over 50 people. Various angles surrounding the actor's death are currently being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ssr-case-man-held-for-online-videos-spreading-fake-news-883413.html
06-09-2020||West||'Dawood Ibrahim's man' calls Uddhav Thackeray; security scaled up at CM's house||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has received threat calls purportedly from the Dawood Ibrahim syndicate – sending police and security forces to a tizzy. An unidentified person called up Matoshree and allegedly threatened to blow up the private bungalow of the Chief Minister in Bandra. The government, however, refused to provide exact details. The Mumbai police have launched an investigation to trace the source of the call. At least three to four calls came on Sunday from Dubai, wherein the caller identified themselves as speaking for the Dawood Ibrahim gang. The caller wanted to speak to the Chief Minister, however, the call was not transferred to him. Thackeray, 60, enjoys Z+ security cover. However, after the event, security arrangements for Thackeray and Matoshree have been scaled up. Viewing the incident very seriously, state home minister Anil Deshmukh asked the Crime Branch-CID to investigate. Ministers of the Maha Vikas Aghadi governments, in its Cabinet meeting on the eve of two-day monsoon session of Maharashtra legislature, expressed concern over the calls to the Chief Minister’s residence. The security arrangements at Vidhan Bhavan, state secretariat Mantralaya and Varsha, the official residence, too have been beefed up. “We have immediately informed the Mumbai Police to do the needful in the matter. The police will verify the antecedents of the caller and take whatever measures necessary for the safety and security of the Chief Minister,” transport minister Anil Parab said. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar and others have reacted strongly to the incident and said the government will not be cowed down by any such threats to Thackeray. “ Shiv Sainiks will be ready to deploy their own ring of security around ‘Matoshri’ if needed,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dawood-ibrahims-man-calls-uddhav-thackeray-security-scaled-up-at-cms-house-883427.html
06-09-2020||West||Bollywood lashes out at media for mobbing Rhea Chakraborty at NCB office: Witness our lowest||Several Bollywood personalities, including actors Taapsee Pannu, Swara Bhasker, and filmmaker Anubhav Sinha, criticised media's mobbing of actor Rhea Chakraborty, flouting all standard protocols amid Covid-19 pandemic, as she reached Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office on Sunday. Rhea Chakraborty, who is accused of abetting Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide by his family, appeared before the NCB for questioning in the drugs case linked to the death of the actor and her live-in partner. According to viral visuals from several channels on social media, the 28-year-old actor was seen being heckled and pushed by the media as she made her way to the NCB office, escorted by Mumbai Police. Media's behaviour was criticised by Twitter users, including celebrities from the fraternity who called it "disgusting". Pannu took to Twitter and lamented over the treatment being meted out to Rhea Chakraborty in the case. "In the name of justice these people have lynched a human being off her right to live even before proven guilty. I sincerely pray karma finds the address of each and every human being part of this lowest low of mankind we are witness to," the actor wrote. This was the "lowest" the country had stooped to, said Bhasker. "India... witness our lowest! Shameful witch hunt! Disgusting," she wrote. Mirza said the behaviour by the media present on ground was "reprehensible". "The law must and will take it's course. This behaviour reprehensible in every way. Enough! Why can't Rhea be given space and the right to physical distancing? Why are the media behaving like vultures? Please please give her space. Stop attacking/dehumanising her & her family," the actor wrote. The NCB, over the last two days, has arrested Rhea Chakraborty's younger brother Showik Chakraborty (24), Rajput's house manager Samuel Miranda (33) and Dipesh Sawant, a member of the actor's personal staff, in this case. Sinha said the video of Rhea Chakraborty's entry into the NCB office was representative of the "power of media over law and order in Mumbai". "And yes, this is much worse than being called names. Any names," he added. Filmmaker Alankrita Shrivastava said it's sad how the entire country's focus was on Rhea Chakraborty. "No thoughts about the economy, the pandemic or anything else of consequence. Indians are only interested in burning Rhea at the stake. That is what makes our people happy and fulfilled and validated. No amount of hate and venom is enough. We are sick. Very very sick," she tweeted. Various angles surrounding the death of Rajput, 34, are being probed by three federal agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The NCB initiated a drug angle probe in this case after the ED shared with it a report following the cloning of two mobile phones of Rhea Chakraborty. Rajput was found dead at his flat in suburban Bandra area on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bollywood-lashes-out-at-media-for-mobbing-rhea-chakraborty-at-ncb-office-witness-our-lowest-883487.html
06-09-2020||West||Gujarat adds record 1,335 Covid-19 cases in day; 14 die||Gujarat on Sunday reported the highest single-day spike of 1,335 new coronavirus cases, taking the total count of infections in the state to 1,04,341, health department said. With 14 more deaths, the cumulative toll went up to 3,108, it said. A total of 1,212 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of recoveries to 84,758, the department said in a release. With this, the state's recovery rate now stands at 81. 23 per cent. A total of 72,561 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, which comes at the rate of 1,116.32 tests per day per million population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-adds-record-1335-covid-19-cases-in-day-14-die-883491.html
06-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Record 23350 new cases take tally to 907212||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike of 23350 cases, taking the state's Covid-19 tally to 907212, an official said. The death toll in the state reached 26604 after 328 fresh fatalities were reported in the day, the official said. The number of discharged patients in the state stands at 644400, while there are 235857 active patients. The number of tests is 4647742, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-record-23350-new-cases-take-tally-to-907212-883537.html
06-09-2020||West||Sanjay Raut called Ahmedabad mini Pakistan, must apologise:BJP||The BJP on Sunday accused Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut of "defaming" Gujarat by calling Ahmedabad a "mini Pakistan" and demanded that he apologise to the people of Gujarat and Ahmedabad. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai earlier in the day, Raut asked whether actress Kangana Ranaut had the courage to compare Ahmedabad to 'mini Pakistan' the way she equated Mumbai with Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (POK). Raut and Ranaut have been locked in a bitter war of words since the actress termed Mumbai unsafe after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. "If that girl apologises to Mumbai and Maharashtra for calling Mumbai a 'mini Pakistan', then I will think about it. Does she have the courage to say the same about Ahmedabad?" the Sena MP had asked. Taking umbrage at Raut's remarks, Gujarat BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya said the Sena leader insulted the state by calling Ahmedabad a mini Pakistan. "He should apologise to Gujarat, Ahmedabad and Amdavadis," he stated. Pandya said the Sena should stop using any opportunity to defame Gujarat, Gujaratis and leaders from Gujarat "by targeting them out of jealousy, hatred and malice". "This is the Gujarat of Gandhiji and Sardar Patel. Sardar Patel has strengthened the unity and integrity of India by uniting 562 kingdoms. Junagadh and Hyderabad were prevented from going to Pakistan and made to stay in India due to his guts and strength," he said. Pandya added that Patel's dream of making Kashmir an integral part of India by revoking Article 370 has been fulfilled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah who are from Gujarat. "Therefore, Gujarat's contribution to India's unity and integrity in the past and present should be remembered," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-called-ahmedabad-mini-pakistan-must-apologisebjp-883572.html
