07-09-2020||First Edit||Sandalwood drug scandal: Ensure no cover-up||Substance abuse or peddling of drugs is not new to Bengaluru, nor is it limited to the film industry alone, but what was for long discussed in hushed tones is now out in the open, mainly because of the alleged involvement of actors and actresses. While it is common for the police to go overboard when celebrities are involved, because everybody loves a slice of publicity, the real culprits or the kingpins usually escape the dragnet.  The brouhaha soon dies, only to be forgotten sooner. The drugs scam is in the news now after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) recently recovered a large cache of narcotics from a former television actress and her accomplices. According to the NCB, drugs were supplied to musicians, film actors and children of VIPs, besides college students. The fact that the racket was busted by the NCB and not the Bengaluru police only points to the latter’s complicity which also needs to be investigated.  It is inconceivable that an illegal business worth crores of rupees can flourish without any hindrance unless it has the blessings of the local police.  A recent revelation by actor, director and producer Indrajit Lankesh that many in the Kannada film industry were involved in the drug row has only come in handy for the City Crime Bureau (CCB), which is investigating the case, to conveniently shift the spotlight on sandalwood while ignoring other big names, at least for now. While selective media leaks on actresses are the order of the day, there is no word yet on the wards of politicians. The undue delay in acting against VIP kids may be seen as a deliberate attempt by the police to help them cover their tracks and destroy evidence. With Lankesh supposedly mentioning some important names, the CCB has strangely demanded that he back his claims with adequate proof. While Lankesh as a conscientious citizen voluntarily passed on some vital inside information that was in his possession, it is the duty of the police to tie-up the loose ends instead of expecting him to provide them with evidence. An informer cannot play the role of an investigating officer.  Despite the high voltage drama, the CCB inquiry as it stands today does not inspire any great confidence. Sandeep Patil, who heads the CCB, had launched a war against the drug mafia when he the Mangaluru Police Commissioner and knows exactly how the whole apparatus operates. Any further delay in apprehending the big names involved, especially the children of politicians, will only be conclusive proof that the police are more interested in a cover-up rather than in blowing the lid off the scandal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/sandalwood-drug-scandal-ensure-no-cover-up-883642.html
07-09-2020||In Perspective||China border dispute: India must map out strategy||We seem to be hopelessly out of joints to wriggle out of the mess created by our colonial rulers responsible for having to bequeath a legacy of skulduggery that keeps us claiming each other’s territories. It was no other than a tidy-minded British cartographer Captain Henry McMahon of the Indian Army who first mapped the Indo-China frontier, a piece of cartography starting in 1893, following which the India-China border was known as the McMahon Line.  That seems to be the beginning of the cartographic war that has enveloped the Indian sub-continent, with nations – India, China, Pakistan and Nepal – making overlapping claims. To put things in perspective, the McMahon Line that forms the northern boundary of Arunachal Pradesh in the eastern Himalayas administered by India but claimed by China was the area of focus in the 1962 Sino-Indian War.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan recently issued a map that shows the Indian Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh as well as territory in Gujarat as part of Pakistan, a move that is in response to a map that India issued in October last year that showed Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Gilgit-Baltistan as well as Aksai Chin as Indian territory.  Nepal recently rejigged the country’s political map by incorporating three strategically important areas – the Lipulekh pass, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in western Nepal – by amending its constitution, a move that has strained the bilateral relations with India.  Both Nepal and China have clearly been piqued by the new map of the border region issued by New Delhi, after it divided Indian-administered Kashmir into Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The map incorporated some of the territories disputed with Nepal inside India's borders. Neville Maxwell, a pro-China propagandist, says that McMahon's map, which was presented to the Tibetan delegation to the Shimla Conference at a meeting held in Delhi, was done without the participation or knowledge of the Chinese conferees. The Tibetan delegation “conditionally agreed” to the alignment drawn by McMahon in red ink on a two-sheet map of a scale appropriate to the purpose.  That alignment purported to shift the external border of “(British) India some 60 miles to the north of where the Chinese claimed (and until that point the British had accepted) it lay, at the foot of the hills rising from the Brahmaputra valley”. Their action was immediately repudiated by their masters in Lhasa. According to him, the McMahon alignment has no legal validity as a Sino-Indian boundary but smacked of an “imperial expansionism”. Observers like Srinath Raghavan think that the reason for China not accepting the McMahon Line is because once it does so, it can no longer claim Tibet to be an inalienable part of China and that it had enjoyed de facto independence at the time of the Shimla conference. Besides, there would be domestic trouble because this would make China veer away from their stated assumption that the McMahon Line is a relic of imperialism. Between 1956, 1960 and 1962, as the Chinese forces captured new territory across the Kuen Lun, the Aksai Chin plateau and the Karakoram ranges, Chinese maps showed three distinct and advancing LACs, especially in the Ladakh sector. Though the LAC established after the 1962 war has remained more or less stable, it has not been demarcated.  With a context as fraught as this, we get to see China coming up with newer maps in consistent but sporadic intervals. Not to be undone, we now see Nepal and Pakistan following suits. It is interesting to note that Pakistan’s new map extends Islamabad’s territorial claim north-eastward up to the Chinese-held Karakoram Pass.  Aksai Chin Curiously, in April 2019, the map used for unveiling of the BRI plan not only showed Aksai Chin as part of India, but entire Jammu and Kashmir (now Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh) and Arunachal Pradesh as Indian territories. About Nepal, New Delhi published a new map that showed Kalapani within its borders, much to the protestation by Kathmandu which, it claimed belonged to it as per the Sugauli Treaty of 1816. Differing perceptions, even if they existed, did not come to the surface as long as India’s relationship with Nepal did not nosedive which, many say, are happening because of China’s manipulations. And as for Pakistan’s claims, just two things could be cited. The August 13, 1948 UN resolution on J&K had implicitly recognised the Indian “sovereignty” over the J&K territories, acknowledging that Pakistan had occupied “illegally” urging it to vacate the “occupation”, a pre-condition to conduct a plebiscite then, while Junagadh that served as a bargaining counter to secure J&K, with a Hindu maharaja and a majority Muslim population held a referendum on February 20, 1948 with 91% of the electorate voting for accession to India. The arbitrary, rigid, and perpetually contested borders on South Asia’s political maps might point to the expediency of mapping South Asia afresh to prevent the region’s geographically contiguous nations from making contentious and overlapping claims.  The irony is that while China considers McMahon Line as an instance of imperial expansionism, the Communist Party of China uses cartography as an important tool for Chinese expansionism. “Age of expansionism is over,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi pompously declared in a stern message to China. But grandstanding apart, it is about time we mapped out a strategy to deal with such preposterous irredentist claims and new-fangled maps designed to obfuscate narratives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/china-border-dispute-india-must-map-out-strategy-883641.html
07-09-2020||Kalaburagi||H D Kumaraswamy's remarks on drug mafia money shows his inefficiency as CM: Laxman Savadi||Reacting sharply to the remarks made by former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy that drug mafia money was used to topple the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government headed by him, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi alleged that the JD(S) leader is now giving such statement as he failed to deliver the goods during his stint as chief minister. Speaking to reporters, he said Kumaraswamy was chief minister before the formation of the BJP government. "What was intelligence wing doing during his tenure? He could have ordered a probe by the police into the drug business. Why didn't he get enlightened then? There is no question of shielding anyone involved in drug trafficking and peddling," the DyCM said. On the cabinet expansion, Savadi said "it is left to the chief minister to take a call on the cabinet expansion and he is unaware of Yediyurappa's visit to New Delhi to meet the national leaders". Transport Department has been incurring a loss of Rs 2.5 crore every day after the Covid-19 outbreak. Except Maharashtra, letters have been written to Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to begin inter-state bus service. We will soon hold a discussion in this regard, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/h-d-kumaraswamys-remarks-on-drug-mafia-money-shows-his-inefficiency-as-cm-laxman-savadi-883851.html
07-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Addahole-BC Road National Highway work likely to begin||The work on four-laning of NH 75 from Addahole to BC Road is likely to recommence soon. National Highway Authority of India officials have prepared the project plan to complete the stretch covering 64 km in two phases. A project plan has been prepared from BC Road to Periyashanthi, covering 49-km and from Periyashanthi to Addahole covering 15 km, said sources. The process has been initiated to restart the work which may commence shortly. In fact, the four-laning of the stretch was awarded to M/s L&T at a cost of Rs 821 crore in March 2017 under engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode. Though L&T took up the work on the stretch, they later requested for amicable foreclosure of the proposal. As a result, the NHAI had to prepare a fresh bid for the work. An overbridge will come up at Kalladka Pete as a part of the fourlaning work. In addition, there will be service roads and underpasses at 10 locations including at Uppinangady and Nelyadi. An overpass will come up at Periyashanthi. There are reserve forests on either side xof the road from Addahole to Periyashanthi. A path will also be constructed for the crossing of the wild animals near Periyashanthi. Owing to the incomplete works on the stretch, motorists are inconvenienced and mishaps have also occurred at several locations. L&T should have completed the work on September 23, 2019, as per the contract. The work that was moving at a snail’s pace since 2017, finally stopped last year. The foundation for the work was laid by Union Minister Nithin Gadkari at Panambur on March 28, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/addahole-bc-road-national-highway-work-likely-to-begin-883717.html
07-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bodies of 4 youths who went missing recovered from Bhima river||The bodies of four youths who had gone missing in Bhima river on Sunday when they went for a swim, have been recovered on Monday morning by the teams of Fire and Emergency Services, NDRF, Home Guards personnel and local fishermen. The youth have been identified as Aman, Ayan and Rehman, all aged 16 and residents of Aziz Colony in Yadgir and Rehman(16) from Kalaburagi. Missing youths could not be traced though the search operation that continued till Sunday evening. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Bhagawan Sonawane said a warning sign board will be erected near Gurusunagi bridge after holding discussion with the deputy commissioner and the officials of Small Irrigation Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bodies-of-4-youths-who-went-missing-recovered-from-bhima-river-883769.html
07-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tourism slowly picks up in Hassan; Hoysaleshwara temple sees gradual footfall rise||The number of visitors to the tourist spots has been rising gradually after Unlock 4.0. The historical Hoysaleshwara temple here, which was receiving just a few visitors, has seen a gradual increase, with around 1,100 people visiting the temple, on Sunday. When the temple was opened in May, after lockdown was relaxed, only around 50 tourists were visiting for the entire day. After July, the temple recorded around 200 to 300 tourists per day. However, since mid-August, the Hoysaleshwara temple records a minimum footfall of 500 every day. While 1,050 tourists visited the temple last Sunday, it was 1,100 on September 6. This has brought hope among the people that the tourism industry would improve gradually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tourism-slowly-picks-up-in-hassan-hoysaleshwara-temple-sees-gradual-footfall-rise-883783.html
07-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Those involved in drug scandal will be sent to jail: Suresh Kumar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said it is suspected that children studying in prestigious schools are lured into the drug network by selling drugs mixed in ice creams near the schools. Those who have been spoiling the youth will be sent to jail, he said. Speaking to reporters during his visit to Chamarajanagar, on Monday, he said, "The State government has taken strict decisions in the drug issue. There is no question of compromise. The drugs have been weakening the youth and society. This has to be eradicated from the root, he said. "BJP had raised its voice over the issue three years ago. The State government will bring a logical conclusion to the drug issue", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/those-involved-in-drug-scandal-will-be-sent-to-jail-suresh-kumar-883913.html
07-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Deforestation, development projects cause for jumbo menace||The long-pending demand of farmers and Federation of Coffee Growers’ to find a permanent solution to the wild jumbo menace, and to check the loss of lives and property, is yet to be addressed by the governments. The Malnad region is reporting a number of deaths due to wild animals, including jumbos, and also loss of properties. The number of wild animals is increasing every year, so are human-animal conflicts, creating fear among the people of the taluk. Environmentalists say that the government should analyse, why wild jumbos and other animals, which form corridors of their own in the forests, stray into villages in search of food. Human interference into wilderness, in the name of development has resulted in insufficient food and water in forests for the wild animals, they said. Minor hydel power projects, petroleum pipelines, hi-tension powerlines, Yettinahole project and several others are under progress in the Western Ghats. The works create noise pollution in the forests, which are otherwise silent. Humans, who enter forests in the pretext of work, start disturbing the habitats and also hunt them. Some miscreants even poison ponds to catch fish. Some dodge Forest department personnel and poach wild animals for trade. Tree felling and stealing of forest resources, violating Forest Act, force the animals to stray into villages, they said. Environmentalist Goddu Umesh said, “Various projects launched in the Western Ghats are the cause for the rise in wild jumbo menace. Bamboo and other plants, consumed by jumbos, grow in abundance near water sources. Now, the government has constructed hydel projects near streams and rivers, for generating power, to be used for the Yettinahole projects. Thus, elephants stray into villages in search of food and even camp there.” The government should stop all projects in Reserve forests, as development works affect animals. Strict measures should be taken to ensure that humans are not allowed into forests. This will enable wild animals to get food in forests, said environmentalist Vikram. MLA H K Kumaraswamy said, “No works related to development will be allowed inside the reserve forest in future. I will demand the government to stop the existing hydel power projects.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/deforestation-development-projects-cause-for-jumbo-menace-884047.html
07-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||JSS STU join hands with NHAI for road development works||City-based JSS Science and Technology University (JSS STU) has joined hands with National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) with an intention to leverage the intellect of students and faculty for the improvement of the road infrastructure ecosystem. The institution has adopted a section of National Highway (NH) 275 – from Mysuru to Madikeri to extend support to NHAI, to make its highways better on a voluntary basis, under ambit of Institutional Social Responsibility. JSS STU has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on working with mutual cooperation for sharing of respective expertise in Highway Engineering through road infrastructure development, according to JSS STU registrar S A Dhanraj. In its endeavour to build a world-class National Highway network. NHAI has approached all Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and reputed engineering colleges to collaborate and adopt nearby stretches of National Highways, said M Pradeep, placement officer JSS STU. The students will design and plan the roads and other facilities. Since the institutions have better knowledge of local requirement, topography and resource potential, the inputs can be utilised by NHAI during different stages of pre-construction, construction, and operation of NH stretches. This will help in mitigating routine problems such as traffic movement, congestion, and immediate identification of accident-prone sites. The initiative by NHAI will be a boon for students as it provides them an opportunity for hands-on-learning, internship and a sense of contribution in building local infrastructure. In addition, the university faculty will get exposure to practical problems for their research, including access to data. The National Highway stretch adopted by the institution will be co-branded with JSS STU by NHAI, according to the registrar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jss-stu-join-hands-with-nhai-for-road-development-works-884049.html
07-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||MIMS helps 59 Covid-infected women deliver healthy babies||The Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) has taken extra care in treating the Covid positive pregnant women, and has successfully helped them deliver healthy babies. So far, 59 babies have been delivered at the hospital. There are two labour wards at MIMS and around 35 to 40 babies are delivered every day. However, the service of the doctors continued even during the Covid times, and they had taken extra care on the Covid infected pregnant women, which has received laurels. So far, 105 pregnant women have been found to contract the virus, and 59 women have successfully undergone labour, delivering healthy babies. Though hospitals across the country have been treating pregnant women with Covid, they have found that the babies too were found to carry the virus. However, in Mandya, not a single baby born at MIMS was found Covid positive, which has encouraged the doctors treating them. Out of 59 Covid infected pregnant women, 30 women gave birth through caesarean section and the rest through normal deliveries. Women from not only Mandya, but also from Ramanagar, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru district get admitted to the MIMS. If the patient does not suffer from diabetes, blood pressure and other health issues, the doctors try to deliver the babies through normal procedure. Dr Yogendra Kumar said, "The doctors wear personal protection equipment during the labour to prevent any spread of the disease. The operation theatre is fumigated. Besides, all measures are taken to ensure that the newborns do not get infected from their mothers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mims-helps-59-covid-infected-women-deliver-healthy-babies-884051.html
07-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka taking unprecedented steps against drug scandal: B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said Karnataka’s fight against drugs was unprecedented in the country and asserted that nobody will be “protected” during the ongoing investigation into substance abuse allegedly involving several influential people. “The investigation is happening on its own. There is no question of protecting anybody,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “We have taken tight steps for the first time in the country. Our goal is to put an end to this (drugs) business that’s having a bad impact on youngsters and students. We’re doing whatever is necessary on this front,” he said. The Bengaluru police have booked 12 people, including Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi, in a first information report on drug consumption by celebrities. Other accused include Viren Khanna, a party organiser from Delhi who was arrested on Friday; Prashanth Ranka; Vaibhav Jain; Aditya Alva, the son of former minister Jeevaraj Alva and brother-in-law of Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi; Loum Pepper Samba, a Senegalese national; Prashanth Raju; Ashwin; Abhiswami; Rahul Thonshe, a friend of actress Sanjjanaa Galrani, and Vinay. “With each passing day, the investigation into drugs is progressing with new evidence coming out,” Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters. State police chief Praveen Sood has been asked to get in touch with his counterparts from other states to take up joint operations against drugs, Bommai said. The state government has already decided to form a special team to check the supply of drugs at the borders of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Goa and Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-taking-unprecedented-steps-against-drug-scandal-b-s-yediyurappa-883798.html
07-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress readies 1,200 questions to corner BJP govt ahead of Karnataka session||The Congress will walk into the monsoon session of legislature armed with 1,200 questions that the party’s legislators will ask the BJP government, leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said on Monday. During a virtual meeting with the party’s legislators, Siddaramaiah said the questions will be sent to the Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council secretariat. The questions have been set by a team of former ministers, which the Congress plans to use to corner the B S Yediyurappa administration. The monsoon session of the legislature starts on September 21. “During the session, we will raise the misappropriation of funds in procurement of Covid-19 equipment, corruption in the government, drugs mafia, the DJ Halli riots, GST compensation and the Bills that are going to be laid,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. A Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting will be held on September 16 to discuss the strategy going into the session. On the drugs scandal, Siddaramaiah said the police should investigate thoroughly and take action against those involved. Asked about allegations against Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, Siddaramaiah said, "What evidence has been produced? If there’s evidence, let it be enquired into." Mocking the BJP government at the Centre, Siddaramaiah said it was citing Covid-19 as the reason for issues concerning finance. "They're saying they can't give subsidy, salaries and GST compensation. Then, why are you in power? Is this why people elected you to power?" he said. Contraction in the GDP will affect employment, he asserted. "Unemployment will increase. There's a report that 12 crore to 15 crore jobs have been lost in India. They promised heaven if the BJP comes to power in both the Centre and the states. Is this heaven or hell," he asked. Slip in ease of doing business ranking Siddaramaiah attacked the Yediyurappa administration for Karnataka’s steep fall in the ease of doing business rankings. Karnataka has slipped from the 8th spot, to be ranked 17th for 2019. "From 13th rank, we came to 8th place in 2017-18. Now, we've slipped to 17th. The CM's son B Y Vijayendra says previous governments are responsible for this. But it's the BJP that's in power for a year now. What have you done? Is the government that brought the state to the 8th spot responsible or the government that's in power when the state dropped to 17th spot?" Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-readies-1200-questions-to-corner-bjp-govt-ahead-of-karnataka-session-884019.html
07-09-2020||Main Article||Economic recovery will be not be easy||It is a fact that was evident to every India watcher except Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his colleagues in the government, but it has now been declared by the Reserve Bank of India in its Annual Report of 2019-20: The economy had slowed down through 2019 and much before the outbreak of Covid-19 and the national lockdown from March 25 onward. The RBI states the fact in as bland a fashion as only a central bank can: “Over the course of the year (2019), the weakening of the growth momentum became increasingly broad-based geographically from which individual countries, including India, had no escape.” It takes note of the fact that global economic growth in 2019 was 2.9% and it was the lowest since 2009. And India was facing the brunt of it as well: “The year 2019-20 (April-March) also marked India’s lowest gross domestic product (GDP) growth since the global financial crisis (GFC).” More interestingly, the report plots the growth cycle: “Going back in time, the Indian economy had experienced a V-shaped recovery from the GFC but this stimulus-driven upturn failed to sustain: average GDP growth slumped from 8.2% in 2009-11 to 5.3% in 2011-13. From 2013-14, a cyclical upswing took hold and it turned to be one of the longest in the post-independence period, reaching 8.3% in 2016-17. Ahead of the cyclical global downturn which commenced in 2018, India’s real GDP growth showed signs of slowdown during 2017.” Why are these facts crucial? They are crucial because Modi and his colleagues had been loudly messaging ever since they took office in the summer of 2014, that Indian economy had picked up growth the moment they had come into power. The statements of Modi and then finance minister Arun Jaitley will reveal that they believed sincerely that the economy had started to function well because of Modi’s and that of the BJP’s predictable victory in the 2014 general election. The message was that the political victory was an economic booster. The sober truth as revealed by the bank is that the economy has done relatively well in the first three years of Modi’s first term in office because of the cyclical upswing in growth. The Modi government believes that its policies are driving economic growth when the fact is that there is no discernible link between the two, and the growth that had happened was due to the cyclical factor. The government would have to make a realistic assessment of its economic policies, and they must be able to separate rhetoric from reality. The RBI report observes that agriculture had done well in 2019, but the MSMEs had been in trouble because of structural issues like lack of financial support, that manufacturing has been a laggard, and that it is only the services sector which had kept the economy going, and that this sector alone provided 44.4% of employment in the country. There is little doubt that innovative policies could help in turning the economy around but things like Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), demonetisation, and Goods and Services Tax (GST) have not so far served as economic stimulus whatever else their virtues may be. The NITI Aayog had not even given a realistic assessment of the state of the economy and what needs to be done to push it further in the next decade. The NITI Aayog’s rickety predecessor, the Planning Commission, at least used to do the clerical exercise of number-crunching, and what demands would be made on the economy in terms of energy, education, health system to meet the needs of the growing population. Today, the government has no real numbers to fall back upon to reset the goals and targets. Even for programmes like financial inclusion through Jan Dhan Yojana, total electrification or total sanitation, credible statistics are lacking to assess their effectiveness. The government then will have to abandon the two myths it has created for its six years in office. First, that the economy was performing extremely well from 2014 to 2019, and second, that the good times came to an abrupt end because of Covid-19 – an ‘act of God’ as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman put it. The record shows that the first three years, from 2014-15 to 2016-17 were the good years because it was part of the upward phase of the growth cycle, and that from 2018 onward the global economy slowed down and so did India’s. The post-pandemic recovery will be hard because the global economy will have to come out of the negative territory before India can hope to benefit from it because Modi’s Aatmanirbhar or self-reliance orientation is quite dependent on India improving its exports while restricting the imports, an old-fashioned economic thinking which might be difficult to implement if the major economies, including that of India, were to erect tariff barriers. Agriculture is the only sector that has shown positive growth in the midst of economic gloom but it is not in a position to carry the burden of turning around the economy as a whole on its shoulders. The sale of tractors and two-wheelers had shown signs of growth. But it is too weak for sustained growth. And the fallout is limited to the upper, and middle, income farmers. The rest of the rural populace, majority of them distressed migrant labour, cannot sustain rural consumption. The government’s own ability to spend is getting constrained due to the fall in tax collections – which was inevitable – and it may not be able to continue for long to undertake cash transfers – which were meagre in themselves given the magnitude of the economic breakdown – to holders of Jan Dhan accounts, including women, old and disabled people, and farmers. Resumption of economic activity is a way out of the impasse. The government has to focus more on pandemic management through Covid-19 protocols and monitoring them to facilitate resumption of economic activity. (The writer is a political commentator based in New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/economic-recovery-will-be-not-be-easy-883681.html
07-09-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru City Cooperation lifts restriction on park, playgrounds||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) lifted restrictions imposed on parks and playgrounds. In an order by MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde, he said, people are allowed to use parks and playgrounds. The civic body had order closer of parks and also restricted people's entry for play grounds due to outbreak of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-city-cooperation-lifts-restriction-on-park-playgrounds-883776.html
07-09-2020||National||BSF's role more important as two neighbouring countries planning against India: DG Rakesh Asthana||The role of the Border Security Force has become more important as "our neighbouring countries" are planning against India, BSF Director General Rakesh Asthana said on Sunday, in an apparent reference to Sino-India border situation in Ladakh and frequent ceasefire violations by Pakistan. Asthana, who arrived in Jammu on Friday, concluded his three-day tour with a visit to Forward Defence Locations (FDLs) along the Line of Control (LoC) in the twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch where he took stock of the prevailing situation, a BSF release said tonight. Without naming China and Pakistan, the BSF chief in his address to 'Sainik Sammellan' at the force's Paloura camp here said, "This is a very crucial time for all, as both our neighbouring countries are planning against us." "Our role has become more important now as we are the first line of Indian defence," Asthana added. On the third day of his maiden tour, the release said, the DG was briefed by Deputy Inspector General, sector headquarters, Rajouri, I D Singh and field commanders on the LoC regarding the operational preparedness and the present situation. He was accompanied by Additional Director General (WC) S S Panwar and Inspector General of BSF, Jammu frontier, N S Jamwal. Appreciative of the measures adopted by the troops while maintaining domination along the LoC, Asthana emphasised on meeting the security challenges more effectively. He lauded the excellent synergy amongst all the security forces and exhorted all ranks to maintain a high standard of discipline and professionalism. He was very appreciative of the vigilant BSF jawans who guard the nation's border round the clock defying all hostile conditions, the release said. Asthana, who took over as the chief of the border-guarding force recently, visited forward areas along the International Border including Samba where the BSF detected an underground tunnel last month and frustrated Pakistan's design to facilitate infiltration of terrorists and smuggling of narcotics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsfs-role-more-important-as-two-neighbouring-countries-planning-against-india-dg-rakesh-asthana-883651.html
07-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 7||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 42 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 42,70,931 as of September 7 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 72,724   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 32,50,429  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-7-883653.html
07-09-2020||National||India now has the world's second highest number of Covid-19 cases||India on Saturday became the world’s second most Covid-19 affected nation, overtaking Brazil. With more than six million cases, the US retains the pole position, followed by India, Brazil and Russia. India has 40,92,550 Covid-19 positive cases, according to DH's tally, against Brazil’s 40,91,550, according to an unofficial worldwide database of Covid-19 cases. It may take a day for the official record to reflect the trend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-now-has-the-worlds-second-highest-number-of-covid-19-cases-883656.html
07-09-2020||National||Cancer patients make surprising full recovery from Covid-19||More than 98% of the 40-odd Cancer patients who contracted Covid at Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology here made a full recovery barring two deaths. The situation is similar at Victoria, Aster CMI, and Majumdar Shaw Medical Centre at Narayana Health that treats Cancer patients. There is a large body of evidence to suggest that Cancer patients are more prone to develop symptomatic Covid-19 infection and have poor outcomes. While in healthy population mortality is less than 0.6%, earlier reports suggested mortality is as high as 20% in Cancer patients.   This is suggested to be due to the immunity suppression caused by the Cancer treatment and the Cancer itself. To tackle this, doctors delayed chemotherapy cycles and have seen their patients make a full recovery and resume Cancer treatment. Dr C Ramachandra, Director, Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, said, "More than 98% of the 40-odd Cancer patients got infected with Covid. But they recovered barring two deaths. Compromised immune system and Cancer doesn't always mean death. It all depends on viral load and co-morbidities. We don't give chemotherapy for one-and-a-half months until they test negative and all symptoms go away. This is the risk we have to take. They will have to be strong enough to withstand chemotherapy." At Victoria Hospital, patients suffering from breast cancer and thyroid cancer have contracted the virus but have recovered. Dr Manoranjan UD, a General Surgeon, from Victoria Hospital said, "We have withdrawn at least two cycles of anti-Cancer drugs for these patients. They were asymptomatic and had low viral load, hence they recovered. We postponed their chemotherapy cycle for 21 days. T cells in Cancer patients are still functioning and that is what gives them a fighting chance." Dr Moni Abraham Kuriakose, Head and Neck Cancer Surgeon, from Mazumdar Shah Medical Centre said that the hospital had several Cancer patients returning from abroad testing positive for Covid. "So the general recommendation during Covid pandemic is to continue Cancer treatment but modify treatment regimen to use less immunosuppressive treatment," he said. But doctors cautioned that this cannot be representative of all Cancer patients and data from population-based Cancer registry should give a complete picture. Dr Vijay Agarwal, Medical Oncologist, Aster CMI Hospital, Hebbal, "This is a small number of patients and not a representative of all Cancer patients. By and large most large centres have reported 7% to 8% mortality. We have had six Cancer patients diagnosed with Covid and one died."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cancer-patients-make-surprising-full-recovery-from-covid-19-883700.html
07-09-2020||National||India sees record daily spike of 90,802 new Covid-19 cases; tally crosses 42 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 42 lakh with a record 90,802 people being infected in a day. As 32,50,429 people have recuperated so far, the national recovery rate stands at 77.30 per cent on Monday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 42,04,613, while the death toll climbed to 71,642 with 1,016 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.70 per cent. There are 8,82,542 active cases of the infection in the country which comprises 20.99 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,95,51,507 samples have been tested up to September 6 with 7,20,362 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-record-daily-spike-of-90802-new-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-42-lakh-883704.html
07-09-2020||National||India has world's second-highest Covid-19 case tally; tops Brazil's coronavirus case tally||India's coronavirus infections surged past 4.2 million on Monday as it overtook Brazil to become the country with the second-highest number of cases. With 4,204,613 infections, India is nearly 70,000 cases ahead of Brazil, which will post its most recent numbers later on Monday. India, with a daily record 90,802 cases on Monday, also has the fastest-growing case load. The United States, with more than 6 million cases, remains the worst-affected country. Deaths in India have been relatively low so far, but it has posted more than 1,000 deaths for each of the last five days. On Monday, India's health ministry said 1,016 people died of Covid-19, taking total mortalities to 71,642.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-worlds-second-highest-covid-19-case-tally-tops-brazils-coronavirus-case-tally-883705.html
07-09-2020||National||India might have a separate Phase 3 clinical trial for Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V: Report||At least 20 countries, including India, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Brazil, Mexico and Philippines have shown interest in obtaining Sputnik V vaccine.  Comprehensive data on the Sputnik V vaccine’s safety and efficacy has now been made available by Russia to India.  “We are now deeply engaged with Russia on the vaccine front,” an official source told the publication. The talks are being held by Indian Ambassador in Russia D B Venkatesh Varma and Secretary Renu Swarup of Department of Biotechnology.  Results of Phase 1 and Phase 2 of Sputnik V clinical trial have been published by The Lancet. It has also been cleared by Russian regulators for public use.  Despite scepticism from western countries, The Lancet states that Sputnik V Phase 3 trial will include 40,000 volunteers from risk groups (medics and teachers) and different age groups. According to the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, where the vaccine has been developed, vaccine candidates triggered a strong immune response in first two phases of the clinical trial which consisted of 76 people. The two open and non-randomised trials were well tolerated and did not cause serious adverse affect on their health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-might-have-a-separate-phase-3-clinical-trial-for-russias-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-report-883724.html
07-09-2020||National||Kangana Ranaut gets ‘Y’ level security from Centre||Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut has been given Y-plus category security, after she claimed that she felt unsafe in Mumbai following the death of Sushant Singh Rajput and her remarks against drug use in a section of the film industry as well as equating Mumbai with Pakistan-Occupied-Kashmir (PoK). The Ministry of Home Affairs' (MHA) decision came two days ahead of Ranaut's plan to visit Mumbai on Wednesday from her home state Himachal Pradesh. The Y-plus category cover entails the deployment of about 10 armed commandos who will work in shifts around the clock to provide security. Expressing her gratitude, Ranuat tweeted, "this shows that no one can crush a patriot in the country. I am thankful to Home Minister Amit Shah...Had he (Amit Shah) wanted, he would have told me to visit Mumbai later but he respected India's daughter and acknowledged my self-respect. Jai Hind." Welcoming the Centre's decision, Chief Minister Jairam Thakur described Ranaut as the "daughter of Himachal Pradesh". In a video statement, he said, “I have got information that a commando team of the CRPF has been provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs for her security yesterday (Sunday). I welcome this decision and also express my gratitude to union home minister... her security is important for us." Thakur said the state police would provide security at the actor’s Manali residence. “If it is necessary, Himachal Pradesh is ready to provide her security during her tours,” he said. On Sunday, the Chief Minister said the state government decided to provide the actor security after her father and sister sought protection for her. Recently, BJP leader Ram Kadam had asked the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government to provide police protection to Ranaut since "she wanted to expose the Bollywood drug nexus". Ranaut responded saying that she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia", and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre. To this, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said, "We kindly request her not to come to Mumbai. This is nothing but an insult to Mumbai Police." The actor hit back in a tweet, "Why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir?" Raut on Friday demanded that the Maharashtra government should take action against people defaming the city police while asking Ranaut to tour the PoK first to see the situation prevailing there. Following this, Ranaut said she would return to Mumbai on September 9 and dared anyone to stop her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-ranaut-gets-y-level-security-from-centre-883727.html
07-09-2020||National||NEP goes beyond curriculum, encourages critical thinking, says PM Modi||The New Education Policy (NEP) focuses on learning instead of studying and goes ahead of the curriculum to focus on critical thinking, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday.  While attending the Governor's Conference on NEP, PM Modi said, "In this policy, we have stressed on passion, practicality and performance." President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Modi and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal participate via video conference in the Governor's Conference on New Education Policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-goes-beyond-curriculum-encourages-critical-thinking-says-pm-modi-883729.html
07-09-2020||National||Delhi High Court seeks Centre, Netflix response on Mehul Choksi's plea on 'Bad Boy Billionaires' docuseries||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought responses from the Centre and online video streaming platform Netflix on PNB scam accused Mehul Choksi's appeal against the dismissal of his plea to pre-screen the 'Bad Boy Billionaires' docuseries. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Centre and Netflix and sought their stand by September 23 on Choksi's appeal. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for the PNB scam accused, said he was only seeking that the matter be remanded back to the single judge who had dismissed as not maintainable the plea to pre-screen the docuseries. The single judge had on August 28 denied any relief to Choksi, saying a writ petition for enforcement of a private right was not maintainable. The high court had said his remedy lies in a civil suit and granted him the liberty to raise the issue in a civil suit. Choksi, the promoter of Gitanjali Gems, and his nephew, Nirav Modi, are accused in the Rs 13,500-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case. Choksi left the country last year and was granted citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda. The documentary, which was scheduled for release in India on September 2, was promoted by Netflix as: "This investigative docuseries explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up - and ultimately brought down - India's most infamous tycoons".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-seeks-centre-netflix-response-on-mehul-choksis-plea-on-bad-boy-billionaires-docuseries-883753.html
07-09-2020||National||Indian, Tibetan flags waved at unsung martyr's funeral; Ram Madhav pays homage, but deletes tweet||Indian and Tibetan flags were waved side-by-side at the funeral of Nyima Tenzin in Leh on Monday – a week after the Special Frontier Force soldier was killed during an operation to pre-empt a fresh move by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army on Pangong Tso’s south bank in eastern Ladakh. The general secretary of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Ram Madhav, attended the funeral, but quickly deleted the tweet he posted paying homage to the fallen “Company Leader” of the Special Frontier Force (SFF) soldier. The government too remained silent on the supreme sacrifice made by the 51-year-old Tibetan while fighting for India resisting the Chinese PLA’s aggression along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Madhav placed a wreath on the coffin of Tenzin as people waved not only the tricolour of India, but also the snow-lion flag, which continued to be an icon of independence of Tibet, in spite of being banned by the Chinese Government. The BJP general secretary did acknowledge in his tweet that Tenzin laid down his life “protecting” India’s borders in Ladakh. He also wished for peace along the “Indo-Tibetan border”, stating that it would be the “real tribute” to all martyrs. He, however, deleted his tweet later.  The Indian Army had earlier lost 21 of its soldiers in a violent face-off with the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley on June 15. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had then led the nation to pay homage to the martyrs. Tenzin, who served the SFF for 33 years, was killed when the Indian Army carried out an operation in the late hours of August 29 and early hours of August 30 to pre-empt an imminent move by the Chinese PLA to push the LAC westwards on the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake) and to occupy the territory of India. But his martyrdom remained unacknowledged, because he belonged to the SFF – an elite paramilitary force, which had been raised during the India-China war in 1962 with most of its recruits being young refugees and guerrilla soldiers from Tibet. The SFF has always been kept under a shroud of secrecy. The valour of its soldiers was never officially acknowledged, even as they fought valiantly shoulder-to-shoulder with the rest of the Indian Army and made supreme sacrifices – be it during the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh or during the 1999 Kargil War. The SFF, a.k.a. “Establishment 22”, is under administrative control of the intelligence establishment of India, although it is placed under the command of the Indian Army, whenever it is required to carry out covert operations. With most of its men still refugees or descendants of refugees from Tibet, New Delhi continues to keep the SFF under wraps, just as it never officially acknowledges the existence of the Tibetan Government in Exile in India – ostensibly to avoid complications in its diplomatic relations with China. The Indian Army apparently factored in the familiarity of the SFF personnel with the terrain along Ladakh-Tibet border region, when it decided to deploy the highland warriors to support operations to counter the Chinese PLA’s expansionist moves along the LAC. It came just after China claimed that thousands of youths in its Tibet Autonomous Region joined the PLA amid the military stand-off along the disputed boundary with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-tibetan-flags-waved-at-unsung-martyrs-funeral-ram-madhav-pays-homage-but-deletes-tweet-883757.html
07-09-2020||National||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami pledges to donate eyes; launches website to help create awareness||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday pledged to donate his eyes after his death and launched a website to facilitate easy registration of people willing to donate their eyes. A statement from the government said over 68 lakh people, mostly children and youngsters, have iris malfunction and eyes donated by people after their death are handy to restore vision in such persons. “Since people are clueless about where and how to donate their eyes, the government has created a website to facilitate eye donation and create a registry of eye donors,” the statement said. Those willing to donate their eyes, the statement said, can register on the website by filling in their personal details after which they will receive a certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-pledges-to-donate-eyes-launches-website-to-help-create-awareness-883761.html
07-09-2020||National||Indian Railways may soon decriminalise begging, smoking in trains: Report||The Ministry of Railways has proposed to decriminalise begging at railway stations and in trains, according to multiple media reports. DH could not independently verify the reports. Decriminalising begging A top railway official told the publication that the proposed revision comes after communication from cabinet secretariat to “decriminalise certain offences”.  Under Section 144 (2) of the Railways Act, if any person begs in any railway carriage or upon a railway station, they are liable for punishment under sub-section (1), that prescribes imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to Rs 2,000, or with both. "This doesn't mean that railways will allow or encourage begging at stations and in trains. Decriminalisation doesn't mean it will be legalised. Surveillance by RPF and other staff will be increased to prevent such activities," a Ministry official told TOI. Many departments across ministries have proposed increasing fines rather than the arrest of offenders, the report stated. On smoking in trains Under section 167 (1), no person in any compartment of a train shall, if objected smoking to by any other passenger in that compartment, smoke therein. Notwithstanding that, the railway administration may prohibit smoking in any train or part of a train. Whosoever contravenes the provisions shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs 100. The Ministry has sought feedback from people which can be sent to singh.ravi@gov.in or by post to Ravinder Singh, Deputy Director/TG-V, Room No. 445, Rail Bhavan, New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-may-soon-decriminalise-begging-smoking-in-trains-report-883762.html
07-09-2020||National||India's DRDO test fires hypersonic vehicle expected to fire futuristic missile systems||India on Monday successfully demonstrated the indigenously-developed Hypersonic air-breathing scramjet technology with the flight test of Hypersonic Technology Demonstration Vehicle (HSTDV) at 1103 hours from Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Launch Complex at Wheeler Island, off the coast of Odisha. The HSTDV, based on hypersonic propulsion technologies, has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The Hypersonic cruise vehicle was launched using a proven solid rocket motor, which took it to an altitude of 30 km, where the aerodynamic heat shields were separated at hypersonic Mach number. The cruise vehicle separated from the launch vehicle and the air intake opened as planned. The hypersonic combustion sustained and the cruise vehicle continued on its desired flight path at a velocity of six times the speed of sound i.e. nearly 2 km/s for more than 20s. The critical events like fuel injection and auto ignition of scramjet demonstrated technological maturity. The scramjet engine performed in a text book manner. The parameters of launch and cruise vehicle, including scramjet engine was monitored by multiple tracking radars, electro-optical systems and Telemetry Stations. The scramjet engine worked at high dynamic pressure and at very high temperature. Ship was also deployed in the Bay of Bengal to monitor the performance  during the cruise phase of hypersonic vehicle. All the performance parameters have indicated a resounding success of the mission. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO over the successful test flight of the HSTDV, calling it a "landmark achievement" "I congratulate to DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising PM’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them," he tweeted.   I congratulate to DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising PM’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them. A DRDO official said, with the successful test flight of the HSTDV, India has demonstrated capabilities for highly complex technology that will serve as the building block for next-generation hypersonic vehicles in partnership with domestic defence industry. "With this successful demonstration, many critical technologies such as aerodynamic configuration for Hypersonic manoeuvers, use of scramjet propulsion for ignition and sustained combustion at hypersonic flow, thermo-structural characterisation of high temperature materials, separation mechanism at hypersonic velocities have been proven," DRDO said in a statement. The HSTDV powers cruise missiles and operates on scramjet engines which can attain the speed of around Mach 6 which is far better than ramjet engines,officials said. Secretary DD R&D and Chairman DRDO congratulated all the scientists and support staff for their contributions in proving highly complex air-breathing hypersonic technology. On this successful demonstration, the country enters into the Hypersonic regime paving way for advanced Hypersonic Vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-drdo-test-fires-hypersonic-vehicle-expected-to-fire-futuristic-missile-systems-883764.html
07-09-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries in India cross 32 lakh, fatality rate drops to 1.7%||The Covid-19 recovery rate in India has risen to 77.31 per cent with 69,564 patients recuperating from the disease in 24 hours pushing the total number of recoveries to 32.5 lakh, the health ministry said on Monday. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.7 per cent, it said. According to the ministry, five states are contributing 60 per cent of the total cases with Maharashtra at the top accounting for 21.6 per cent cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh with 11.8 per cent, Tamil Nadu 11 per cent, Karnataka 9.5 per cent and Uttar Pradesh 6.3 per cent. Maharashtra also contributed 26.76 per cent of the active cases in the country, followed by Andhra Pradesh 11.30 per cent, Karnataka 11.25 per cent, Uttar Pradesh 6.98 per cent and Tamil Nadu 5.83 per cent. These five states combined presently contribute 62 per cent of total active cases, the ministry said. "On a continuous upward trajectory, India's total recovered cases have crossed 32.5 lakh today, with 69,564 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours. This has resulted in the recovery rate touching 77.31 per cent," it said in a statement. In the last 24 hours, Andhra Pradesh recorded the highest recoveries at 11,915. Karnataka and Maharashtra saw 9,575 and 7,826 recoveries respectively. Tamil Nadu witnessed 5,820 people recuperating from the disease and Uttar Pradesh 4,779 recoveries during the same period, it said. "These five states together contributed 57 per cent of the recoveries in the last 24 hours," the health ministry said. It said various calibrated and focussed actions undertaken within the umbrella strategy of 'test, track and treat' have enabled early identification of cases through aggressive and wide-scale testing. "Better ambulance services and seamless point-to-point management of patients to facilitate their timely hospitalisation before their health deteriorates has led to a high number of Covid-19 patients recovering and being discharged from the hospitals," the ministry said. It further said supervised isolation in homes and facility settings, following effective standard of care protocol, have hugely aided in the recovery of mild and moderate cases. India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 42 lakh On Monday with a record 90,802 people being infected in a day, according to the Union health ministry data. The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 42,04,613, while the death toll climbed to 71,642 with 1,016 fatalities being reported in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-in-india-cross-32-lakh-fatality-rate-drops-to-17-883771.html
07-09-2020||National||Attorney General KK Venugopal in self-quarantine, Supreme Court informed||Attorney General KK Venugopal is in self-quarantine, the Supreme Court was informed on Monday as the Centre sought adjournment in a matter related to filling of vacancies in tribunals. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Hemant Gupta was requested by Additional Solicitor General SV Raju that a short adjournment be granted in the case as the AG, who is appearing in the matter, is in self-quarantine. The bench agreed to the request by Raju, representing the Centre in the matter, and posted the matter for further hearing on September 15. According to sources, Venugopal has gone into self-quarantine after one of his staff tested Covid-19 positive. The top court is hearing a batch of petitions related to filing of vacancies in tribunals including Central Administrative Tribunal and Armed Force Tribunals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attorney-general-kk-venugopal-in-self-quarantine-supreme-court-informed-883778.html
07-09-2020||National||Plea for care of elderly during pandemic: Supreme Court grants four weeks to states to file affidavits||The Supreme Court on Monday granted another four weeks time to states, which have not yet filed affidavits on a plea seeking directions to provide masks and sanitisers to the elderly amid the Covid-19 pandemic, to file their responses. The matter came up for hearing before a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan which had on August 4 directed that all eligible old age persons should be regularly paid pension and states should provide them necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods in wake of the pandemic. The bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, was hearing a plea filed by former union minister and senior advocate Ashwani Kumar who has sought directions with regard to the elderly, saying they need more care and protection in this time of pandemic. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Kumar told the bench that only some states including Odisha and Punjab have responded to the petition so far. Priority should be granted to elderly people who are being treated at hospitals, Kumar said. Referring to an affidavit filed by Manipur, he said that states should be directed to file better affidavits detailing the action taken so far. The bench, after hearing the submissions, granted four weeks further time to the states to file their responses on the plea. In its August 4 order, the apex court had said that looking at their vulnerability, the elderly should be given priority in admission in government hospital and in the event of any complaint made by them, the hospital administration shall take immediate steps to remedy their grievances. The bench had said that the top court had already issued directions on December 13, 2018 in the matter and those directives were needed to be complied with by all concerned, including the states. Kumar had earlier told the court that the elderly living alone are "worst sufferers" and they are not able to get medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods. In its December 2018 verdict, the apex court had said that statutory rights of over 10 crore elderly persons in India must be recognised and implemented. It had directed the Centre to obtain information from all states and Union Territories about the number of old age homes in each district and had also suggested a relook at the pension for the elderly so as to make it is more realistic. Emphasising the social justice aspect, the apex court had said that state is obligated to ensure that right to live with dignity, shelter and health of citizens, including the elderly, are not only protected but also enforced. The apex court had pronounced the verdict on the pleas by Kumar and one Sanjeeb Panigrahi. The court had noted in its 2018 order that the Centre had in 2007 fixed monthly pension of Rs 200 for persons between the age of 60 and 79 years and Rs 500 for those aged above 80.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-for-care-of-elderly-during-pandemic-supreme-court-grants-four-weeks-to-states-to-file-affidavits-883785.html
07-09-2020||National||India initiates probe against alleged dumping of Vitamin C from China||India has initiated a probe into the alleged dumping of Vitamin C from China following a complaint by a domestic manufacturer. Vitamin C is used by pharmaceutical firms for the production of medicines Bajaj Healthcare Ltd has filed the application before the commerce ministry's investigation arm DGTR, seeking initiation of the probe. The company alleged that the domestic industry is impacted due to the dumping of Vitamin C from China PR and has requested for the imposition of anti-dumping duty on the imports, according to the notification of Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR). On the basis of prima facie evidence submitted by the applicants, "the authority, hereby, initiates an investigation," it said. In the probe, the directorate will determine the existence, degree and effect of any alleged dumping in respect of the product from China. If DGTR will find that there is dumping and it is impacting the domestic manufacturer, it will recommend the amount of anti-dumping duty, which if levied, would be adequate to remove the injury to the domestic industry. While the DGTR recommends the duty, the Finance Ministry imposes the same. The period of investigation is April 2019- March 2020. It would also look into the data of April 2016-19 period. In international trade parlance, dumping happens when a country or a firm exports an item at a price lower than the price of that product in its domestic market. Dumping impacts the price of that product in the importing country, hitting margins and profits of the manufacturing firms. According to global trade norms, a country is allowed to impose tariffs on such dumped products to provide a level-playing field to domestic manufacturers. The duty is imposed only after a thorough investigation by a quasi-judicial body, such as DGTR, in India. The imposition of anti-dumping duty is permissible under the World Trade Organization (WTO) regime. India and China are members of this Geneva-based organisation, which deals with global trade norms. The duty is aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and creating a level-playing field for domestic producers vis-a-vis foreign producers and exporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-initiates-probe-against-alleged-dumping-of-vitamin-c-from-china-883806.html
07-09-2020||National||Kangana Ranaut thanks Amit Shah for security, says no patriot can be crushed||Kangana Ranaut on Monday thanked Union Home Minister Amit Shah for providing her with Y-plus category security after she spoke about drug use in Bollywood, following the death of fellow actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Taking to Twitter, Kangana said, "This shows that no one can crush a patriot in the country. I am thankful to Home Minister Amit Shah." The move by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to accord security cover to Kangana comes amid a spat between her and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK). "Had he (Amit Shah) wanted, he would have told me to visit Mumbai later but he respected India's daughter and acknowledged my self-respect. Jai Hind," Kangana tweeted. The Y-plus category central cover entails deployment of about 10 armed commandos with the protectee, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-ranaut-thanks-amit-shah-for-security-says-no-patriot-can-be-crushed-883816.html
07-09-2020||National||Spraying disinfectant on people and outdoor spaces won't contain Covid-19, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that it has nowhere issued any guidelines for using and installing disinfection tunnels, involving spraying or fumigation of chemical on people in the workplace and public places.   Spraying disinfectants, even outdoors, can be harmful to human health, it added.   In an affidavit, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on June 9, an expert committee meeting under the chairmanship of Directorate General of Health Services, was held to review the use of disinfectant tunnels, use of various chemicals, spraying and its efficacy.  "It was reiterated that spraying of the individuals with the disinfectants, such as tunnels, cabinets and chambers etc is not recommended as it would not diminish the infected person's ability to spread the coronavirus through droplets or contacts," it said. It is also not recommended in healthcare and non-healthcare settings. "If disinfectant was to be applied in indoor spaces, this should be done with a cloth or wipe that has been soaked in disinfectant," it said. The Union government said spraying and fumigation of outdoor spaces such as streets and marketplaces is also not recommended to kill Covid-19 virus or other pathogens because disinfectant is inactivated by dirt and debris.  The response was filed in a PIL filed by Gursimran Singh Narula, a final law year student, who sought a direction for banning sanitisation tunnels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spraying-disinfectant-on-people-and-outdoor-spaces-wont-contain-covid-19-centre-tells-sc-883824.html
07-09-2020||National||Post-Article 370, Jammu and Kashmir continues to be laggard in ease of doing business||More than a year after the Centre abrogated Article 370, Jammu and Kashmir continues to be laggard in Ease of Doing Business (EODB) as the Union Territory (UT) ranks 21st among 36 states and UTs in a latest survey. EODB is a joint initiative by the Department for Promotion of Industries and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and the World Bank to improve the overall business environment in the States and UTs of India. The DPIIT in collaboration with the World Bank conducts an annual reform exercise for all States/UTs under the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP). The survey report which was released on Saturday in presence of Union Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi, ranks Jammu and Kashmir 21st. J&K is among a few states/UTs which have not shown any significant improvement as in 2019, the UT was ranked at the 22nd spot. The report reveals that smaller states like Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh are well placed ahead of J&K. J&K is also behind neighboring states like Punjab and Haryana, which are ranked at 19 and 16, respectively. The report of EODB has come on the heels of a recently released report on the Export index which showed J&K at the bottom of the ranking table. For a long time, the BJP government had blamed the special status of J&K under Articles 370 and 35A as a reason for investors shying away from the UT. Last August when J&K’s special status was scrapped, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it was an impediment to J&K’s development. From August 2019 till August this year while local investors had made Rs 900 crore investment in J&K, there was no investment from outsiders in the UT in one year. Lateef Lone, who is in the hospitality business blamed “deep rooted corruption” as one of the biggest impediments for the new businesses. “Single-window clearing system has not been implemented in J&K. In order to start a business, one has to fill more than 20 different forms of different departments. The entire process is time consuming due to which new people are reluctant to enter into the business sector,” he said. Lone said there has been no change in the attitude of bureaucrats in Kashmir post abrogation of Article 370. “Availing finances and getting clearances for new projects continues to be a Herculean task in J&K due to the negative attitude of the government,” he said. Abid Ahmad, a banker said there is an immediate need to provide infrastructure, electricity, internet connectivity and timely and low cost credit for businesses to flourish in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-article-370-jammu-and-kashmir-continues-to-be-laggard-in-ease-of-doing-business-883832.html
07-09-2020||National||SAT suspends judicial work till Sep 18 amid Covid-19||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has suspended judicial work till September 18 amid the coronavirus pandemic. Interim orders, if any, which are operational would remain in force till the next date of hearing, according to a recent notification. "The judicial work of the tribunal shall further remain suspended till 18th September, 2020," the notification said. The directions already issued and permitted from time to time shall be continued and all earlier orders shall be aligned with the present order and shall remain in force up to and inclusive of September 18, it said. The tribunal would function through video conference from September 7 from 11.30 am to 4.30 pm until further orders. Further, the office of the registry would function from September 7 from 11 am to 4.30 pm until further orders with limited staff for the purpose of administrative work, as per the notification. Besides, matters fixed for hearing between September 3 to September 18 would be rescheduled from November 9 to December 4. Earlier, the tribunal had suspended judicial work till september 2 while continuing to function through video conference. In case of extreme urgent matters, parties may file cases by adopting standard operating procedures introduced by the tribunal earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sat-suspends-judicial-work-till-sep-18-amid-covid-19-883836.html
07-09-2020||National||Congress accuses BJP of politicising Sushant Singh Rajput's death ahead of Bihar polls||The Congress on Monday accused the ruling BJP of politicising the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, terming it a new low in Indian politics. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala condemned the party and said Rajput's death was being politicised to deflect attention from the problems faced by the people in Bihar. "This is a new low in the new India of BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Surjewala said at a virtual press conference. He alleged that Bihar was ravaged by floods and reeling under acute misery with the government having "abdicated its responsibility". Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury demanded that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should conduct an impartial probe into the death of the actor, unmindful of the political implication of the case. "Mr CBI and his masters, how many days will be required to unearth the mystery of the death of great actor Sushant Singh Rajput, already media trial has been continuing in full swing which even can dwarf the judicial trial. "We will certainly expect from premier investigating agency CBI that impartial investigation will be conducting on the sensational death of Sushant Singh Rajput, unmindful of its political implication (sic)," Chowdhury tweeted. Surjewala claimed Bihar has rampant unemployment with over 4,00,000 unfilled posts, and the people of the state have a dearth of rations. There are no opportunities for the youth, he added. "The entire government machinery lies decimated in shambles in Bihar under the BJP and Nitish babu's rule. Consequently, they are attempting to divert attention and politicise the death of a film star," he said. The debates on the electronic media are now focussed on Sushant Singh Rajput and Rhea Chakraborty instead of issues of national importance like coronavirus outbreak, unemployment and the economy, Surjewala said. "I think this is utterly condemnable and reprehensible. I would with folded hands urge the media owners to show the reality of the life of real India and not the new India, the make-believe India of Modiji, which does not exist," he added. The Congress alleged that posters of actor Rajput have been put up by the ruling BJP in Bihar ahead of the assembly polls in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-accuses-bjp-of-politicising-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-ahead-of-bihar-polls-883838.html
07-09-2020||National||Jadavpur University final semester exams to be in digital mode, dates not fixed yet||Jadavpur University has decided that the final semester examination in arts and science stream will be held in digital mode but the date for the tests has not been fixed, an official said on Monday. The faculty meeting of the university on Sunday decided not to fix the date for holding the examination, keeping in mind the Supreme Court directive that if any state thinks about a date other than September 30 for holding the tests, they will have to do that in consultation with the University Grants Commission (UGC), the official said. The meeting, however, resolved to conduct the tests in a 'contactless' (digital) mode in two hour time whenever the examination takes place, the official said. "Our virtual meeting, which was attended by all faculty members and the VC, pro-VC among others, resolved we will not fix a date for holding semester examination as done by some other universities keeping in mind the Supreme Court directive that if any state thinks about a date other than September 30 for holding final semester exams, they have to do that in consultation with the UGC. "Hence JU is not declaring examination date unilaterally before knowing the UGC response to the state government's request for fixing a date in October," the official said. He, however, said that the modalities for conducting final semester examination have been decided in contactless digital mode. "The students will get question papers through WhatsApp and mail a little before the commencement of examination and will have to submit replies after two hours. Maybe a little more time will be given keeping in mind network problems. But that will not comprise the whole day," he said. Those having problem in net connectivity or not in possession of smartphones will have to download the question paper at someone's place and will be allowed to write on hard copy. But they will have to submit the answer sheet in a sealed envelope within a stipulated time after the examinations are over to one of the designated collection centres of the university. Modalities of the procedure to write answers on sheets and submitting will be chalked out in detail. The faculty council also decided to complete procedure of supplementary tests (tests for students having not attended or failed in previous semesters) and all pending laboratory test by September 30, he explained. The final semester examination will be held entirely based on the courses completed in the curriculum, he said. The West Bengal Higher Education department had earlier said that final semester examinations will have to be held by universities from October 1 to October 18 either offline or online after the SC quashed a petition and gave go-ahead to the UGC for asking universities to mandatorily hold the exams by September 30. The SC had also observed if any state had a problem in conducting final semester exams by September 30, it has to take up the issue with UGC for fixing up a later date but complete the exam process nevertheless. Calcutta University recently announced it will be holding the final semester examination from October 1 - 18 in digital mode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jadavpur-university-final-semester-exams-to-be-in-digital-mode-dates-not-fixed-yet-883842.html
07-09-2020||National||Spraying of disinfectant on humans and outdoor spaces not useful for containing Covid-19: Centre tells SC||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that it has nowhere issued any guidelines for using and installing disinfection tunnels, involving spraying or fumingation of chemical on human beings in workplace and public places. Spraying disinfectants, even outdoors, can be harmful to human health, it added. In an affidavit, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on June 9, an expert committee meeting under the chairmanship of Directorate General of Health Services, was held to review use of disinfectant tunnels, use of various chemicals, spraying and its efficacy. "It was reiterated that spraying of the individuals with the disinfectants, such as tunnels, cabinets and chambers etc is not recommended as it would not diminish the infected person's ability to spread the virus through droplets or contacts," it said. It is also not recommended in healthcare and non healthcare settings. "If disinfectant was to be applied in indoor spaces, this should be done with a cloth or wipe that has been soaked in disinfectant," it said. The Union government said spraying and fumingation of outdoor spaces such as streets and marketplaces is also not recommended to kill Covid-19 virus or other pathogens because disinfectant is inactivated by dirt and debris. The response was filed in a PIL filed by Gursimran Singh Narula, a final law year student, who sought a direction for banning sanitisation tunnels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spraying-of-disinfectant-on-humans-and-outdoor-spaces-not-useful-for-containing-covid-19-centre-tells-sc-883847.html
07-09-2020||National||BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty moves Delhi court seeking divorce ||Odisha-based actor and BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty has approached a Delhi court to dissolve his six-year-old matrimonial alliance with actress Varsha Priyadarshini alleging that she never allowed him to consummate the marriage causing him great mental pain and agony. In a petition filed in Patiala House Court here, he said his wife stayed with him for just 18 months and this period has been full of cruelty, tyranny, misery, harassment and sufferings for him and his family members. Varsha, on her part, filed a domestic violence complaint in a Cuttuck court alleging that Mohanty was a habitual alcohol consumer and a womaniser. She demanded a monthly rent of Rs 20,000, maintenance of Rs 50,000 and a compensation of Rs 13 crore. Mohanty, who was first elected to Rajya Sabha in 2014 as the youngest member at the age of 32, is at present an MP from Kendrapara Lok Sabha constituency. On February 8, 2014, he got married to Varsha, his batchmate. After the marriage, she started complaining about trivial issues and made it clear that she was not inclined to establish relationship with his family members, the actor alleged.  "Moreover, whenever the petitioner tried to have physical touch or make relation with the respondent, she never allowed it. This kind of behavior by her made him uncomfortable, unhappy and the petitioner never felt that he is married as she never gave him the pleasure of being married," his petition, filed by advocate Ashwani K Dubey, read. During the six-year period, Mohanty said he tried to convince the wife on several occasions to have normal relations. In June 2015, he went to the USA to attend Odiya convention and made special arrangements to make his wife comfortable but she "again refused to have sex with the petitioner just to harass and insult him". He said Varsha had been living separately from him since May 1, 2019. He asked the court to pass a decree of divorce as the marriage has been broken irretrievably.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjd-mp-anubhav-mohanty-moves-delhi-court-seeking-divorce-883855.html
07-09-2020||National||Why are disinfectant tunnels not banned despite spraying of disinfectants being harmful, SC asks Centre||The Supreme Court asked the Centre on Monday as to why it has not banned the use of tunnels for disinfecting people for Covid-19 despite taking the stand that spraying of chemical disinfectants is physically and psychologically harmful. A bench headed by Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the Health Ministry has not issued any advisory or guideline on use of ultraviolet lights for disinfection of humans for Covid-19 management. He said that spraying of any chemical disinfectant is also physically and psychologically harmful for humans. The bench then asked the SG that when the use of disinfectant tunnels is bad then why the Centre was not banning it. Mehta said that appropriate directions will be issued in this regard. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by one Gursimran Singh Narula, who has sought directions to the Centre to forthwith ban the installation, production and advertisement of disinfection tunnels involving spraying or fumigation of chemical disinfectants on humans. The plea has also sought forthwith ban on spraying or fumigation of organic disinfectants and exposing human to ultraviolet rays for the purposes of disinfecting them. The Centre in its affidavit submitted that as public health and hospitals are state subject, it is for the States/ Union Territories to implement the guidelines issued by the Health Ministry and the role of government of India is limited to providing necessary guidance and financial support. It said that on June 9, an expert committee meeting was held under the chairmanship of Director General of Health Service to review the use of disinfectant tunnels, various chemicals and spraying of disinfectant along with the efficacy of such use of spraying/fogging. The Centre said that the committee has reiterated that spraying of individuals with the disinfectants (such as tunnels, cabinets, cambers) is not recommended as it would not diminish the infected person’s ability to spread the virus through droplets or contact. The affidavit, filed by undersecretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), said the committee further observed that spraying disinfectants is not recommended in both health-care and non-health care settings. "It was also observed that in indoor spaces, routine application of disinfectants to environmental surfaces by spraying or fogging (also known as fumigation or misting) is not recommended for Covid-19 as the disinfectants may not be effective in removing organic material and may miss surface shielded by objects, folded fabrics or surface with intricate designs,” it said. The committee has stated that spraying or fumigation of outdoor spaces, such as streets or marketplaces, is also not recommended to kill the Covid-19 virus or other pathogens because disinfectant is inactivated by dirt and debris and it is not feasible to manually clean and remove all organic matter from such spaces, the affidavit said. “Even in the absence of organic matter, chemical spraying is unlikely to adequately cover all surfaces for the duration of the required contact time needed to inactivate pathogens. Furthermore, streets and sidewalks are not considered to be reservoirs of infection for Covid-19. In addition, spraying disinfectants, even outdoors, can be harmful for human health,” it said. The Centre said it had taken cognizance of media reports where it was reported that persons were being sprayed/ fogged with chemicals and/or exposed to such chemicals through walk-in tunnels and after that a meeting of Joint Monitoring Group (experts body) was called on April 8. In the meeting it was recommended, “spraying of disinfectants on humans is not recommended under any circumstances. Spraying any chemical disinfectant is physically and psychologically harmful. Further, chemicals are harmful to human skin and the mucous membrane of the respiratory tract, if needed”, it said. External spraying of any chemical disinfectant does not kill a virus that has already entered the body of a person, who has earlier been exposed to the virus, the Centre said. “It is evident that the answering respondent nowhere issued any advisory/guidelines/ SOPs for usage, installation, production, advertisement of disinfection tunnels involving spraying or fumigation of chemical/ organic disinfectants for the purposes disinfecting human beings in the workplace/office/public places/external environments,” it said. The Centre said that even ‘National Guidelines for infection Prevention and Control in Healthcare Facilities’ enumerated that disinfectant fogging is not recommended for routine patient care areas. “It was also prescribed that fumigation and fogging have no role in the operation theatre because fumigation with formalin is hazardous to persons and can also harm sensitive equipment,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-are-disinfectant-tunnels-not-banned-despite-spraying-of-disinfectants-being-harmful-sc-asks-centre-883867.html
07-09-2020||National||IAS officers' body drops colonial-era reference from name, rechristens it as IAS Association||Shedding the colonial tag, the Indian Civil & Administrative Services (Central) Association has been renamed as IAS Association, officials said on Monday. They said the new nomenclature -- which drops the reference to the colonial-era ICS (Indian Civil Services) -- for the association of IAS officers highlights Indian ethos. Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra, also the President of the association, said the new name was unanimously decided at the association’s Annual General Body Meeting on Saturday. “The name is symbolic, which aptly represents all IAS officers across the country. The change in nomenclature is a historic and significant decision as it will help in shedding the perceived baggage of colonial-era Indian Civil Service (ICS). The new name -- IAS Association -- also highlights the Indian ethos,” Mishra told PTI. He said another important decision taken at the association’s AGM on Saturday was regarding its motto ‘Yogah Karmasu Kaushalam’ (Perfection in action is Yogah). “This motto has been used by the association for long but with no clarity as to who had chosen this and when. In this meeting, we formally adopted this motto as a gift from our predecessors,” said Mishra, a 1984-batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre. There are 5,205 IAS officers working across the country. The IAS association is an organisation of both the serving and retired members of the service. Senior IAS officer and association’s Vice-President Sanjeev Chopra said the dropping of the inference to ICS from the nomenclature was long overdue. “I would go as far as to say that the IAS is a cut above the ICS. It attracts the best and the brightest women and men. With the new name, the association appropriately represents the members of Indian Administrative Service,” said Chopra, the Director of Mussoorie-based Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA), the country’s premier training institute for civil servants. Giving details on the association’s motto, he said it has been taken from the second chapter of Bhagavad Gita. “The association’s motto will continue to inspire members of the IAS to continue to work for the common people as a true Karmayogis. The bias of IAS is always towards its action,” said Chopra, a 1985-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre. Senior bureaucrat Amit Kumar Ghosh said the IAS officers’ association will strive for all round cooperation and coordination for its work. “The Indian Civil and Administrative Service (IC&AS) association, which is the central IAS association, will hold regular interactions with state IAS associations and strive for all round cooperation and coordination,” said Ghosh, a 1994-batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, also the General Secretary of the officers' body. M Nagaraju, a member of the association’s executive committee and Joint Secretary in the Coal Ministry, said the decision to change the name of the association is very important. “The purpose of the association is to improve the camaraderie between the central IAS association and various state associations (as the IAS officers work across the country in different cadres) to bring synergies and to evolve a common understanding on national policy matters and service issues to enable the members of IAS to serve the country better,” said Nagaraju, a 1993-batch IAS officer of Tripura cadre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ias-officers-body-drops-colonial-era-reference-from-name-rechristens-it-as-ias-association-883882.html
07-09-2020||National||Varavara Rao's sons-in-law summoned by NIA in Elgar Parishad case||Telugu “revolutionary” writer Varavara Rao’s two sons-in-law have said that the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Mumbai, has summoned them to appear before it on September 9 in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case. Rao sons-in-law are K Satyanarayana, a professor at the English and Foreign Languages University in Hyderabad, and K V Kurmanath, a senior journalist with a business newspaper in the city. Rao was arrested by Pune Police from his Hyderabad house in November 2018 in the case indicting Maoist links and an alleged conspiracy to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi and has been lodged in a Maharashtra jail. Satyanarayana said that he and Kurmanath were asked to appear before NIA, Mumbai, as witnesses under Sections 91 and 160 of Criminal Procedure Code. “It is a fact that I am related to Varavara Rao but I reiterate that I have no connection with the Bhima-Koregaon case,” Satyanarayana said adding that his flat was raided by Pune Police in August 2018 “under the pretext of collecting evidence against my father in law and revolutionary poet Rao.” Rao was moved back to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai on August 27 after his treatment for Covid-19 and other health conditions at Nanavati Hospital. “NIA notice adds to our family distress at a time when Rao’s health condition is not very good, and the pandemic is fast spreading in Mumbai. I am summoned to Mumbai in these terrible times,” Satyanarayana said in a statement. Kurmanath too confirmed the notices issued to him, to appear as a witness before NIA. The Elgar Parishad case against Rao and few other noted activists including Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha pertains to their suspected Maoist link and the inflammatory speeches at Elgar Parishad conclave in Pune on December 31, 2017,  which the police allege has caused large scale violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018.     The case was transferred from Maharashtra Police to NIA in January 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/varavara-raos-sons-in-law-summoned-by-nia-in-elgar-parishad-case-883888.html
07-09-2020||National||Kangana carrying forward BJP's political agenda: Congress||The Congress on Monday accused Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut of carrying forward the BJP's political agenda through her actions and claimed that the ruling party had provided her with security cover to enable her to openly defame Maharashtra and criticise the coalition government there. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Ranaut's comparison of Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) was untrue, reprehensible and would not be acceptable to any reasonable person. He, however, said the Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra will ensure adequate protection to her and defend the right of dissent of its biggest critics. "Despite a particular film actress carrying on the agenda of Modi Ji and BJP, we will ensure adequate protection for her," he said at a virtual press conference. "However, to describe the business capital of the country as Pakistan occupied Kashmir is naive, incorrect, political opportunism and reprehensible which no reasonable person will accept. We reject such unfounded and politically motivated allegations being hurled through film actresses by BJP," he said. Surjewala said, unlike the BJP, the Congress party as well as the alliance of Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP in Maharashtra has the principle of defending the right of dissent of their biggest critics. "The security has been provided to a film actress, who is acting on the behest of BJP to defame Maharashtra so that she openly criticises us under BJP's political agenda," he also said. Ranaut has been given Y-plus category security and will be protected by about 10 armed commandos who will work in shifts around the clock, Union Home Ministry officials said on Monday amid the controversy over her comment that she "feared" the Mumbai Police. The decision comes two days before Ranaut, who is in her home state Himachal Pradesh and had likened Mumbai to PoK, said she plans to visit Mumbai on September 9. Ranaut, whose comments led to a spat with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, said she felt unsafe in Mumbai after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and also spoke of drug use in a section of the film industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-carrying-forward-bjps-political-agenda-congress-883889.html
07-09-2020||National||NEP reflects aspirations of students, should be implemented in letter & spirit: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the National Education Policy (NEP) reflected the aspirations of millions of students and it should be implemented in letter and spirit. Inaugurating the ‘Governor’s Conference on the Role of National Education Policy in Transforming Higher Education’, Modi said the new policy laid emphasis on passion, practicality and performance over processes and goes beyond curriculum to promote critical thinking. Modi said like foreign policy and defence policy, the education policy is of the nation and has no allegiance to any government. The education policy, instead, is “attached to the aspirations of people and millions of students”, he said. The Prime Minister said questions around education administration, usage of local language, role of library, curriculum design, and faculties’ adaptability to a new system are important, and there should be collective endeavour to address them and implement the policy effectively. “With vocational exposure right from early age, our youth will get better prepared for life,” he said, adding that their participation in the global job market and employment opportunities in the country will increase with practical learning. President Ram Nath Kovind said since education is in the concurrent list, the states and the Centre should cooperate with each other for its implementation. “There are some 400 state universities with about 40,000 colleges affiliated to them, hence, it is imperative to establish coordination and dialogue with these universities which could be done by governors who are also the chancellors,” the President said. The President said that it has been widely accepted that the mother tongue should be the medium of primary education and, hence, the new policy has adopted the spirit of the three-language formula. “It has the benefit of encouraging the Indian languages, arts and culture, which is a significant step in preserving the unity and integrity of our country characterised by great linguistic diversity,” he said. The day-long virtual conference was attended by education ministers of states and vice chancellors of universities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-reflects-aspirations-of-students-should-be-implemented-in-letter-spirit-modi-883890.html
07-09-2020||National||Centre highlights protections for disabled govt employees seeking voluntary retirement||Disbaled government employees seeking voluntary retirement due to the hardships faced by them can continue in service with the same pay scale and benefits, the Personnel Ministry said in an order issued on Monday, highlighting the different protections available to them. Citing provisions under Section 20 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act, 2016, it said every government establishment shall provide reasonable accommodation and appropriate barrier-free and conducive environment to employees with disability. The ministry said no promotion shall be denied to a person merely on the ground of disability. It said no government establishment shall discriminate against any person with disability in any matter relating to employment. “No Government establishment shall dispense with or reduce in rank, an employee who acquires a disability during his or her service,” reads the Section 20(4) of the RPWD Act, cited by the ministry in its order. Referring to the RPWD Act and a Supreme Court's judgement, the order said “it is stated that whenever a government servant seeks voluntary retirement citing medical grounds, or when the said VRS notice has been submitted due to a disability, the administrative authorities shall examine as to whether the case is covered under Section 20(4) of RPWD Act, 2016”. In case the provisions are applicable, the government servant shall be advised that he/she has the option of continuing in service with the same pay scale and service benefits, said the order issued to secretaries of all central government departments. “In case a disabled government servant reconsiders his decision and withdraws the notice for voluntary retirement, his case shall be dealt with the aforesaid provisions of Section 20 of RPWD Act, 2016. If however, in spite of being so advised, such government servant still wishes to take voluntary retirement, the request may be processed as per the applicable rules,” it said. The ministry has replaced instructions issued in May 2015 with this latest order. According to the 2015 order, instances had come to the notice of the authorities where government servants apply for voluntary retirement “on account of hardships faced by them due to a disability, as they are unaware of the protection provided by the Section 47 of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act or the PWD Act of 1995. “In this regard, it is stated that the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 (PWD Act) has been repealed by the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (RPWD Act, 2016), which came into force on 19th April, 2017,” the order said. Hence, Section 47 of PWD Act, 1995 as stated in the 2015 order is replaced by the provisions of Section 20 of the RPWD Act, 2016, it added. The Section 47 of the PWD Act had provisions on non-discrimination against disabled government employees and for their protection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-highlights-protections-for-disabled-govt-employees-seeking-voluntary-retirement-883902.html
07-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Rhea Chakraborty files complaint against Sushant Singh Rajput's sister||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, In a new twist in the case involving the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, Rhea Chakraborty has filed a police complaint against the actor’s sister Priyanka Singh for forgery and sending a bogus prescription; Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi's police custody has been extended for five days; The Ministry of Railways has proposed to decriminalise begging at railway stations and in trains, according to multiple media reports.  Here are the top stories of the day, September 7, 2020: Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's his live-in-partner Rhea Chakraborty has filed a police complaint against the actor’s New Delhi-based sister Priyanka Singh for forgery and sending a bogus prescription. Rhea has filed the complaint at the Bandra police station, copies of which have been sent to Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. Reacting to developing Sushant Singh Rajput case, Congress accused the ruling BJP of politicising the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, terming it a new low in Indian politics. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala condemned the party and said Rajput's death was being politicised to deflect attention from the problems faced by the people in Bihar. Terming the 23.9 per cent fall in economic growth in June quarter alarming, former Reserve Bank Governor Raghuram Rajan has said bureaucracy should come out of complacency and take meaningful action.          The current crisis requires a more thoughtful and active government, he said, adding “unfortunately, after an initial burst of activity, it seems to have retreated into a shell.”       Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi's police custody has been extended for five days. She will be grilled by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials till Friday. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) said, "Ragini was produced before the court. On our request, the court has granted five days of police custody." Ragini was arrested on September 4, after the CCB officials conducted a search in her house by taking permission from the court. The Ministry of Railways has proposed to decriminalise begging at railway stations and in trains, according to multiple media reports. The Ministry has also moved a proposal for making smoking a compoundable offence, by levying a spot fine and dropping charges against the offender as part of an exercise to rationalise penalties under the Railway Act, 1989 provisions. As the provisions are “seldom invoked and can often be used to harass people”. DH could not independently verify this report. The Supreme Court asked the Centre as to why it has not banned the use of tunnels for disinfecting people for Covid-19 despite taking the stand that spraying of chemical disinfectants is physically and psychologically harmful. A bench headed by Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the Health Ministry has not issued any advisory or guideline on the use of ultraviolet lights for disinfection of humans for Covid-19 management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rhea-chakraborty-files-complaint-against-sushant-singh-rajputs-sister-883905.html
07-09-2020||National||One-day session of Delhi Assembly on September 14; no question hour||The Delhi Cabinet has decided to convene a special one-day session of the Legislative Assembly on September 14, officials said on Monday. A proposal by the principal secretary (law) for the special session was considered and approved by the Cabinet on September 5, they said. According to sources, there will be no question hour mainly because it is a one-day session and only important issues and legislative matters will be taken up. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the session will be held with various safety measures in place, including testing of legislators and employees, they added. "The MLAs will also have to undergo tests either at the Assembly or they may get tested at some hospital or health centre," he said. Wearing of face covers will be made mandatory and entry to Assembly premises on the day of the special session will be allowed after the thermal screening, officials said. To maintain social distancing, additional chairs will be kept in the House. A long seat is shared by two MLAs in the House but now only one will sit on it to maintain six feet distance, they said. The entry of media persons could be restricted to the press room. They may not be allowed to sit in the press gallery during the session as is the practice, although a final decision on it is yet to be taken, the officials added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-day-session-of-delhi-assembly-on-september-14-no-question-hour-883915.html
07-09-2020||National||Govt launches 24X7 toll free mental rehabilitation helpline to provide psychological support||The Centre on Monday launched a 24X7 toll free mental rehabilitation helpline for providing psychological support to people. The helpline ‘KIRAN’ (1800-599-0019) was launched by Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Thaawarchand Gehlot. The helpline will offer mental health rehabilitation services with the objective of early screening, first aid, psychological support, distress management, mental wellbeing, promoting positive behaviour and psychological crisis management, the minister said. "The helpline will function as a lifeline to provide advice, counselling and reference in 13 languages to individuals, families, NGOs, parent associations, professional associations, rehabilitation institutes, hospitals or anyone in need of support across the country," he said. "I hope this helpline will also be very useful for family members of those with mental illness," Gehlot said. Prabodh Seth, Joint Secretary at social justice and empowerment ministry, gave a presentation to highlight the salient features of the helpline. "This toll free helpline will be operational 24 hours a day, seven days a week with the technical coordination of BSNL. It is backed by 660 clinical and rehabilitation psychologists and 668 psychiatrists," he said. The 13 languages covered in the helpline are Hindi, Assamese, Tamil, Marathi, Odia, Telugu, Malayalam, Gujarati, Punjabi, Kannada, Bengali, Urdu and English, he added. Explaining the working of the helpline, Seth said when 1800-599-0019 is dialled from any mobile phone or landline of any telecom network, from any part of India, one gets the option of selecting the language following which they get connected to the helpline centre of native or desired state. The callers will then be connected to mental health experts who will help to resolve the issue or refer and connect to external help (clinical psychologists or rehabilitation psychologists or psychiatrists), the official explained. The helpline is dedicated to resolve mental health issues related to anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, suicide, depression, panic attack(s) adjustment disorders, post traumatic stress disorders and substance abuse. "The helpline will cater to- people in distress, pandemic induced psychological issues and mental health emergency," Seth said. The helpline is being coordinated by the National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD), Chennai and National Institute of Mental Health Rehabilitation (NIMHR), Sehore. Professional support for the helpline is being provided by the Indian Association of Clinical Psychologists (IACP), Indian Psychiatrists Association (IPA) and Indian Psychiatric Social Workers Association (IPSWA), he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-24x7-toll-free-mental-rehabilitation-helpline-to-provide-psychological-support-883922.html
07-09-2020||National||Delhi riots: ED custody of suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain extended by 3 days||A Delhi court Monday extended by three days the ED custody of suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in a money laundering case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) was probing the allegation that Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs 1.10 crore funds, by using purported shell or dummy companies, to fuel the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the riots. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat allowed the ED's application for Hussain's custodial interrogation considering the period of interrogation already done. The ED had sought Hussain's custody for nine days, saying as he was still needed to be confronted with other voluminous record and a substantial number of persons were yet to be confronted with him. "Considering the period of interrogation already done and as per the record, the further police custody remand of the accused Tahir Hussain is given for another period of three days from today. The Jail Superintendent shall immediately hand over the custody of the accused to the concerned investigating officer of the ED. The accused shall be handed over to the Jail authorities by September 10," the court said in its order. It directed officials to medically examine Hussain every 24 hours. It permitted Hussain's counsel to confer with him for a period not exceeding half an hour at the beginning of the ED custody. "The concerned officials shall ensure that they remain outside the audible range during the period. Needless to state that the accused and his counsel shall follow the necessary distancing protocols in view of the outbreak of Covid-19," the court said. During the hearing, Senior advocate K K Manan and advocate Uditi Bali, appearing for Hussain, opposed the application saying the 15 days period for grant of ED custody has to begin from the date of arrest, August 20, and thus, further extension of remand was not permissible in law. Central Government Standing Counsel Amit Mahajan, appearing for ED, said the 15 days remand has to begin when his application was considered and allowed. Mahajan argued that the probe agency had obtained Hussain's physical custody on August 31 after the Jail authorities handed him over to the probe agency after performing the Covid-19 test. ED's Special Public Prosecutors N K Matta said further custody of Hussain was required as he was still needed to be confronted with other voluminous record and substantial number of persons were yet to be confronted with him. The complete and comprehensive investigation could not be completed within the custody remand granted by the court earlier, Matta said. ED had earlier told the court that Hussain was allegedly involved in money laundering and various other fraudulent acts of cheating, falsification and forgery of documents, and criminal conspiracy. Matta had said the ED has seized several incriminating documents and digital devices after conducting searches at various premises. "Statements of several persons have been recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and WhatsApp chats, bogus invoices and other incriminating documents have been recovered," the public prosecutor had said. ED further alleged that Hussain had entered into a criminal conspiracy by fraudulently transferring money from the accounts of many companies. The money so obtained are allegedly proceeds of crime which were then used for committing various other scheduled offences, the agency had claimed. Manan had claimed that Hussain was a victim of circumstances and was not required for custodial interrogation as he faced the threat of torture. Hussain was arrested in connection with the riots in northeast Delhi in February. He has also been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a conspiracy case related to the riots. He was also arrested in connection with the alleged murder of IB official Ankit Sharma during the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-ed-custody-of-suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-extended-by-3-days-883931.html
07-09-2020||National||SC gives more time to states to tell steps taken for providing essentials to elderly people during Covid-19||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered all the states to inform about the steps taken to ensure all elderly people, eligible for pension, should be regularly paid the amount, and given necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods during the Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said let all the states, including those, which have already filed their response, file their affidavits bringing on record the material and the steps taken by them. Former Law Minister and Congress MP Ashwani Kumar said states should have filed better affidavits, as they did not detail the steps to monitor the situation. The court, which noted all states have not yet filed their response, granted them four weeks time for the purpose. The court had earlier on August 4 directed that elderly people should be given priority in admission in the government hospitals, looking to their vulnerability for Covid 19. "In event of any complaint made by the elderly people, the hospital administration concerned shall take immediate steps to address their grievances," it ordered. Kumar contended that the older people, living alone, are the worst sufferers in Covid-19 crisis, as they are not able to get medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods. The caregivers of these people are untrained and are also not equipped with personal protection equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-more-time-to-states-to-tell-steps-taken-for-providing-essentials-to-elderly-people-during-covid-19-883934.html
07-09-2020||National||Government to set up kiosks to charge EV at petrol pumps||To promote e-mobility, the Centre is planning to set up kiosks to charge electric vehicles at all petrol pumps across the country. Union Power Minister R K Singh held a meeting with Ministry of Petroleum officials recently and discussed the Union Ministry of Power proposal to set up at least one electric vehicle kiosk in each petrol pumps. "With 69,000 petrol pumps across the country, setting up atleast one kiosk at each pump will encourage the public to purchase electric vehicles," said an official in the Ministry of Power. Singh also suggested that the Ministry of Petroleum officials should mandatorily install charging stations at petrol pumps directly owned by state-run oil companies. The Ministry also prepared a plan to create EV charging infrastructure in Delhi National Capital Region, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Vadodara and Bhopal. As per the new guidelines of the oil ministry, new petrol pumps must have an option of one alternative fuel. To promote the electric vehicle, the government plans to develop infrastructure across the country. India aims to have a significant number EVs by 2030 as the government target to reduce emission intensity by one third from the level of 2005. The government is of the view that the availability of charging stations in every corner of the country will help to increase the number of electric vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-set-up-kiosks-to-charge-ev-at-petrol-pumps-883939.html
07-09-2020||National||Kangana Ranaut becomes 1st Bollywood star to be guarded by CRPF commandos||The CRPF, the country's largest paramilitary force, has been providing security to about 60 dignitaries and high-profile persons, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and her children Rahul and Priyanka. Ranaut is the first Bollywood actor who will be guarded by CRPF commandos, an official privy to the development said. Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani and his wife Nita are also protected by the CRPF personnel. While Mukesh Ambani enjoys Z-plus security, his wife gets Y-plus security. However, they make payments in lieu of the security they get from the government. It is immediately not known whether Ranaut will have to pay or not to the government for the security she is getting now. Under the Y-plus category security, Ranaut will be guarded by 10-11 armed commandos who will work in shifts round the clock. Among these commandos, Ranaut will have two-three armed PSOs (personal security officers) everytime she is on the move while other armed personnel will secure her residence. The personnel at the house will have "access control" to all the people who come and go out of the house, another official said. Y-plus security to Ranaut means a specific threat has been vetted by intelligence agencies. She is also likely to get an escort vehicle for carrying her security team. The Z category protectee too gets escort vehicle and the Z-plus protectee gets a pilot as well as escort vehicle, the official said. Other Bollywood stars are mostly guarded by either Maharashtra Police or by private security agencies. The CRPF commandos are considered to be one of the best trained personnel in India who are capable of handling any crisis situation to any dignitary and give close proximity security to him or her. As per the threat assessment report prepared by central security agencies, Ranaut may face danger to her life from narcotics syndicates and other hostile elements for speaking against them, the official said. Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday welcomed the decision to provide her with central security. Ranaut's home state is Himachal Pradesh. "I have got information that an 11-member commando team of the CRPF has been provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs for her security yesterday. I welcome this decision and also express my gratitude to union home minister... her security is important for us," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-ranaut-becomes-1st-bollywood-star-to-be-guarded-by-crpf-commandos-883955.html
07-09-2020||National||Monsoon rains turn patchy, to pick up later this month||Monsoon rains, which turned patchy in the first week of September, will pick up in the second half of the month, the state-run India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. India, where nearly half of the country's farmland lacks irrigation, has so far received 7% above average rainfall since June 1, when the monsoon arrived on the southernmost Kerala coast, said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general of the IMD. The IMD defines average, or normal, rainfall as between 96% and 104% of a 50-year average of 88 cm for the entire four-month season beginning in June. Higher rains in the latter part of September will make up for the shortfall in the first half of the month, and cumulative rainfall during the entire season will be in line with IMD's earlier forecast, Mohapatra said. In its revised forecast issued on June 1, IMD said India was likely to receive above-average monsoon rains for the second straight year in 2020. After arriving on June 1, the monsoon covered the entire country by June 26, nearly two weeks earlier than usual, spurring crop sowing in the world's top producer of farm goods. India received 17% above average rains in June, but July rains were 10% below average. The monsoon again picked up in August, delivering 27% above average rains. Monsoon rains were 31% below average in the week to Sept. 2. Rains have been evenly distributed across India. Of the 36 meteorological subdivisions of India, the monsoon has been either average or above average in 33 this year, Mohapatra said. "Rains are likely to gather momentum later this month, but as of now we haven't made an assessment when the monsoon will start withdrawing," he said. The IMD treats dry weather conditions for five straight days in western India to be the primary criterion signifying the retreat of the monsoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-rains-turn-patchy-to-pick-up-later-this-month-883960.html
07-09-2020||National||Plea in SC seeks postponement of Bihar polls due to Covid-19, flood||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Election Commission to postpone assembly elections scheduled in October and November in Bihar due to Covid-19 pandemic and worsening flood situation. The top court on August 28 had junked a similar PIL seeking postponement of the assembly polls in the state till it is free from the novel coronavirus, saying that it cannot be a ground and moreover, the Election Commission will consider everything before taking any decision The fresh plea has been filed by one Rastravadi Janta Party, a registered political party through its President Anil Bharati and has sought a direction to the poll panel "to postpone the Bihar Legislative Assembly Election which is scheduled to be held in the month of October- November". Supreme Court It has also sought a direction that the election be held "sometime in the month of March, 2021 as the spread of coronavirus pandemic is still in peak in all over India and further at present time, the state is also undergoing flood situation". The plea said India has "almost become the epicentre" of the pandemic and moreover, Bihar has also been suffering from unprecedented flood rendering millions homeless. Besides poll panel, the plea has made Union Home Ministry, state government and state poll panel as parties to the petition. It said that a representation for postponement of the upcoming polls was made to the poll panel on June 30 by the party and till date, no decision has been taken on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-postponement-of-bihar-polls-due-to-covid-19-flood-883961.html
07-09-2020||National||British broadcaster David Attenborough given Indira Gandhi Peace Prize||British broadcaster David Attenborough was on Monday conferred with the Indira Gandhi Peace Prize by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Singh gave away the Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development symbolically to Attenborough at a virtual event which was attended by Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and other leaders. Attenborough was selected for the Prize for a lifetime of doing more to reveal the wonders of the natural world than perhaps any other individual, for educating and entertaining generations of people through his films and books. The Congress President described Attenborough as “one of Nature’s “most staunch conscience keepers” for over half a century. The Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development was instituted in the memory of the former prime minister by a trust in her name in 1986. It consists of a monetary award of Rs 25 lakh along with a citation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/british-broadcaster-david-attenborough-given-indira-gandhi-peace-prize-883962.html
07-09-2020||National||Udumalpet honour killing: SC to consider plea against acquittal of Kausalya's parents||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to consider a plea against the acquittal of a man, his wife and bother-in-law in the sensational Udumalpet honour killing case, where Shankar, a Dalit boy was killed for marrying his daughter Kausalya belonging to Thevar caste, on March 13, 2016. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari issued notice to Kausalya's father B Chinnaswamy, mother Annalakshmi and maternal uncle Pandidurai. The court said the case needs to be examined. Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan, appearing for the Tamil Nadu government sought a direction for expediting the case. Kausalya, who is a prosecution witness, filed a special leave petition against the Madras HC's order of June 22, 2020, overturning acquittal of her father and two others after finding no evidence of a criminal conspiracy. The HC had commuted the death penalty of five hired killers to life imprisonment, with a minimum of 25 years in jail without remission. On Monday, advocate Nithya Ramakrishnan sought a direction to prevent the accused from travelling abroad. The court, however, refused to pass any order. Shankar, a Dalit from Kumaralingam near Udumalpet, had married Kausalya, against their parents' wishes after falling in love while study at an engineering college in Pollachi. On March 13, 2016, Shankar was hacked to death and Kausalya suffered injuries in the attack. The incident, caught on CCTV cameras, triggered a massive outrage. On December 12, 2017, the trial court awarded death penalty to six persons, including the father of the girl.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/udumalpet-honour-killing-sc-to-consider-plea-against-acquittal-of-kausalyas-parents-883973.html
07-09-2020||National||Uttarakhand doctors call off agitation after assurance from CM||Doctors in Uttarakhand decided to withdraw their agitation with an immediate effect on Monday after an assurance from Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat that all their demands will be considered, according to an official release. A delegation of doctors led by Prantiya Chikitsa Seva Sangh president Naresh Singh Napalchyal met the chief minister to discuss their demands with him in detail. Rawat assured the delegation that doctors will get support from the state government and all their demands will be looked into seriously, the release issued here said. Doctors in Uttarakhand have been working with black bands tied around their arms for a week in support of their demands including 'no one-day pay cut' and payment of full salary to PG doctors like the rest of the fraternity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-doctors-call-off-agitation-after-assurance-from-cm-883985.html
07-09-2020||National||Nearly 5 crore Covid-19 tests conducted till date: Health Ministry||Nearly five crore Covid-19 tests have been conducted till date with 7.2 lakh of them carried out in the last 24 hours, the Health Ministry said on Monday. In a statement, the ministry said following the country-wide ramping up of testing for coronavirus, 1,33,33,904 tests were conducted in the last two weeks alone. "India is one of the few countries that have reported very high numbers of daily testing. The daily testing capacity has crossed 11.70 lakh. India's cumulative tests are nearly 5 crore (4,95,51,507) as on date. 7,20,362 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours," the statement said. The ministry further said the Centre's policies are continuously evolving in the larger global context and on the heels of several measures to facilitate wider testing of people. "Recently the government has issued the revised and updated advisory which provides for the first time 'testing on demand. The states/UTs have also been given wider flexibilities to simplify modalities to enable higher levels of testing," the ministry noted. The daily testing average had been on a continuous upward incline from around 7 lakh tests being conducted per day in the third week of August to 10 lakh tests per day in the first week of September, the ministry said. "Higher testing enables early identification of confirmed cases, which in turn leads to timely initiation of effective treatment in supervised home/facility isolation or in hospitals. These measures aid faster and higher numbers of recovery, lower fatality and saving of more lives," it added. India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 42 lakh on Monday with a record 90,802 people being infected in a day, according to the Union health ministry data. The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 42,04,613, while the death toll climbed to 71,642 with 1,016 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-5-crore-covid-19-tests-conducted-till-date-health-ministry-883992.html
07-09-2020||National||ICICI Bank-Videocon case: ED arrests Chanda Kochhar's husband Deepak Kochhar||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested Deepak Kochhar, the husband of former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, in connection with a money laundering case arising out of an investigation into "illegally" sanctioning loans worth Rs 1,875 crore to Videocon Group of companies. He was apprehended in Mumbai under sections of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), officials said. The ED had initiated an investigation following CBI registering a case against Kochhars and Dhoot among others in January last year on charges of illegally sanctioning loans worth Rs 1,875 crore to Videocon Group of companies. Kochhars are accused of receiving illegal gratification from Videocon for sanctioning the loans. The ED had in January this year attached assets of former ICICI CEO Chanda Kochchar and her family worth Rs 78.15 crore, including a Rs 3.5 crore flat in Mumbai, in connection with a money laundering case. The assets provisionally attached under PMLA consisted of the flat, land, seized cash, plant and machinery, including wind farm projects located in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, which are in the name of Chanda Kochhar, her husband Deepak Kochhar and the companies owned or controlled by the latter. Earlier in March 2019, the ED conducted searches at the premises of Kochhars and Dhoot. According to the ED, loans were refinanced and a new loan was sanctioned to Videocon Industries Limited (VIL) and its group companies and these became Non Performing Assets (NPA) in June 2017. Out of the loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited, the ED said, its investigations found that Rs 64 crore was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd, a company of Deepak Kochhar, just one day after disbursement of loan by ICICI Bank. "Further, net revenue of Rs 10.65 crore was generated by NRPL from these tainted funds. Therefore, proceeds of crime amounting to Rs 74.65 crores were transferred to/generated in NRPL. Investigation also revealed that Chanda Kochhar and her family acquired the apartment at Mumbai owned by one of the Videocon group Companies, by way of acquiring that company through her family trust at a nominal price by creating book entries," the ED had said. In its FIR, the CBI had claimed that Dhoot gave Rs 64 crore in 2010 through a fully-owned firm to NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd he had set up with Deepak Kochhar and two of his relatives. It was also claimed that Dhoot transferred ownership of the company to a trust owned by Deepak Kochhar six months later for Rs nine lakh after he received the loan from ICICI. The investigators claimed that Chanda Kochar was instrumental in sanctioning these loans "dishonestly by abusing her official position".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icici-bank-videocon-case-ed-arrests-chanda-kochhars-husband-deepak-kochhar-884000.html
07-09-2020||National||Attorney General isolates self after colleague tests positive for Covid-19||Attorney General K K Venugopal has gone into seven-day self-quarantine after one of his juniors tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. He has also decided to get himself and all other juniors tested after a week if symptoms showed up. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Monday clarified one of the colleagues of the Attorney General was Covid-19 positive. “Attorney General is in self-isolation as a precaution. Otherwise, he himself is fit and fine,” he said. During the hearing in a matter related to the appointment in tribunals, Additional Solicitor General S V Raju sought adjournment in the top court on the ground that the Attorney General, who was to represent the Centre, was in self-quarantine. The court then posted the matter for consideration on September 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attorney-general-isolates-self-after-colleague-tests-positive-for-covid-19-884008.html
07-09-2020||National||People should use more electric vehicles to curb pollution: Javadekar||The Centre has upgraded the fuel standard to BS-VI to fight pollution, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday and urged people to shift to electric vehicles. Javadekar, while addressing a webinar on the first-ever International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies, said, "We did not have to celebrate blue skies day earlier, but with industrialisation and huge increase in population, number of vehicles, waste and dust, pollution has gone up." He also said that more public transport could lessen pollution. "We have shifted to the BS-VI fuel to curb pollution. I believe that more the public transport, lesser the pollution. I use an electric two-wheeler and we bring our household goods using that vehicle, I urge people to use more of electric vehicles," the minister said.  “In Delhi we also have electric three-wheelers which are of great significance. States must decide on these three things - using cleaner fuels, building good roads to ease traffic and ensuring that brick kilns use zigzag technology. It is also the states' responsibility,” Javadekar said. The webinar was joined by principal secretaries of the urban development department and environment department of 28 states and eight union territories. Commissioners of 122 cities as identified in the National Clean Air Programme also participated in the webinar. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address from the Red Fort on Independence Day, had highlighted the need of “Holistic Improvement in Air quality” in 100 cities. The General Assembly of the United Nations on December 19 last year had adopted a resolution to observe the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies on September 7 every year starting from 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-should-use-more-electric-vehicles-to-curb-pollution-javadekar-884014.html
07-09-2020||National||Rhea's complaint with Mumbai Police ploy to derail CBI probe: Sushant Singh Rajput's family lawyer||Sushant Singh Rajput's family lawyer Vikas Singh Monday said actress Rhea Chakraborty's complaint with Mumbai Police is a ploy to derail ongoing CBI investigation and keep the role of state police alive in the matter. Rhea has filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police accusing Rajput's sister Priyanka Singh and a Delhi-based doctor of forgery and preparing a "fake" prescription of medicines for anxiety. Singh said Mumbai police does not have any right in this matter and this has been done to keep the jurisdiction of the Mumbai police alive. “The complaint is itself an offence. This is a ploy to derail and deflect the investigation. This is an attempt to keep Mumbai police alive in the case so that they can do some mischief and ensure that the family of Sushant does not get justice in this matter,” he said. In her complaint sent to the Bandra police here on Sunday, Chakraborty sought that Priyanka Singh and Dr Tarun Kumar, working with Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi, be booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code for forgery, the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines Singh said that there can be no FIR in this matter and the complaint is not maintainable as the Police do not have jurisdiction. The senior advocate said the investigation in the case has been handed over to the CBI by the Supreme Court and the state police cannot see whether Telemedicine Practice Guidelines have been violated or not. Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14 following which the Mumbai Police had lodged an Accidental Death Report (ADR). On July 25, Rajput's father KK Singh lodged a complaint with Patna police against Rhea Chakraborty, her parents Indrajit and Sandhya Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty, the late actor's former manager Shruti Modi and his house manager Samuel Miranda. He accused them of cheating and abetting his son's suicide. He also claimed that the accused persons had siphoned off Rs 15 crore from his son's bank accounts. Based on this allegation, the Enforcement Directorate is probing money laundering charges. The FIR lodged by Patna police was later transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is probing drugs angle in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rheas-complaint-with-mumbai-police-ploy-to-derail-cbi-probe-sushant-singh-rajputs-family-lawyer-884017.html
07-09-2020||National||Days after Piyush Goyal's letter, 5 states clear land for dedicated freight corridor||Gujarat, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Punjab have expedited land acquisition process for the dedicated freight corridors, days after Railway Minister Piyush Goyal wrote to nine chief ministers, requesting them to clear hurdles in the project. In his letter, Goyal had told the chief ministers that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was closely monitoring the progress of the Rs 81,000-crore project. In a recent meeting, the Prime Minister's Office had questioned the delay in the project, with its deadline being moved from December 2021 to June 2022. Over the last seven days, the Railways has sorted out land acquisition issues with these five states. In Punjab, the Railways agreed to the state government’s proposal to allow it to borrow money from the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) for the construction of road-under bridges, while in certain areas of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, it has coordinated with local authorities to deploy police force to deal with law and order issues. In Punjab, the long-pending land possession issues for the road under bridges and road overbridges at three locations have been resolved, Railways officials said, while land issues for construction of high tension line at two locations were resolved. In Bihar’s Rohtas district, three teams have been formed to expedite payment and taking physical possession of the land, and police have been deployed at two roads over bridges which have been approved, the officials said. In Jharkhand’s Giridh district, Rs 60 crore has been disbursed for land, while in Dhanbad, two acres of land which was stuck has been received. The project requires maximum land in Uttar Pradesh. In Kanpur, it has received the long-stuck 80-m long piece of land needed for an approach road for a road under the bridge, while the remaining 40-metre will be received by September 15, the officials said. A five-km patch in Saharanpur district which was stuck for over 2.5 years due to law and order issues was also cleared and possession taken by the Railways on September 6, they said, adding similar stuck land patches in the state were also cleared. In Gujarat too, three roads over bridges in Bharuch and seven in Surat have been awarded. To put the Railways’ freight project in order, Goyal held several meeting stakeholders and officials to expedite the progress and resolve critical issues of the DFC over the past 10 days. The Railway Minister had flagged issues that hampered the work on the Rs 81,000-crore dedicated freight corridors in letters to nine chief ministers, urging them to intervene. He told them that the prime minister was "monitoring the project closely". The DFCCIL in an internal report had cited slow progress of Road over Bridge (ROB) approaches by Uttar Pradesh where out of a total 46 ROBs, only three have been completed, 30 are in progress and work on 13 is yet to start. It had also highlighted law and order issues in Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur district in the eastern corridor as well as issues with the slow progress of construction in Haryana and Punjab. In the Western Corridor, the DFCCIL also mentioned slow progress by the Gujarat government due to “slow acquisition of land for approaches”. In his letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Goyal had highlighted a slew of problems including pending road over bridges (ROB), hindrances in physical possession of land in areas like Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and Saharanpur among others due to agitation, arbitration cases, demand compensation and jobs by villagers, undue demand of lease rent by the Uttar Pradesh Forest Department and protests by villagers overbuilding of ROBs in Mirzapur district. In the letter to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, the minister had also raised concerns over land acquisition in certain stretches held up for long due to delay in disbursal of awards. The Railways is also all set to launch a dashboard to monitor the kilometre to kilometre progress of the DFC. The railway ministry said on Monday that constant weekly monitoring and meetings with all stakeholders led to the acquisition of patches and sections of land which were long delayed. “Indian Railways even deployed its experts to assist the contractors to tide over operational difficulties at ground level implementation,” it said. “Railway Minister Piyush Goyal held a review meeting with Chief Secretaries of State Government to expedite the progress and resolve critical issues of Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC). The Minister also wrote letters to Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra in this regard,” the statement said. The two dedicated freight corridors which are currently under construction are the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) from Uttar Pradesh to Mumbai; and Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC), from Ludhiana in Punjab to Dankuni in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/days-after-piyush-goyals-letter-5-states-clear-land-for-dedicated-freight-corridor-884020.html
07-09-2020||National||IMD developing flood warning system for Bengaluru, Kolkata||The India Meteorological Department is developing a flood warning system for Bengaluru and Kolkata, Ministry of Earth Sciences Secretary M Rajeevan said on Monday. He said that more cities are witnessing flooding because of urbanisation and chocking of drainage system. The IMD has already developed a flood warning system for Mumbai and Chennai, Rajeevan said, adding the one for Mumbai was launched in June. "We are also developing a similar system for Bengaluru and Kolkata," he said at a press briefing. To a question on doppler radars, he said their numbers are being enhanced across the country. A radar is also coming up near Kannur airport in Kerala, Rajeevan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imd-developing-flood-warning-system-for-bengaluru-kolkata-884022.html
07-09-2020||National||Nearly 50% varsity teachers not comfortable with online teaching: Report||Even as the Covid-19 pandemic has forced schools and universities into digital learning, nearly half of the university teachers are uncomfortable with online teaching, according to a report. The report, titled 'The use of Technology in Teaching and Learning in Indian Higher Education Institutes', is based on a survey conducted by TeamLease group company Schoolguru Eduserve, with over 1,200 teachers participating across the country from May-end till June-end. Nearly 50 per cent of the university teachers participated in the survey said they are uncomfortable with online teaching, according to the report. "We are all aware that in India, the shift to digital learning has not been driven by choice, but rather by coerced need. Hence, educators were not completely prepared — 89.92 per cent of teachers had never used technology at all before and 83 per cent of teachers had never delivered a virtual lecture. This strongly reiterates their discomfort with digital learning methods," Schoolguru Eduserve Founder and CEO Shantanu Rooj said. Further, Rooj said the primary reason for the distress that teachers are facing is the skill gap. "In fact, 82 per cent teachers have noted that colleges have not offered any training to them on online teaching tools and techniques," Rooj added. He added that better preparedness is the need of the hour in the current situation. "Institutes should conduct continuous skilling and up-skilling programmes to assist the educators to effectively use digital tools for teaching, preparing course material, facilitating peer to peer engagement, conducting assessments and providing feedback." The report further said it is not only the lack of teaching exposure among the educator community that is challenging, but most of the Indian higher education institutions have also never tried their hand at preparing online courseware. While more than 92 per cent respondents believe that online teaching is different from physical classroom teaching, they have never created or have had an exposure towards creating courseware for online teaching. Only 3 per cent of the respondents have had the experience of preparing online teaching content, it noted. More than 69 per cent teachers interviewed said they have never used online platforms for assessments, the report added. PTI SM HRS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-50-varsity-teachers-not-comfortable-with-online-teaching-report-884033.html
07-09-2020||National||Indian Army's Tibetan highland warrior laid to rest with flags, anthems of Tibet||Tibet’s ‘snow-lion’ flag fluttered beside the Indian tricolour in Leh on Monday as hundreds bid adieu to Nyima Tenzin, the Special Frontier Force (AFF) officer who was killed in an operation against the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Ram Madhav, General Secretary of the BJP, attended the funeral of the fallen Company Leader of the SFF — an elite unit of the Indian Army. He also tweeted paying homage to Tenzin, but quickly deleted the post.  In the now-deleted tweet, Madhav said that Tenzin laid down his life “protecting” India’s borders in Ladakh. He also wished for peace along the “Indo-Tibetan border”, stating that it would be the “real tribute” to all martyrs. Though New Delhi maintained an official silence on the unsung hero's martyrdom, people sang Tibet’s national anthem ‘Gyallu’ right after ‘Jana Gana Mana’. They were joined by many on social media platforms. Tenzin was killed during an Indian Army operation on the south bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh on August 29-30 night but his martyrdom remained unacknowledged because he belonged to the SFF a.k.a. “Establishment 22”. The unit was raised during the India-China war in 1962, with most of its recruits being young refugees and guerrilla soldiers from Tibet. The SFF always remained under a shroud of secrecy, although the Indian Army often relied on it for covert operations. The valour of its highland warriors was never officially acknowledged, even as they fought valiantly with the rest of the Indian Army and made supreme sacrifices, be it during the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh or during the 1999 Kargil War. As most of its men are either refugees or descendants of refugees from Tibet, New Delhi continues to refrain from officially acknowledging its existence.   The Indian Army apparently factored in the familiarity of the SFF personnel with the terrain along the Ladakh-Tibet border region, when it decided to deploy the highland warriors to support operations to counter the Chinese PLA’s expansionist moves along the LAC. It came just after China claimed that thousands of youths in its Tibet Autonomous Region joined the PLA amid the military stand-off along the disputed boundary with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-armys-tibetan-highland-warrior-laid-to-rest-with-flags-anthems-of-tibet-884038.html
07-09-2020||National||Prefer Hindi as one of the three languages under NEP, suggests Vidya Bharati||It would be better if Hindi is opted as one of the three languages under the National Education Policy as there should be a connecting language across the country, an RSS leader suggested on Monday. Applauding the Modi government for the National Education Policy (NEP), Shreeram Arakoar, national general secretary of RSS-affiliate Vidya Bharati, said his organisation will launch an awareness campaign about the policy from September 11. Talking about the three-language formula under the policy, he said, "It would be better if Hindi is opted as one of the three languages prescribed by the National Education Policy, as there should be a single connecting language across the country." However, he underlined that it is a suggestion and no language can be imposed on anyone. Sharing details of the awareness campaign, the RSS leader said ‘MyNEP competition’ will be held in 13 languages from September 25 to October 2. It will be on four themes--India-centric education, holistic education, knowledge-based society and quality education. There will be three categories in the competition, first for students of classes 9 to 12, second undergraduate and postgraduate levels, and the third category will be open to all, Arakoar said. "The NEP has recommended mother tongue as the primary medium of instruction for enhanced learning outcomes. In a similar spirit, most of the contests under the MyNEP competition will be held in 13 regional Indian languages, including Hindi and English, to reach out to students from diverse linguistic backgrounds. The participation itself will be an enriching experience for the contestants,” he said. The names of the winners will be announced by October 5. Cash prizes will be awarded in each category besides every contestant will receive a participation certificate. Since the National Education Policy itself is an outcome of wide-ranging democratic participation, the NEP awareness campaign will be spearheaded by young and passionate volunteers, the RSS leader added. Vidya Bharati is the frontal organisation in the school education sector and runs around 13,000 schools across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prefer-hindi-as-one-of-the-three-languages-under-nep-suggests-vidya-bharati-884045.html
07-09-2020||National||IMD plans new flood forecasting models for Bengaluru, Kolkata||After Chennai and Mumbai, India Meteorological Department now plans to create urban flood forecasting models for Bengaluru and Kolkata – the two metropolises that go underwater after heavy rains. The officials at IMD and the Ministry of Earth Sciences are in talks with state and municipal officials for sharing of data that are essential to design such a model. “We need digital elevation model data from the state on drainage to create such forecasting models. We have just started talking to the states and by next year would be having a better idea,” M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences told DH. IMD has developed a flood warning system for Mumbai and Chennai, but such forecasting is needed for other metros too as the big cities are getting choked because of the population pressure and loss of water bodies. While the monsoon so far has been good for most parts of the country, weather scientists forecast more rains for Karnataka and Maharashtra in the second half of September after two weeks of deficient rainfall. Northwest India is the only rain deficient region while the southern peninsula received 20% more than average rainfall. The September rain, however, would not be as much as August, which set a new record by becoming the second-most rainy August in the last 120 years after 1926.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imd-plans-new-flood-forecasting-models-for-bengaluru-kolkata-884062.html
07-09-2020||National||Centre rudderless, clueless about economy: Amit Mitra||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Monday slammed the Centre for India's dismal GDP print in the first quarter of 2020-21, and said the Narendra Modi-led government did not spend enough on fiscal stimulus to bolster the economy amid the Covid-19 crisis. The country's GDP sank to a record low of 23.9 per cent in the quarter to June. Mitra, who has been critical of the Union government's efforts to revive the coronavirus-battered economy, also said "negligible" additional stimulus led to a loss of Rs 11 lakh crore of GDP. "Centre rudderless & clueless. Why did India's GDP shrink the most in the world? GoI spent ONLY 1 lakh crores more in April-July 2020, compared to 2019-20, while headlines scream 20 lakh crore stimulus! Negligible additional stimulus meant 11 lakh cr of GDP lost forever," Mitra said on Twitter. The Bengal minister had last month attacked the Centre over GST compensation to states. "The Centre must pay the compensation from the different cesses that it collects, as it is not getting devolved to the states. "In case of shortfall it is the responsibility of the Centre to garner resources for fully compensating the states, as per the formula agreed upon with the states," Mitra had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-rudderless-clueless-about-economy-amit-mitra-884076.html
07-09-2020||National||Spacesuits for Gaganyaan astronauts under production in Russia||Russian research and development enterprise 'Zvezda' has started manufacturing of spacesuits for the Indian astronauts, who are likely to be part of India's first manned space mission 'Gaganyaan', a Russian organisation said on Monday. Research, Development and Production Enterprise Zvezda, a subsidiary of Russian space organisation Roscosmos, has started manufacturing personal flight equipment for the Indian cosmonauts undergoing training in Russia, Glavkosmos said on Monday. Glavkosmos is a subsidiary of Roscosmos with which the Human Spaceflight Center (HSC) of the city-based Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has signed a contract to train the Indian astronauts. "On September 3, Indian cosmonauts who have been training for spaceflight in Russia under the contract of Glavkosmos, visited Zvezda, where their anthropometric parameters were measured for the subsequent production of spacesuits," Glavkosmos CEO Dmitry Loskutov said. The contract also provides for the production of individual seats and custom-made couch liners, he added. The contract for the production and delivery of individual equipment kits for Indian astronauts was signed by Glavkosmos and the HSC on March 11. Four Indian Air Force fighter pilots are currently under training in Russia since February 10, and likely to be the potential candidates for Gaganyaan project. Gaganyaan, India's first manned mission to space, was planned around 2022. However, the ISRO has indicated that it may be delayed due to COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown induced by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spacesuits-for-gaganyaan-astronauts-under-production-in-russia-884077.html
07-09-2020||National||Gehlot seeks PM's intervention over GST compensation to states||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday urged the Centre to fulfil the promises made to the state governments while implementing GST and leave it to them to have the right to some taxes levied by the Centre. He demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi intervene in the matter "to maintain confidence in the financial relations between the Centre and states". In a letter to the prime minister, Gehlot has drawn attention to the difficulties faced by states in the payment of GST compensation, an official statement said. Gehlot has written that under the constitutional amendment, many state taxes were included in the GST and it was said that the states would be provided with compensation in view of the revenue loss. He said the GST (Compensation to State) Act 2017, guarantees that states be given compensation for five years to meet the revenue loss resulting from the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax. Therefore, it is now the responsibility of the Centre to ensure that states get the full amount of compensation without any liability. He said that despite reduced tax collection due to unavoidable conditions, compensation cannot be reduced or increased under the Act. He said that under the GST Act, the central government cannot decide to increase or decrease the compensation. Citing the meetings held earlier in the GST Council, he said several decisions were taken in these meetings, including 100 per cent compensation of revenue loss for a period of five years (2017-2022), the responsibility of paying the amount and taking a loan in the event of a shortage. He said the GST is based on collective decisions taken between the Centre and the state governments. Gehlot has also drawn attention to the complex issues related to the payment of compensation to the prime minister through the letter. He said instead of the predetermined 14 per cent increase in the final year of the Central Government's Compensation, the "idea of ​​zero per cent increase is improper and not justified". He said in the letter that it is the responsibility of the Centre to manage the Indian economy, because "when the tax collection is high, the central government gets its benefits". Therefore, it is expected that the Centre should take responsibility if the GST collection in the economy decreases, Gehlot w||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gehlot-seeks-pms-intervention-over-gst-compensation-to-states-884078.html
07-09-2020||National||Stone-pelting youth engage security forces near encounter site; militants escape cordon||Groups of youth engaged in stone-pelting and clashed with security forces near the site of a gunfight between militants and troops in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday even as the ultras managed to escape the cordon, officials said. Acting on specific information about the presence of militants in the Kawoosa area of Budgam district in central Kashmir, security forces launched a cordon and search operation there, the officials said. They said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the search party. Soon after the initial exchange of firing, clashes broke out near the encounter site as groups of youth pelted stones on security forces who chased away the protestors by firing tear smoke shells, the officials said. There are no reports of any injury in the clashes, they said, adding, the militants managed to escape the security cordon||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stone-pelting-youth-engage-security-forces-near-encounter-site-militants-escape-cordon-884080.html
07-09-2020||National||Skyrocketing Indian Covid-19 cases could eclipse US outbreak||By Ari Altstedter, Dhwani Pandya and Anurag Kotoky The novel coronavirus seemed like a distant problem in Boisar, a small factory town about two hours from Mumbai, until Daniel Tribhuvan died. The 35-year-old tutor started feeling feverish in April, while bringing his father home from a chemotherapy appointment in the Indian financial capital. When a test confirmed Tribhuvan was infected, the local health system’s reaction was shambolic. After he checked into a public hospital, the first thing they did was try to pawn him off to a private facility in Mumbai. The ambulance turned around halfway when they discovered he couldn’t pay. Back at the public hospital, a doctor didn’t see him for three days, and when an elderly man occupying a bed nearby died, his body wasn’t collected for 12 hours. After a week, Tribhuvan’s blood-oxygen levels were dangerously low. He died on May 17, becoming Boisar’s first confirmed fatality from Covid-19. “I think he would have survived if the system was good,” Samuel Tribhuvan, Daniel’s older brother, said in a recent interview at Boisar’s local administrative office, inside a rundown building that also houses a liquor store and a portrait studio. “This is the worst place where we could get the coronavirus.” Six months after the start of the pandemic—as the developed world tries to restore some semblance of normalcy—the virus is arriving with a vengeance in India’s vast hinterland, where 70% of its more than 1.3 billion citizens live. The country is now adding more than 80,000 confirmed infections per day, with about 71,000 deaths so far, numbers experts say are likely being under-counted. On Monday it galloped past Brazil to become the world’s second-biggest outbreak, a sobering preview of what could happen once the coronavirus spreads in earnest across other poor, densely populated places from Nigeria to Myanmar. With such a vast reservoir of potential hosts and minimal ability to contain infections, it seems inevitable that India will at some point overtake the U.S. to have the most cases globally.    The result is likely to be a human and economic catastrophe, risking untold numbers of deaths and the reversal of years of rising incomes and living standards—developments that helped lift millions of people from grinding poverty into something like the middle class. The broader effects won’t be confined to the subcontinent. With a gross domestic product last year of almost $3 trillion, India is the world’s fifth-largest economy and a crucial node in global supply chains. Despite the troubled state of its own medical system, it is by far the largest producer of both vaccines and the generic drugs that healthcare systems around the world rely upon. And with Asia’s economic giant, China, turning increasingly inwards, companies from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to Facebook Inc. had been investing heavily in India, betting on its rising consumer market. India’s trouble containing the virus, therefore, could weigh on any global recovery from the coronavirus—either epidemiological or economic. With infections gathering pace, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is facing criticism for not doing more to help the state and local-level officials on the front lines of fighting the virus, who face an excruciating choice. Failing to stop its spread could mean the collapse of already-fragile healthcare systems, potentially leaving thousands to die untreated. But the distancing measures that most experts see as essential to doing so will worsen an economic contraction that’s already among the world’s most severe, making it even more difficult for India to resume its progress toward broader prosperity and hampering the global recovery. That could ultimately cause just as many deaths, whether from malnutrition, other infectious diseases, or even suicide.  ] As the virus spreads throughout India, “the most immediate thing that will happen is people will die,” said Vivekanand Jha, executive director of the Indian branch of the Sydney-based George Institute for Global Health. “The second is that the people who have not died will lose their livelihoods. When Modi announced, on March 24, that his government would institute the broadest coronavirus lockdown in the world, many experts were impressed. Officially, there were only about 500 cases in India at the time, mainly in large cities and traceable to travelers from abroad. Stamping out the virus—or at least keeping it from spreading into the vast and vulnerable countryside—by decisively interrupting daily life for the entire nation seemed like a laudable goal.  But the dense slums that house large numbers of the urban poor proved particularly hospitable to the spread of the highly contagious pathogen. Meaningful social distancing was often impossible, while infections could spread widely before coming to the attention of healthcare workers. Government efforts largely failed to match the scale of the problem, with testing and contact tracing typically one step behind the virus. While officials procured ventilators, constructed field hospitals, and even converted train carriages into makeshift isolation units, hospitals in Mumbai and New Delhi were still overwhelmed. Patients were turned away for lack of beds and bodies were left unattended in corridors, conditions that developed-world cities like Milan managed to avoid at even the worst points in their outbreaks.  Meanwhile the economic toll of the lockdown, which Modi extended repeatedly as new case numbers remained stubbornly high, was mounting. GDP contracted by almost 24% between April and June, throwing more than 120 million people out of work. Unlike in the U.S. and Europe, there was little financial support available. The Reserve Bank of India’s index of consumer confidence collapsed in May, and then plunged to an all-time low in July, the most recent survey. For some, the situation was desperate. Five weeks into the lockdown, which was enforced by police and barred most people from leaving their homes except for groceries and medical care, a survey of rural households by Oxfam found that half had cut back on the number of meals they ate, and a quarter had been forced to ask others for food. The biggest impact was on the millions of people from rural areas who staff factories, sell snacks, shine shoes, and do odd jobs of all kinds in India’s major cities. Dependent on daily wages to survive, many found themselves with no place to sleep and nothing to eat after their jobs disappeared, leaving them little choice but to return to their home towns. With trains and buses halted by the lockdown, some had to simply walk, forming columns on highways that were reminiscent of Partition, the bloody separation of India and Pakistan in 1947—and almost certainly spreading the virus across the countryside.  Faced with such desperation, Modi had little choice but to end the lockdown in early June, even as infections continued to rise. The “unlock,” as it came to be known, saw even more of these migrant workers return to their villages, seeding the new outbreaks now being seen in ever more remote parts of the country.     India has a large and innovative healthcare industry, but private operators are focused on big cities and the wealthier patients who live in them. In rural areas, medical care falls to the creaking public health system, which is often absurdly under-resourced. Built on the side of a dirt highway in the Khair sub-district of Uttar Pradesh, one of India’s poorest states, a two-story community health center serves as the main source of care for a population of about 225,000. The modest facility has no intensive care unit, and when Bloomberg News visited early this month, its six oxygen cylinders had all been designated for use in ambulances. About 60 Covid-19 patients were in home isolation in Khair at the time; if one of them took a turn for the worse, the best the clinic could offer would be a ride to the nearest city, an hour’s drive away. “The district administration is trying to create new centers,” said Shailendra Kumar, the clinic’s manager. But for now, the increasing number of infected people in Khair can only hope the virus doesn’t hit them hard.   Uttar Pradesh has more than 200 million inhabitants, making it India’s most populous state. But its rural health system is the most understaffed in the country, with just 2.7 doctors for every 100,000 people. (The rate in the U.S. is a little under 10 times higher.) The numbers elsewhere aren’t much better. Only 40 percent of India’s physicians work in the countryside, even though it’s home to more than two-thirds of the population.  In the district that contains Boisar, the town where Tribhuvan died, “we do not have enough manpower to cater to this population,” Abhijit Khandare, a state health officer, said in an interview at a local community center. “We pulled manpower from other villages” to deal with spikes in Covid-19 cases, he said, “but now the other villages are affected too.”  In an attempt to fill the gap, local officials are even pressing teachers into service as healthcare aides. Schools remain closed due to the pandemic, but they provide a ready source of educated workers who are known in the community, an important factor in gaining trust. Last week, about 50 of them gathered in a brightly painted Boisar meeting room for a day of training. They were told their primary job would be to execute a strategy pioneered in Dharavi, a Mumbai slum where the virus was successfully brought under control in June. The teachers would be going door-to-door through the district, asking whether anyone in a home had symptoms and referring those who did for testing. In addition to breaking chains of transmission, the goal is to get infected people treated early, avoiding the common problem of severely ill patients arriving too late for doctors to be able to help. The group had spent the day seated on plastic chairs in front of a panel of public health workers, being instructed on how to read an oximeter and social-distancing strategies for people who live in tight quarters. While masks have become commonplace across India, physical distancing largely hasn’t, despite regular government campaigns and official reminders. In the countryside, markets where farmers and merchants gather to do business are still packed with people, and day laborers pile together into the back of small trucks to travel to job sites. Tea stalls and corner stores are doing little to prevent crowds forming.  In part, this may be a function of complacency about the dangers of Covid-19. With case numbers exploding, Modi’s government has been emphasizing India’s fatality rate—which at about 1.75% is among the lowest in the world—as evidence that it’s managing the disease successfully. Experts are skeptical, however, that deaths are being counted comprehensively, and even if they are, the relative youth of India’s population compared with virus hotspots like Italy or Florida is a likelier explanation. Relatively lax attitudes to distancing could also owe something to the fact that, even in a worst-case scenario, the coronavirus is just one on a long list of diseases that can kill a person in rural parts of the subcontinent. Some 79,000 Indians died last year from tuberculosis, an infection that’s now relatively rare in the developed world. A mother dies in childbirth roughly every 20 minutes. Even leprosy is still an active problem.   Meanwhile, fear of impoverishment is starting to outstrip fear of Covid-19, a trend exacerbated as migrant workers return to the cities. The lockdown and economic slump means many poor families have suffered a double blow: the loss of remittances, plus more mouths to feed at home.  Until the lockdown, 22-year-old Manoj Kumar earned about 14,000 rupees ($191) a month making car seats at a factory outside Delhi, sending almost everything he earned back to his family. But Kumar’s job disappeared in March and now he’s back in his village, about 150 kilometers (93 miles) from the capital, in a one-room house with nine other family members. The only person with a job is his mother, who earns about 6,000 rupees monthly as a part-time health worker. To survive, the family has had to borrow money at rates as high as 30%. “Everyone is scared of corona,” Kumar said, sitting cross-legged on the floor of his home, where the family had used rows of low red bricks to demarcate the kitchen and a tiny sitting area. “We live in fear, but how long can we go on like this?” The impact of this kind of financial strain is beginning to ripple across society. Delhi is recording higher rates of petty crime, while one mental health expert estimated suicides may have soared by as much as 70% nationwide. Unwanted pregnancies have spiked, child labor is on the rise, and activists warn that the scarcity of opportunity is intensifying caste and religious prejudices. That all of these trends derive, at least in part, from the response to the coronavirus, rather than the pathogen itself, highlights the precariousness of India’s situation. It’s one likely to play out elsewhere as the pandemic’s epicenter shifts to poorer nations, where the challenges of containing the virus will dwarf those of countries like the U.S.—and likely drag on the developed world’s ultimate recovery as well.   “Our concern here is the large population with limited resources to combat it—but that’s also a concern for the rest of the world,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India in New Delhi. “No country is safe until every country is safe. The virus can surge anywhere and then spring up anywhere else because the world is connected.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/skyrocketing-indian-covid-19-cases-could-eclipse-us-outbreak-884084.html
07-09-2020||National||Prof Govind Swarup, pioneering Indian radio astronomer passes away||Prof Govind Swarup, the pioneer of radio astronomy in India who played an instrumental role in setting up the Ooty radio telescope and the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) near Pune passed away on Monday. He was 91. Former project director of GMRT and former director of the TIFR’s National Centre for Radio Astronomy, Pune, Swarup was the brain behind the design and construction of the world’s biggest metrewave radio telescope that helped unravel some of the long-standing mysteries of the universe. Between 1963 and 1970, he led the first Indian effort to build a radio telescope at Ooty using an innovative design. The Ooty radio telescope collected a unique set of data for more than 1,000 weak radio sources to help provide independent verification of the Big Bang theory. Born at Thakurdwara, Uttar Pradesh in 1929, Swarup received his BSc degree in 1948; MSc in Physics in 1950 from the Allahabad University and PhD from Stanford University in 1961. He began his career at the National Physical Laboratory, Delhi, but at the request of Homi Bhabha, switched to the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai where he mentored many young astrophysicists besides carrying out some of his own research. "It is with a heavy heart that we report the passing away of the doyen of Indian radio astronomy Govind Swarup in Pune. His legacy will live on in the form of the fine telescopes that he built (ORT and GMRT) and the generations of scientists and engineers he trained," the institute said in a statement. "Swarup received several distinctions throughout his career, including the Padma Shri, the Bhatnagar award, and the Grote Reber medal. He was a fellow of many distinguished academies, including Fellowship of the Royal Society," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prof-govind-swarup-pioneering-indian-radio-astronomer-passes-away-884086.html
07-09-2020||National||Peace in border must for normalcy in ties, Jaishankar to tell China||When he will meet Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Moscow this week, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is likely to drive home the point that peace and tranquillity along the disputed boundary between India and China was a prerequisite for development of bilateral relations. Jaishankar’s talks with Wang on the side-line of a conclave of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Moscow is going to be the second high-level meeting between India and China after the two neighbouring nations got engaged in a military stand-off in early May. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had a meeting with his counterpart in the communist country, Wei Fenghe, last Friday. The External Affairs Minister is expected to underline during his talks with the Chinese Foreign Minister that the relation between India and China could be brought back to the track only when the status quo ante would be restored along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), a source aware of New Delhi’s approach on its engagement with Beijing told the DH. The stand-off in eastern Ladakh started in early May after the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) sought to unilaterally change the status quo on several points along the LAC – the de facto border between the two nations – and the Indian Army responded by deploying additional troops. The stand-off brought the relations between India and China to a new low after both sides suffered casualties during a violent face-off in GMoscowalwan Valley on June 15. Jaishankar is likely to drive home the point during his talks with Wang that the agreements the two nations put in place to ensure peace and tranquillity along the disputed boundary between the two nations had also helped develop bilateral relations over the past three decades. He is expected to convey to the Chinese Foreign Minister that it was important to scrupulously adhere to the agreements to maintain peace in the border region, till the two sides could settle the boundary dispute.  The source also said that New Delhi would remain firm on its position that the business could not be as usual with Beijing, unless and until the Chinese PLA pulled back troops from the face-off points along the LAC. The two sides in early July mutually agreed on phased withdrawal of the front-line troops from the face-off scenes along the LAC. The process of “disengagement”, however, remained stalled since mid-July, as the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several face-off points along the LAC, including Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of the Pangong Tso.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/peace-in-border-must-for-normalcy-in-ties-jaishankar-to-tell-china-884088.html
07-09-2020||National||S Jaishankar to meet Iranian Foreign Minister Zarif in Tehran||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is likely to visit Tehran this week to meet Iranian Foreign Minister M Javad Zarif. He will have a stopover in Tehran on his way to Moscow to take part in a conclave of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also had a stopover in Tehran while returning from a SCO meet in Moscow last week. He had a meeting with his counterpart in the Iranian Government, Amir Hatami, on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-to-meet-iranian-foreign-minister-zarif-in-tehran-884089.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||Proper nutrition vital to build prosperous nation: Prime Minister Narendra Modi ||Asserting that proper nutrition is vital to build a prosperous nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday called for undertaking efforts to reach out to people across the country to spread awareness on eradicating malnutrition.  With the 'Poshan Maah' (nutrition month) 2020 starting from Monday, Modi said in tweets that this exercise will help India's youth and women force.  He noted that India is home to numerous healthy dishes and asked people to share them on @mygovIndia, the citizen engagement platform of the Union government. "Let's be #Local4Poshan! Our nation is home to dozens of healthy dishes, which have high nutrition value. Share them on a specially created space on @mygovindia. May your family recipe contribute to a nutritious as well as healthy India.  #POSHANMaah2020," he said. The Prime Minister also posted a short clip of last month's 'Mann Ki Baat' radio broadcast in which he had spoken about the importance of nutrition in people's development.  Every year 'Poshan Maah' is observed in September to mark the country's fight against malnutrition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/proper-nutrition-vital-to-build-prosperous-nation-prime-minister-narendra-modi-883774.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||Government will work towards nurturing children through POSHAN Maah campaign: JP Nadda||The BJP on Monday launched a social media campaign to promote the Centre's holistic nutrition programme POSHAN Maah celebrated in September, with party chief JP Nadda urging people to prepare nutritious Indian food and share recipes with the government. Nadda said the central government aims to form a database of indigenous recipes of every corner of the country. With this campaign, the Centre is moving towards nurturing children and pregnant women with nutrition, he said in a series of tweets. The Prime Minister's Overreaching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment (POSHAN) Abhiyaan is a multi-ministerial convergence mission aimed at addressing malnutrition with a targeted approach by 2022. In his latest 'Mann ki Baat' radio address, Modi had lamented that due to lack of awareness, both poor and affluent families are affected by malnutrition. To further strengthen this scheme, let us all take a pledge & contribute towards a malnutrition-free India. Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said during POSHAN Maah, the Centre will launch an intensive drive to identify severely acute malnourished (SAM) children and ensure adequate nutrition and care. This will have a long-term impact on the health of the child and go a long way in improving India's nutrition indices, she said. Aiming to achieve malnutrition free India, the BJP in a tweet said this campaign is a synergistic and result oriented approach for making people aware about nutritious food. For effective implementation of the POSHAN Abhiyan, all aligned ministries are working together to address undernutrition. "And there will be a nutrition-specific review in every district by district magistrate on a quarterly basis," the party said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-will-work-towards-nurturing-children-through-poshan-maah-campaign-jp-nadda-883784.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||Hemant Soren government steeped in corruption: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda launched a blistering attack on the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand, alleging it was "steeped in corruption". Addressing the state BJP executive committee meeting digitally from New Delhi, he said the previous BJP government led by Raghubar Das had "almost eliminated" naxlism, which has been resurrected under the Soren dispensation. He said the BJP lost the assembly elections in the mineral-rich state due to "political arithmetic" despite garnering the highest number of votes. "The Hemant Soren government is steeped in corruption. No development is taking place under its watch. Corruption, naxalism and crime are flourishing unbridled. This reflects the politics of appeasement," he alleged. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi ushed in positive changes in the country as a result of which the "lotus" (BJP's election symbol) found its place in the hearts of the people. Nadda lauded his party and the Modi government for tackling Covid-19. "Only the BJP showed dynamism when opposition parties stood stock-still during Covid-19 outbreak," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hemant-soren-government-steeped-in-corruption-j-p-nadda-883802.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||Most TMC MPs aged over 65 yrs likely to skip Monsoon Session of Parliament||A majority of TMC MPs above the age of 65 years are likely to skip the upcoming monsoon session of the Parliament to avoid the risk of contracting Covid-19, party sources said. Although there has been no official communication by the party leadership in this regard, the sources said MPs over 65 years of age have been advised not to attend the session. Sudip Bandopadhyay, the 67-year-old Lok Sabha MP from Kolkata Uttar, said he would coordinate from here with his party colleagues in the Lower House. "I won't be attending the Parliament session as I am above 65, and vulnerable. I will be coordinating with my party colleagues in the Lok Sabha," he said. TMC chief whip and party's Rajya Sabha MP, too, said he won't be attending the session. Roy cited the Unlock-4 guidelines by the Union home ministry, which advised persons aged above 65 to stay at home except for emergencies, to make his point. "I won't be there as I am 71 years' old. I will abide by the Unlock-4 guidelines. I have already written to the Rajya Sabha chairman informing him about it," he told PTI. Senior TMC leader and Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, however, did not want to give the parliamentary proceedings a miss. "There is no blanket rule from the party. If anybody above 65 years is willing to attend, he or she can.... I will attend the session," Roy said. The Parliament's monsoon session will begin on September 14 and continue till October 1. Hectic preparations are underway for the session with several first-time measures being taken because of the Covid- 19 pandemic, such as testing of MPs, staggered sitting arrangements in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha and use of both chambers and galleries to accommodate the members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/most-tmc-mps-aged-over-65-yrs-likely-to-skip-monsoon-session-of-parliament-883819.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||Akhilesh Yadav attacks Centre over India ranking second in Covid-19 cases globally||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday attacked the Centre over India ranking second globally in terms of Covid-19 cases and alleged that the government took public data from Arogya Setu app but failed to contain the pandemic. India's Covid-19 tally has surpassed Brazil to become the second most corona-hit country in the world. "BJP government's claims have been exposed with India becoming number 2 in the world in corona cases. The government took public data from the Arogya Setu but it failed to control spread of coronavirus. The truth of the BJP's event management drama of 'thali, tali' and lighting diyas is also in front of the public," Yadav tweeted in Hindi.   India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 42 lakh with a record 90,802 people being infected in a day, while 32,50,429 people have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 77.30 per cent on Monday, according to the Union health ministry data. The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 42,04,613, while the death toll climbed to 71,642 with 1,016 fatalities being reported in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-yadav-attacks-centre-over-india-ranking-second-in-covid-19-cases-globally-883848.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||BJP doesn't support Kangana's statement, says Fadnavis||Actor Kangana Ranaut had made a wrong statement, but it is the responsibility of the government to protect her in the land of law, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said here on Monday. He said even terrorists have to be provided security in the land of law to see they are not attacked, whereas Ranaut is still an artist. The actress has been given Y-plus category security by the Union Home ministry after she spoke about drug use in Bollywood, following the death of fellow actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Fadnavis, however, said the BJP did not support Ranaut's comments, in which the actress had likened Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). "It is the responsibility of the government to protect the life of an individual. Hence, though we are not supporting what Kangana Ranaut said, and nobody will support it, still it is the responsibility of the government (to protect her). "Because we are not living in Banana republic," the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly told reporters outside Vidhan Bhavan here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-doesnt-support-kanganas-statement-says-fadnavis-883921.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||Congress likens PM Narendra Modi to Roman emperor Nero as Covid-19 cases spike||Congress on Monday likened Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Roman emperor Nero, the ineffectual leader in a crisis, as India became the second worst-hit nation in the world by the Covid-19 pandemic. “As Rome was burning, Nero played the fiddle. Likewise, as India was thrown in the abyss of Covid-19, Modi was busy feeding peacocks,” Congress spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said. Congress accused the prime minister of failing to assess the gravity of the spread of the pandemic and claiming that the battle against Covid-19 would be over in 21 days. “The battle against Covid-19 rages on, but the general is missing in action. In the fight to defeat corona, Modi government has proved itself wholly impetuous, completely incompetent and utterly amateurish,” Surjewala said. The Congress’ attack comes on a day when India’s Covid-19 count surpassed that of Brazil to become the second worst-hit nation in the world by the pandemic. “The government has left the citizens to their fate as India becomes the second worst-hit nation in terms of the number of infections,” Surjewala said, demanding that the government come out with clarification on community spread of Covid-19 as it opened public transport. He said that the “unplanned” nationwide lockdown imposed in March 2020 has not yielded any positive results but only increased the sufferings of the poor, pointing out that the suggestions by the Congress on tackling of the pandemic and regular warnings issued by party leader Rahul Gandhi were “ignored” by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-likens-pm-narendra-modi-to-roman-emperor-nero-as-covid-19-cases-spike-883991.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||BJP IT cell has gone rogue: Subramanian Swamy||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy on Monday took on his party's IT cell and its chief Amit Malviya, accusing them of going "rogue" and running a "filthy" campaign against him. Swamy, who has around 99 lakh followers on Twitter, warned that he should not be held responsible if his supporters hit back at the IT cell trolls. "The BJP IT cell has gone rogue. Some of its members are putting out fake ID tweets to make personal attacks on me. If my angered followers make counter personal attacks I cannot be held responsible just as BJP cannot be held responsible for the rogue IT cell of the party," he said in a tweet. When a supporter asked him to ignore them and he would be wasting his "important time" if he gives them importance, Swamy said he is ignoring but the BJP must sack them. "One Malviya character is running riot with filth. We are a party of Maryada Purushottam, not of Ravan or Dushashan," he said. Malviya could not be reached for comments. Soon after the tweets, his supporters took on Malviya, which Swamy retweeted. Some asked whether Malviya has spent all the "hit job budget" on Swamy while others asked party chief J P Nadda to take note of Malviya's actions. People close to Swamy claimed that they had become aware of some messages sent to BJP supporters asking them to target Swamy on social media after the nominated MP questioned the decisions of the Narendra Modi government. Swamy has taken on the government on its handling of the economy during the Covid-19 pandemic and the move to conduct JEE-NEET during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-it-cell-has-gone-rogue-subramanian-swamy-883996.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||Govt privatising PSUs, destroying jobs: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused the government of privatising Public Sector Units (PSUs) and destroying jobs. Gandhi's accusations came in the backdrop of the government selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in India's second-largest fuel retailer and third-biggest oil refiner BPCL. "Today, the country is facing many Modi government-manufactured disasters, among which is unnecessary privatisation. The youth need jobs but the Modi government is destroying employment and capital by privatising PSUs," he tweeted in Hindi. "Who is benefitting? It is only doing development of a few "friends", who are close to Modi. Stop Privatisation Save Government Jobs," Gandhi tweeted. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the Modi government has proved itself as one which is "infected by political as well as economic bankruptcy". "While China is registering growth of 3.8 per cent of their economy, India has been contracted by -23.9 per cent. Modinomics has fallen flat, for the survival of economics Jingoism can not be a remedy, Sh Narendra Modi Ji, you should talk to former PM Sh Manmohan Singh Ji and listen to him patiently," he tweeted. Former finance minister P Chidambaram also said news reports say that the State Bank of India plans to implement a VRS scheme as an 'economy measure'. "In normal times the plan would be debatable. In these abnormal times, when the economy has collapsed and jobs are scarce, it is cruel," he said. The Congress leader said if India's biggest lender has to shed jobs, imagine what other big employers and MSMEs are doing. "The plan is ostensibly voluntary but we know that subtle pressure will be brought on the employees that the Bank wants to get rid of. If the current rules provide for genuine voluntary retirement, why announce a new plan and give out an exact number like 30,190," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-privatising-psus-destroying-jobs-rahul-gandhi-884067.html
07-09-2020||National Politics||Chirag Paswan to take call on LJP's tie-up with Nitish Kumar; JD(U) says NDA members must accept Bihar CM's leadership||The Lok Janshakti Party on Monday authorised its president Chirag Paswan to take a call on whether the party will fight against Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-headed JD(U) in the upcoming assembly polls and decided to prepare a list of candidates for 143 constituencies. Paswan headed a meeting of the party's parliamentary board from Bihar in which the state government was criticised for its overreliance on bureaucracy, with some LJP leaders claiming that Kumar is no longer a popular face, sources said. As the LJP meeting went on, the Janata Dal (United) said any party which is a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state will have to accept Kumar's leadership. JD(U) spokesperson K C Tyagi said top BJP leaders, including Home Minister Amit Shah and party president J P Nadda, have announced that the NDA will fight the upcoming Bihar assembly polls under Kumar's leadership. The JD(U), he said, has always had an alliance with the BJP in Bihar and at times in other states, but not with any other NDA member. "Whether it was in 2005, 2010 or 2015 assembly polls, we have never had any tie-up with the LJP," Tyagi said, hinting that his party won't enter into an alliance with the LJP. LJP sources said that many party leaders claimed in the meeting that people of the state are not enthusiastic about Kumar's leadership and are also "angry" that he has pushed for assembly elections at the time of the coronavirus pandemic. "When the JD(U) says that its tie-up is not with the LJP, then we should put up our candidates against it," a source said. Chirag Paswan asked his party leaders to refrain from attacking former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Dalit leader like him, who has been attacking the LJP since joining hands with the JD(U). The Election Commission is likely to soon announce the schedule for the elections to the 243-member state assembly. They are slated to be held in October-November. The LJP had contested on 42 seats in the 2015 elections in alliance with the BJP and other NDA members. The JD(U) was then a part of the opposition alliance in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chirag-paswan-to-take-call-on-ljps-tie-up-with-nitish-kumar-jdu-says-nda-members-must-accept-bihar-cms-leadership-884082.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Nitishwar Kumar appointed principal secy to J&K LG||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday appointed Uttar Pradesh-cadre IAS officer Nitishwar Kumar, who was deputed to the Union Territory, as principal secretary to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, an official spokesman said. Consequent upon the inter-cadre deputation of Nitishwar Kumar, IAS (UP:1996) from Uttar Pradesh to J-K, the officer is posted as principal secretary to the Lieutenant Governor, the spokesman said. Earlier, the Appointment Committee of the Union Cabinet approved the inter-cadre deputation of the IAS officer to Jammu and Kashmir for a period of one year, according to an order. Kumar replaced Bipul Pathak, a 1992-batch IAS officer of the Jammu and Kashmir cadre, who has been posted as principal secretary, Information Technology Department, the spokesman said. He said Pathak will also continue to hold the charge of principal secretary, Science and Technology Department, CEO J-K e-Governance Agency and CEO, J-K Energy Development Agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitishwar-kumar-appointed-principal-secy-to-jk-lg-883626.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Two held for killing man they met through gay dating app in Delhi||Two men were arrested on Sunday for allegedly killing another man they met through a dating app after he resisted being robbed of his mobile phone in southeast Delhi's Sarita Vihar area, police said. The accused, Sumit (20) and Karthik (24), both residents of Gautampuri, were arrested for allegedly stabbing to death Sanni Dayal (25) in a deserted forest area of Aali Vihar on Saturday night, they said. The body was spotted by a passerby who then informed the police, an official said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) RP Meena said, "During investigation, mobile phone of the deceased was found missing. When contacted, it was found to be switched off. The Call Detail Record (CDR) of the mobile number was collected and its last location was traced to Gautampuri, in Badarpur." CDR analysis revealed that Dayal was in constant touch with a person through mobile phone and on the basis of the WhatsApp profile picture, the user of the contact was identifed as Arjun Kumar, a resident of Gautampuri. During inquiry, Arjun told police that his phone was used by an acquaintance, Sumit, on Saturday evening, the officer said. Subsequently, Sumit, also a resident of  Gautampuri was arrested and the mobile phone of the deceased was recovered from his possession. Sumit confessed to killing Dayal with the help of Kartik, the officer added. Sumit told police that he came in contact with Dayal through a dating app for homosexuals. The two accused called Dayal for a meeting and took him on a scooty to the isolated jungle where they robbed him, the DCP said. They asked Dayal to hand over his mobile to them but when he refused, they robbed him of it on the knife-point and stabbed him before escaping from the spot, he said. On his instance, Kartik was also arrested from Aali Vihar. One country-made pistol along with a live cartridge and a blood-stained knife was recovered from his home in Gautampuri, he said. The scooty belonged to an acquaintance of Sumit and it was also recovered, he added. A case under section 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered in connection with the incident, police said. While no criminal antecedent of Sumit has been found, his associate Karthik was previously involved in four cases including attempt to murder, hurt and those registered under the Arms Act, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-held-for-killing-man-they-met-through-gay-dating-app-in-delhi-883649.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro services resume after being shut for 169 days due to coronavirus||Delhi Metro on Monday resumed services from 7 am after being shut for 169 days due to Covid-19.  In phase 1, metro services will be resumed on Yellow Line connecting Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre and Rapid Metro in Gurugram. "We have deployed police force at every metro station for crowd management and to ensure that people wear face masks and follow norms of social distancing," Atul Katiyar, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Delhi, told ANI.  The CISF has planned an airport-like "contact-free" security check for the Delhi Metro with modified hand-held and doorframe metal detectors for scanning passengers. Before Covid-19 struck, CISF personnel, who guard the metro network, spread over 230 stations, used to scan passengers from proximity and even touch them during security checks. The passengers were also allowed to keep their wallets and belts on the body. The Home Ministry had recently issued guidelines allowing metro services in the country to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. Trains will operate in batches of four-hour each from 7-11 am in the morning and 4-8 pm in the evening in the first stage, officials said. Metro services in the National Capital Region was closed since March 22 due to the pandemic. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the rapid transport only if urgently needed. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-services-resume-after-being-shut-for-169-days-due-to-coronavirus-883654.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal calls for following Covid-19 precautions as Metro resumes service||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday expressed happiness over restart of Metro train services in the city, saying there should be no negligence in following precautions against Covid-19. The Delhi Metro resumed services on Monday morning after being closed for over five months due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. The first line to be opened was the Yellow Line connecting Samaypur Badli and HUDA city centre in Gurgaon. "I am happy Metro(services) starts today. Metro has made good arrangements. We also do not have to show negligence in following the precautions," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Various steps like strict adherence to use of face covers and sanitisers, social distancing, travel through smart cards only, thermal screening have been put in place by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to ensure safe commuting amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The Home Ministry had recently issued guidelines allowing metro services in the country to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours, a DMRC official said. Trains will operate in batches of four-hour each from 7 to 11 am in the morning and 4 to 8 pm in the evening in the first stage, officials said. Metro services in the National Capital Region were halted on March 22 due to the pandemic. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the rapid transport only if urgently needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-calls-for-following-covid-19-precautions-as-metro-resumes-service-883716.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Security forces detect improvised explosive device in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara||Security forces averted a militant attack by detecting an improvised explosive device (IED) in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district on Monday morning, police said. A joint patrolling party of the forces detected the IED concealed in a sand bag on the Sopore-Kupwara road in the Drugmulla area, a police official said. The IED was apparently planted by militants to target security personnel who frequently use the road, he said. A bomb disposal squad was rushed to the spot which destroyed the IED workout causing any damage, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-detect-improvised-explosive-device-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kupwara-883735.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||4 killed, 3 injured as ambulance rams into stationary truck in Bihar||Four members of a family were killed and three others injured when the ambulance they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck in Bihar's Nalanda district early on Monday, police said. The incident took place in Gaura Par village in Chandi police station area when the ambulance driver lost control over the vehicle and hit the truck parked on the roadside, SHO Pankaj Kumar Singh said. Four persons died on the spot while three other members of the family have been admitted to Chandi primary health centre, he said, adding their condition is stated to be stable. All of them hailed from Chainpura village in Bihar Sharif police station area, Singh said. They were taking one of their family members to Patna for better treatment as she had sustained severe head injuries after falling from the roof of her house on Sunday, the officer said. One of the persons injured in the road accident has claimed that the driver was in an inebriated state, he said. The driver fled the spot after the accident and a manhunt has been launched to nab him, Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-killed-3-injured-as-ambulance-rams-into-stationary-truck-in-bihar-883738.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||2 terrorists arrested in Delhi after exchange of fire||Two terrorists of Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) have been arrested after a brief exchange of fire in North West Delhi area, according to ANI. Large amount of arms and ammunition have been recovered. The accused have been identified as Bhupender alias Dilawar Singh and Kulwant Singh, both residents of Ludhiana, the police said, adding that they were also wanted in some cases in Punjab. The special cell of Delhi Police nabbed the two on Saturday night, they said. Six pistols and 40 cartridges have been recovered from them, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-terrorists-arrested-in-delhi-after-exchange-of-fire-883740.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||10 more succumb to Covid-19 in Rajasthan; toll at 1,147||Rajasthan reported 10 more deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state's toll to 1,147, a health department bulletin said. The state also reported 722 fresh cases of the disease. The total number of people infected by Covid-19 in the state now stands at 91,678, of which 15,562 are undergoing treatment. The new cases were registered in various districts, including Jaipur (108), Jodhpur (81), Kota (78), Alwar (64), Bikaner (38), Bundi (33), Ajmer (32) and Rajsamand (three). According to the bulletin, 73,823 people have been discharged so far. In Jaipur, the death toll from the coronavirus infection stands at 289, followed by 110 in Jodhpur, 83 in Bikaner, 80 in Kota, 78 in Ajmer and 72 in Bharatpur, 47 in Pali, 44 in Nagaur, 30 each in Udaipur and Alwar, 23 in Barmer and 22 in Dholpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-rajasthan-toll-at-1147-883756.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Man to pay Rs 55 lakh for wrongfully enchashing cheque worth Rs 2,242 from 1994 ||The Supreme Court stated that it would consider to drop criminal charges against Mahendra Kumar Sharda but only after he agrees to pay Rs 5 lakh as penalty for engaging the judicial system for two decades, along with Rs 50 lakh as the settlement amount that was agreed upon with the complainant.  Sharda worked as a manager till 1992 with Hari Om Maheshwari, who at the time worked at the Delhi Stock Exchange. In 1997, Maheshwari filed a complaint against Sharda alleging that he encashed a cheque, meant for Maheshwari, by opening a bank account in the name of the latter's firm.  While Sharda originally contested the charges, he later accepted them and chose for settlement. However, the Delhi High Court did not quash the charges against him due to the grave nature of the crime.  Sharda then moved to the Supreme Court and informed the apex court that he settled the matter with the complainant for Rs 50 lakh, as compared to the original sum of Rs 2,242 that was fraudulently encashed.  The court asked Sharda why it took two decades to settle the matter and decided that he must pay for the judicial time the case used up in the last two decades by levying another Rs 5 lakh on him.  The Supreme Court has asked Delhi Police regarding quashing the case altogether. The bench would hear from Delhi Police on September 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-to-pay-rs-55-lakh-for-wrongfully-enchashing-cheque-worth-rs-2242-from-1994-883765.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro back on track but commuters face problems making cashless payments||A number of people who travelled on the Delhi Metro, which resumed services after more than five months on Monday, faced problems buying new smart cards or getting them recharged through cashless modes due to network issues. At many stations, including Central Secretariat, Chawri Bazar, and Chandni Chowk, passengers said there were hiccups while making online payments. Such issues were being reported mostly from underground metro stations. Mohammad Mohsin, 28, who travelled from Kashmiri Gate to Sikandarpur, said he had trouble recharging his smart card as it took a while to make the payment through e-wallets due to erratic mobile network. Tokens are not permitted for travelling to prevent transmission of virus through frequent touching. Only smart card holders (including QR code users on Airport Express Line) are allowed to travel. Recharge of smart cards at the ticket-vending machines or customer care centre is allowed through cashless modes only. Similarly, new smarts cards can be purchased at customer care centres or ticket counters using cashless modes of payment. Parvez Ahmed, who travelled from Saket to Azadpur, said he did not have enough balance in his smart card and his debit card also did not work for sometime due to network issues. "I waited for about 10-15 minutes before I could successfully make the payment," he said. Ahmed said there were no long queues on the first day, so delay in online payment did not lead to any major issue. "Had it been a normal day, it would have led to chaos," he said. Luckshay Gupta, 28, said issues in online payment caused a minor delay during his travel from Chandni Chowk to Race Course. "Cash is still being used in all other works. Not everyone has a debit card or e-wallet. For now, only those who have office work or something urgent are travelling by metro. Later, everyone will take the mass transit system, the situation will be different then," he said. Rohini Bansal, 25, said she tried getting her smart card recharged online but it could not be done due to network issues. "Money got deducted from my account, but the transaction failed. I waited for 15-20 minutes at Central Secretariat metro station before I left the premises and took an auto to work," she said. The Delhi Metro resumed services in a graded manner on Monday, with elaborate measure for crowd management and ensuring hygiene to check the spread of virus. The Yellow Line connecting Samaypur Badli and Huda City Centre in Gurugram was the first one to be opened. The services resumed at 7 am with strict safety and social distancing measures in place. The trains will operate in batches of four-hour each from 7-11 am in the morning and 4-8 pm in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-back-on-track-but-commuters-face-problems-making-cashless-payments-883770.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||BJP MLA booked for rape in Uttarakhand||BJP MLA from Dwarahat, Mahesh Negi, has been booked for rape and criminal intimidation weeks after a woman accused him of the crime in a police complaint, police said.         An FIR was registered against Negi at the Nehru Colony police station here on Sunday under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC in compliance with the orders of a local court, Dehradun Superintendent of Police (City), Shweta Choubey, said.  The legislator's wife Rita Negi has also been booked for criminal intimidation, she said. However, the MLA described the allegations against him as part of a conspiracy to defame him, saying some Congress leaders were also involved in it. He also expressed his readiness to face any probe and accused the woman of also framing others in false cases in the past.    He said he is gathering evidence against the woman which he will submit to the police.      The woman had lodged a police complaint on August 16 accusing the MLA of raping her and fathering her daughter. She also demanded that a DNA test should be conducted if the law enforcing agencies doubted the veracity of her charge.           An FIR was lodged last month against the woman on the basis of a complaint by the legislator's wife that he was being blackmailed by the woman as he had refused to pay her Rs 5 crore which she was trying to extort from him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-booked-for-rape-in-uttarakhand-883773.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro resumes service, riders worried about risks but say no other option||As Delhi Metro resumed operations on Monday after a very long hiatus due to Covid-19, a very small number of commuters chose to avail the facility while mentally juggling concerns over health and urgency to reach work. On day one, mostly office-goers boarded the sanitised train coaches of the rapid transit system. The trains will operate in batches of four-hour each from 7-11 am in the morning and 4-8 pm in the evening. The Delhi Metro was closed on March 22 to contain the spread of the coronavirus, and after 169 days, it resumed services in a curtailed manner while adhering to strict safety and social distancing norms. At Rajiv Chowk metro station, the busiest station of the network which serves as an interchange facility between the Yellow Line and the Blue Line, an unusually thin crowd was witnessed. Earlier, it mostly used to be packed with people jostling for space and vying to enter or exit train coaches. Sumitra Devi (45), a government employee, who works at Connaught Place adjoining the Rajiv Chowk metro station, said ever since the lockdown was lifted, she faced a lot of difficulties commuting to work and had to take buses which were rare to get. A resident of Maidan Garhi, she said she often had to wait for hours to board a bus due to restrictions over the number of passengers in a vehicle. With metro services resuming, she said she can now save time and reach her workplace faster without any hassles. Asked how safe her ride was, Devi said it was "definitely different but safe". "Of course, I was quite sceptical but then if not today, we will have to eventually take metro rides. How long can we avoid it? I hardly saw less than 10 passengers in my compartment but it was smooth," she added. After being closed for over five months due to the pandemic, Delhi Metro resumed services with curtailed operations on the Yellow Line, even as both the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the commuters trod with caution amid the new normal in the rapid transport system. As the day began, some riders wearing protective masks were seen entering the premises of key stations like Kashmere Gate, Central Secretariat, Hauz Khas on the Yellow Line which connects Samyapur Badli in Delhi to Huda City Centre in Gurgaon. Inside the stations, passengers were allowed entry to the concourse only after checking body temperatures with thermal guns and sanitisation of hands. Also, inside coaches, commuters sat on alternate seats and maintain prescribed distance even while standing. Hundreds of Delhi Metro ground staff and security personnel of the CISF wore face shields, masks and gloves to ward off any risk of the infection. Guarav Chautala (25), a resident of Janpath, who works at a service store of a mobile giant in Gurgaon, said he was a "little apprehensive" to take a metro ride. "But, I didn't have any other option," he said. Asked how he was managing the commute before this, Chautala said, "My brother who works at Naraina used to pick me up and drop me off on his bike to my workplace. It was very tiring. Plus, we had to start from home very early. I'm glad proper arrangements have been made by the metro authorities." Under stage one of the graded plan of the DMRC, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational on Monday with restricted service hours, a senior official of DMRC said. Shivam Mittal (23), who works for an IT company, said he came to Kashmere Gate metro station in an e-rickshaw from his home in Gandhi Nagar in east Delhi. "Today is the first day of the metro resuming services. Earlier, I was going to office with my friend. My office is in Malviya Nagar. I am a bit scared, but have no other option," he said while entering the premises of the massive terminal. Only one entry gate was opened at the Kashmere Gate metro station, which is situated next to the city's ISBT. All precautions were taken by the officials and staff. At the entry gate, they were sanitising belongings, including bags, a passenger said. Rohit Tomar (30), an advocate, said he has to go to Saket regularly to attend meetings. "I have to meet my client in Saket. The only reason I am taking the metro is the traffic issue. I took an auto-rickshaw till Kashmere Gate metro station from my house in Shahdara in east Delhi. I thought that being a Monday, there would be a heavy traffic on the roads. The DMRC has said they have taken all the major precautions, so I am taking the metro," he said. Gunjan Sharma, a resident of GTB Nagar who is employed with an NGO, also travelled by the metro in the morning. She was taking the bus until now. With the metro services resuming, the commute to work has become a smooth ride, she said. "We hardly had five passengers in my compartment and there was enough space to maintain social distancing since there were hardly any people. It felt unusual but I am happy that things DMRC resumed train services a day after the city recorded 3,256 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike here in 72 days, as the infection tally mounted to over 1.91 lakh. The number of fresh cases and active cases of Covid-19 have risen in the city in the last several days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-resumes-service-riders-worried-about-risks-but-say-no-other-option-883780.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh board cancels online classes for students of IX to XII||Online classes for students of standards IX to XII of the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education could not begin on Monday following an order from the board for cancellation of the classes. Notably, the board's chairperson Radheshyam Julaniya on Sunday evening said the academic session for classes IX to XII through online mode will begin from Monday with telecast of audio-visual lessons on Doordarshan from 7 am to 10 am. Later in the night, the board's secretary Anil Suchari issued an order which said, "The telecast from 7 am to 10 am is being cancelled. Thus, the classes will not be held." Classes IX to XII of the state board comprise nearly 35 lakh students. As per a recent national sample survey on household social consumption on education in India, just 9.7 per cent rural and 55.4 per cent urban households in Madhya Pradesh have internet connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-board-cancels-online-classes-for-students-of-ix-to-xii-883786.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath inaugurates new Covid-19 hospital in Gorakhpur||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday inaugurated a 300-bed Covid-19 hospital at BRD Medical College here. The state government-run medical college already has 200 beds at the super-speciality block dedicated to Covid-19 patients. Adityanath told reporters that there was "no dearth of beds for coronavirus patients" and said that the state government was determined to defeat the virus. The chief minister also inaugurated a bio-safety 'level -3' lab (BSL -3), 100 beds PG hostel and a guest house on the occasion. He inspected the help desk, the isolation ward and the ICU at the new Covid hospital and held meetings with MP Ravi Kishan, mayor Sitaram Jaiswal and the medical college principal Ganesh Kumar. "The new hospital has the facility of 50 high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) machines and 65 ventilators. HFNC machines have given good results all over the world and we'll provide more HFNC machines as per requirement,“ he said. "We are all set to defeat novel coronavirus as we defeated encephalitis which was taking a huge number of lives for the last 40 years and we are successful in controlling 95 per deaths by encephalitis,” the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-inaugurates-new-covid-19-hospital-in-gorakhpur-883788.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Lucknow Metro resumes services after five months||The Lucknow Metro resumed services on Monday after being closed for over five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The services started at 6 am at all 16 stations with a thin crowd but the number of passengers increased later in the day, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation PRO Panchanan Mishra told PTI. The Lucknow Metro became the first metro service in the country to use ultraviolet (UV) technology for token sanitisation to ensure the safety of passengers, he said. It has laid special emphasis on contactless travel, sanitisation, social distancing, hygiene and cleanliness. The Home Ministry had recently issued guidelines allowing metro services in the country to resume operations in a graded manner. Social distancing markers have been placed on alternate seats to maintain sufficient distance between passengers inside the train, the Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation said in a statement. Frequently touched areas in coaches like grab rails, poles, handles, passenger seats and door surfaces are sanitised regularly. Passengers can online buy tickets with a GoSmart card. A GoSmart user has a contactless trip right from entering the metro station, boarding the train to exiting the premises. The automatic sensor of AFC gates detects the card from a distance without tapping it, it said. Social distancing markings and signages are in place at all stations to ensure an adequate gap among passengers while queuing up near ticket counters, ticket vending machines, security check frisking points, entry-exit AFC gates etc, the statement said. The metro services were closed down on March 22 due to Covid-19 lockdown. Before that, over 50 thousand passengers used to travel in the metro.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lucknow-metro-resumes-services-after-five-months-883803.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||LPG cylinder explodes, child killed in Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh||A child was killed, while his mother and sister were seriously injured when an LPG cylinder exploded in a house here on Monday, police said. The incident took place in the house of Mohammad Raz, killing his one-year-old grandson. The child's mother Shubra (40) and sister Ruby (14) were injured, Superintendent of Police, Devrajnan Verma, said. The injured were rushed to hospital, where their condition was stated to be serious. The house in which the explosion took place and those adjoining also suffered damage in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lpg-cylinder-explodes-child-killed-in-balrampur-uttar-pradesh-883813.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Not joining any party; I'm a doctor, would like to remain so: Kafeel Khan||Putting an end to speculation about him joining the Congress after being released from jail recently, Dr Kafeel Khan said that he is a doctor and would like to remain so. He was recently released from Mathura jail after the Allahabad High Court quashed his detention under the stringent National Security Act (NSA). The court had ordered his immediate release, asserting that his speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) didn't promote hatred or violence, rather gave a call for national integrity. Dr Khan, who is presently in Rajasthan, told PTI over phone that he will "not join any political party". "I am a doctor and would like to remain the same," he said and expressed a desire to visit flood-hit areas of Bihar and help the victims. He said that when his release was delayed after the Allahabad High Court order on September 1, it was feared that the Uttar Pradesh government was preparing to implicate him again in a case. "Because of the apprehension that I could be implicated in any other case by the Uttar Pradesh government, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had helped me on humanitarian grounds," he said but made it clear that it should not be construed as he is going to join the Congress. Dr Khan said there has been no discussion regarding politics with Priyanka Gandhi, nor has he got any indication as such from the Congress leader. "As there is a Congress government in Rajasthan and the distance from Mathura to Bharatpur is of just 20 minutes, Priyanka Gandhi offered me to come to Bharatpur". He thanked the Congress general secretary saying it was due to her he got "security" in Rajasthan. Dr Kafeel said that he has written a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath urging him to reinstate him to his post at Gorakhpur Medical College so that he can serve the people. Khan, who worked as a paediatrician at Gorakhpur's BRD Medical College, first hit headlines in 2017 after several children died at the hospital due to the lack of oxygen cylinders. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for the children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders. However, later, he faced action along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail. A state government probe had cleared Khan of all major charges, prompting him to seek an apology from the Yogi Adityanath government. The doctor had alleged that an institutional failure had led to the deaths of the children. Khan was again arrested in January this year on the charge of delivering a provocative speech at the AMU during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests. After the Allahabad High Court ordered his release on September 1, he walked out of Mathura jail late in the night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-joining-any-party-im-a-doctor-would-like-to-remain-so-kafeel-khan-883821.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||4 held for forcibly marrying two sisters in Muzaffarnagar||Police have arrested four people in connection with the forcible marriage of two sisters against their will. Those who have been arrested include the father of the women, the police said. A case has been registered against 10 people for marrying the women three months ago, Superintendent of Police Vinit Jaiswal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-held-for-forcibly-marrying-two-sisters-in-muzaffarnagar-883825.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||IIT-Delhi issues clarification after ad for dog handler kicks up row||A faux pas in a job advertisement for the position of a dog handler put up the Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi created quite a buzz on social media, prompting the institute to issue a clarification and cancel the recruitment. On August 26, IIT-Delhi had sought applications for the post of a dog handler, and the notice stated that the eligibility criteria was "B.A/B.Sc/B.Com/B.Tech or any equivalent undergraduate degree". This led to a social media storm. In a statement issued on September 6, the institute said, "In reference to a job advertisement dated 26-08-2020 for a post titled 'Dog Handler' (on purely contract basis), IIT Delhi would like to clarify that the minimum qualification as mentioned in the advertisement got inadvertently copied from another job advertisement." The qualification intended in the advertisement was 'Bachelor of Veterinary Science', it said, adding that the recruitment process was cancelled after the mistake was brought to the notice of the higher authorities. "A fresh process in due course will be initiated to hire a Consultant (on purely contract basis) with suitable minimum qualification required for the job profile that involves proper care of a large number of stray dogs on the campus (providing them medical aid like vaccination, medicine, IV drip etc. and food), handling of issues and challenges relating to stray dogs, liaison with campus community- students, employees, construction workers etc., local government bodies and NGO," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iit-delhi-issues-clarification-after-ad-for-dog-handler-kicks-up-row-883829.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi traders hope resumption of metro services will bring business back on track||The resumption of Metro rail services in Delhi on Monday after a five-month hiatus has raised hopes among the traders in the national capital of an increase in customer footfall which would help them recover from the losses suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Delhi Metro restarted services with the curtailed operation of the Yellow Line. The trains will operate in batches of four-hour each from 7-11 am and 4-8 pm, officials said. Welcoming the resumption of the rapid transit system in the national capital, traders said its effect on commercial activities will be visible once the service becomes normal from September 12. The Home Ministry had recently issued guidelines allowing metro services in the country to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) decided to restart services in three stages from September 7-12. "I believe Metro trains will help revive Delhi's economy by spurring commercial activities. Almost all major wholesale and retail markets like Chandni Chowk, Chawadi Bazar, Nehru Place and Khan Market have metro connectivity which means footfall will improve with the resumption of the train service," said Brijesh Goyal, convener of the Chamber of Industry and Trade. President of New Delhi Traders Association Atul Bhargava said, "Restarting Metro trains was needed even though the pandemic is yet to subside. It will have a confidence-building effect on people. But metro alone cannot revive the economy, and government help is needed for the traders who are broke." He said a majority of customers in Connaught Place use their own vehicles and only around 25 per cent use public transport like metro trains. Bhargava hoped that footfall will increase with normal operations of the trains. At the Sarojini Nagar retail market, traders hoped that metro service will end their difficulties by bringing in more customers. "We have very high hopes that the Delhi Metro service has started now. The number of customers has dwindled due to fear of coronavirus and problems of commuting. "I hope, Delhi Metro trains as safe and time and money-saving travel option, will increase footfall in the market," said Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders Association. Metro services in the National Capital Region were closed since March 22 due to the pandemic. The ruling AAP government had been advocating the resumption of Metro train services in the city which is striving to revive its economy hit by the pandemic. Various traders associations in a recent interaction with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had also demanded restarting Metro services. Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said the government should run an adequate number of feeder buses for traders and customers so that they face no problem in commuting from Metro stations to the markets. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the rapid transport system only if urgently needed. Various precautionary measures such as strict adherence to using face covers and sanitisers, social distancing, travel through smart cards only, thermal screening have been put in place to ensure safe commuting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-traders-hope-resumption-of-metro-services-will-bring-business-back-on-track-883841.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Himachal Assembly's monsoon session begins||A 12-day monsoon session of the Himachal Pradesh Assembly began here on Monday under strict Covid-19 measures. This is the first session of the assembly after a country-wide coronavirus lockdown came into effect on March 24. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar informed the House about the steps taken to check the spread of the disease during the monsoon session. The ninth session of the 13th assembly started at 2 pm. It will be held till September 18 and will have 10 sittings. Former chief minister Virbhadra Singh was among the MLAs who were present in the 68-member House. However, Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur could not attend the session as he tested positive for the coronavirus on September 3. He is being treated at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC). The speaker said the assembly complex will be sanitised twice a day during the session. Six-feet-high transparent polycarbonate sheets have also been installed in the house to maintain distance among the legislators, he added. Parmar said thermal scanners have been made available at five entrance gates of the Vidhan Sabha and any person with fever would be sent to the dispensary in the assembly complex. Arrangements have also been made for rapid tests and ambulance, he added. The legislators will be provided surgical face masks and sanitisers, the speaker said. Parmar said he has received about 900 questions from legislators to be asked during the session. On March 23, the assembly was adjourned sine die amid the Covid-19 outbreak. As per norms, the assembly session has to be convened at least once in six months, Parmar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-assemblys-monsoon-session-begins-883864.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Noida Metro resumes operations; commuters screened for body temperature at entry of stations||The Noida-Greater Noida metro resumed services on Monday after a gap of over five months, with commuters being thoroughly screened for face cover and body temperature at the entry of stations, officials said. The services on the Aqua Line were suspended in March due to the Covid-19 outbreak. "The services resumed at 7 am on Monday. The commuters were thoroughly screened at the entry of stations for face masks, body temperatures, among others, as per government guidelines," a spokesperson of the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) said. According to NMRC rules, people with a body temperature above 37.7 degrees Celsius and without a 'green status' on the Aarogya Setu mobile app would not be allowed entry. The rail service, which connects the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida over a distance of 29.7 km through 21 stations, resumed with curtailed operations. "The trains ran at an interval of 15 minutes during the first 7 am-11 am shift of the day. The second shift will operate from 5 pm to 9 pm," the spokesperson said. The NMRC had earlier announced a fine of Rs 500 for commuters found without a face mask and Rs 100 for those spitting inside trains or on metro premises. It had also said masks would be available on payment basis at three metro stations – Sector 51, NSEZ and Pari Chowk – for a minimum of Rs 5 and a maximum of Rs 30 for needy commuters. Prior to the pandemic-induced lockdown, the Aqua Line had an average ridership of approximately 25,000, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-metro-resumes-operations-commuters-screened-for-body-temperature-at-entry-of-stations-883869.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand Cabinet minister Madan Kaushik tests positive for Covid-19 ||Uttarakhand Cabinet Minister Madan Kaushik has tested positive for Covid-19, an official said on Monday.  Kaushik was admitted to AIIMS, Rishikesh on Sunday night after his antigen report came positive, its PRO Harish Thapliyal said.  Though he was in complete isolation since Saturday after coming in contact with an infected person he decided to admit himself at AIIMS, Rishikesh on the advice of doctors after his report arrived.               His sample has also been sent for an RT-PCR test for dual confirmation. The minister, who is also the state government's official spokesman, has appealed to party leaders and journalists who came in contact with him to get themselves tested for Covid.  Kaushik had attended a cabinet meeting here last week chaired by Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.          Another cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal along with members of his staff has gone into self-isolation after his son and niece tested positive for Covid-19.  Coronavirus cases are on the rise in Uttarakhand with over 24000 people testing positive and 341 infected people dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cabinet-minister-madan-kaushik-tests-positive-for-covid-19-883879.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Father tried to protect daughter from eve-teasers, lynched in Uttar Pradesh||Two incidents of lynching were reported from different parts of Uttar Pradesh on Monday, one involving a protective father, and another a murder accused. A man was beaten to death by a group of youths in the Mainpuri district, about 300 kilometres from Lucknow, after he shifted her minor daughter to a relative's house in order to protect her from eve-teasers. According to the reports, the man, identified as Sarvesh Kumar, a confectioner and a resident of Kharagjeet Nagar locality in the district, was repeatedly hit with iron rods and lathis by around half a dozen youths on Sunday. He sustained serious injuries and was rushed to the district hospital, where he died on Monday. Police said that they had detained some people in connection with the murder. Sources said that some youths had been harassing Kumar's 15-year-old daughter for the past several months. So he decided to shift her to a relative's house in Noida.  The youths spread rumours that Kumar had sold her daughter following which a large group of people gathered before his house. The youths, who carried lathis and iron rods, allegedly beat him to death. Murder accused lynched to death In another incident, a murder accused was lynched to death in the presence of cops by a frenzied mob in UP's Kushinagar district, about 350 kilometres from Lucknow. As per reports, the victim, who hailed from Gorakhpur district, shot dead a teacher, a resident of Taraya Sujan locality in the district, on Monday. After mob gathered at the spot after hearing the gunshots, the accused climbed on to the roof and threatened to open fire at the people. He came down when the police arrived. The mob pounced on him even before the cops could reach him and beat him with whatever they could lay their hands on. Some people also hit him with stones. The accused died on the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/father-tried-to-protect-daughter-from-eve-teasers-lynched-in-uttar-pradesh-883884.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 positive daily wage earner dies after being denied treatment in Uttarakhand||A 38-year-old daily wage earner suffering from coronavirus died here after allegedly being denied treatment by three hospitals which refused to admit him citing unavailability of ICU beds. Dehradun Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Anoop Dimri said a report on the incident has been sought from the hospitals, adding that appropriate action will be taken after the report is received. The hospitals in question are Government Doon Medical College, Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital and Himalayan Hospital, Jollygrant on the outskirts of the city, he said. The daily wage earner was taken to a private hospital on Saharanpur road on Friday after he experienced difficulty in breathing. He tested positive for Covid-19 and was referred to the Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) as the private hospital was not a Covid facility, according to family members of the deceased. However, GDMC refused to admit the man saying it did not have Intensive Care Units (ICU) beds. The family then took him back home, but when his condition worsened on Saturday he was taken to Himalayan Hospital, Jollygrant which also turned him away on the same grounds, the family alleged. The family then took him to Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital in Dehradun which also expressed its inability to take him in offering the same reason. The family then approached former Congress MLA Raj Kumar who helped the man get admitted at GDMC where he succumbed soon after admission on Saturday. The former legislator said the incident has exposed the callous manner in which Covid-19 cases were being handled in the state and demanded compensation for the family of the deceased as well as stern action against the hospital authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-daily-wage-earner-dies-after-being-denied-treatment-in-uttarakhand-883893.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab farmers hold protest against farm ordinances||Farmers in Punjab on Monday held statewide protests against the three farm ordinances promulgated by the BJP-led Centre. On the call given by Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab farmers, including women, took part in protests against the ordinances describing it as “anti-farmers.” They were demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) General Secretary Sukhdev Singh alleged that the Centre was bent on “destroying” the farming community with such “anti-farmers” decisions. They expressed the apprehension that after the implementation of these ordinances, the minimum support price and assured market systems would be dismantled and farmers would be at the “mercy” of big corporates. Farmers also demanded fixation of MSP as per the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission report and reduction in fuel prices. They also threatened to intensify their agitation in support of their demands. Notably, the Congress-led dispensation in Punjab was also against these farm ordinances. On August 28, the Punjab Assembly passed a resolution, rejecting these farm ordinances. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said these are not only against the interest of farmers and landless workers and time-tested agriculture marketing system established in the state, but are also against the Constitution of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-farmers-hold-protest-against-farm-ordinances-884016.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Two kill mare during unnatural sex in Madhya Pradesh||Two men have been booked and one of them arrested for allegedly having an unnatural sex with a mare and killing it in Shahdol district of Madhya Pradesh, police said on Monday. The alleged incident occurred on September 4 night in Batura village under Amlai police station, located nearly 15 kms away from the district headquarters, an official said. The complainant stated the mare was suffocated to death as its neck was tied in a noose by the accused duo, identified as Pankaj Vasudev (24) and his neighbour Loknath Vasudev (around 28 years), said sub-inspector Sunderlal Tiwari. Pankaj Vasudev was arrested on Saturday, while a hunt is on for Loknath, he said. "Both the accused have been booked under sections 377 (unnatural offences) and 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 11 and 12 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-kill-mare-during-unnatural-sex-in-madhya-pradesh-884018.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Four-fold rise in Covid-19 deaths in Punjab since Aug 1||Punjab has witnessed a four-fold increase in death toll due to Covid-19 in just over a month's period with the state health authorities attributing the rise in fatalities to the delay in reporting for testing or treatment by people for the contagion. Similarly, the number of coronavirus cases shot up by over 48,000 since August 1, as per the data available. The case fatality rate has gone up from 2.37 per cent as on August 1 to 2.93 per cent as on September 7 in the state, as per the medical bulletin data. Against the 405 Covid-19 deaths as on August 1, the number of fatalities has reached 1,923 as on Monday. According to state health officials, 75 per cent of these deaths took place in cases of Covid-19 patients who were above 50 years of age. They further said the main reason behind the surge in deaths was delayed diagnosis in patients reporting for testing or treatment at the Covid facilities. On September 2, the state had witnessed a record 106 deaths in a single day.   Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had at that time said 67 per cent of all Covid deaths were due to patients reporting at a health facility for the first time after suffering severe signs and symptoms. These cases then become difficult to manage, leading to fatality, Sidhu had said. The number of coronavirus cases in Punjab has also been on the rise since the past one month.  Till August 1, the state had reported a total of 17,063 coronavirus cases. It has now climbed to 65,583, as per the medical bulletin. The number of active cases has also gone up from 5,583 as on August 1 to 16,640 as on September 7. Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar and Patiala are the worst-affected districts by the Covid-19 pandemic. These five districts accounted for 57 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the state, as per the medical bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-fold-rise-in-covid-19-deaths-in-punjab-since-aug-1-884037.html
07-09-2020||North and Central||Metro safe option but last mile connectivity an issue: Commuters||As the Delhi metro resumed operations partially in the national capital on Monday, many commuters who used the service amid the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic said they were concerned about last-mile connectivity to reach their final destinations after deboarding the trains. On day one, mostly office-goers travelled in the sanitised train coaches of the rapid transit system. Most of the commuters PTI spoke to at the Kashmere Gate metro station said even though they felt safe and had a comfortable ride in the metro since all precautionary measures were in place, once they deboard the train they may not feel safe taking e-rickshaws, auto-rickshaws or cabs to reach their final destination. Gautam Kumar, who works at AIIMS, said after getting out of the metro station he has no option other than sharing an e-rickshaw in which social distancing is difficult to maintain. "I live in Shahbad Dairy and will have to take an e-rickshaw to return to my home from Samaypur Badli metro station. An e-rickshaw driver usually allows five passengers and no social distancing is maintained and if we raise this issue, the driver would instead tell us to take another vehicle," he said. "The metro is quite safe. But once I get off the metro, last-mile connectivity becomes an issue not just for me but also for many others who don't have an alternative mode of transportation," he said. Rytham Kaushal, a resident of GTB enclave in northeast Delhi, said, "I went to Connaught Place this morning for some work in an auto-rickshaw. As there are not many people in the metro, I am comfortable to commute on the train. But last-mile connectivity is an issue."  She said in public transport, passengers, as well as drivers, must take adequate precautionary measures to ensure their and everyone else's safety during the pandemic. "We can take precautions like using hand sanitizer. But if the drivers are not maintaining social distancing, then how would it work. Only passengers taking precautions will not do, even the drivers will have to be equally alert," Kaushal stressed. The Delhi Metro was closed on March 22 to contain the spread of the coronavirus, and after 169 days it resumed services on Monday in a curtailed manner while adhering to strict safety and social distancing norms. The trains will operate in batches from 7-11 am and 4-8 pm. Anoop Sikari, who works at Bhagirath Palace in Chandani Chowk said his shift starts at 12 pm and the metro timing is restricted till 11 am. "Taking an e-rickshaw from GTB Nagar till my home is also an issue once I leave the metro station. They (e-rickshaw drivers) don't follow social distancing norms. They allow five passengers at a time and if you argue with them, they ask you to get down from the vehicle," Sikari said. Expressing concerns over last-mile connectivity, another commuter Vishal Singh, a resident of Dilshad Garden, said he does not prefer to take an e-rickshaw and instead requests his friend to pick him up in case he fails to find an auto or a cab to his final destination. "Seeing people with masks and gloves has become the 'new normal' due to Covid-19. But while using the metro, last-mile connectivity is an issue and I would not take an e-rickshaw or another mode of shared transport. I will ask my friend to come to Kashmere Gate to pick me up or would take a cab or auto," he said.  Rohit Kumar, a resident of Shahdara, said buses would be a good option if they operate on time. "Even when all metro trains start operating, the issue of last-mile connectivity will bother people. I went to IGNOU, Saket, by bus this morning to avoid taking rickshaws or shared autos. "I have observed that the DTC buses strictly follow social distancing and they don't allow more than 18 people. But the timing of the buses is pathetic. You need to wait for too long. We are just hoping that the situation gets normal again," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/metro-safe-option-but-last-mile-connectivity-an-issue-commuters-884061.html
07-09-2020||Opinion||Are Indian coaches getting short shrift in the IPL?||Never mind the global flavour, the Indian Premier League is, by definition, primarily an Indian enterprise. At least seven members of every playing eleven have to be Indian, no more than a third of the entire playing contingent can be constituted by international cricketers. For all the dash and chutzpah Brendon McCullum, Chris Gayle, AB de Villiers, Lasith Malinga and Kieron Pollard have brought over the years, the league thrives on the exploits of Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma, Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Jasprit Bumrah. David Warner and Steve Smith apart, all other captains are India internationals. Yet, when it comes to head coaches, there is a marked slant towards overseas professionals. Only one of the eight franchises boasts an Indian head coach heading into Season 13 of the tournament, beginning on Sept. 19. Even that is an improvement on last year. Which, perhaps inevitably, begs the question – are Indian coaches being given short shrift? The simple, obvious answer would appear a resounding yes, but this isn’t exactly a simple, obvious issue. A matter of temperament? At the inaugural IPL in 2008, Lalchand Rajput was the head coach at Mumbai Indians, Robin Singh at Deccan Chargers. Even then, most franchises went with established non-Indian coaches. The Indian coaching pot wasn’t exactly brimming over. Despite the limited experience of franchise-based leagues, team owners believed straight-talking came more naturally to the Australians, especially, than to Indians. Instances in the early years of the diffidence of Indians in handling delicate issues, specifically where the team needed to be put ahead of celebrated, if misfiring giants, convinced owners of the need for strong, firm figures of authority at the head of the coaching pyramid. In so many ways, the head coach of a T20 cricket franchise is like the manager of a football team. The buck stops with him, and not just in the recruitment of players and his own support staff. Given the frenetic pace of the 20-over format, he is also the principal strategist, with the captain often the executor of ideas meticulously worked out in boardrooms and from omniscient data-banks. The skipper is the boss on the field – most of the time – but invariably works from a blueprint in whose construction he might not have had the most vocal say. As the years ticked over and India began to throw up more and more certified coaches, optimism abounded that it wouldn’t be long before Indians populated at least half the head coach positions. Yet, Anil Kumble alone will be flying the home flag this time, with Kings XI Punjab. Hurdles for best Indian coaching talent On the face of it, there’s an obvious dichotomy, yet there are a slew of reasons settling the Indian vs international head coach debate. Post the recommendations of the Justice Lodha Committee, that necessitated a revamp of the BCCI Constitution, conflict of interest has crossed over from the ambit of spirit to the letter of the law. Anyone in the employ of the BCCI is ineligible to be a part of the IPL. In tangible terms, that means nearly three dozen candidates – encompassing the senior men’s and women’s teams, as well as developmental sides and the National Cricket Academy – are ruled out in one fell swoop. Given that these individuals form the crème de la crème of the Indian coaching landscape, franchisees have access largely only to the ‘second rung’, and that’s said without disrespect. Between a second-choice Indian option and somebody from abroad who has coached/and or captained international sides with a high degree of success, it’s pretty much a no-contest. Consequently, Indians have had to be content with filling assistant coach slots. Historically, India’s coaching ethos at age-group levels has revolved around stern discipline and constant spoon-feeding. As coaches progress from the junior to state and India A levels, the transition from school headmaster to mentor and benevolent helping hand hits an invisible yet almost insurmountable barrier. The Indian system hasn’t looked kindly on strong individuals unafraid to speak their mind if they feel officialdom’s ideologies and priorities are misplaced. The sense of insecurity driven into them from their formative years in coaching acts as a deterrent in their desire to go on to greater things, though there are indications that change isn’t too far away. That we are still talking of imminent change all these years later is either heartening or unfortunate, depending on how one views it. For team owners, however, the debate between sentiment and professionalism is a non-starter. As popular as ‘atmanirbhar’ might be, emotion has no place in the cut-throat world of business, which is effectively what the tournament is to successful high-profile owners. Their resources allow them to requisition the services of the best; if that means jettisoning home comfort, they are comfortable with that option too.  (R Kaushik is a Bangalore-based cricket writer with nearly three decades of experience) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-indian-coaches-getting-short-shrift-in-the-ipl-883920.html
07-09-2020||Panorama||Here's what the quarterly GDP growth catastrophe suggests||The news of one of the largest emerging economy’s growth contraction by nearly 24% in the first quarter of 2020-21 should perhaps be the main talking point of discussion, deliberation and for policy-response consideration, across all platforms of media.   Unfortunately, that doesn’t seem to be the case. India’s economy is in deep trouble. And, if there was any doubt one had on how bad the situation really looks - now and in the months ahead - just look at the numbers on Q1-growth. It is worth noting that quarterly growth figures are often subjected to substantive revisions over time (as more data sets come in from sectoral and state-levels and are factored to previous estimates). However, what is certain is how even an overall GDP contraction by 24% is an under-estimate at best. Why is that the case? For one, this number alone doesn’t reflect (or underpin) the impact seen from a total decimation of India’s unorganised, informal economy which constitutes the bulk of our economic activity and absorbs the maximum workforce.  Second, because we don’t have the gross state domestic product (GSDP) numbers produced quarterly for most states, one still doesn’t know the differential nature of severity in impact caused from the curfew-style lockdown across states (which bore the brunt of the economic cost). Third, if we simply take the government expenditure numbers aside from the released quarterly data (constituting around 16.4% of total expenditure), the contraction in GDP seems to come around 29.3%.  This non-government GDP trend (at 29.3%) is important given how the main source of growth - even before the pandemic started - was based on a higher government expenditure, as private investment and consumption expenditure was already contracting from a deep demand-side slowdown. Now, given how poor the fiscal state of affairs already is, it seems highly unlikely that the Union government will do much to boost spending to stimulate growth. What’s also strange is how, despite an increase in government expenditure for Q1, when one looks at the sectoral data for public administration and defence (where government spending is allocated at the highest weight), there was a negative growth of 10.3% registered for Q1, 2020-21. So, we don’t really know where and for what did the government spend on in this quarter.  In any case, the worst-case scenario might still not be over. The current quarterly data is for those months when the shutdown was most fierce and enforced in a curfew-style manner across country, but even now, as India keeps unlocking, the virus is spreading rapidly in parts of semi-urban and rural hinterland, presenting a grimmer economic (and public-health) future.  Not only did an intense (pre-mature) lockdown destroy the base of our economy for months, what’s worse is how little was done during that time to actually address the public health response to contain the virus. Locking down, was unfortunately, seen as some magical cure to contain the virus.  Still, on the economic spectrum, one shouldn’t get too stuck on the current growth numbers alone, or by the sectoral growth projections. Compared globally, even in the UK, months of lockdown (though not so intense as the one in India) contracted their economy by over 20%. However, their government was swift to realise the gravity of the problem then and undertook a massive economic relief programme (through greater stimulus) to kickstart growth.  More than the actual fiscal capacity to spend, the directionality of measures taken to boost consumption expenditure, incomes and private investment, matters now more than ever.  It is worth realising that India has been facing a crisis of low productivity which might make any temporal stimulus response ineffective. There is a need to understand the endemic concerns: the composition of demand (skewed towards the top 5% consuming class); a credit-freeze in the financial system (choked by rising NPAs); low wages in non-farm segments (worsened by problems of contractualisation); high gender inequality in the workforce (where more than half of the population that is female has a lower workforce participation rate than men), and a poor export demand volume for Indian goods and services. Adding to a broken, deeply fragmented labour market where labour productivity (and wages) is at its lowest threshold.    ‘Act of God’ To get out from such a vicious cycle of low productivity-growth, there is no ‘Act of God’ required but a conscious need to acknowledge the seriousness of our economic woes and have a medium-to-long term strategic plan allowing for greater government spending (as part of a counter-cyclical response) that is targeted to crowd-in private investment and a higher consumption expenditure amongst households and firms in sectors of manufacturing, construction, real estate, travel, tourism and services (those worst hit by the pandemic).  This also means that the Union government needs to take fiduciary responsibility, providing for greater revenue allocation and capital to states whose fiscal capacity has been adversely impact from the tanking of GST revenues. The federal core of the Centre-state fiscal relationship is perhaps at its worst now. Further, to work towards increasing labour productivity, a more worker-centric policy push aimed at reducing contractualisation of workers, creating a higher-wage paying ecosystem may incentivise workers (especially those who reverse migrated) to move back into productive-sectors (manufacturing, construction, services etc).  A few policy measures, like offering more socially-protected worker contracts (say, safeguarding health and unemployment insurances as benefits); implementing premium wage-rates (double for contractual hires as against others); extending the probation period to more than a year; and, ensuring greater legal representation and awareness to concerns of workers, and incentivising the presence of unions for minority workers (across the social categories of gender, class, race etc), are all critical steps that can help provide a more progressive social and economic future for workers.  Private-sector union density must also increase in medium to large-scale organisations to make the design of worker-contracts more protective of and fair to safeguard worker-interests while enhancing the credibility of the employee-employer partnership. (The writer is Director, Centre for New Economics Studies, Jindal School of International Affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/heres-what-the-quarterly-gdp-growth-catastrophe-suggests-883669.html
07-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Trotting on the terrace||The well-planned township of Saltlake adjoining Kolkata is interspersed with parks and open spaces. While growing up, we had the luxury of playing in several such parks. The abundance of parks, didn’t require the usage of terrace and roof for any kind of leisurely activities. The terraces of Saltlake have been largely relegated to hosting washed clothes.  However, there were few people like me who would find joy in the terrace of our respective house and apartments.  My apartment overlooks Central Park, which has a green cover and some wildlife. My first encounter with my terrace happened a decade back when I appeared for graduate-level exams. Every day, during the preparation period, after an entire day of wrestling with the syllabus, I would go up to the terrace in the evening and spend a while. I felt a sense of liberty in an open space. Looking down on the roads where the vehicles would speed by the well-lit roads and boulevard adorned by trees, gave a welcome sense of inaction. As darkness engulfed the surroundings, the crows, sparrows and mynahs went back to their nests and the bats from nearby Central Park took control of the nearby trees. For all these years, I have enjoyed a solitary presence on my terrace. However, the nation-wide lockdown changed the scenario considerably. A few days into the lockdown, after being distraught with lack of mobility in life, I decided to venture out to the terrace during the evening. I was stuck by different activities on the terraces around me, which have been forever lifeless. I saw a family in the next terrace practicing yoga and multiple breathing kriyas, in another terrace the residents were engaged in adda (prolonged conversations) with tea-cups while the faint tunes of Rabindrasangeet drifted in from another terrace. I could see children playing and one of the elders trying to impart the knowledge of flying kites, which has never been a popular sport in Saltlake. People were talking across the terraces, perhaps forging new friendships or reinforcing the existing ones. In a time when most of the household conversations, news, discussions are centred around the virus and its potential impact, it’s heartening to see people engage in numerous activities on their respective terraces. While the terraces of my housing society were brimming with life, the streets, in contrast, bore a deserted look, who could have thought of such an upended spatial distribution of humans?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/trotting-on-the-terrace-883644.html
07-09-2020||Second Edit||Rajnath Singh- Wei Fenghe meeting: India must stand, act firmly||The meeting between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart, Gen Wei Fenghe, in Moscow on Friday did not result in any breakthrough. However, it provided Singh with an opportunity to reiterate to the Chinese face-to-face that India would not cede even an inch of its territory. India has said this several times before. What sets apart the Friday reiteration is that it came close on the heels of Indian pre-emptive military action on August 29-30 in the southern banks of Pangong Tso. Apparently, the Chinese were on the verge of another land grab, which would have given them a substantial strategic advantage but the swift Indian action prevented them from doing so. Not only has the Indian Army dealt a blow to the PLA’s territorial ambitions here but also it has sent a strong signal to Beijing that India is serious about defending its territory. Indeed, the Indian Army’s recent action at Pangong Tso would have reinforced Singh’s assertion that New Delhi would defend its territorial sovereignty, whatever the cost. Beijing is likely to have taken more seriously Singh’s statement. India’s position vis-à-vis the Chinese was weak over the past several months. It had failed to respond swiftly to the Chinese mobilisation of troops and their intrusion into the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control at multiple points in Ladakh. Also, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement that no foreign troops were on Indian land had virtually endorsed the Chinese position and weakened India’s significantly. Since then, the Indian military has been building up troops and equipment along the LAC and diplomats have been mobilising support of other world powers. The pre-emptive military action has strengthened India’s position vis-à-vis the Chinese significantly. It is important that political leaders do not lose this advantage with their loose statements.  Beijing will take India seriously only if New Delhi stands and acts firmly in responding to its bullying. The Indian army has shown that it means business. It must continue to keep up pressure on China even as our diplomats sort out issues at the negotiating table. This is a crucial week: External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is scheduled to meet his Chinese counterpart in Moscow. He must take forward the gains made on the ground by our soldiers at Pangong Tso. It is not enough for the two sides to keep reiterating their positions at meetings. It is time they reach agreements that translate into action on the ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/rajnath-singh-wei-fenghe-meeting-india-must-stand-act-firmly-883643.html
07-09-2020||South||Call for end to nationalism from new Mandela award recipients||Recipients of two new awards made in the name of former South African President Nelson Mandela by an institution in Chennai have called for an end to the increasing nationalism of states across the globe to address the issue facing the world. The awards were made by the Madras Development Society (MDS) at its inaugural International Conference on Peace and Development on Sunday evening. The virtual conference saw 17 global leaders from the Indian diaspora sharing views on how the teachings of Mandela, Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King could be used to address the ever-increasing border and inter-state tensions across the globe. Dr Navi Pillay, former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, received the individual award and the Austrian Centre for Peace and Conflict Resolution (ACPCR) the institutional award. Internationally renowned lawyer Pillay was the first woman judge to be appointed to the South African High Court by Mandela after he ascended to the Presidency in 1994 following 27 years as a political prisoner during the reign of the apartheid-driven white minority government. “We need governments to work collectively with civil society and not against it,” Pillay said in her acceptance address, dedicating the award to the thousands of Indians who had left South India, like her own grandparents, from 1860 onwards, to toil almost slave-like as indentured labourers in South Africa. Pillay said that despite the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, ordinary people all over the world had mobilised themselves to protest against inequality and discrimination through projects such as the ‘Black Lives Matter’ and ‘MeToo’ campaigns. “These are all powerful voices demanding change and governments must listen to their call. “No single country can fight COVID-19 on its own and no country can bring an end to conflict and achieve peace unless they work together,” Pillay added. Concurring with Pillay’s views, Gudrun Kramer of the ACPCR said that her organisation had trained over 6,000 people already to assist in UN Peace missions. “The challenges of COVID-19 and climate change need to be addressed with a different way of thinking. We need to understand that we share a common planetary destiny,” Kramer said. “The approach of a nation-state centrism with an attitude of ‘my nation first’ will not be able to address these planetary challenges, he said. MDS President Dr V S Sampath said the awards had been instituted in Mandela’s honour because he had been a champion of peaceful transition of the majority in South Africa after decades of suppression by a minority. Puducherry Chief Minister Velu Narayanasamy said the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi and Mandela had to be propagated to the entire world, while South African Minister of Cooperative Governance Pravin Gordhan said the youth of the world were sending messages through their protest actions that the changing geopolitics and geo-economics of the world has led to narrow nationalism, which is not what Mandela and others stood for. Former Prime Minister of Guyana Moses Nagamootoo shared the experience of his short-lived attempt to bring about peace and reconciliation through multi-party governance, but remained hopeful that this could still be achieved. Plans were also announced at the conference for a statue of Mandela to be erected in Chennai by next year. Govindasamy Viswanathan, chancellor of VIT University, said the statue would be a mark of respect to both Mandela and the many Indians, especially from the Tamil community, who had settled in South Africa. Viswanathan said a committee of local leaders was in discussion with both government and NGO’s about the statue project. Both awards will also be conferred personally at the unveiling of the statue on a date which will be decided after the COVID-19 crisis ends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/call-for-end-to-nationalism-from-new-mandela-award-recipients-883629.html
07-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Three die in building collapse in Coimbatore||Three persons, including two women, were killed when a building collapsed in Coimbatore on Sunday night due to heavy rains. Six persons were rescued from under the debris, police said. The incident took place at around 10.30 pm on Sunday night in Chetti Street in Coimbatore, 510 km from here, when a single-storey building collapsed. While two persons died on Sunday night, the body of a woman was pulled out of the debris on Monday. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 1 lakh each to the kin of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-three-die-in-building-collapse-in-coimbatore-883650.html
07-09-2020||South||Kochi Metro Rail services resume after nearly 6 months of shutdown||The Kochi Metro on Monday resumed services after being suspended for over five months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The services between Thykoodam and Aluva were resumed at 7 am, adhering to Covid-19 protocol, a Kochi Metro spokesman said. He said trains will run from 7 am to 9 pm with 10 minute breaks. "There is no rush. The services are being carried out adhering to the restrictions to prevent spread of coronavirus," a Kochi Metro official said. Officials said measures are in place to frequently disinfect all the areas in the stations where the passengers are likely to touch and passengers are under surveillance to ensure that they follow social distancing norms. In a bid to reduce contact, cashless transactions are encouraged and for this, use of Kochi One card is promoted, they said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate a new stretch between Thykoodam and Pettah near Tripunithura on Monday afternoon. With the inauguration of the 1.15 km stretch, the first phase of Kochi Metro will be completed, officials said. Kochi Metro launched its first service from Aluva to Palarivattom in June 2017 and the stretch up to the Maharaja's College Ground was commissioned in October in the same year. The stretch from Maharaja's College junction to Thykoodam was inaugurated in September last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kochi-metro-rail-services-resume-after-nearly-6-months-of-shutdown-883795.html
07-09-2020||South||Case registered against Congress leader Kavitha Reddy for alleged attack on actress||A case has been registered against Congress leader Kavitha Reddy for allegedly attacking and abusing film actress Samyuktha Hegde on September 4 inside a lake park here, police said on Monday. According to HSR Layout police, Hegde had lodged a complaint that Reddy had outraged her modesty and assaulted her based on which the case was registered. The case were registered against Reddy under various sections of the IPC, police added. The Congress leader had apologised on her Twitter handle saying that she committed a mistake for 'reacting aggressively'. "I have always opposed Moral Policing. I realize that my actions were construed as such. An argument ended up in me reacting aggressively as well, it was a mistake," Reddy had tweeted on Sunday. "As a responsible citizen n progressive woman, I own up to n sincerely apologise to @SamyukthaHegde n her Friends!" she added. Hegde had alleged on Saturday that Reddy tried to attack and abuse her and her friends for doing a hula-hooping workout at a park wearing workout clothes at the Agara Lake in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-registered-against-congress-leader-kavitha-reddy-for-alleged-attack-on-actress-883811.html
07-09-2020||South||Three dead in building collapse in Tamil Nadu, six rescued||Three people, including two women, were killed and six others rescued in a building collapse in the city due to heavy rains, police said on Monday. The single-storey building on Chetti Street suddenly came down at around 10.30 pm on Sunday, they said. In the impact, an adjoining tiled-roof house also collapsed. The death toll rose to three this evening with the body of a woman being retrieved from the debris after search for nearly 20 hours, police said. Earlier, Chief Minister K Palaniswami condoled the deaths and announced a relief of Rs one lakh each to the kin of the deceased. He prayed for the speedy recovery of the injured. Police and Fire service personnel toiled hard to clear the debris and managed to rescue six people. The rescued persons, with minor injuries, were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, police said. District Collector K Rajamani and police Commissioner Sumit Saran monitored the operations. The city experienced heavy rains accompanied by strong winds on Sunday. In Chennai, Palaniswami condoled the deaths and directed the district administration to ensure due medical care to the injured. "I have directed providing Rs one lakh each to the family of the victims from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund," he said in a statement. Meanwhile, CPI-M MP, P R Natarajan, who visited the area, demanded that the state government make a detailed inquiry into the building collapse. He attributed the reason to the extensive use of earthmovers as part of cleaning the nearby Selva Chintamani pond which is being beautified under the Smart City project. Natarajan said only after confirming the strength of the embankment area, works for beautifying the pond should be undertaken. DMK MLA, N Karthik, who also visited the spot, cited the Smart City project as the reason for the collapse, as the embankment was very weak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-dead-in-building-collapse-in-tamil-nadu-six-rescued-883827.html
07-09-2020||South||Metro Rail, long-distance trains, bus services resume in Tamil Nadu||After a five-month plus hiatus, the Chennai Metro Rail services and long-distance buses linking various districts in Tamil Nadu recommenced operations on Monday. Similarly, trains within the state also resumed services after a break of about two months. Notably, passenger trains and long-distance buses to Chennai city from other parts of Tamil Nadu and services from the state capital began on Monday after they were ceased in March owing to Covid-19. When the first Metro train departed from the Airport to Washermenpet, at 7 am, Industries Minister M C Sampath was among those who boarded the train and he travelled up to Nandanam station. Train stoppage time at stations has been increased from 20 seconds to 50 seconds to facilitate passengers to de-board and board by maintaining social distancing and also to ensure fresh air circulation. Stickers were stuck and markings have been made both in trains and platforms so that passengers could sit on alternate seats to ensure social distancing. The Metrorail, which has begun operations in the Blueline between Airport and Washermanpet via Anna Salai, services in the Greenline from St Thomas Mount to MGR Central Metro would start from September 9. The authorities had already announced that services will be open till 8 pm and there will be no inter-corridor movement between Central Metro and Airport stations requesting passengers to plan their journeys accordingly. long-distance buses run by government transport corporations connecting various destinations within Tamil Nadu began operations across the state. An official told PTI that the passenger turnout was moderate and online reservations "should improve" in the days to come. Barring Chennai and nearby three districts, interzonal (each zone comprises a number of nearby districts) bus transport, that commenced on June 1, was suspended on June 26. Later, as part of relaxations, the government had allowed buses within districts from September 1 and from now on, bus services have been resumed in a full-fledged manner. Also, trains within Tamil Nadu including the daily Chennai-Coimbatore Intercity, Chennai Egmore Tiruchchirappalli Chennai Egmore and Coimbatore- Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore Janshatabdi Special (except Tuesdays) resumed services. The General Manager, Southern Railway on his twitter handle said: "573 passengers were on board Special Train No. 02636 Madurai - Chennai Egmore special train, the first fully reserved train to leave Madurai as part of #Unlock4 - All the laid down safety protocols were duly adhered - RPF and frontline staff were deployed to guide passengers." Contactless ticket checking was done at the platform and temperature of passengers was monitored through thermal cameras and trains and platforms were sanitised using disinfectants. The Southern Railway, following a request of the state government had on June 27 announced cancellation of special trains (including Tiruchirappalli-Chengelpet-Tiruchirappalli Superfast Intercity Express, and Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai- Coimbatore Janshatabdi) within Tamil Nadu. The government had requested cancellation of trains in view of an increase in Covid cases. However, such trains did not connect Chennai city to other destinations in Tamil Nadu and vice-versa though special trains that linked Chennai to Delhi were operated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/metro-rail-long-distance-trains-bus-services-resume-in-tamil-nadu-883839.html
07-09-2020||South||Hyderabad metro operations resume in graded manner||Hyderabad Metro Rail services resumed operations on the Miyapur-LB Nagar route on Monday after a gap of over five months following the Covid-19 guidelines. Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) and L&T Metro Rail (Hyderabad) Limited authorities said metro train services between Corridor 1 (Miyapur to LB Nagar) has started while metro operations will be resumed in a graded manner on other routes. "We are happy that we were permitted to resume the metro rail services. We are taking all precautions and are strictly following the Covid-19 guidelines to prevent spreading of the virus in Metro travel," HMRL Managing Director NVS Reddy told PTI. Ordinary people were facing a lot of problems in reaching their places of work or destination in the absence of public transport, Reddy said. Services are being operated from 7 am to noon and 4 pm to 9 pm, he said. Wearing of a face mask is mandatory for all passengers and staff. Metro Rail has made arrangements for the supply of masks on payment basis to people arriving without a mask. Suitable penalty as per regulation shall be imposed for any violation, the officials said. Smart Card and Mobile QR tickets with cashless/online transactions were encouraged for the safety of passengers. In order to ensure social distancing, suitable markings at stations and inside trains were done for passengers to stand, the officials said. Only asymptomatic persons will be allowed to travel after thermal screening at entry into the stations. Proper PPE kits and sanitisers have been provided to employees/ security personnel. Considering the potential of coronavirus to spread quickly, security personnel/ private guards have been instructed to ensure adequate safety while frisking commuters without diluting security drills, they said. In Phase-II, from September 8 onwards services will commence on Corridor 3 (Nagole to Raidurg) while in Phase-III from September 9 onwards all the three Corridors (C1, C2 and C3) would be made operational, the officials said. Frequency of trains will be around five minutes and it will be increased or decreased based on passenger traffic and to avoid crowding, they said adding stations in containment zones have been closed. The total operational length of the elevated Hyderabad Metro Rail project is 69 km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-metro-operations-resume-in-graded-manner-883843.html
07-09-2020||South||IIT Madras conducts campus internship drive online||For the first time in its history, the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IITM) has successfully conducted its Campus Internship Drive online, featuring several top Indian and global companies. The first day of the internship drive was conducted online due to Covid-19 restrictions. The participating companies interviewed students over video conferencing platforms and offered internships for the summer of 2021. An official release from IITM said 2020 also saw two international profiles for Internships - Rubrik’s Software Development, based in the U.S., and Jane Street’s Quantitative Researcher, Hong Kong, which provide the highest compensation. Day One of this Internship Drive, conducted on August 11, alone saw the participation of 20 companies who made as many as 152 offers to Undergraduate Students. “The last year’s figure was 147 offers made on Day One of 2019. The total number of internships offers made during the last academic year (2019-2020) was 554. Students get paid a stipend during their internship,” the statement said. Microsoft India Pvt. Ltd. extended the maximum number of offers, 21 offers during Day One, while other top recruiters that offered internships include Google, Jane Street and Rubrik. “We had requested companies to be flexible considering that several of our students were in remote and far-flung locations where Internet connectivity may not be as good as in urban locations. The collective efforts of internships student heads and their teams in collaboration with the companies who participated in this approach resulted in positive outcomes,” Prof. N.V. Ravi Kumar, Advisor (Internship), IIT Madras, said. Kunal Gupta,  Sourabh Thakur, and Omkar Thombre, Students’ Heads of the Internship Team, IIT Madras, said organising Day-1 was about overcoming the challenges imposed by the limited infrastructure of the students spread out in the various regions of the country and providing them with fair opportunity to secure an internship in their dream company. “It took us months of planning, but we made it, and not only did we provide a seamless experience, but we also added new companies to our repertoire. We are glad that the online Day-1 was a huge success, and we thank all those made it possible,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-madras-conducts-campus-internship-drive-online-883844.html
07-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reiterates opposition to three-language formula, Hindi imposition||Tamil Nadu on Monday reiterated its opposition to the three language formula suggested in the New Education Policy (NEP) released by the Centre saying it has already taken a decision to continue with the existing two-language policy which is a “success.” In a letter to Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Tamil Nadu Higher Education Minister K P Anbalagan expressed the state’s reservation over several provisions of the NEP like conduct of national-level entrance exams, institutional restructuring and consolidation and the three-language formula. The letter comes a month after Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami declared that the state would continue to implement the existing two-language policy – Tamil and English – and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the proposal for imparting three languages. “The state of Tamil Nadu has always followed two-language policy which has been a success. The state government of Tamil Nadu has already taken a decision to continue with the two-language policy in future also,” Anbalagan said in the letter to Nishank. Political parties in Tamil Nadu, barring the BJP, view the NEP as an attempt by the Centre to impose Hindi on states where the language is not spoken. Arch-rivals DMK and AIADMK are on the “same page” on this sensitive issue, while the public sentiment is also largely in favour of the existing two-language formula. Also recent incidents like DMK MP Kanimozhi being asked whether she was an Indian for not knowing Hindi at Chennai Airport and a Secretary-level officer asking doctors from Tamil Nadu leave a virtual conference for not knowing the language have brought “Hindi imposition” to the center stage yet again. The state government has also constituted a committee of experts to go into the NEP and submit a report. In his letter, Anbalagan said while the NEP envisages the target of achieving Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) of 50 per cent in 2035, Tamil Nadu has already achieved 49 percent. “We are very hopeful that we would achieve the target of 50% in the 2019-20 academic year itself. We have taken various measures by opening new colleges, introduction of new courses, Increasing the capacity of colleges by recruiting teachers, creating labs and other facilities and would continue to do the same and by 2035, Tamil Nadu can achieve an ambitious target of 65% GER,” he said. He welcomed the move to convert the B. Ed programme into a 4-year Integrated Degree Course including two major subjects, saying it will enable students to complete the degree early and enter into the teaching profession quickly. On the proposal to conduct Entrance Examination by the National Testing Agency (NTA), the minister said the move would discourage rural students and the Government of Tamil Nadu is not for such proposal. “Further, this will be an added burden on the students,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reiterates-opposition-to-three-language-formula-hindi-imposition-883862.html
07-09-2020||South||Nalin Kumar Kateel recovers from Covid-19||BJP Karnataka state president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel has been recovered from Covid-19 and discharged from hospital. He will be under quarantine for a few days on the advice of doctors. "With the blessings of Goddess Kateel Durgaparameswhari and the love and wishes of everyone, I have been cured of the corona. Presently, doctors have advised quarantine for a few days," he said in a tweet on Monday. Kateel said he saw the Almighty in the doctors, nurses and health workers who are striving day and night fighting the pandemic by risking their own lives. The MP tested positive for coronavirus on August 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nalin-kumar-kateel-recovers-from-covid-19-883873.html
07-09-2020||South||Infight in Kerala Congress (M) heading to a flashpoint||The Kerala Congress (M) party in Kerala is witnessing a high voltage political drama with the faction led by party founder leader K M Mani's son and Rajya Sabha MP Jose K Mani deciding to issue notice for disqualifying veteran leader and party working chairman P J Joseph and senior MLA Mons Joseph. The fresh developments indicate that the in-fight in the party, which got triggered over the chairman post after the death of K M Mani last year, is heading towards a formal split ahead of the local body elections and Assembly bypolls that are likely by October-November. The Jose K Mani faction's fresh moves came close on the heels of the Election Commission's decision to give rights over the party symbol, 'two-leaves', to the Jose K Mani faction on the grounds that out of the five MLAs, one Lok Sabha MP and one Rajya Sabha MP of the party, four were backing the Jose K Mani faction. The P J Joseph faction is planning to move court against it citing that as per party constitution the working chairman (P J Joseph) got an upper hand. Jose K Mani faction on Sunday decided to move steps for disqualifying P J Joseph and Mons Joseph on charges of violating whip issued by the Jose K Mani loyalist Roshy Augustine to MLAs to keep off from the recent no-confidence motion against the left-front government in Kerala Assembly as well as Rajya Sabha polls. Another veteran MLA of party, C F Thomas, who is a P J Joseph loyalist, kept off from Assembly owing to health issues. P J Joseph's loyalist Mons Joseph, who was earlier appointed by P J Joseph as party whip, had also issued a whip asking party MLAs to take part in the no-confidence motion voting, which was violated by Jose K Mani's loyalists Roshy Augustine and N Jayaraj. Hence the Joseph camp may also initiate disqualification steps against the two.  Though Jose K Mani faction already got informal invitations from the CPM-led left-front, the Congress is pressuring Jose K Mani to quit the Rajya Sabha MP post if he plans to join the left front. The Jose K Mani faction is also learnt to be concerned that even if it joins the left-front, it may not have much political gains as the NCP had already made it clear that it will not give up the Pala constituency. K M Mani was MLA of Pala in Kottayam district for 54 years in a row. But in the bypolls after his death last year NCP candidate Mani C Kappan won the seat. Though the Congress-led United Democratic Front had recently decided to expel the Jose K Mani faction from the front citing non compliance of an earlier understanding over sharing a district panchayat president post with the P J Joseph faction, the UDF has now softened the stand against the Jose K Mani faction after the election commission order on party symbol came in favour of the Jose K Mani faction. Amid intense political drama, the United Democratic Front meeting scheduled for Tuesday is likely to discuss the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/infight-in-kerala-congress-m-heading-to-a-flashpoint-883880.html
07-09-2020||South||10 fishermen missing after boats capsize in rough sea||At least 10 fishermen were missing after four boats capsized in rough seas off Malappuram district, police said on Monday. One boat with six fishermen from nearby Ponnani coast is said to have capsized near Nattika in Thrissur district. "The Coast Guard has been pressed into action to rescue the fishermen," the police said. In another incident on Ponnani coast, two fishermen were missing after their fibre boat overturned in mid-sea, they said. Rescue operations have begun. In yet another incident, three out of five fishermen who put out to the sea from nearby Tanur coast have swum to safety off Parappanangadi. A search is on for the two fishermen who were missing, the police said. The Coast Guard officials reported that another fishing boat that set out to sea from Ponnani coast with six fishermen was stranded in mid-sea near Ernakulam due to engine failure. Another boat from Vellayil in Kozhikode sank but the fishermen swam to safety early Monday, Coast Guard officials said. Marine enforcement is taking stock of the situation. On Sunday, weathermen said Kerala may experience heavy rains and winds due to the low pressure formed in the Arabian sea. In view of the prediction of rough seas, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had appealed to fishermen not to venture out to sea for 48 hours beginning Sunday. Despite the warning, the fishermen set out to sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/10-fishermen-missing-after-boats-capsize-in-rough-sea-883883.html
07-09-2020||South||At 96.2%, Kerala tops literacy rate chart; Andhra Pradesh worst performer at 66.4%||With 96.2 per cent literacy, Kerala has once again emerged as the most literate state in the country, while Andhra Pradesh featured at the bottom with a rate of 66.4 per cent, showed a report based on National Statistical Office (NSO) survey. The report on 'Household Social Consumption: Education in India as part of 75th round of National Sample Survey - from July 2017 to June 2018' provides for state-wise detail of literacy rate among the persons aged seven years and above. According to the study, after Kerala, Delhi has the best literacy rate at 88.7 per cent, followed by Uttarkhand's 87.6 per cent, Himachal Pradesh's 86.6 per cent and Assam's at 85.9 per cent. On the other hand, Rajasthan is the second-worst performer with literacy rate at 69.7 per cent, followed by Bihar at 70.9 per cent, Telangana at 72.8 per cent, Uttar Pradesh at 73 per cent and Madhya Pradesh at 73.7 per cent. The study has pegged the overall literacy rate in the country at about 77.7 per cent. In rural areas, the literacy rate is 73.5 per cent compared to 87.7 per cent in urban areas of the country. At the all-India level, the male literacy rate is higher at 84.7 per cent compared to 70.3 per cent among women. The survey showed that the male literacy rate is higher than female literacy rate among all states. In Kerala, the male literacy rate is 97.4 per cent compared to 95.2 per cent among females. Similarly, the male literacy rate in Delhi stood 93.7 per cent higher than 82.4 per cent among females. Even in the worst-performing states, there was a considerable gap in male and female literacy rate. In Andhra Pradesh, the male literacy rate is 73.4 per cent, higher than 59.5 per cent among females (of the age of seven years or above). In Rajasthan, the gap was even wider as the male literacy rate stood at 80.8 per cent compared to 57.6 per cent of females. In Bihar, the male literacy rate was also higher at 79.7 per cent compared to 60.5 per cent of females. A sample of 64,519 rural households from 8,097 villages and 49,238 urban households from 6,188 blocks was surveyed all-over India. The report also revealed that nearly 4 per cent of rural households and 23 per cent of urban household possessed computer. Among persons of age 15-29 years, nearly 24 per cent in rural areas and 56 per cent in urban areas were able to operate a computer. Nearly 35 per cent of persons of age 15-29 years reported use of the internet during the 30 days prior to the date of the survey. The proportions were nearly 25 per cent in rural areas and 58 per cent in urban areas||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/at-962-kerala-tops-literacy-rate-chart-andhra-pradesh-worst-performer-at-664-883916.html
07-09-2020||South||Woman in Covid-19 quarantine allegedly raped by health official||A day after a 19-year-old girl tested positive for Covid-19 was sexually harassed in an ambulance in Kerala, an incident has come to light in which a 44-year old woman in quarantine in the state capital Thiruvananthapuram was allegedly raped by a health department official last week. The accused, a junior health inspector, allegedly threatened the woman of initiating action for false charges of Covid-19 quarantine violation and sexually abused her for a whole day by tying up her in his house, according to the first information report of the police. The incident took place at Pangode near Kallara, about 40 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city, last Thursday. It came to light on Sunday after the woman reported it to the police. The accused, identified as Pradeep Kumar, was arrested. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that the director of health services was asked to place the accused under suspension with immediate effect. The victim was working as a maid at a house in Malappuram district. She returned to her house at Kulathupuzha, about 50 kilometres from the city, recently and was under quarantine. She underwent a Covid-19 test and contacted the junior health inspector of the local primary health centre for the certificate. The official asked her to come to his house at Bharathanoor near Pangode. The woman said in the complaint that she went to the accused's house on September 3 afternoon. He raped her after beating up her and threatening of falsely implicating for quarantine violation. The woman was tied up in the house till Friday morning and was later released. The police registered a case after the woman lodged a petition on Sunday. The accused was learnt to have admitted that he asked the woman to come to his house for Covid-19 negative certificate, but denied the sexual harassment charge. Pangode circle inspector of police Suneesh Kumar said that rape charges were invoked against the accused and he was produced before the court. Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala called the incidents a shame and demanded the apologies of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Health Minister K K Shailaja for failing to protect women. The government was making baseless tall claims over Covid-19 fight. The sexual abuse by two women in Covid-19 care by health officials had caused a shame the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-in-covid-19-quarantine-allegedly-raped-by-health-official-883950.html
07-09-2020||South||Kerala: Fresh norms on transporting Covid-19 patients in view of sexual abuse||In view of the sexual abuse of a Covid-19 infected girl by an ambulance driver in Kerala, the state health department directed all health officials to ensure the presence of a nurse or health technician while transporting patients, especially woman. Even if women are tested positive they would not be shifted hastily at night and would be advised to remain under home quarantine. Presence of a health technician or a health official would have to be ensured in case women were being transported. The medical officials should also track the movement of GPS-fitted ambulances, said an official. There were allegations that though health technicians were deputed in all ambulances operating for the health department, there were oral instructions of health officials that in order to curb chances of Covid-19 spread only drivers need to go to shift those tested positive from home to Covid-19 Care Centres. Many health workers in the state got infected and the state is facing a scarcity of health workers as the number of patients is increasing. Meanwhile, an audio conversation of the accused ambulance driver Noufal tendering an apology to the girl after the sexual abuse came out. It was recorded by the victim using her phone and it could be crucial evidence in the case, said the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-fresh-norms-on-transporting-covid-19-patients-in-view-of-sexual-abuse-883964.html
07-09-2020||South||Superstar Rajinikanth to launch party in November?||Six months after he asked people to “show the resurgence towards a political change”, Tamil Nadu is abuzz with renewed speculation that superstar Rajinikanth will launch his political party possibly in November, six months before the state goes to the most crucial assembly elections in recent years. Adding to the speculation is posters put up by office-bearers of Rajini Makkal Mandram, an extension of the actor’s fan club, asking people to join hands with Rajinikanth for bringing the “much-needed political and regime change” in Tamil Nadu. The posters also said a political change will never happen in Tamil Nadu if not now. Sources in the know-how of Rajinikanth’s moves say the actor may launch his political party in November as assembly elections are due in April-May next year. “We are waiting for him to announce the date. No one actually knows what is on his mind. Though we agree time is running out, we are almost certain that Rajinikanth will finally announce his party in November,” a source said. If Rajinikanth takes the plunge, 2021 election ground will be crowded with too many players in a state that has largely seen domination of just two parties – DMK and AIADMK. Rajinikanth will also face his long-time friend Kamal Haasan in the political battlefield. Political analysts are cautious about the speculation as they feel nothing is certain in the case of the superstar till the time, he makes a formal announcement. They also pointed to the actor’s much-hyped press conference in March but that was a “dump squib” after Rajinikanth put the onus on his political entry on people.   69-year-old Rajinikanth has been teasing the people of Tamil Nadu about his political entry for over 20 years but ended the speculation on the last day of 2017 when he announced that his political entry was certain and that his party would contest the next assembly elections in the state. For the past two years, there has been intense speculation about the actor’s political moves, but Rajinikanth had been quite reluctant in making his opinion on a host of issues, and his press conference in March where he asked people to show the resurgence for his entry into politics caused much confusion. Since then, Rajinikanth has taken to Twitter a couple of times to air his opinion on the Kandha Shashti Kavasam controversy and the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix. During his press conference his March, Rajinikanth outlined three “novel ideas” – limited number of party posts to curb corruption, bringing youngsters and clean people to politics and place them in pole positions in the corridor of power and him not being the Chief Minister – and asked his fans to take his message to the nook and corner of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/superstar-rajinikanth-to-launch-party-in-november-883997.html
07-09-2020||South||Kerala's Covid Brigades face hurdle of social compulsions||The efforts of the Kerala government to form Covid Brigades with volunteers to strengthen the health infrastructure is facing a setback as a major chunk of those who volunteered to be part of the Brigades are backtracking in the last minute owing to social compulsions. Health experts have projected that Kerala would witness steep spike in Covid-19 cases by September. Hence the government decided to open at least one Covid-19 first-line treatment centre (CFLTC) in each panchayat, municipality and corporation. So far over 50,000 CFLTC beds were set up. However, there was an inadequate number of health workers even after health workers of AYUSH stream were deployed. Subsequently, the Covid Brigades were formed using volunteers, offering honorarium ranging from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 58,000. Nearly 20,000, mainly youngsters, have so far registered for joining the Covid brigade, which included doctors, nurses, lab technicians and other health staff. The first batch of 26 members was deployed to CFLTCs in Kasargod and the second batch of ten was deputed to Pathanamthitta. Health Department sources said that many of those who register on the portal for becoming volunteers were unwilling to turn up in the last stage. It was mainly due to demotivation from the family and social compulsions. Around 300 were planned for the first batch, of which only 26 were there finally, said a health department official. Health department officials also said that since the state might require a large number of volunteers, a massive awareness is required to attract more volunteers to come forward. Deputy superintendent of Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital Dr Santosh Kumar, who trained the first batch, said that the volunteers were being given training in ICU and Critical Care management also apart from other basics. At present the rush at CFLTCs in the state came down as the state started home care option for those with mild symptoms and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-brigades-face-hurdle-of-social-compulsions-884005.html
07-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh: Jagan launches nutritious food schemes for women, toddlers||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has launched YSR Sampoorna Poshana and YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus schemes to provide nutritious food to the pregnant women, lactating mothers, and children. The state government will be spending Rs 1,863 crore per annum on the two schemes to benefit over 30 lakh mothers and children up to six years belonging to the Below Poverty Line families. “The previous government had not even spent Rs 500 crore per year under such programmes. It did not exceed Rs 200 on each beneficiary per month. But now, our government will be spending Rs 1,863 crore every year under the two nutritious diet schemes, with an expenditure of Rs 1,100 per beneficiary every month,” the chief minister said while speaking on the occasion, from his camp-office in Tadepalli, on Monday. Fifty-three per cent of pregnant women in the state suffer from acute anaemia. Thirty-two per cent of children are with low birth weight and 31 per cent of children are suffering stunted growth. “This situation is because of the apathy shown by the previous regimes. So, to lower malnutrition deaths and boost the future generation’s strength, our government has introduced these schemes,” Reddy said. Supplementary nutrition is provided through the Anganwadi centres. The YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus intends to supply nutritious food exclusively in the 77 tribal areas covering 8,320 Anganwadi Centres, while the urban and rural areas are covered under the YSR Sampoorna Poshana. All the 55,607 Anganwadis would hereafter not operate as shelter homes but will impart bridge courses and prepare the children to enter the schools with basics besides providing nutritious food, Reddy said. To monitor the effective implementation of YSR Sampoorna Poshana, the department of women development and child welfare has developed a mobile application to assess the service delivery and satisfaction levels of the beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-jagan-launches-nutritious-food-schemes-for-women-toddlers-884015.html
07-09-2020||South||Kerala finance minister stable, many leaders under observation||With Kerala Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac being tested positive for Covid-19, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, many of his cabinet colleague and CPM leaders are under observation. Isaac tested positive on Sunday and was admitted to the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital. A team of doctors are taking care of him. His condition is stable and he is active, said hospital sources. Apart from the chief minister, Health Minister K K Shailaja, Industries Minister E P Jayarajan and CPM State Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan were among those, who are on observation as they had attended the CPI (M) state secretariat meeting the other day. But all the leaders were ensuring proper social distancing. Meanwhile, 1,648 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state on Monday. The comparatively low number of fresh cases was due to a low number of tests done during the past 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-finance-minister-stable-many-leaders-under-observation-884030.html
07-09-2020||South||7 fishermen rescued from mid-sea, search on for missing 3 in Kerala||Seven of the 10 fishermen, who went missing in rough seas off Malappuram district, were rescued in a joint operation by the coastal police, the Coast Guard and local fishermen. The search is continuing to find the remaining three. Six fishermen in one boat which went missing near Nattika in Thrissur district were rescued, and another person in a fibre boat, which capsized, was also rescued. Coast Guard ship Vikram, along with a small vessel, is searching for the three along the coast north of Ponnani, a defence spokesman said. The Coast Guard ship Aryaman, two Dornier aircraft and a Chetak helicopter have been deployed south of Kochi, the spokesman said. On Sunday, weathermen said Kerala may experience heavy rain and wind due to the low pressure formed in the Arabian sea. In view of this prediction, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had appealed to fishermen not to venture out to sea for 48 hours beginning on Sunday. Despite the warning, the fishermen set out to sea. The warning for fishermen not to venture into the sea still stands due to the rain alert and thelow pressure that has formed in the Arabian sea. On Monday, the India MeteorologicalCentre said the southwest monsoon was vigorous over Kerala. According to the weathermen, heavy rainfall was expected also in the coming days at most places in the southern state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/7-fishermen-rescued-from-mid-sea-search-on-for-missing-3-in-kerala-884032.html
07-09-2020||South||GST Assistant Commissioner in Chennai alleges Hindi imposition||An Assistant Commissioner working with the GST and Central Excise in Chennai on Monday alleged “Hindi imposition” on him and his colleagues by complaining that they were posted to a section tasked with promoting Hindi within the office despite them not knowing the language. P Balamurugan, who works with the Office of the Commissioner of GST and Central Excise, Chennai Outer Commissionerate, said he was posted to the Capacity Building and Hindi cell in November 2019 despite his “disinterest.” Besides him, the section has one inspector who does not know Hindi, and an inspector and an assistant from a Hindi-speaking state, he added.    While Balamurugan confirmed writing the letter, there was no official word from the Commissioner of GST and Central Excise on the issue. The officer is due to retire from service in 2024 and there was little clarity on what prompted him to write the letter almost a year after he was appointed to the post. The original letter in English and a Tamil translation of the same was released to the media. “The documents and files in the Hindi department should mandatorily be in Hindi. At least 50 percent of the documents should be in Hindi. Inspector Sugumar and I do not know to write or read Hindi. When inspector Ranjan Daiya or the assistant prepare documents in Hindi, we would just sign without reading as we do not know the language,” Balamurugan said in a letter to the Chairman of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. After Balamurugan’s letter went viral, DMK President M K Stalin latched on to it seeking to know whether the BJP government was for the whole of India or only for those who speak Hindi. The letter by the officer comes close on the heels of alleged Hindi imposition taking the center stage in Tamil Nadu. Balamurugan noted that Daiya has now been transferred to a different department and inspector Vijayakumar has been brought as a replacement to him. Since Vijayakumar also does not know to read and write Hindi, none of the officials in the department now know the language. “We cannot write letters or prepare files in Hindi as none of us know Hindi. A deputy commissioner whose mother tongue is Hindi is posted in the Commissioner’s office. Without appointing him to the post in the department, making me in charge of the Hindi section amounts to belittling my emotions towards the Tamil language,” he said in the three-page letter.   “I consider my appointment to the Hindi cell without me knowing the language as an act of imposition of the language. Hindi imposition is not just asking people to study in the language but also forcing someone to propagate Hindi without his interest,” Balamurugan said, adding that only Hindi-speaking people should be appointed to the Hindi cell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gst-assistant-commissioner-in-chennai-alleges-hindi-imposition-884041.html
07-09-2020||South||Azharuddin files police complaint against HCA member for alleged abuse||Former India captain and President of the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) Mohammad Azharuddin on Monday filed a police complaint here, alleging that a member of the association 'abused' him verbally, police said. Azharuddin, in the complaint, said that a committee member of the HCA had used "abusive" language against him and an employee of the association over an administrative matter, they said. Based on the complaint, a case had been registered against the HCA member under relevant Indian Penal Code sections, a police official told PTI adding further investigations were on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/azharuddin-files-police-complaint-against-hca-member-for-alleged-abuse-884072.html
07-09-2020||South||Kerala MPs to oppose leasing out of Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani||A meeting of MPs from Kerala, convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan ahead of monsoon session of Parliament session, on Monday decided to exert pressure on the Central government in both the Houses against its move to lease out the international airport here to the private sector. While all the MPs from the state cutting across party lines supported the state government's stand on the issue, Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor stuck to his position, backing the Centre's move to lease out the airport for 50 years to Adani Enterprises, official sources said. The meeting was convened as per the practice of holding discussions with the MPs ahead of Parliament sessions on issues that need to be raised. Addressing the MPs via videoconference, Vijayan said the state government would not cooperate with the Centre if it went ahead with the decision to lease out the airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd. Urging the Centre to re-examine its decision, Vijayan said the operation and management of the airport be handed over to the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) in which the state government has a stake. The Chief Minister noted that the state government has experience in managing the airports in Kochi and Kannur in Public Private Participation, the sources said. When the issue surfaced last month, Tharoor had supported the Centre's decision, saying that he was speaking in the best interests of his constituency. He had tweeted, saying "the people of Thiruvananthapuram want a first-class airport worthy of the city's history, status and potential." Last month, the Kerala Assembly had passed a "unanimous resolution" demanding the withdrawal of Union Cabinet's decision to lease out the Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd. The meeting of MPs also decided to resist in Parliament the divestment process of Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) initiated by the Central government. Noting that the Kochi refinery of the BPCL was set up with the support of the state government, the MPs urged the Centre to retain the company in the public sector, that too in view of the decision to expand the project spending thousands of crores of rupees. The meeting decided to urge the Centre to urgently provide the due GST compensation amount of Rs 7,000 crore to the state and extend the moratorium on bank loans till December 31 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It unanimously opposed the move to withdraw the Dictionary of Martyrs of Indias Freedom Struggle, jointly published by the Union Ministry of Culture and the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) in the backdrop of the ongoing controversy over the inclusion of names of the 1921 Malabar rebellion leaders Variyamkunnath Kunjahammed Haji and Ali Musaliar in it, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mps-to-oppose-leasing-out-of-thiruvananthapuram-airport-to-adani-884074.html
07-09-2020||State||326 fresh Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada district recorded 326 fresh Covid-19 cases and one more Covid fatality on Sunday. The Covid-19 fatalities have risen to 401. DC Dr Rajendra K V said that the total cases in the district has increased to 14,926 while the district has 3,084 infected persons undergoing treatment at various hospitals, covid care centres and in home isolation. The DC said of the fresh cases, ILI contributed to highest of 168 infected cases. The contact tracing of 109 infected is underway. While 34 infected were the primary contacts of already infected persons. Fifteen afflicted with SARI have tested positive for Covid-19, he explained. Among the infected,192 are symptomatic. With 187, Mangaluru registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases followed by Bantwal-39, Belthangady-33, Puttur-28, Sullia-27 and other districts-12. The district has so far tested 1,064,31 samples for testing Covid infection. On the positive side, 202 infected have recovered and been discharged from hospitals, covid care centres and from home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/326-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-883660.html
07-09-2020||State||Condolences pour in for Edneer Mutt seer Kesavananda Bharati||Condolences poured in following the demise of Edneer Mutt seer Kesavananda Bharati Swami. Condoling the death of the Edneer Mutt seer, Vice President of India Venkaiah Naidu tweeted, "Kesavananda Bharati Swamiji, the seer of Edneer Mutt was a rare blend of philosopher, classical singer and a cultural icon. His patronage of Yakshagana was crucial in reviving this traditional theatre form in Karnataka." Dharmasthala Dharmadikari D Veerendra Heggade said, "Through discourses, the seer used to give a good message to the society at various platforms. He was an orator and had a command over many languages. He has contributed to music, art, education and literature." State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the death of the seer is a great loss to the country. The seer had fought against the Kerala Land Reforms Act that put a few restrictions and won the case and had upheld the aspirations of the Constitution. Kateel added that the seer had a great love for the Kannada language. Former MLC and BJP state spokesperson Capt Ganesh Karnik said, “The seer had strived hard to save Kannada in the neighbouring Kasargod district by starting Kannada medium schools. As a patron of Yakshagana, the seer had set up Yakshagana melas and had contributed immensely towards Yakshagana, dance, music and cultural programmes. Owing to the seer’s effort, the Supreme Court had given a landmark judgement which outlined the basic structure doctrine of the Constitution.” Under the guidance of Pejawar seer Vishwaprasanna Theertha Swami, a condolence programme was organised at Udupi SMSP Samskrita College and Udupi Nagarikaru Srigala Abhimanigalu at the college premises. The Pejawar seer remembered the Edneer seer’s contribution to culture, education and society and said that his ideology should be a guide for all of us. Yakshagana Kalaranga President K Ganesh Rao said, “The seer had promoted Yakshagana through a mela. He was also a Yakshagana Bhagavatha. He had great respect for artistes.” Odiyoor Sri Gurudevadatta Samstana Mutt seer Gurudevananda Swami said, “Kesavananda Bharathi Swamiji had given a new direction to the cultural world of Kasargod district. His demise is a loss to society.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/condolences-pour-in-for-edneer-mutt-seer-kesavananda-bharati-883683.html
07-09-2020||State||Mysuru Police raid suspected ganja, drug peddlers||City Police launched a drive against those involved in dealing in ganja and narcotic drugs. The Police raided houses of peddlars in the city on Sunday. However, no narcotic substances were found during the raid. Following Bengaluru CCB busting a drug scam, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta was also directed to check the menace in the city. Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda abd Assistant Commissioner of Police CCB Mariyappa formed and led the teams conducted these raids. As many as 90 police personnel headed by respective inspectors conducted raids across the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-police-raid-suspected-ganja-drug-peddlers-883689.html
07-09-2020||State||Karnataka's BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel recovers from Covid-19||BJP state President and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel has recovered from Covid-19 infection and discharged from hospital. In a Tweet, he said the doctors have advised him to remain quarantined at home for a few days. The tweet said “with the blessings of Kateel Durgaparameshwari Godess, I have recovered from covid-19. I had not seen God in my life. I have seen the presence of God in doctors and nurses who have been relentlessly working towards treating covid-19 infected,” he tweeted. ನಾನು ಭಗವಂತನನ್ನು ಕಣ್ಣಾರೆ ನೋಡಿದವನಲ್ಲ. ಆದರೆ ತಮ್ಮಅಮೂಲ್ಯ ಪ್ರಾಣವನ್ನು ಪಣಕ್ಕಿಟ್ಟು ನಮ್ಮ ಆರೋಗ್ಯಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ಹಗಲಿರುಳು ಶ್ರಮಿಸುತ್ತಿರುವ ವೈದ್ಯರಲ್ಲಿ, ದಾದಿಯರಲ್ಲಿ, ಆರೋಗ್ಯ ಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ದೇವರನ್ನು ಕಂಡೆ.2/2   Nalin Kumar Kateel was tested positive for Covid-19 on August 30 and was admitted to a hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-bjp-president-nalin-kumar-kateel-recovers-from-covid-19-883743.html
07-09-2020||State||Telkur takes charge as NEKRTC chairman||Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur on Monday took charge as Chairman of North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC). Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi who also holds Transport portfolio, Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) Chairman Dattatraya Patil Revoor, NEKRTC Managing Director R Kurmarao and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/telkur-takes-charge-as-nekrtc-chairman-883745.html
07-09-2020||State||Karnataka Congress workers attempt to obstruct MPs PMGSY foundation laying programmes||Congress workers staged protest in the town and attempted to obstruct foundation stone laying ceremonies by MP Anantkumar Hegde for Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) in the taluk on Monday. They alleged that MLA Dr Anjali Nimbalkar was not invited for the programme and events were scheduled at a time when the lawmaker has tested positive for Covid-19 and was in home isolation. More than 50 workers of Congress, both men and women, took exception for Hegde organising the programme in different villages when the MLA was unwell. Police detained Congress workers while they were on their way to block Belagavi-Panaji national highway-4A. The foundation-stone laying programmes under PMGSY for Chapgaon-Hattargunji road, Hattargunji-Mudekoppa road, Mudekoppa-Jamboti road and Jamboti-Khanapur road had been scheduled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-congress-workers-attempt-to-obstruct-mps-pmgsy-foundation-laying-programmes-883781.html
07-09-2020||State||HC notice to Karnataka, Centre over plea by D K Shivakumar's co-brother||The High Court has issued notice to the Central and state governments and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on an appeal filed by Shashi Kumar Shivanna, Congress leader D K Shivakumar’s co-brother. The writ appeal challenges the single-judge bench order upholding the consent accorded by the state government for a CBI probe against Shashi Kumar. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka ordered notice to the respondents. The state government had given its consent for a CBI probe against Shivakumar and others, including Shashi Kumar, for violations under the Prevention of Corruption Act (PC Act). Shashi Kumar, an officer grade employee of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), had contended that the state government could not have accorded consent to the CBI probe against him since he was a central government employee. He had claimed before the single judge bench that instead of using the word 'consent,' the government had used the word 'sanction' while ordering a CBI probe under Section 6 of the Delhi Police Establishment Act (DSPE Act). The single judge bench had dismissed his petition, terming the state government's consent as an administrative order. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had said that Shashi Kumar was involved in property transactions on behalf of Shivakumar. Since the ED felt that the provisions of the PC Act had been violated, it shared the findings of the investigation with the CBI on September 2, 2019. As many of the persons employed with the state government were involved in the alleged offence, ED sent a report to the state government for appropriate action. The state government obtained legal opinion from the Advocate General and passed the order on September 25, 2019 for a CBI probe against Shivakumar and officials of the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-notice-to-karnataka-centre-over-plea-by-d-k-shivakumars-co-brother-884042.html
07-09-2020||State||Karnataka: Low testing yields over 5,000 Covid-19 cases||The state recorded only 5,773 Covid-19 cases on Monday, in keeping with the trend of low testing on Sundays. Karnataka had been reporting positive cases in excess of 9,000 over the past six days. Only 45,421 samples were tested from midnight of September 5 to midnight of September 6, which yielded 5,773 new cases on Monday.  It may be recalled that on August 31, the state reported 6,495 cases as it tested only 43,132 samples from the midnight of August 29 to the midnight of August 30, again a Sunday.  Ballari reported 266 cases, Mysuru 221, Davangere 199, and Mandya 169. The total number of positive cases breached the four lakh mark in the state with 4,04,324 people having been affected by the virus so far.  On the bright side, a total of 8,015 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries to more than three lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-low-testing-yields-over-5000-covid-19-cases-884054.html
07-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NLSIU out of law varsity consortium over CLAT differences||The Consortium of National Law Universities (CNLU) on Sunday divested National Law School of India University vice chancellor Sudhir Krishnaswamy from the post of secretary-treasurer of the consortium after the Bengaluru-based varsity decided to hold its own entrance test instead of the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). The CNLU, in a statement issued late Sunday, also said all law universities, except National Law School of India University (NLSIU), will hold the CLAT on September 28, as announced earlier. Secretariat shifted The governing body of the CNLU, at a meeting held on Saturday, also decided to shift the secretariat of the Consortium from NLSIU, Bengaluru to National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (Nalsar) University of Law, Hyderabad. Nalsar Vice Chancellor Faizan Mustafa will discharge the administrative and secretarial functions of the Consortium in the interim, while NLU Odisha Vice Chancellor S K D Rao shall discharge the functions of the treasurer, a CNLU statement said. Krishnaswamy had announced that the NLSIU will hold separate entrance examination to this year’s academic courses, a decision that had shocked the legal education circles. He had said that if NLSIU failed to complete admissions before end of September, it will result in a Zero Year with no admissions. The CLAT, which was earlier scheduled to be held on September 7, was postponed to September 28. Krishnaswamy was present at the meeting of the Governing Board of the CNLU, but left midway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nlsiu-out-of-law-varsity-consortium-over-clat-differences-883623.html
07-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||All govt buses in Karnataka to run on fuel from MRPL||Diesel produced at Mangaluru-based petroleum refinery MRPL will now run Karnataka state-run buses that transport millions of passengers every day. Currently, the tender for supplying diesel to KSRTC (Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation) and BMTC (Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation) buses is executed by HPCL (Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited), according to MRPL (Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited). HPCL has now tied up with MRPL for the entire supply, according to an MRPL statement on Monday. The first load to KSRTC by HPCL with MRPL high-speed diesel (HSD) under this tender was dispatched on September 2, the statement said. "The tie-up is expected to increase MRPLs direct sale of HSD in Karnataka by at least 20 fold, in comparison to our sales last financial year. MRPL is also expanding its retail network in Karnataka and Kerala with the construction of many retail outlets which are in final stages of their construction said MRPL's group general manager (marketing) Sathyanarayana H C.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-govt-buses-in-karnataka-to-run-on-fuel-from-mrpl-883898.html
07-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Five tiger poachers arrested, Union Minister Javadekar lauds forest officials||Five poachers who allegedly killed a tiger in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve in Karnataka recently have been nabbed by the state Forest department personnel with Union Minister of Environment and Forest Prakash Javadekar praising the latter for their swift action. The poachers had shot dead the male tiger at Nagaraole and mutilated it for its claws and canines recently, officials said. All the five involved have been nabbed within ten days, they said, adding tiger claws, canines and deer meat among others that have been recovered from them. "Well done, Forest staff & officers of Nagarhole Tiger Reserve for nabbing all the culprits responsible for poaching the Tiger, in such quick time," Javadekar tweeted. Karnataka Forest Minister Anand Singh too took to twitter appreciating the department officials. He said swift action by officials and staff of the forest department at Nagarahole Tiger Reserve has led to the arrest of five poachers successfully. "This is a warning bell for poachers. The government is committed to control poachers, increasing the number of animals, and bringing down man-tiger conflicts. We have a responsibility to hand over beautiful wildlife to our future generations," Sing tweeted. Sniffer dog 'Rana' from Bandipur played a key role in tracing the poachers, officials said adding further investigation was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-tiger-poachers-arrested-union-minister-javadekar-lauds-forest-officials-883972.html
07-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa pegs Karnataka's flood losses at Rs 8,071 crore||Overall losses suffered by Karnataka due to the floods in August this year was worth Rs 8,071 crore, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa informed the Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), which is in the state on a three-day visit to assess the damages suffered. At a meeting held at CM's home-office Krishna, Yediyurappa told IMCT that crops in 4.03 lakh hectares land, several schools, Anganwadis, roads and bridges were damaged during floods and landslides this year. Noting that the guidelines for relief under State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) and National Disaster Relief Fund were expected to be revised this year, the CM urged IMCT to revise the relief amount for the benefit of victims affected by natural disasters. The state government, Yediyurappa noted, was providing compensation to those who lost houses in the floods with an objective to rebuild better houses. Compensation of Rs five lakh for houses that suffered 75 percent or more damage and Rs three lakh and Rs 50,000 respectively for houses that suffered partial damages were provided in 2019, which cost the state Rs 1,500 crore. "This year too, Karnataka will incur an additional expense of Rs 200 crore in compensating the victims," Yediyurappa said. Though the funds under SDRF were released for Covid-19 and flood relief activities, the state requires additional funds to tackle the increase in Covid-19 cases and provided relief to all flood victims. The six-member IMCT is headed by KV Prathap, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, with Dr Bharatendu Kumar Singh, Director, Department of Expenditure and Dr Manoharan, Director, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Cooperation among its members. The team will tour flood-hit regions till September 9, and submit a report to the Centre on the extent of damages suffered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-pegs-karnatakas-flood-losses-at-rs-8071-crore-883980.html
07-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt instructs for clinical study as Bengaluru hospital reports Covid-19 reinfection||As a 27-year-old woman from the city probably became the 'first' victim of Covid-19 reinfection nearly a month after recovering, Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Monday instructed the officials to conduct a clinical study about such cases. Expressing concern over the reinfection of the patient who was discharged from a hospital in July after recovery, he said it should be dealt with carefully and efforts taken to dispel fears among the people. "Minister Dr K Sudhakar has instructed the officials to conduct a clinical study about the coronavirus reinfection cases," his office said in a statement. Referring to the woman found infected with coronavirus for a second time at the Fortis Hospital, the Minister, who held a meeting with the Covid-19 taskforce officials, said several other countries have reported cases of reinfection and each country has come up with a different reason for it. According to the statement, an official said that when a person recovers from Covid-19, it takes at least 15 days for production of white blood cells and this might lead to reinfection in some patients. However, this cannot be considered as the definite reason for the reinfection, it was stated. "Responding to this, the Minister demanded clarity over coronavirus reinfection, and instructed officials concerned to submit a report regarding the treatment of special cases such as this in other states," the statement said. The Fortis Hospital at the Bannerghatta Road has said the woman has been found to be the "first" confirmed victim of Covid-19 reinfection in the city. The hospital's Infectious Diseases Consultant Dr Pratik Patil has said that in the first week of July, the patient was symptomatic (fever, cough and sore throat) and tested positive. She was admitted to the hospital and recovered well. A repeat test was conducted on her, which turned out to be negative post which she was discharged on July 24. However, nearly after one month, in the last week of August, she developed mild symptoms again and had been tested positive, Patil said in a statement. This was possibly the first reported case of Covid-19 reinfection in Bengaluru, Patil said, adding normally, in case of infection, the Covid Immunoglobulin G antibody is tested positive after 2-3 weeks of infection. However, in this patient, the antibody has been tested negative, which means she did not develop immunity after infection. Another possibility was that the IgG antibodies disappeared in nearly one month leaving her susceptible for reinfection, he has said. "Reinfection cases mean that the antibodies may not be produced by every individual or if they do develop, they may not last long enough, and therefore, allowing the virus to enter the body and cause the disease again," Dr Patil has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-instructs-for-clinical-study-as-bengaluru-hospital-reports-covid-19-reinfection-883990.html
07-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ragini Dwivedi to remain under police custody for 5 more days||A city court has extended the police custody of actress Ragini Dwivedi in connection with the drug scandal case. The CCB police can question her now till Friday. “Ragini was produced before the court and on our request the court remanded her in five days of police custody,” said Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil. Ragini was arrested on September 4, after the CCB officials conducted a search in her house. A senior officer connected with the case said the court was informed that Ragini didn’t cooperate with the investigation in the last three days. She complained of health issues and kept mum for questions put by the investigation officers. The police also informed the court that the other accused persons in the case had revealed more about Ragini’s role in the drug scandal and hence they needed more time to interrogate her. Before producing Ragini in the court via video conference, two women police inspectors interrogated her for more than two hours.  No advocate represented Ragini when the case was called out in the court. Sudarshan, who was appearing for the actress till now told the media that the family members of Ragini had asked him to retire in the case.  According to sources, the family has decided to appoint a Mumbai-based advocate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ragini-dwivedi-to-remain-under-police-custody-for-5-more-days-884039.html
07-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC convicts magazine editor, reporter in defamation case||The Karnataka High Court on Monday held that the offence of defamation was complete unless not covered under the exceptions such as public good or good faith. Relying on observations by the Supreme Court on defamation, the high court convicted an editor and a reporter of a local newspaper in Bhatkal and in another case dismissed the criminal revision petition filed by an editor of Mangaluru-based evening newspaper. In the first case, the high court reversed the trial court order and convicted Ganesh P, editor and publisher of “Kadala Koogu,” a weekly magazine in Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada and its reporter Raghavendra R Bhat. A teacher from Bhatkal had filed a complaint against the journalists for writing an article defaming her character. The trial court though accepted that the article was objectionable, acquitted the two accused in 2011. Justice N G Uma, while setting aside the order of the trial court, observed, “The conduct of the accused in using objectionable and defamatory words only to have rhyming caption and the article is not at all acceptable and therefore both the accused are liable to be convicted.” The bench ordered the accused to pay a fine of Rs 30,000 each. The court also ordered to deposit an amount of Rs 50,000 of the fine amount, in favour of the complainant as compensation. In another case, Justice H B Prabhakara Sastry dismissed a criminal revision petition filed by B S Shivaprasad, printer, publisher and acting editor of “Karavali Ale” and Canara Times in Mangaluru. The complainant in the case, Mangalore Catholic Cooperative Bank Ltd, had moved the court for two articles published in the year 2000. The complainant stated that there was no evidence for the allegations made in the articles. Shivaprasad was held guilty by the trial court in 2005 which was confirmed by the sessions court in Dakshina Kannada in 2010. The high court bench held that a publisher of a defamatory statement can only be protected if he shows that he had taken all reasonable precautions and then had a reasonable and well-grounded belief in the truth of the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-convicts-magazine-editor-reporter-in-defamation-case-884043.html
07-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bar Council seeks resumption of physical hearing in high court||Karnataka State Bar Council has passed a resolution to request the Karnataka High Court Chief Justice Abhay Sreeniwas Oka to resume physical hearing in the court within a week. The Bar Council has resolved to request the Chief Justice to issue necessary orders for regular functioning of the court with physical appearance, filing, arguments, permitting witnesses to the court. In a press release, State Bar Council's J M Anil Kumar said the advocate fraternity along with the litigant public in the state are facing a lot of inconvenience and hardship. "The advocates across the state have requested the State Bar Council to request the Chief Justice to permit them to file cases physically as it was prior to lockdown and to appear in the courts in person. This apart, the advocates have requested to permit them to take their vehicles to the court campus and to use facilities, such as typists and notaries with all safety measures,’’ he stated.  Considering the request made by the advocates, Bar Council in the meeting held on September 6, passed the resolution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bar-council-seeks-resumption-of-physical-hearing-in-high-court-884050.html
07-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||25 MPs from Karnataka lack courage: Eshwar Khandre||The working president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee, Eshwar Khandre has said that 25 Lok Sabha members from the state lack courage to speak before Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Khandre said that the Centre had been discriminating against Karnataka in paying the share in GST collection. However, the BJP leaders in the state have not been questioning the Centre in this regard, he said. Khandre said that while the state demanded Rs 50,000-cr flood relief package, the Union government released only Rs 1,800 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/25-mps-from-karnataka-lack-courage-eshwar-khandre-884071.html
07-09-2020||West||Mild earthquake hits Maharashtra's Palghar||An earthquake of 3.5 magnitude hit Maharashtra's Palghar district on Monday morning but there was no report of any casualty or damage to property, an official said. The earthquake was experienced at 8.07 am in Paraswadi area of Dahanu taluka, district disaster control cell chief Vivekanand Kadam said. Last week, four mild earthquakes were recorded in the district on Friday and Saturday. Palghar district, especially its Dahanu and Talasari tehsils, has been witnessing low to moderate intensity earthquakes since November 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mild-earthquake-hits-maharashtras-palghar-883707.html
07-09-2020||West||After dry spell, Mumbai witnesses moderate to heavy rain||Moderate to heavy rain accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning hit parts of Mumbai and neighbouring areas overnight and early Monday morning, officials said. The city had been witnessing dry spell for the last few days, leading to a rise in temperature and humidity. According to a civic official, Mumbai city recorded 31.21 mm rain in the 24-hour period ending at 8 am on Wednesday, while the eastern and western suburbs received 10.58 mm and 4.35 mm downpour, respectively. Local train and bus services were not affected and there was no waterlogging anywhere in the city, he said. The city and its suburbs will have partially cloudy sky with possibility of light rain or thundershowers towards the evening or night, the official said quoting forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). "Lightnings increased in the early morning hours with rolling sounds. Entire Konkan region is seen with dense clouds. Activity is likely to continue for the next 3-4 hours over the coast," IMD Mumbai centre's deputy director general K S Hosalikar tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-dry-spell-mumbai-witnesses-moderate-to-heavy-rain-883797.html
07-09-2020||West||Maharashtra Assembly pays tributes to Pranab Mukherjee||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray paid tributes to former president Pranab Mukherjee on the first day of the state legislature's monsoon session on Monday, describing him as a sensitive human being who treated others with respect. Mukherjee, 84, died in an army hospital in New Delhi on August 31. Speaking on the condolence motion in the Legislative Assembly, Thackeray said he first met Mukherjee when the latter visited his home 'Matoshree' here with NCP chief Sharad Pawar as part of his campaign for the presidential polls. "I realised he was a sensitive human being who treated others with respect. This is a rare quality," Thackeray said. The Chief Minister recalled that when Mukherjee, as President, was in Mumbai a few years ago, he got a call that the visiting dignitary wanted to meet him. "I went to the Raj Bhavan with Aaditya (Thackeray's son) and Mukherjee told me he never thought he would be the president. 'But the Shiv Sena openly supported my candidature and facilitated my win. Unfortunately, Balasaheb Thackeray is not with us now and my tenure is ending'," the Chief Minister said recalling Mukherjee's words. Thackeray also said Mukherjee congratulated him on the Shiv Sena's win in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections. "Showing gratitude is also a rare quality, otherwise after getting the chair of power everything is forgotten," Thackeray said. The Chief Minister also paid homage to former chief minister Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar, and former legislature members Anil Rathod, Chandrakanta Goyal among others, who died recently. "The previous Sena-BJP alliance owed a lot to the Goyal family since several meetings would be held at her (Chandrakanta Goyal's) residence. I remember Chandrakanta tai and Ved Prakashji," Thackeray said referring to Ved Prakash Goyal, who was the BJP's treasurer for a long time. Union minister Piyush Goyal is the son of Chandrakanta Goyal and Ved Prakash Goyal. The condolence motion was supported by Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and other members. Fadnavis while paying tributes to Mukherjee described him as an excellent parliamentarian and statesman. He also paid tributes to former chief minister Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar. He said the last name Nilangekar was given to the leader by the state legislature. "In 1962, three Shivajirao Patils were elected. The then speaker told him that you will be called Nilangekar," Fadnavis said. The BJP leader also said that Nilangekar gifted a traditional Maharashtrian nine-yard saree to Indira Gandhi who wore it at a function in Mumbai. "Nilangekar became revenue minister in Sushilkumar Shinde's cabinet at the instance of Sonia Gandhi. He felt it would be improper to be a minister after serving as chief minister, but she said he would do a good job since the state is facing drought," Fadnavis said. Nilangekar was a Congress loyalist and despite being a friend of (former prime minister) V P Singh, he refused to join his government as a Union minister, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-assembly-pays-tributes-to-pranab-mukherjee-883801.html
07-09-2020||West||Maharashtra Monsoon Session begins with Covid-19 prevention norms||The two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra Assembly began on Monday with Deputy Speaker Narhari Zhirwal asking members to observe physical distancing and wear face masks in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As part of the physical distancing protocols, Zhirwal asked members not to sit on chairs having a 'cross' sign. Only one member was seated in the seating area for two. Members were also seated in the students and visitors gallery to ensure physical distancing among them. The deputy speaker also asked members to keep their masks on while speaking in the House. He presided over the House proceedings since Speaker Nana Patole is indisposed as he tested positive for coronavirus last week. After the session began, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar tabled ordinances related to amendments to GST and contingency fund. Ordinances pertaining to rural development and urban development departments for postponement of elections to local bodies and mayoral posts due to the pandemic were also tabled along with other bills and papers. Pawar tabled the supplementary demands for 2020-21. The debate on these demands will be taken up on Tuesday before their passage. Zhirwal also announced the panel of presiding officers for two days - Balaji Kinikar (Shiv Sena), Daulat Daroda (NCP), Sangram Thopte (Congress) and Kalidas Kolambkar (BJP). The state government has put in place a slew of measures to ensure members do not contract Covid-19 and House proceedings go on without any hindrance. Compulsory antigen tests for legislators, distribution of Covid-19 kits and new seating arrangements to ensure physical distancing among members are some of the measures undertaken for the two-day session, Vidhan Bhavan officials earlier said. The shortest-ever monsoon session in the history of the Maharashtra legislature is taking place in the backdrop of a raging Covid-19 pandemic which has already infected more than nine lakh people in the state. There will be no question hour, calling attention and debates during the session, state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab said last week. This is also the first monsoon session of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government which assumed office in November last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-monsoon-session-begins-with-covid-19-prevention-norms-883840.html
07-09-2020||West||Kohinoor Electronics director crushed to death under lift in Mumbai||A 46-year-old director of a retail chain was crushed to death under a lift after he stepped into its shaft in Worli area here, police said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday evening when Vishal Mewani, who was the director of Kohinoor Electronics, went to meet his friend in the two-storey Buena Vista building in Worli, a police official said. He called for the lift, but stepped into its shaft after opening the lift channel. On realising that he was in the shaft, he tried to move out but failed and got crushed under the lift which was coming down, the official said. Fire brigade officials rushed to the spot and Mewani was pulled out. He was taken to Breach Candy Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival, the official said. "He spoke to his wife 30 minutes before the incident and told her that he was going to meet his friend. On the basis of primary information, an Accidental Death Report (ADR) has been registered and further investigation is underway," Worli police station's senior inspector Sukhlal Varpe said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kohinoor-electronics-director-crushed-to-death-under-lift-in-mumbai-883857.html
07-09-2020||West||Election for Maharashtra Council's deputy chairperson on Tuesday||Election for the post of Maharashtra Legislative Council's deputy chairperson will be held on Tuesday, the council's chairman Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar said after the state legislature's two-day monsoon session began on Monday. The opposition BJP, however, called for postponing the election in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. "Members are aware that the important post is lying vacant. The election for the same will be held on Tuesday," Nimbalkar said in the Council, and added that nominations for the election will be scrutinised at 5 pm on Monday. Leader of Opposition in the Council Pravin Darekar said the election should be postponed. "We had said (during a meeting of the business advisory committee) that the election should not be held at this juncture given the Covid-19 crisis. You can see that several members are not present in the House today. All these members will be deprived of their rights," Darekar said. He noted that elections of all local governing bodies have also been postponed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. "We can postpone this (deputy chairpersons) election too," the BJP leader said. The council chairman, however, maintained that it is his prerogative to schedule the election and it will be held on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar reached out to the opposition and called for electing the deputy chairperson unopposed. "I request you (Darekar) to see that the deputy chairperson is elected unopposed. We should sit together and unanimously decide the same. We are ready for it," Pawar said. According to sources, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi, which comprises the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, has not yet finalised the name of its candidate for the deputy chairpersons election. The Congress is keen on contesting the election, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/election-for-maharashtra-councils-deputy-chairperson-on-tuesday-883865.html
07-09-2020||West||12-year-old girl pens an open letter to draw PM Modi’s attention to air pollution impacting children||Worried over the serious health implications on breathing toxic air on children,12-year-old Ridhima Pandey, a global climate activist has written an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on behalf of all the children of India, seeking immediate steps against rising air pollution. Highlighting the plight of people living in densely-populated cities, including Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and others which report high levels of air pollution, Ridhima has requested the PM to order strict implementation of all the rules and regulations, which will safeguard the health of every Indian, especially children who are the most vulnerable.  Ridhima decided to share the copy of her letter on her social media on Monday, September 7 since the day is being observed globally as the first International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies.   Sharing an anecdote with the PM she stated that once at school, her teacher asked all the students about their worst nightmares. “I told the teacher that mine was coming to school with an oxygen cylinder because the air was becoming so polluted. This nightmare is still my biggest worry because polluted air is one of the biggest problems in our country today,” she wrote in her letter. Ridhima highlights that every year, in many cities like Delhi, the air becomes very polluted, which even makes breathing difficult post-October. “I worry that if a 12-year-old like me finds it hard to breathe, what must it be like for babies or children younger to me living in cities like highly polluted cities like Delhi and others,” she states. Citing an example of Delhi she shared that air in Delhi becomes so toxic that people find difficulty in breathing and she had herself experienced this last year during Children's Day when she was in Delhi. The young activist from Haridwar who was among 16 children, including Greta Thunberg who filed a complaint at the UN Climate Action Summit against the lack of government action on Climate Change, said that she is worried that if rising air pollution is not tackled, people will have to carry an oxygen cylinder with them to breathe clean air and survive.  Through her letter, she has urged the PM to give strict instructions to all the concerned authorities and officers-in-charge of managing pollution across India to strictly implement all the rules and regulations so that citizens of India can breathe clean air. “Kindly help us by making sure that an oxygen cylinder doesn’t become an essential part of the life of children, which we have to carry on our shoulders everywhere in the future,” she signs off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-year-old-girl-pens-an-open-letter-to-draw-pm-modi-s-attention-to-air-pollution-impacting-children-883866.html
07-09-2020||West||Mumbai may report 2,000 plus Covid-19 cases daily||The financial capital of Mumbai is expecting to get more than 2,000 Covid-19 daily and have accordingly beefed up the bed strength and other measures. However, the current spike has been attributed to the revamping of Covid-19 testing facilities in Mumbai. During the last week, from 31 August to 6 September, Mumbai has seen 1,1043 new coronavirus cases, thus the average patients have been 1,550 plus, according to the date of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that the BMC had conducted approximately 4000 tests everyday on an average in May and June 2020. This was ramped up to 6,500 tests on an average everyday in the month of July 2020. In the month of August 2020, the testing per day was 7,619. “It was decided in the last week of August 2020 to further revamp the testing. In the month of September 2020, accordingly, tests have been around 9,000 to 10,000 every day since 1 September and today, it touched 11,861,” Chahal said. This is the primary reason for the increase in the number of positive cases in Mumbai. Considering the fact that approximately 4,800 beds are lying vacant under DCH / DCHC facilities under BMC and another set of 6,200 Covid beds in jumbo field hospitals lying fully ready which can be added on to the dashboard at a short notice. “Around 60 to 70 % positive cases are asymptomatic in nature requiring home quarantine only, the availability of beds for symptomatic positive cases in Mumbai will not be an issue at all, even if the number of positive cases on an average goes beyond 2,000 every day,” Chahal asserted. The BMC is adding 250 additional ICU beds on the dashboard in the next 3 days to ensure that at least 350 plus ICU beds remain vacant every day, as an assurance to the citizens of Mumbai. The strategy of BMC to substantially ramp up the tests from average testing of 7,619 everyday in the month of August to 10,000-14,000 tests everyday in the month of September, resulting in an increase in the average number of positive cases from 1,000-13,00 to 1,700-2,000 everyday by effectively utilising a large number of vacant Covid beds available in the city of Mumbai will help to accelerate arrest of the spread of the coronavirus in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-may-report-2000-plus-covid-19-cases-daily-883871.html
07-09-2020||West||Kangana Ranaut-Maharashtra government clash continues||Ahead over her arrival in Mumbai, the face-off between actor Kangana Ranaut and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government continued even as the Centre accorded her Y-category security. The Maha Vikas Agnadi government, comprising Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress, has reacted sharply to the security cover being provided to the 33-year-old controversial actor by CRPF based on recommendations made by Himachal Pradesh government. Meanwhile, Kangana shared a video on her Twitter handle, alleging that the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) carried out measurements in her Mumbai office and was planning to demolish it. “This is the Manikarnika Films office in Mumbai. It took 15 years of hard work to achieve this. It was one of my dreams to have my own office if I ever got the opportunity to become a filmmaker. But now it looks like my dream is going to be destroyed. Today, some BMC officials showed up unannounced,” she said. Kangana alleged that BMC officials have forcefully taken over her office measuring everything. “They are also harassing my neighbours….when they retorted BMC officials used language like “wo joh madam hain, uski kartoot ka parinam sabko bharna hoga (everyone must pay for the lady’s behaviour). I am informed tomorrow they are demolishing my property,” she said, adding that she has all the necessary papers for the property.  Meanwhile, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray have spoken on the issue. "Some people have gratitude towards the city where they live and earn their livelihood and some don’t,” Thackeray told the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly while paying tributes to Anil Rathod, former Shiv Sena MLA and minister who passed away recently. "Anil bhaiyya came from Rajasthan and made Maharashtra his home. He was a hardcore Shiv Sainik ," he said. Reacting to the security provided to Kangana, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP said, “The Centre's move to provide security to people who insult Mumbai and Maharashtra is surprising and also sad. This state belongs to all people including the BJP. Kangana Ranaut comments should be condemned by all," he added. "By giving security to the actress, the centre and the BJP has endorsed her comments against the Mumbai police and Maharashtra. This is betrayal of the people of the state. This is a politically motivated move," said Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar of the Congress. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson and general secretary Sachin Sawant said that NCB must probe Kangana Ranaut also. “Some videos have now emerged in which Kangana Ranaut has confessed that she was a drug addict… If that was so then who was supplying her these drugs? The NCB which is probing the matter, should go and investigate her,” Sawant said. Attacking Kangana Ranaut, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that his party follows the ideology of the great Hindutva icons like Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Maharana Pratap, who have taught how to respect women. “But, some with malicious intent are spreading misinformation that Shiv Sena has insulted women. But one should not forget the fact that those making these allegations have themselves insulted Mumbai and our deity Mumbadevi,” Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-ranaut-maharashtra-government-clash-continues-883928.html
07-09-2020||West||Many Maharashtra MLAs pull down masks while speaking in Assembly||Several MLAs on Monday didn't put on their masks while speaking on the floor of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly claiming they caused inconvenience. On the first day of the two-day monsoon session of the state legislature, Deputy Speaker Narhari Zhirwal had asked MLAs to put on masks in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, said the exhaled breath condensates on spectacles while wearing a mask, which blocks vision while reading out from papers held in hands. While speaking on the condolence motion to pay tribute to former president Pranab Mukherjee and other former members of the state legislature, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who wears spectacles, pulled down his mask beneath the nose, saying he was finding difficult to speak. According to Vidhan Bhavan sources, as many as 2,115 samples for coronavirus tests were collected from legislators, ministers, bureaucrats, legislature staff members and journalists over the weekend. So far, 58 samples have tested positive, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/many-maharashtra-mlas-pull-down-masks-while-speaking-in-assembly-883936.html
07-09-2020||West||Oppn MLAs walk out of Maha House against gram panchayat bill||Opposition MLAs on Monday staged a walkout in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly in protest against the tabling of a bill to appoint administrators on gram panchayats whose term has expired. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the matter is sub justice and the bill was contrary to the government's affidavit filed in the high court. "Make appointments as per high court's directives," he said. Speaking on the issue, state Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif said private persons will not be appointed as administrators. "Sarpanchs cannot be given an extension. We have appointed government officials as per the court directives. Now, 8 to 9-gram panchayats come under one administrator due to which there is a chaotic situation," he said. Mushrif said the court also said that government officials will also not be allowed to be appointed as administrators. The court has said such mention should be made in the legislation, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/oppn-mlas-walk-out-of-maha-house-against-gram-panchayat-bill-883957.html
07-09-2020||West||After Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar and Anil Deshmukh get threat calls||Even as police are probing the threat call to blow up Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's private residence here, an anonymous caller phoned Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's Nagpur office, threatening him and NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a minister said. Police have been informed and they are investigating, the state minister, who did not wish to be named, told reporters at Vidhan Bhawan here on Monday. Maharashtra NCP unit president and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil said "threats to the Chief Minister and Sharad Pawar is a serious matter". "Anti-social elements are trying to raise their heads again. The state home department will probe the matter," he told reporters. Leader of Opposition in Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, demanded a proper investigation into the matter. "I think these threat calls need to be properly investigated," he said. "It needs to be checked whether these were serious threat calls or if somebody is doing it deliberately," he added. Police should take care of those who have received such calls, the former Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-and-anil-deshmukh-get-threat-calls-884013.html
07-09-2020||West||Shiv Sena seeks action against Kangana Ranaut; ex-cop sends her notice||The Shiv Sena's Aurangabad city unit on Monday submitted a memorandum to the police seeking registration of an offence against actress Kangana Ranaut for her "Mumbai feels like PoK" remarks. A delegation of the Shiv Sena submitted the memorandum to the CIDCO police station in Aurangabad city in central Maharashtra. In a related development in Mumbai, a legal notice was sent to Ranaut on Monday by a retired Assistant Commissioner of Police, Pradeep Lonandkar, seeking a public apology over her controversial tweets on Mumbai and its police. The Shiv Sena, which heads the ruling MVA in the state, said Ranaut's remarks have hurt the sentiments of the people of Maharashtra and sought action against her besides an apology. In the memorandum, Sena Aurangabad city unit president Balasaheb Thorat alleged that Ranaut has compared Mumbai with Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), thereby "hurting sentiments of 13 crore Maharashtrians". Her remarks are also an insult to 107 martyrs who laid down their lives for creation of Maharashtra, the party said. The Bollywood actor should apologise for her offensive statements, it said. When contacted, Thorat told PTI, "Her statements are unfortunate. We have demanded that the police administration register an offence against Kangana Ranaut." A CIDCO police station officer said, "We have received a letter from the city Shiv Sena." Meanwhile, in the legal notice, Lonandkar has asked the actor to delete the derogatory and defamatory posts tweeted by her on September 1 and 2 comparing Mumbai to PoK and against the Mumbai police and its commissioner. The notice said the allegations levelled by Ranaut that the city commissioner of police was "intimidating" her and "encouraging social bullying" against her are completely false, frivolous, baseless and unsubstantiated. The commissioner of police, in reply to your (Ranaut) tweet, said that the alleged insulting tweet has not been liked by his handle and that the cyber police has been asked to examine the fabricated screenshot, the notice sent through solicitor Mohan Jayakar said. It is extremely shocking and unfortunate that you have also posted derogatory tweets about Mumbai comparing it with POK, the notice said. The notice has sought Ranaut to delete her tweets and issue a public statement apologising to the Commissioner of Police, Mumbai and the Mumbai police. In the event you fail to comply with this, our client (Lonandkar) will be constrained to adopt appropriate legal proceedings against you, including civil and criminal. "Our client calls upon you to pay a sum of Rs 50 crore which should be deposited with the Mumbai Police Welfare Fund or the Mumbai Police Foundation, the notice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-seeks-action-against-kangana-ranaut-ex-cop-sends-her-notice-884036.html
07-09-2020||West||Gujarat: Ahmedabad reports four cases of Covid-19 're-infection'||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Monday said that it has detected four cases of coronavirus "re-infection", among a 60-year-old housewife and three resident doctors. Officials said that one of the patients visited Kerala before getting infected for the second time while the three others remained in the city. However, expert doctors have said that there is no definite evidence to suggest recurrence of the virus as it requires a lot of research before arriving at a conclusion. Various reports suggest that even after recovery, the patient can be tested positive in the RT-PCR test for several months because of the virus residual left in the patient's body. Therefore, the reports suggest that a positive result in the RT-PCR test may not mean relapse.     Dileep Mavalankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, said that the cases of reinfections are being reported in the world which needs to be documented to study them properly. "The re-infection is quite possible. We are also seeing reports of long-hauliers who are not able to clear the virus as it keeps on lingering in their body," he added. The civic officials said that the case of a 60-year-old 're-infected' woman was reported to them by a local private doctor after suspecting Covid-19 symptoms. Among the three resident doctors, two work at LG Hospital and the third works at Gujarat Cancer and Research Institute (GCRI), Ahmedabad. One of the four patients has recovered and was discharged while three others are being treated at GCRI hospital. AMC officials said that these patients had been tested positive first time between April 13 and April 21 and reinfected between August 18 and September 6. The officials claim that these cases are "very much in line" with AMC seroprevalence surveys that claimed that a large number of previous infected cases have shown the loss of antibodies and there are chances of reinfection. It said that blood and nasopharyngeal samples of these four cases are being sent to Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre, Gandhinagar for genome sequencing and further analysis of the virus. Meanwhile, the state recorded 1,330 new positive cases on Monday, taking the total caseload to 1,05,671. The death toll also increased to 3,120 with deaths of 15 more patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ahmedabad-reports-four-cases-of-covid-19-re-infection-884046.html
07-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt slashes RT-PCR test charges||With the testing kit production cost falling after Maharashtra eased lockdown norms, the state government on Monday further reduced the rates for RT-PCR Covid-19 tests conducted by private laboratories. According to the governments decision, the charges for picking test samples from collection sites have been reduced to Rs 1,200 from Rs 1,900 (which was fixed last month). Collecting samples from kiosks, Covid-19 care collection centres, hospitals, clinics, quarantine centres of laboratories will now cost Rs 1,600 as against Rs 2,200 earlier. The fees for collecting patient samples from his/her residence, their transport, testing and reporting of samples has been slashed to Rs 2,000 from Rs 2,500, the government said. The government said the revised charges are inclusive of all taxes. The government took the step after a committee set up by it to decide the rates charged by private laboratories submitted its report. Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT- PCR) is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research. No private laboratory can charge patients beyond these rates, the government clarified. The government said industries have resumed operations under its Mission Begin Again initiative in the state and the VTM and PPE kits, N95 masks and RNA extraction kit are available at reasonable rates now. Plus, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has permitted several new companies producing these medicines/equipment, leading to their availability, resulting in fall of the costs. The number of laboratories approved by the ICMR and the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) has also gone up. Considering all these factors, the RT-PCR test charges were required to go down, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-govt-slashes-rt-pcr-test-charges-884070.html
