08-09-2020||First Edit||Question hour: Undemocratic move||The government’s move to hold the monsoon session of Parliament without the question hour is wrong, and is like staging Hamlet without the Prince. The session is to start from September 14 and there will be regular and continuous sittings for two weeks. In accordance with the Covid-19 protocol, it will be held in shifts to allow distancing between MPs’ seats. Timings have also been changed. This has been cited as the reason for doing away with the question hour. But a close look at the timings shows that there is no major curtailment of the hours of sitting, because the Houses will function on Saturdays and Sundays, too, and the duration of zero hour has been reduced. The government has said that officials will not be present in Parliament House to assist ministers to answer questions. That is a poor excuse, and, in any case, they should be available online and on phone.  The question hour is at the heart of Parliament’s functioning because it actualises the idea of the government’s accountability to the legislature and gives expression to it. The parliamentary system of government originated in that idea and it is essential for democracy. This is especially relevant in a parliament in which the ruling party has a big majority. The question hour gives the Opposition the room and freedom to seek information from the government and to question it on various issues. At present, there are many issues of serious public interest, like the Covid-19 pandemic, the situation on the LAC and the state of the economy, on which the Opposition would want to put the government under scrutiny. The question hour provides the best opportunity for that, and it is therefore a basic democratic right of the people and the Opposition. They should not be denied it.   Parliament’s function is not just to legislate and be a legal facilitator of government work. It is wrong if the government thinks that the purpose of the session is only to pass some bills. It is as much the Opposition’s as the government’s. The government has promised to give written answers to questions but that does not serve the purpose of a full-fledged question hour. Other parliamentary devices like short duration discussions cannot also take its place. The government has invited criticism in the past for its disregard for rights and disrespect for parliamentary and democratic institutions. The pandemic should not be used as an excuse to deny the rights of citizens, MPs and political parties. As it is, Parliament is under pressure because the government takes it for granted. Its relevance will be questioned further if its functioning is tampered with.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/question-hour-undemocratic-move-884101.html
08-09-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Rain damage loss in Dharwad pegged at Rs 582 crore, says deputy commissioner||Dharwad district has suffered a loss to the tune of Rs 582 crore due to heavy rains and floods that lashed in August this year. The district administration will make a presentation before the central study team which will visit district today. DC Nitesh Patil told DH on Tuesday that excessive rains between August 4 and 8 and again between August 15 and 18 spelt doom for the district. Two were  and 3 cattle have been lost. Agriculture crops in 55970 hectare and horticulture crops in 6635 hectare has been lost. In addition, 1227 houses have been damaged. Kalghatagi taluk has suffered maximum loss followed by Dharwad and Navalgund taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/rain-damage-loss-in-dharwad-pegged-at-rs-582-crore-says-deputy-commissioner-884277.html
08-09-2020||In Perspective||High Court Rules restrict power of RTI||The 15-year-old Right to Information Act [RTI] has received a jolt with the Supreme Court recently deciding that High Court Rules prevails over provisions of the RTI Act as far as it relates to the judicial side of courts. In Chief Information Commissioner vs High Court of Gujarat, the Supreme Court has said that if a citizen wants information from the judicial side of a High Court, he or she has to comply with the respective High Court Rules and not the Rules prescribed under the RTI Act. A citizen filed an RTI application with the Gujarat High Court seeking copies of documents relating to a case pending in the court. The applicant was not a party to the case. The court’s Public Information Officer [PIO] informed the applicant that to obtain copies, he had to follow High Court rules, like affixing court fee stamp, pay cost as per Rules, furnish reasons under an affidavit, etc. The RTI applicant appealed to the Appellate Authority of the Gujarat High Court, which dismissed the appeal and it, too, reiterated that High Court Rules be followed to obtain the information. This was challenged in the Gujarat State Information Commission [GSIC], which directed the PIO of Gujarat HC to provide the required documents. It was now the turn of the PIO to challenge the GSIC’s order in the High Court. The single judge bench passed an interim order directing the PIO to provide the documents, with the condition that this shall not be construed as acceptance or applicability of RTI Act to the High Court, an issue which will be taken up at the time of the final hearing. Being aggrieved by the interim order, the PIO appealed before the Division Bench through a Letters Patent Appeal. The Division Bench set aside the order of the GSIC, with the observation that when a copy of the document is demanded, it should be in accordance with High Court Rules. The same was challenged in the Supreme Court. On behalf of the RTI applicant, it was argued that as per Gujarat HC Rules, those who seek documents should provide reasons, whereas the RTI Act specifically says that an applicant need not reveal the reason for seeking documents. It was argued that in the event of a conflict and if a harmonious construction between High Court Rules and RTI rules is not possible, the RTI rules must prevail over any other law made by Parliament or state legislature or any other authority. The advocates for the RTI applicant also put forth the view that the High Court Rules have been framed under Article 225 of the Constitution and are subject to any law, and Section 22 of the RTI Act would override the High Court Rules. It was stated that Rule 151 of the Gujarat High Court Rules is not in consonance with Section 6[2] of the RTI Act. On behalf of Gujarat High Court, it was argued that when an efficacious remedy is available under Rule 151 of the Gujarat HC Rules, which is in consonance with the provisions of the RTI Act, the provisions of the RTI Act cannot be invoked and therefore it had rightly quashed the order of the GSIC. Quoting the decisions of the Karnataka High Court and the Supreme Court, the amicus curiae who assisted the Supreme Court submitted that once any information can be accessed through the mechanism provided under the Statute or the Rules framed, the provisions of the RTI Act cannot be resorted to. The two issues before the Supreme Court were whether Gujarat HC Rules suffers from any inconsistency with the provisions of the RTI Act and secondly when two machineries are provided, in the absence of any inconsistency in the High Court Rules, whether RTI can be resorted to. In an exhaustive analysis of the various provisions of the RTI Act, running to 36 pages the Supreme Court has said that Section 22 of the RTI Act does not repeal Official Secrets Act, 1923, or High Court Rules framed under Article 225 of the Constitution, but only has an overriding effect in case of inconsistency. It has observed that a special enactment cannot be held to be overridden by a later general enactment because the latter opens with a non-obstante clause, unless there is inconsistency between the two legislations. The Supreme Court has decided that the information held by the High Court on the judicial side is the personal information of the parties to the litigation or information furnished by the government in relation to a particular case. It has also held that the cumbersome procedure for dealing with third party information under the RTI Act need not be adopted when a simple procedure is available under the High Court Rules. The apex court has decided that Rule 151of Gujarat HC is not inconsistent with RTI Act and copies on the judicial side are to be obtained through the mechanism provided under the High Court Rules, without resorting to RTI Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/high-court-rules-restrict-power-of-rti-884103.html
08-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 fatalities high among those above 65 years in Udupi||Coronavirus can be fatal for elderly people if not treated at the early stages, reveal statistics with the health and family welfare department. Till September 3, Udupi district had recorded 105 fatalities. As many as 76 patients among them were above 55 years. The death rate of the infected patients under 14 years of age is 0.09% while it is 4.39% among those who are above 65 years. If an average of 100 in this age category are infected, then more than four persons are losing their battle to the virus. The death rate in the age group of 55 to 64 is 1.90%. If an average of 100 people in this age group are infected, then at least two are falling prey to the virus. Saving the lives of elderly citizens is a huge challenge for doctors treating the patients in the district. Of the 5,120 infected women, 23 had died of Covid-19. Among the 6,999 infected men, 82 had succumbed to the virus. It is not that men are more vulnerable to Covid-19. Men also suffered serious health complications when compared to women, according to doctors.  Out of 105 fatalities, Udupi taluk recorded the highest with 19%, Kundapura-11%, Baindoor-11%, Kaup-9%, Karkala-8%, Brahmavar-8% and Hebri-1%. Compared to other districts, the death rate in Udupi was less. Bidar has recorded the highest death rate with 2.9%, while Udupi has recorded 0.8% death rate and is in the 29th position among Covid-19 fatalities in Karnataka. Health officials said, “The medical facilities and increase in testing rate have helped in tracing infection at early stages and reducing the death rate with timely health care.” Udupi District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Sudhirchandra Sooda said owing to rumours spread on social media about Covid-19 infection, many senior citizens are availing medicines at home without consulting doctors. They are rushed to the hospital only after their health worsens. As a result, the death rate among senior citizens is on the rise. Those infected who are under home isolation should maintain distance from senior citizens at home. If all members of the house are primary contacts of the infected, then they should undergo testing compulsorily. If senior citizens are found infected, then they should be hospitalised for treatment. All have a responsibility to save senior citizens, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-fatalities-high-among-those-above-65-years-in-udupi-884211.html
08-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fire service rescues students who lost way inside forest||The local residents and fire service personnel rescued six college students who had been to Konaje Kallu and lost their way while returning. Students of a private college in Moodabidri hailing from Kerala had trekked to Konaje Kallu for a sunset view. They later visited Siddashrama. As it started raining, they stayed there for a few minutes. As it suddenly got dark, they lost their way inside the forest. The terrified students started screaming inside the forest and later dialed fire service personnel seeking help. The local residents with the help of fire service personnel were able to trace the students late in the night. The police issued a warning to the students before dropping them back to their hostels, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fire-service-rescues-students-who-lost-way-inside-forest-884230.html
08-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Officials raid illegal crushing units at Bebi Betta, seize equipment||The officials of Mines and Geology Department conducted a raid on the crushing units in Bebi Betta and busted illegal quarrying activities in the Mandya district. Acting on a tip-off, a team of officials, along with the police security raided the crushing units and seized equipment such as excavators, breakers, tractors and others. As soon as the officials entered the premises, the persons involved in illegal quarrying activities fled from the spot. The seized equipment was handed over to the police and cases have been filed against the owners of the units. As per the decision taken by the district task force, and directions of the Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent of Police, the officials of Mines and Geology Department had recently dug a trench across the Betta to check the illegal activities. But, the unit owners had closed the trenches and used explosives to blast the rocks. Lokayukta police had visited Bebi Betta on Friday and Saturday and conducted a probe. Following this, the officials conducted a raid and action was taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/officials-raid-illegal-crushing-units-at-bebi-betta-seize-equipment-884239.html
08-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Forest mobile squad seizes 20 blackbuck pelts, 2 antlers; 6 arrested||Personnel attached to forest mobile squad of Mangaluru have busted a major blackbuck pelt selling network, at Hunasihala in Yalaburga taluk of Koppal district. Acting on a tip off, the personnel conducted a raid and seized 20 blackbuck pelts, two black buck antlers, a calf and three bikes along with arresting six persons involved in poaching blackbuck. The arrested have been handed over to Koppal Range Forest Officer for further action. The arrested are Tuggappa Mali, Sharanappa Chouhan, Mallayya Hiremath, Shivaiah Hiremath, Sangappa Kattimani and Hanumantha Kattimani of Hunasihala Tanda. The arrested were searching for customers to purchase the pelts and were intended to ask Rs 50,000 per pelt. The arrested did not have any permit to transport, or sell the antlers, pelt or calf. They had hunted the blackbucks and had sold the meat and were in the process of selling pelts and antlers, said sub inspector of forest mobile squad Purushotham. The officials have booked them under Wildlife Protection Act 1972 Section 9, 39, 40, 48 (a), 49 (b) 49 (c), 50, 51, 55.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-mobile-squad-seizes-20-blackbuck-pelts-2-antlers-6-arrested-884262.html
08-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||People lay siege to central team's car at Gokak||People from villages in Gokak lay siege to the vehicle of a central team demanding compensation for the houses damaged during the previous monsoon on Tuesday. They asked the central team to stop the eyewash and instead come to their aid. The central team had come to inspect the losses to road infrastructure near Lolsur bridge on the outskirts of Gokak town. Efforts by the people to express their grievances before the central team did not yield results as the team had walked away and boarded the vehicle. Irked by this, people led by Zilla Panchayat Member Govind Koppad, staged a sit-in protest before the vehicle of the central team requesting them to hear their grievances. Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath convinced the protesters that the central team members cannot talk to them and that he would look into their grievances after which they let the vehicle move. Koppad alleged that people who lost their houses during the previous monsoon were yet to get compensation and officials were passing the buck on each other. Technical problems like software that could not upload data were being given and it's not acceptable. People cannot come to the Deputy Commissioner's office all the time, hence they staged a protest to get attention for their grievances, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/people-lay-siege-to-central-teams-car-at-gokak-884324.html
08-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||11-year-old male tiger rescued in Saragur||An 11-year-old male tiger, which had been creating panic among the people here, was rescued by the Forest department, in Saragur taluk, on Tuesday. The tiger had turned into a nightmare for the residents of several villages in Saragur and H D Kote taluks. The tiger, belonging to Bandipur Tiger Reserve, is said to have strayed out from the Gundre and N Begur range and had killed more than 15 domestic animals in the last two months. The department had even conducted a combing operation to trap the tiger, with the help of tamed elephants. As the tiger was spotted on Tuesday afternoon, veterinarian Dr Nagaraj and staff were successful in darting the animal and captured it. Dr Nagaraj said that the tiger is healthy but has lost strength for hunting due to old age. Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra said, "More than 80 people, led by ACF Ravikumar, and supported by five elephants, were successful in rescuing the tiger. The animal has been shifted to Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre in Bannerghatta."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-year-old-male-tiger-rescued-in-saragur-884492.html
08-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Aatmanirbhar, a ray of hope for revival post-pandemic: KASSIA chief||Amid the deterioration of economy over the past six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic and also other reasons, Atmanirbhar Bharat looks like a ray of hope for revival of industries, trade, commerce and economy, said K B Arasappa, president of Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA). Addressing a media conference, before a workshop on ‘New Industrial Policy (NIP) 2020-25 and Investment Opportunities’ organised in association with the District Industries Centre here, on Tuesday, Arasappa said, “The COVID crisis and the lockdown has caused around Rs 15,000 crore loss to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). The NIP looks promising, but its success depends on its implementation.” “Industries are negatively impacted by the pandemic, with disruption of supply chains, demand and credit. Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) find it difficult to service loans, over-draft and manage cash flows. Despite government’s measures to mitigate the problems, the prospects for industries looks bleak — both in short and medium terms. About 20% of MSMEs may not revive at all,” he said. “The Centre has pumped-in liquidity, to enable industries to borrow from banks and financial institutions, under Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) with the state governments supporting through moratoriums on payments, waiver of certain payments such as fixed electricity charges and also easing compliance requirements. Cooperative banking institutions should be involved to extend ECLGS loans to enterprises,” Arasappa said. Arasappa urged the governments to step up of expenditure on infrastructure, not only to create and improve infrastructure, but to generate employment and to increase demand for SME products and services. “The government must inject cash into SMEs with direct pay roll support till the end of the financial year. The interest rate on bank loans should be reduced to 6% for a certain period. On the lines of PF payments made by the government, the Centre should pay ESI contributions on behalf of SMEs,” he said. Arasappa said, “The GST rates should be reduced to at least 12% for SMEs. For smaller entrepreneurs, labour jobs, a nominal 1% or 2% GST should be imposed, just to ensure accountability. Moratoriums extended in view of the pandemic should be extended up this financial year end. No loan account of SMEs should be declared as NPA, under present norms.” He said that Karnataka’s ranking in the latest ‘Ease of doing business survey-2019’ dropped from 8th to 17th position. “Those who want to start an industry need to get various licences and go through the ordeal of red-tapeism. In most of the districts, monthly meetings of single-window have not been held for years. The government should mandate the respective deputy commissioners to chair monthly meetings to solve the problems of investors and entrepreneurs,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aatmanirbhar-a-ray-of-hope-for-revival-post-pandemic-kassia-chief-884508.html
08-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||BJP misuses reservation in GP elections: MP||MP Prajwal Revanna alleged that the BJP government is misusing power in preparing the reservation list for the gram panchayat elections in Hassan district. The JD(S) is planning to approach the court in this regard. Prajwal alleged that the government is exerting pressure on the deputy commissioner and officials concerned in preparing the reservation list for the GP elections, so that it favours the BJP. The government’s move to prepare the list in a biased way is not a good development, he alleged. “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is saying that he will not indulge in revenge politics. Is it not revenge to withdraw funds sanctioned for development works in Hassan district? I will write a letter to the Chief Minister to release the third installment of funds for farmers, who lost their crop due to floods,” he said. Commenting on District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah’s recent statement that sand mining should be stopped completely, Prajwal said that it is the BJP, which is supporting sand mining in Sakleshpur and Arehalli. Participating in the progress review meeting, he took to task police officials, for booking the poor people shifting sand and allowing loads of sand to be transported by traders at the behest of influential persons. He said, “Yettinahole project has affected Belur taluk. Funds have not been sanctioned and there is no proper water supply. The farmers are yet to get the compensation for the land acquired.” The MP assured of holding a discussion with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman on the problems of coffee growers and to also seek funds for the reconstruction of a damaged bridge in the taluk. MLA K S Lingesh, Assistant Commissioner Girish Nandan and Tahsildar Natesh were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-misuses-reservation-in-gp-elections-mp-884509.html
08-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Sandalwood drugs scandal: Karnataka BJP tweets pics of Ragini, Sanjjanaa with Congress leaders||The BJP on Tuesday hit back at the Congress by tweeting pictures of its leaders photographed with actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, who are under arrest in connection with the ongoing crackdown on drugs. This was in response to the Congress accusing the BJP of having links with Ragini, who was seen campaigning for the saffron party during the 2019 bypolls. "The BJP government has taken a strong stance regarding the drug racket in Karnataka which is under investigation," BJP tweet. ನಟನಟಿಯರು ಎಲ್ಲಾ ಪಕ್ಷದವರೊಂದಿಗೆ ಕಾಣಿಸಿಕೊಳ್ಳುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಇದನ್ನೇ ಪಕ್ಷದ ಜೊತೆಗಿನ ಸಂಬಂಧ ಎಂದು ಬಿಂಬಿಸಿ ಆರೋಪಿಸುವುದು ಹಾಸ್ಯಾಸ್ಪದ. "Congress is misleading the investigation by making baseless allegations. These actors appear with leaders from all parties. Depicting that as links with the party is ridiculous," the BJP said in a tweet, seeking clarification from the Congress on whether it had any links with the two actors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sandalwood-drugs-scandal-karnataka-bjp-tweets-pics-of-ragini-sanjjanaa-with-congress-leaders-884485.html
08-09-2020||Main Article||Book for a book, not bullets||In a flash, in a moment of senseless madness, a life was snuffed out three years ago this month on September 5. A luminous mind extinguished. A lithe, vibrant, sylph-like woman cut down by a hail of bullets by assailants with links to ‘Hindu right-wing’ groups who are now in jail but yet to face trial. Gauri Lankesh was irrepressible and irreverent. Fired with a crusading zeal, she challenged and confronted right-wing bigots and zealots, often fighting for the poor and the marginalised. She took up cudgels on behalf of Naxals and she lionised left-leaning student leaders like Kanhaiya Kumar. She was not a card-carrying communist, but a fire-breathing socialist, a rationalist and journalist-activist. That was her public persona. In private, she was caring, humane and loving.   Initially, it appeared the attack was carried out by unknown contract killers. With public pressure mounting, Karnataka police finally succeeded in cracking the case, arresting many individuals radicalised by fringe Hindu outfits, who are alleged to have murdered Gauri. The police investigation connected the dots to a common link to the murders of Gauri and other well-known academics and rationalists who were gunned down earlier -- Vice Chancellor of Gulbarga University in Karnataka's M M Kalburgi, and Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare in Maharashtra. The investigations ultimately led through intricate back alleys and a convoluted network of shadow cells to the apex of a right-wing Hindutva organisation that was silencing mainly left-leaning intellectuals and rationalists who were Hindus. Girish Karnad and U R Ananthamurthy were also on their ‘hit list’ of people who were fighting against many kinds of fundamentalism and superstition and injustice against Dalits. A question is often asked by Hindu fundamentalists (an oxymoron, as they are not true Hindus), “Why do leftists attack only Hindus? Do they dare to attack believers of Islam or other religions?” But does that give anyone the right to kill those of their own religion or of other faiths who question the many ills, like untouchability, that plague Hindu society?   Bertrand Russell said, “I would never die for my beliefs, because I could be wrong.” By the same token, you cannot kill someone for their beliefs, because you could be mistaken. By the same logic, it follows that you could be murdered for your beliefs, too. If ‘pseudo-secularists’ can be killed, then ‘pseudo-Hindutva’ proponents can also be slain. Life is not possible with such a twisted dialectic. If we all aspire to live in a democratic, egalitarian and free society, we must resolve our differences through dialogue.  Gauri Lankesh held extreme views. True. Her language was not always sober. It was often aggressive, provocative even, and at times needlessly strident while exposing others. It could have been tempered, more civil and sensitive. So is the language of Muslim and Hindu hardliners and many leaders on either side of the social and political divide. Does that give anyone a licence to kill them as their views are abhorrent? Gauri supported the demands of Lingayats to declare their sect as a separate religion and that raised the hackles of many Hindu right-wing leaders and outfits. Hinduism has faced such challenges before. It has always had the strength and resilience to absorb and digest the heretics, rebels, agnostics and atheists and invading faiths like a boa constrictor, as Octavio Paz said, and accommodate them in its fold and celebrate the diversity with its rich and varied polytheism.  Gauri was seen as being prejudiced against the right-wing while turning a blind eye to the atrocities and violence perpetrated by the leftists, or the killings of RSS workers in Kerala by the left-led alliance, or the murder of innocents by Naxals. But none of that can justify the taking of her life. That deed, done in the name of protecting Hinduism, will be a blot on the love, tolerance and non-violence that Hinduism stands for. The leaders of the Hindu community, from across its numerous religious orders and outfits, must come out and strongly condemn any violence or killing and speak out against the poison of intolerance. They must courageously speak up against Khap panchayats and cow vigilantes. Similarly, the Muslim leadership – both the clerics and the community’s intellectuals and political leaders across the spectrum -- should come forth and denounce the killings by Islamic terror outfits. They must speak up against their religious laws that are incompatible with a modern, democratic society. A few on both sides have done so, but many have been silent or equivocal. They have to take a clear stand, so that no one is in the slightest doubt whether they are on the side of a humane, pluralistic society that is open and free or they wish to stand alongside bigots and fanatics who are ready to kill those who have a different worldview. Silence is not an option. Albert Camus, an unbeliever himself, on being invited to address Christians of the Dominican Monastery in 1948, spoke passionately: “The grouping we need is a grouping of men resolved to speak out clearly and to pay up personally...what I feel like telling you today is that the world needs real dialogue, that falsehood is just as much the opposite of dialogue as silence, and that the only possible dialogue is the kind between people who remain what they are and speak their minds. When a Spanish bishop blesses political executions, he ceases to be a bishop or a Christian or even a man; he is a dog just like one who, backed by an ideology, orders that execution without doing the dirty work himself...In that case, Christians will live and Christianity will die.” That warning applies to all us of the various religions today. It is well to remember what former prime minister Atal Behari Vajpayee said: “Kitaab ka jawaab kitaab se hota hai.” A book (argument) must be answered by books (arguments), not bullets. (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/book-for-a-book-not-bullets-884102.html
08-09-2020||National||India rockets into elite club at Mach 6||India on Monday became the fourth country after the US, Russia and China to successfully flight test a hypersonic vehicle that can fly at a speed of 6 Mach — six times the speed of the sound. The successful demonstration will open up doors for the development of advanced long-range missiles with high manoeuvrability and a futuristic reusable space-plane for launching satellites at low cost. The hypersonic technology demonstration vehicle (HSTDV) from the Defence Research and Development Organisation was launched at 11.03 hours from Wheeler Island, off the coast of Odisha. Hypersonic vehicles are those that can fly with a speed of more than 5 Mach. Since such vehicles can’t take off with “zero velocity”, they need assistance in the form of a rocket that can take them to a certain altitude and help them reach a threshold velocity, when the hypersonic technology powered by a scramjet engine takes over.  Missiles with hypersonic speed and manoeuvrability are on every country’s wish list because of their ability to penetrate all types of existing missile defence shields. The DRDO used an Agni solid fuel rocket to ferry the HSTDV to an altitude of 30 km, where the cruise vehicle was separated from the rocket and the air “breathing” (intake) happened as planned to propel the platform to reach a velocity of 6 Mach (nearly 2 km per sec). The platform flew for its intended schedule of 20 seconds before falling into the sea. The time was enough for DRDO scientists to capture the data needed to improve upon the platform. “The critical events like fuel injection and auto ignition of scramjet demonstrated technological maturity. The scramjet engine performed in a textbook manner,” an official said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO over the successful test-flight, calling it a "landmark achievement". DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy also congratulated the team for their contributions. Last June, defence scientists made their maiden attempt to test the HSTDV, but the test failed as the rocket did not reach the desired altitude.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rockets-into-elite-club-at-mach-6-884094.html
08-09-2020||National||Spain, India crash through coronavirus milestones||Spain passed the landmark figure of 500,000 coronavirus infections on Monday as India reopened some metro lines despite becoming the world's second most affected country. Spain had largely gained control over its outbreak by imposing one of the world's toughest lockdowns, but infections have surged since the restrictions were fully removed at the end of June. The country became the first in western Europe to hit the 500,000 mark -- albeit with a far lower death rate and many more asymptomatic cases than were recorded during its previous peak in late March and early April. "The situation is much more favourable but we remain in an upwards phase," said health official Fernando Simon. But the overall caseloads in European countries are dwarfed by India's 4.2 million confirmed infections. Nevertheless, economic necessity pushed the South Asian nation to risk reopening transport lines on Monday -- metros began running again in the capital New Delhi after a five-month shutdown and 12 other cities also restarted subway services. "For our lives to move on, we have to get out of our homes... so this is a good move by the government," on commuter Deepak Kumar on the Delhi subway told AFP. Passengers are obliged to wear masks, keep their distance and undergo temperature checks. India leapfrogged Brazil to become the world's second-hardest hit nation after the United States, with the virus having caused almost 890,000 deaths and more than 27 million infections worldwide. As governments around the world have moved away from the idea of blanket lockdowns, countries in all continents have been experimenting with targeted measures to deal with infection spikes. England fiddled with its overseas quarantine rules again on Monday, imposing restrictions on travellers from seven Greek islands popular with holidaymakers. Morocco imposed a lockdown on Casablanca and shut schools on the day they were supposed to reopen after a surge in cases in the city. Officials said the virus risked overwhelming the country if it was not controlled, but some parents were left fuming. "They were on cloud nine over returning to school tomorrow," wrote one father on Twitter. "How do you explain this to a six-year-old and an eight-year-old?" In Spain, parental anger flowed in the other direction, with fears rising that schools were opening too soon with millions of pupils returning on Monday. "Going back to school is being treated like an experiment, we're like guinea pigs," said Aroa Miranda, a 37-year-old mother-of-two. France put seven more regions on a red list on Sunday after regularly recording daily infection rates of between 7,000 and 9,000 -- although the figure fell dramatically on Monday. Israel announced a "nightly closure" of 40 cities and towns with the highest infection rates with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accepting the measures were not ideal but saying there was "no way to avoid them". The coronavirus fallout continues to ricochet around the sporting world, with French footballer Kylian Mbappe the latest in a long line of footballers to test positive. Many tennis players have also been infected, galvanising organisers of the French Open later this month to impose strict guidelines. All players will be housed in two designated hotels "without exception" to reduce the risk, said tournament director Guy Forget, who also said far fewer spectators would be allowed to watch than initially planned. Both tennis and football have seen their calendars ripped to shreds by the virus, but the biggest single casualty has been the Tokyo Olympics, which were due to take place this summer. International Olympic Committee vice president John Coates offered a note of hope on Monday, saying the rescheduled Games would go ahead next year regardless of the pandemic. "These will be the Games that conquered Covid, the light at the end of the tunnel," Coates told AFP in an exclusive interview.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spain-india-crash-through-coronavirus-milestones-884111.html
08-09-2020||National||Indian Army starts process to make ICVs capable of operating at night||The Indian Army has kick-started a process to make its infantry combat vehicles capable of operating in the night, a move that comes at a time it is engaged in a fierce border row with the Chinese military in eastern Ladakh, officials said on Monday. The army has already invited expression of interest (EoI) from eligible domestic companies for the development of prototype and further procurement of armament for BMP-2/2K infantry combat vehicles. The current fleet of BMP-2/2Ks was first inducted into the Army in 1985 and it has been the mainstay of the mechanised infantry since then. The EoI said the armament system is "night blind" and needs to be upgraded with nigh-fighting capabilities. "The terrain along our borders lends itself to conduct of large scale mechanised operations and the belligerence of our adversaries on the borders necessitate that our capabilities are adequately built up to match the threat," the Army said in the document. It said the existing armament sighting system in use is based on image intensifier technology which has its limitations and is not fit for modern-day warfare. "Present system is also deficient of modernised Fire Control System and Automatic Target Tracker which adversely affects the capability of BMP-2/2K to fight both during day and night," it said. The Indian Army is engaged in a standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh since early May. Both sides held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row. Tensions have further escalated since last week in the region after Indian troops foiled attempts by the Chinese PLA to occupy Indian territories in the Southern Bank of Pangong lake area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. Following the confrontation, India occupied a number of strategic heights in the Chushul sector overlooking crucial bases of the Chinese military. Since then, China has deployed additional troops, tanks and anti-tank guided missiles in the area. India too has strengthened its combat capabilities following reinforcements by the People's Liberation Army (PLA). In the aftermath of the row, the Indian Army has initiated a number of new programmes to bolster its combat capabilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-starts-process-to-make-icvs-capable-of-operating-at-night-884115.html
08-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 8||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 42 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  43,59,116 as of September 8 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 73,836 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  33,23,950  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-8-884141.html
08-09-2020||National||GDP data alarming, says former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan||Terming the 23.9 per cent fall in economic growth in June quarter alarming, former Reserve Bank Governor Raghuram Rajan has said bureaucracy should come out of complacency and take meaningful action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gdp-data-alarming-says-former-rbi-governor-raghuram-rajan-884142.html
08-09-2020||National||India, US, Israel collaborating to develop reliable, secure 5G technology, says official||India, Israel and the United States have begun collaboration in developmental area, and in next generation of emerging technologies, including a transparent, open, reliable and secure 5G communication network, a top official has said. The branching out of this trilateral initiative in development and technological arena is a result of the people-to-people collaboration, in particular those by Indian diaspora in the US and Israel, that was initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his historic visit to Israel three years ago in July 2017, community leaders said. "Because we'll collaborate in science and research and development in coming up with the next generations of technologies, things that the likes of you and the rest of us on the phone can't even imagine what they might be. But by partnering by officially, affirming the importance of this relationship, we'll advance it," Glick told PTI in an interview after the US-India-Israel forum featuring discussions on strategic, tech and development/water cooperation held last week. "We are thrilled to work with these partners to solve the world's development challenges," she said in her keynote address to the virtual US-India-Israel summit that focused on trilateral partnerships in the strategic, technology and development arenas. The summit was also addressed by Israeli Ambassador to India Ron Malka and his counterpart Sanjeev Singla. "One area we've been cooperating on is digital leadership and innovation, particularly in next generation 5G technology," Glick said. "In July, I chaired a roundtable discussion with several like-minded donors on 5G and digital development. To me, it was extremely important that India and Israel be part of that conversation. And the discussion was richer because of their contributions," she said. Silicon Valley, Bangaluru and Tel Aviv have all earned reputations as leading, innovative technology hubs, and rightfully so, according to Glick. "So it's only right that our three nations play a key role in delivering the promise of 5G in a way that is open, interoperable, reliable, and secure," she stressed. "We cannot allow any nation to dominate this technology or use it to dominate other nations." When Israel. the US and India collaborate in defence, much of that collaboration and discussion is done in closed rooms, because the topics are highly sensitive, the official said. "When we're talking about development cooperation, we're talking about transparent and open activities that can make all three countries extremely proud about the way that they impact the lives of people all over the world," Glick told PTI. Javier Piedra, deputy assistant administrator of the Bureau for Asia at USAID, said that in the case of India and Israel, they had a "peer-to-peer relationship", always looking to see how they might advance their respective activities cooperatively so that they might leverage common goals, resources, and comparative advantages in pursuit of self-reliance globally. "Moreover, we continue to set the stage to further international development trilaterally, wherever possible," he said. "Our partnerships with Israel and India, given our peer-to-peer relationship, exemplifies the importance of working together on issues related to water, water management and security," Piedra told PTI. M R Rangaswami from Indiaspora, who presented the tech-triangle (Silicon Valley-Tel Aviv and Bangalore) concept to Modi in Israel in 2017, said the beauty of this model was because technology was a commonality in the three things, all kinds of "incredible things" had come out of it. Dr Bharat Barai, an Indian-American from Chicago, said the people-to-people relationship, business, science and technology among the three countries would not only strengthen the ties, but also help in developmental activities in the third-world countries. Nissim Reuben, assistant director, Asia Pacific Institute (API) at the American Jewish Committee, said a strong, prosperous, vibrant and resilient Indian economy was a top priority for many countries, especially the US and Israel. To achieve that goal, India needs to continuously update its agro, water & wastewater management techniques, an area where Mashav Development Agency of Israel could play a key role with support of the USAID. AJC, Indiaspora, GIJRI & the American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI) will jointly advocate for this expansion of this US-Israel-India developmental partnership, he said. "We hope to be able to advocate the setting up of US-Israeli joint centres of excellence in health in India similar to the 29 centres of agro-tech excellence set up by Mashav in India. "Skill development, innovation and entrepreneurship, water and renewable energy cooperation will be other areas of trilateral cooperation advocacy by our four organisations in the US," Reuben said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-israel-collaborating-to-develop-reliable-secure-5g-technology-says-official-884159.html
08-09-2020||National||Congress is dead, it is no longer an alternative: Arvind Kejriwal||During the political crisis in Rajasthan, AAP raised questions about the ability of Congress to retain the pole position against BJP. Why did AAP target Congress instead of BJP? We targeted both the Congress and the BJP because one is selling and the other is buying MLAs. At a time when China is troubling us at the border and Covid-19 has spread across the country, the top two national parties were fighting in Rajasthan. Who will protect the country from China and coronavirus? I am more bothered about the country. At this time, the central government and the BJP should have taken the entire country together to fight coronavirus and deal with China. Instead, they are doing dirty politics and horse-trading of MLAs. Efforts for toppling the government are going on. This is wrong. In many states, voting for one has become as good as voting for the other since MLAs are being bought and sold. The same thing happened first in Goa, then here in Karnataka, then Madhya Pradesh and now Rajasthan. The voters feel completely cheated. There is a vacuum at the national level. The main Opposition party, Congress, is dead, and there seems to be no alternative to the BJP. People are happy with neither the BJP, nor Congress. In such a scenario, an alternative should emerge in the country. Do you think the Centre has responded well to Chinese aggression at our borders? What else should the Centre do? China has captured our land, that is clear. The country and we are with the Central government and the Army and we want to get our land back. Nothing less is acceptable. The government is required to take all steps for this. Twenty one of our soldiers were martyred. Any inability to get the land back would be an insult to the martyrdom of our soldiers. For the past so many years we have been trying to befriend China. India should extend the hand of friendship while being cautious. We should be ready for every move of China. We should not be caught off guard. Secondly, the stand-off is also a big economic opportunity. India’s dependence in terms of imports from China is not healthy. Even our toys are coming from China. This is not good. It would be understandable if we were importing advanced technology from there. We are importing even goods for our daily needs which is affecting local production and jobs. I believe this is the opportunity when the central government should on a war footing create huge production facilities. A sector-wise list of our dependence should be prepared and industrialists should be invited. They should be given all facilities. It will end our dependence on China, create jobs and boost our economy. When Delhi riots happened, Congress accused AAP of playing second fiddle to BJP. How do you respond to these accusations? Delhi riots were a blot on the entire country. Everyone knows that the Delhi Police and the entire law and order machinery in Delhi comes under the Central government. At the time the riots took place and even until now, it is only AAP that is asking tough questions and seeking accountability from the BJP and the Centre. We have said whoever is directly or indirectly involved in these riots must be severely punished but innocent people should not be harassed. For this to happen, an impartial investigation followed by a free and fair trial is a must. Unfortunately, Delhi’s courts themselves have raised serious questions on the fairness of investigations being done by the Delhi Police on riot cases. Delhi High Court recently observed that the Delhi Police is taking the entire judicial system for a ride with its biased investigation. Another court has said that the police investigation in Delhi riots is directed towards one end. This is concerning. We have also expressed our strong objection to the decision of the Central government-appointed Lt Governor to subvert the judicial process of Delhi riots. The LG invoked extraordinary powers granted by the Constitution to cancel the decision of the Delhi Cabinet and appointed its own public prosecutors for these cases instead of Delhi government panel, as per provisions of law. Through both the above episodes, Congress has been completely silent while we are doing everything we can to secure justice for the victims of Delhi riots. There is a perception also graining ground that you are no longer anti-BJP in the manner you used to be in the past. Is it because of the need to work with the Centre ruled by the BJP or is there any scare that the BJP-led government could destabilise your government in Delhi as has happened in some other Opposition-ruled states? My allegiance is with the people of Delhi. If that means I have to go and plead for help with the BJP-ruled Central government, I will do so. This entire episode of surge in Covid cases is one example where we knew that we needed everyone’s support, including Centre, to marshal all the resources to save people’s lives. If at that time I had brought my ego and fought with the BJP-ruled Centre, who would lose? At the same time, we have repeatedly raised our concerns and protested against the manner in which the Delhi Police, which reports to the Central government, has been investigating the Delhi riots cases. When the Central government cancelled Delhi’s successful home-isolation program, we fought to have it reinstated and managed to do so eventually. Where do you see yourself and AAP going from here now as the party failed to make much impact in any other state even in Punjab, where your party has four Lok Sabha seats? Kejriwal has no ambition. It is the idea of Aam Aadmi Party and its brand of politics that has caught people’s imagination across the country. For 70 years, people were told that India is a poor country and that we cannot afford good schools, hospitals, roads, 24X7 electricity etc. In just 5 years, AAP has shown that with an honest government, change is possible. We too can build world-class government schools, clinics, hospitals and give free water, electricity, health and education to our people. We are still a young party though and it takes time to expand all over India. We have formed the government thrice in Delhi and are the main opposition in Punjab. No other party has managed to do that in such a short span of time. We want to take our form of politics and governance to all parts of India. For now, our volunteers are helping deal with the coronavirus situation across the country by setting up Oxygen Test Centres in villages and mohallas. Do you see any political challenge to PM Modi-led BJP in 2024 or the Opposition space is simply eclipsed? Your party decimated Congress in Delhi but what happened to the oldest party in the other states? It is unfortunate that wherever a Congress government was formed, they ended up selling their MLAs to other parties. In state after state, be it Goa, Karnataka, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh and now Rajasthan, Congress MLAs are being bought off. Congress is dead at the national level, and it is no longer an alternative. At a time when the country is going through an unprecedented time, Congress is busy in internal fights. People’s trust has been severely eroded and they are feeling cheated. What vision can a party give to the country which can't choose its own chief? But 2024 is still a long away and I have faith that the people of this country will come up with an alternative. Will AAP become an alternative force to the BJP and Congress? Let's have faith in the people of this country. It will be presumptuous on my part to say that AAP will fill the gap at the national level. Our organisation is very small. But people all over the country definitely respect AAP and love it. We have shown that we can win with honest funding and on the track record of governance. Due to the work done in health, education, electricity, water and now Covid-19 management, people have hope in AAP and want it to rise up to that role. Only time will tell if AAP will be able to fill that vacuum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-is-dead-it-is-no-longer-an-alternative-arvind-kejriwal-884173.html
08-09-2020||National||At no stage did India transgress the LAC, China's PLA blatantly violating agreements: Indian Army||India on Tuesday firmly rejected the Chinese allegation of opening fire at the LAC and pointed out it was the People’s Liberation Army soldiers who “fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate Indian troops’ on Monday.” “It was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by own troops, PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops,” Indian government said in a statement, released by the Indian Army and the Ministry of External Affairs. “However, despite the grave provocation, Indian troops exercised great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner,” it added. The assertion from the Indian side comes in the wake of a claim by the communist country late on Monday that the PLA was forced to take “countermeasures” in response to the “warning shots” fired by the Indian Army personnel on its soldiers on the south bank of the Pangong Tso. As the two countries with two of the world’s biggest armed forces blame each other for escalating tensions on the Line of Actual Control, the disputed Sino-Indian boundary remains on razor’s edge because of what possibly is the first LAC firing in Ladakh since the 1962 war. “At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing. It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress,” noted the statement.   Referring to the claims made by the Western Theatre Command, the Indian Army noted that it was an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience. While, the Indian Army was committed to maintaining peace and tranquility, it was also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs, it said. The sharp Indian reaction comes in the wake of Senior Colonel Zhang Suili, a spokesperson of the PLA’s Western Theatre Command, alleging that the Indian Army had “again illegally crossed” the LAC on the south bank of Pangong lake.   The Global Times, a media organization run by the Communist Party of China, quoted Sr Col Zhang in a post on Twitter, stating that the Indian Army personnel had “outrageously fired warning shots” on the PLA border patrol soldiers. The PLA personnel were about to negotiate when they were fired upon by the Indian Army soldiers, the Global Times tweeted quoting Senior Colonel Zhang. The Indian Army during August 29-30 night carried out an operation on the south bank of the Pangong Tso to pre-empt a fresh move by the Chinese PLA to cross the LAC and transgress into the territory of India. Last week Defence Ministers of India and China met at Moscow for the first time since the border crisis at eastern Ladakh broke out in May. The two ministers agreed to sort out the issues through consultation and decided that neither side would undertake any provocative action that would escalate the tension further. Indian foreign minister S Jaishankar is now scheduled to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-no-stage-did-india-transgress-the-lac-chinas-pla-blatantly-violating-agreements-indian-army-884207.html
08-09-2020||National||SC stays breach of privilege proceedings against Jharkhand DGP||The Supreme Court has stayed the breach of privilege proceedings initiated against Jharkhand DGP M Vishnu Vardhan Rao on a complaint made by BJP MP Nishikant Dubey. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Hemant Gupta suspended the proceedings started following the notice of July 16 and office memorandum of August 28 by the Lok Sabha Secretariat (Privileges and Ethics Branch). The court issued notice to the Lok Sabha Secretariat, seeking its response within four weeks on a writ petition filed by Rao. He was represented by senior advocate F S Nariman. Dubey, Godda MP, lodged a complaint against Rao, alleging abuse of state machinery for implication of him and family members in false cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-breach-of-privilege-proceedings-against-jharkhand-dgp-884219.html
08-09-2020||National||Supreme Court declines to consider PIL on fuel price control||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to entertain a PIL questioning what it termed as an almost daily increase in prices of petrol and diesel. A bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman told advocate Gaurav Agrawal, appearing for the petitioner from Kerala that if he argued the matter, the court may impose a cost. "Do you seriously want to argue this, if you do, we might impose costs," the bench told the counsel. Kerala-based advocate, Shaji J Kodankandath contended that there was a regular increase in prices of petrol and diesel, which was absolutely unreasonable in view of low crude oil price. On court's indication, the counsel preferred to withdraw the petition. Notably, retail prices of fuel here do not solely depend on crude oil prices. Various factors including margin by Oil Marketing Company transportation and freight costs, central and state government taxes and other taxes etc are considered in determining the price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-declines-to-consider-pil-on-fuel-price-control-884244.html
08-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 cases dip to 75,809; record 1,133 fatalities push death toll to 72,775||During the same period, the number of recoveries surged to 33,23,950 pushing the recovery rate to 77.65 per cent, according to the data updated at 8 am on Tuesday. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.7 per cent. According to the data, there are 8,83,697 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprise 20.65 per cent of the total caseload. India's tally of coronavirus infection crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, reached 30 lakh on August 23 and went past 40 lakh on September 5. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the number of tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in India has reached 5,06,50,128 with 10,98,621 samples being tested on Monday. Of the fresh deaths, 423 were reported from Maharashtra, 141 from Karnataka, 89 from Tamil Nadu, 70 from Andhra Pradesh, 61 from Punjab, 58 from West Bengal, 56 from Uttar Pradesh, 32 from Delhi, 23 from Haryana, 17 each from Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, 15 each from Chhattisgarh and Gujarat, 14 from Rajasthan and 13 from Jharkhand. Twelve fatalities were reported from Kerala, 11 each from Bihar, Puducherry and Telangana, 10 each from Assam and Odisha, nine from Goa, seven from Uttarakhand, three each from Chandigarh and Tripura, while Himachal Pradesh and Meghalaya have registered one fatality each. Of the total 72,775 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 27,027 followed by 7,925 in Tamil Nadu, 6,534 in Karnataka, 4,599 in Delhi, 4,487 in Andhra Pradesh, 3,976 in Uttar Pradesh, 3,620 in West Bengal, 3,120 in Gujarat and 1,923 in Punjab. So far, 1,589 people have died of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, 1,151 in Rajasthan, 906 in Telangana, 829 in Haryana, 801 in Jammu and Kashmir, 761 in Bihar, 556 in Odisha, 482 in Jharkhand, 395 in Chhattisgarh, 370 in Assam, 359 in Kerala and 348 in Uttarakhand. Puducherry has registered 325 fatalities, Goa 245, Tripura 152, Chandigarh 74, Himachal Pradesh 56, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 50, Manipur 38, Ladakh 35, Meghalaya 17, Nagaland 10, Arunachal Pradesh eight, Sikkim five and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-dip-to-75809-record-1133-fatalities-push-death-toll-to-72775-884268.html
08-09-2020||National||FIR lodged by Mumbai Police illegal, will take serious action: Sushant Singh Rajput's family lawyer||Sushant Singh Rajput's family lawyer Vikas Singh Tuesday alleged that the FIR registered by Mumbai Police against Rajput's sisters and others on Rhea Chakraborty's complaint is illegal and they will take serious action in the matter. The senior advocate said the case related to Rajput's death was serious where multiple agencies like the CBI, Enforcement Directorate and Narcotics Control Bureau are probing the issue and they will not allow the accused to deflect the investigation by filing of such complaints. He said a decision will taken during the day whether the Rajput family, which has accused actress and Sushant's live-in partner Chakraborty of abetting his suicide, would file a contempt plea or quashing of her complaint in this matter. “I have been shown the FIR. The first thought which comes to my mind is that Bandra police station is her (Chakraborty) second home. The FIR lodged by the police is completely illegal and contempt of the orders of the Supreme Court," Singh alleged at a press conference. “The apex court has clearly said that Mumbai Police can register FIR only with respect to inquest proceedings. According to Supreme Court judgement no FIR can be registered against doctor without constituting a medical team,” he said. Chakraborty has accused Rajput's sister Priyanka Singh and a Delhi-based doctor of forgery and preparing a "fake" prescription of medicines for anxiety. In her complaint sent to the Bandra police here on Sunday, she has sought that Priyanka Singh and Dr Tarun Kumar, working with Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi, be booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code for forgery, the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines. Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14 following which the Mumbai Police had lodged an Accidental Death Report (ADR). On July 25, Rajputs father K K Singh lodged a complaint with Patna police against Chakraborty, her parents Indrajit and Sandhya Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty, the late actor's former manager Shruti Modi and his house manager Samuel Miranda. He accused them of cheating and abetting his son's suicide. He also claimed that the accused persons had siphoned off Rs 15 crore from his sons bank accounts. Based on this allegation, the Enforcement Directorate is probing money laundering charges. The FIR lodged by Patna police was later transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is probing drugs angle in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-lodged-by-mumbai-police-illegal-will-take-serious-action-sushant-singh-rajputs-family-lawyer-884283.html
08-09-2020||National||Next edition of states' startup ecosystem ranking to be released on September 11||Ministry of Commerce and Industry will release the next edition of ranking of states and Union Territories (UTs) based on their startup ecosystem on September 11, an official said. The rankings are based on the initiatives taken to develop the startup ecosystem for promoting budding entrepreneurs. The ranking framework covers seven pillars and 30 action points, including policy support, incubation centres, seed funding, angel and venture funding and easier regulations. "The ranking is ready. It will be released on September 11," the official added. The startup ranking framework aims to rank the states/UTs for establishing a robust ecosystem for supporting startups. The framework also encourages states and UTs to identify, learn and replicate good practices from each other. In the last 2018 edition of the ranking, Gujarat emerged as the best performer in developing the startup ecosystem for budding entrepreneurs. Other top performers that followed the western state were Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha and Rajasthan. The government had launched Startup India Action Plan in January 2016 to promote budding entrepreneurs in the country. The plan aims to give incentives such as tax holiday and inspector raj-free regime and capital gains tax exemption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-edition-of-states-startup-ecosystem-ranking-to-be-released-on-september-11-884295.html
08-09-2020||National||Swarup's pioneering works in radio astronomy attained global commendation: PM Modi||Paying rich tributes to Govind Swarup, the renowned radio astronomer, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday described him as an "exceptional scientist" while expressing grief at his death. "Professor Govind Swarup was an exceptional scientist. His pioneering works in radio astronomy have attained global commendation. Anguished by his passing away. My thoughts are with his near and dear ones. This thread gives a glimpse of Professor Swarup's brilliance. Do read," Modi tweeted. He tagged a thread (on Twitter) by the principal scientific adviser to the government of India on Swarup and urged people to read it. Swarup died on Monday night in a private hospital in Maharashtra following an illness. He was 91. A doyen of Indian radio astronomy, he was the founding director of the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA), which is a part of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swarups-pioneering-works-in-radio-astronomy-attained-global-commendation-pm-modi-884319.html
08-09-2020||National||Govt working tirelessly towards 'Education for All' mission: Amit Shah||The Modi Government has been empowering children and working tirelessly towards its mission of 'Education for All', Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday as he greeted people on the occasion of the International Literacy Day. "Our government under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been empowering the children and working tirelessly towards its mission 'Education for All' through reforms like NEP, Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao, Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, etc," he tweeted. The theme highlights literacy learning in a lifelong learning perspective, and therefore, mainly focuses on youth and adults.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-working-tirelessly-towards-education-for-all-mission-amit-shah-884329.html
08-09-2020||National||India tests over 5 crore samples for Covid-19; nearly 11 crore samples tested on September 7||India's cumulative tests for detection of Covid-19 have surpassed five crore, while tests per million have witnessed a rise from 6,396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of date, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Aggressive and widespread testing have essayed an important role in India's fight against the Covid pandemic, the ministry said. India has come a long way from conducting just one test at the lab in the National Institute of Virology, Pune in January to 5,06,50,128 as on date with  10,98,621 samples being tested in 24 hours testifying the enlarged testing capacity in the country. "The average daily tests conducted (week-wise) are demonstrating a consistent increase. This has registered a 3.2 times expansion from third week of July (3,26,971) to first week of September (10,46,470)," the ministry said. The average tests per million per day have increased from 237 in the second week of July to 758 in the first week of September, it highlighted. In its Guidance Note on Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19, the WHO has advised countries to conduct 140 tests per day per million population for comprehensive surveillance for suspect cases. The average week-on-week data for India shows a rising improvement on this front.  Expanding network of diagnostic labs has given a boost to Tests per Million. "The TPM have seen a sharp rise from 6396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of today," the ministry said. The testing lab network consists of 1668 labs in the country; 1035 labs in the government sector and 633 private labs. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 42,80,422 with a single-day spike of 75,809 infections, while the death toll climbed to 72,775 with record 1,133 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tests-over-5-crore-samples-for-covid-19-nearly-11-crore-samples-tested-on-september-7-884347.html
08-09-2020||National||More than 42 crore poor people got Rs 68,820 crore financial aid under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana||The Finance Ministry on Tuesday said more than 42 crore people have received Rs 68,820-crore financial assistance under the government's Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKP) to protect poor and vulnerable from the impact of Covid-19 crisis. As part of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore PMGKP, announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26, the government announced free foodgrains and cash payment to women, poor senior citizens and farmers. The swift implementation of the package is being continuously monitored by central and state governments and around 42 crore poor people received financial assistance of Rs 68,820 crore under the PMGKP, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. As per the latest data, Rs 17,891 crore has gone towards payment of first instalment of PM-KISAN. Under the scheme, 8.94 crore identified beneficiaries got Rs 2,000 directly in their accounts. It further said that Rs 30,925 crore was credited to 20.6 crore women Jan Dhan account holders in three monthly instalment of Rs 500 each. The National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) disbursed about Rs 2,814.5 crore to about 2.81 crore old-age persons, widow and differently-abled persons, the ministry added. Each beneficiary received an ex-gratia cash of Rs 500 under the scheme in two equal instalments. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana, 111.6 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of foodgrains have been distributed to about 75 crore beneficiaries during the April-June period. "Scheme was further extended for 5 months till November. Since then, 98.31 LMT foodgrains has been lifted by states/UTs so far. "In July 36.09 LMT food grains has been distributed to 72.18 crore beneficiaries, in August 30.22 LMT distributed to 60.44 crore beneficiaries, and in September 1.92 LMT distributed to 3.84 crore beneficiaries as on September 7, 2020," it said. In addition, a total of 5.43 LMT pulses have also been distributed to 18.8 crore beneficiaries during April–June period under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana . Under the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan', government announced supply of free food grains and chana to migrants for 2 months, and the estimate of number of migrants provided by the states was about 2.8 crore. "During the distribution period up to August, total 2.67 LMT of food grains was distributed to 5.32 crore migrants. This works out to an average of about 2.66 crore beneficiaries per month, which is nearly 95 per cent of the estimated number of migrants," the statement said. Besides, it said, 36.05 lakh members of Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) have taken benefit of online withdrawal of non-refundable advance from EPFO account amounting to 9,543 crore so far. Increased rate for workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) has been notified effective April 1, it said. "In the current financial year, 195.21 crore man-days of work generated. Further, Rs 59,618 crore released to states to liquidate pending dues of both wage and material," it said. Under the District Mineral Fund (DMF), states have been asked to spend 30 per cent of the funds, which amounts to Rs 3,787 crore, and Rs 343.66 crore has been spent so far, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-42-crore-poor-people-got-rs-68820-crore-financial-aid-under-pm-garib-kalyan-yojana-884351.html
08-09-2020||National||World now paying more attention to India: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called for inculcating the habit of reading books among the new generation, saying it is imperative in this age of text, tweet and "Google guru" that they are not weaned away from gaining serious knowledge. Inaugurating Patirika Gate in Jaipur and releasing two books authored by Patrika Group Chairman Gulab Kothari through a video conference, Modi also asserted that the voice of India along with Indian products is becoming more global with the country now enjoying stronger presence at world bodies. The world is now listening to India with more attention, he said. The Indian media, he added, needs to go global too. The media, the prime minister said, has served people in an "unprecedented way" by spreading awareness on the coronavirus pandemic and by analysing government works and pointing out their shortcomings. Though the media is also criticised at times, more so in this age of social media, but everybody needs to learn from criticism, he said, adding this is what makes India's democracy strong.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-now-paying-more-attention-to-india-pm-narendra-modi-884367.html
08-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: NCB arrests Rhea Chakraborty in Sushant Singh Rajput's case||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on Tuesday, after three days of grilling; Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a probe into Adhyayan Suman's alleged statements that Kangana Ranaut used to consume drugs; India firmly rejected the Chinese allegation of opening fire at the LAC and pointed out that it was the People’s Liberation Army soldiers who fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate Indian troops on Monday.  Here are the top stories of the day, September 8, 2020: Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on Tuesday, after three days of grilling. The 28-year-old who was actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s live-in partner was grilled on Sunday and Monday, for six and eight hours, respectively. She was grilled today too. Rhea’s brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda and house help Dipesh Sawant have been arrested by the NCB and are in remand till Wednesday. In a fresh development, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a probe into Adhyayan Suman's alleged statements that Kangana Ranaut used to consume drugs. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh told reporters that in an interview, Adhyayan Suman, the son of Shekhar Suman, who was in a relationship with her, had statements about Kangana Ranaut consuming drugs in the past. The Mumbai Police will investigate this matter, he added. Congress President Sonia Gandhi asked party leaders to coordinate with like-minded Opposition parties to put up a common candidate to contest in Rajya Sabha deputy chairman polls. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Congress' Parliament Strategy Group chaired by Sonia Gandhi. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad will reach out to other Opposition parties to finalise the joint candidate for the election scheduled to be held on September 14. India firmly rejected the Chinese allegation of opening fire at the LAC and pointed out that it was the People’s Liberation Army soldiers who fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate Indian troops on Monday.  It was the PLA who were attempting to close-in with one of India’s forward positions along the LAC and which was dissuaded by the Indian army, it was then that PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate Indian troops, said a statement by the Indian government. Just a week ago, the union government, citing security concerns, banned the popular game PUBG Mobile, it’s lite versions along with 116 more games and applications in India. Now, PUBG Corp has released a press statement over the recent ban of its battle royale game in India. It says the company fully understands and respects concerns raised by the Indian government. In that effect, PUBG Corp, a South Korean company has decided to cancel the license to the Chinese firm Tencent Games to operate PUBG Mobile in India.  Going forward, the parent company PUBG Corp will take care of the PUBG Mobile operations and also make sure the user data is stored locally and is secure, and meet the regulations set by the Indian government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-ncb-arrests-rhea-chakraborty-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-case-884403.html
08-09-2020||National||Kerala excise department recommends reopening of bars||The move comes in the wake of the decision taken by several other states to open bars as part of Unlock-4 guidelines issued by the Centre. State-run liquor outlets, bars as well as beer and wine parlours have been closed since March 24 in view of the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. "The excise commissioner has submitted a report pointing out that bars are already functioning in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and some other states. The state cabinet will meet and take a final decision by next week," a senior official in the excise department told PTI on Tuesday. The excise department has suggested seating arrangements only for two persons at each table in the bars. After being shut down for two months, the state government opened liquor outlets across Kerala from May 28. However, only liquor sale as the parcel is allowed at bar counters now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-excise-department-recommends-reopening-of-bars-884411.html
08-09-2020||National||Road accident deaths declinng: Nitin Gadkari||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday said 3,200 less people were killed in road crashes in 2019 after the government implemented several measures to prevent accidents. Addressing a webinar on road safety,  he said Tamil Nadu showed remarkable 24% decline in accidental deaths. Other states including  Maharashtra, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh have reported a decline in deaths. He also expressed confidence on halving road accident deaths from about 1.5 lakh per annum by 2025 as against the target of 2030. He said World Bank and ADB  are providing Rs 7000 crore each for this purpose to remove black spots from national highways.  He informed that we have already identified black spots on national highways. India has already spent Rs 20,000 crore on removing the black spots. Underling the urgency to improve road infrastructure including rectifying black spots, Gadkari informed that of the about 1.5 lakh road accident deaths annually, about  53,000 killed on national highways. The Centre has set up District Road Committee headed by Member of Parliament in each district to identify the black spots and to pursue their redressal. He suggested states to identify black spots in state and municipal roads and rectify it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-accident-deaths-declinng-nitin-gadkari-884416.html
08-09-2020||National||Sikhs demand inclusion of Punjabi as official language in J&K||Members of the Sikh community staged a demonstration here on Tuesday, demanding inclusion of Punjabi in the list of official languages in Jammu and Kashmir. Led by Supreme Sikh Organisation (SSO) chairperson S Gurmeet Singh, the demonstrators said they would intensify their struggle if their demand is not met. The protest in Gandhi Nagar locality of Jammu came days after the Union Cabinet on September 2 approved a bill under which Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, apart from the existing Urdu and English, will be the official languages in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Singh said, "We held this rally to express our anger over the step-motherly treatment being meted out to Punjabi-speaking people and injustice with the Sikh community at large. We want the Centre to include Punjabi and other regional languages in the official list." "Punjabi belongs to all and not only to Sikhs. We want all the native languages to grow in the Union Territory as people speaking in Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi comprise one-third of its population," he said, adding the Sikh community stands for Punjabi and the spirit of inclusiveness. Gojri- and Pahari-speaking people have also expressed their resentment over the exclusion of their languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikhs-demand-inclusion-of-punjabi-as-official-language-in-jk-884418.html
08-09-2020||National||Complaints from states that people becoming lax in taking Covid-19 precautions: Health ministry||Highlighting repeated complaints from states that people are becoming lax in taking precautions against Covid-19, the Centre on Tuesday said following public health measures like social distancing and wearing masks remains key to slowing the pandemic. Addressing a press briefing, NITI Aayog member V K Paul, who also heads Covid-19 national task force, stressed on the importance of testing in containing the pandemic. "People should not be afraid of getting tested. They should come forward to get themselves tested for Covid-19 if they have symptoms," he said. At a time when coronavirus cases are on the rise, Paul said there have been repeated complaints from states about people becoming lax in taking safety precautions. "We are getting repeated complaints from states that people have become lax (in taking precautions)," he said. The official asserted that following social distancing, wearing masks, maintaining hand hygiene and avoiding big gatherings remain vital in preventing the spread of the infection. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said India's Covid-19 cases per million population is 3,102, which is among the lowest in the world. "The Covid-19 deaths per million population in India is 53 as compared to the world average of 115 deaths per million. This is also among the lowest in the world," he said. Giving a break-up of the cases, Bhushan said five states which account for approximately 70 per cent of total Covid-19 deaths in the country are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. The rest 31.37 per cent deaths are from other states and UTs. "A total of 28 states and UTs have Covid-19 case fatality rate lower than the national average of 1.70 per cent," the official noted. He added that Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu account for 62 per cent of total active Covid-19 cases in the country. "While 14 states and UTs have less than 5,000 active Covid-19 cases, Lakshadweep has no active cases," Bhushan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complaints-from-states-that-people-becoming-lax-in-taking-covid-19-precautions-health-ministry-884436.html
08-09-2020||National||After fresh tensions in Ladakh, China says it hopes for disengagement as soon as possible||As a fresh border confrontation erupted between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, China on Tuesday hoped disengagement can be achieved as soon as possible through mutual consultations, flagging approaching harsh winter in the region. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian expressed this hope hours after India and China accused each other of firing in the air near the Pangong lake at the Line of Control(LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Monday. The Indian Army said Chinese troops fired shots in the air and attempted to close in on an Indian position in eastern Ladakh on Monday as it rejected charges by China's People's Liberation Army(PLA) that it transgressed across the LAC. The remarks by the Army came after the PLA late on Monday night alleged that the Indian troops crossed the LAC and "outrageously fired" warning shots near the Pangong lake. The use of firearms along the LAC marks a serious escalation in border tensions as the previous instance of shots being fired at the de-facto border was in 1975. Spokesman Zhao spoke about disengagement when asked at a media briefing about the restoration of the status quo by disengaging the troops. “You have a good wish. We all hope our troops get back to their camping area and there won’t be any more confrontation in the border areas. “You know that place has a very bad natural condition and it is above a height of 4,000 metres,” he added. “In winter this is not good for humans to live. So we hope, through diplomatic and military channels and through consultations on the ground we can achieve disengagement as soon as possible and reach consensus." India has already called on China to work jointly for “complete disengagement and de-escalation” on the LAC, saying the future of the bilateral relationship is dependent on the situation along the border. This is the first time in the four-month-long border standoff that China has officially acknowledged the harsh conditions of the mountainous Ladakh region in winter where the temperatures plummet to minus 30 degrees Celsius posing major health hazards to the thousands of troops mobilised by the two armies. Reports from the area said both sides were making arrangements for a long drawn out faceoff especially at the Pangong lake area where the troops were positioned eyeball to eyeball with heavy weapons and armoury. Echoing the PLA’s comments, Zhao sought to blame Indian troops for firing warning shots first on Monday. Asked about Indian allegations that it was Chinese troops which took provocative steps first, he read out the statement of the PLA’s Western Theater command spokesman on Monday alleging that Indian troops illegally crossed the LAC and “outrageously fired warning shots” on Chinese border patrol soldiers forcing them to take countermeasures. “I also want to stress in this incident, the Indian side fired shots to the Chinese border troops first. This is the first time since 1975 that the tranquillity is interrupted by the shots. And the Chinese side always stresses that both sides should peacefully settle our differences through dialogue and consultations. Confrontation won’t benefit either,” he said. Asked about what kind of consultations and countermeasures Chinese troops have taken, Zhao said, “through diplomatic and military channels we have made stern representations asking the Indian side to immediately stop its dangerous actions, immediately withdraw the people who crossed the line and discipline its front-line troops and those who fired the warning shots and then make sure won’t happen again.” “Currently I have no further information for you. I believe I made China's position clear on this,” he said when asked whether the PLA troops fired back||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-fresh-tensions-in-ladakh-china-says-it-hopes-for-disengagement-as-soon-as-possible-884443.html
08-09-2020||National||Rafale jets to be formally inducted into IAF; French defence minister to attend event||More than a month and a half after they touched down at Ambala, Rafale combat jets are set to be inducted into the Indian Air Force in the presence of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart Florence Parly. The aircraft will be part of IAF’s 17 Squadron, the “Golden Arrows”. After the induction ceremony, Indian and French delegation will have a bilateral meeting, an IAF spokesperson said. In the last few weeks, IAF pilots flew Rafales all over northern India including the areas in Ladakh. The first five Rafale arrived at Air Force Station, Ambala from France on July 27, 2020. All the 36 jets are to be delivered to the IAF by 2021. In September 2016, India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France for the procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets (two squadrons) at a cost of nearly Rs 59,000 crore. The second squadron will be based at Hasimara in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rafale-jets-to-be-formally-inducted-into-iaf-french-defence-minister-to-attend-event-884449.html
08-09-2020||National||RPI(A) workers will protect Kangana in Mumbai: Ramdas Athawale||RPI (A) workers will provide protection to actress Kangana Ranaut when she reaches Mumbai, Union minister Ramdas Athawale said on Tuesday. The actress is locked in a bitter war of words with the ruling Shiv Sena over her comments on the Mumbai Police after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. After Sena MP Sanjay Raut reportedly asked Ranaut not to return to Mumbai for comparing the city to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (Pok), the actress had dared anybody to stop her when she reaches here on September 9. "RPI (A) workers have geared up to protect Ranaut who is scheduled to reach Mumbai on Wednesday. Our party workers will offer protection to her at the airport as well as at her residence," Athawale said in a statement. Athawale's party is an ally of the BJP in the Centre and in Maharashtra. Earlier, Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik had issued a slap threat after the actress dared anyone to stop her when she returns to Mumbai. The Centre on Monday decided to provide Y-plus category security to the actress. While lashing out at the Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, Athawale said, "Ranaut did not criticise the Mumbai city but the state government. It's against the democratic principles to oppose her right to live here on the grounds of her critical remarks against the government. She has all the rights to live here in Mumbai". The Union minister also claimed that Ranaut had thanked him for offering her protection in Mumbai. "Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut shouldn't have threatened the actress over her right to live in Mumbai," he added. The trouble started after the actress said she didn't trust Mumbai Police following the death of Rajput and that she feared them more than the "movie mafia". Reacting strongly to her comment, Sanjay Raut had purportedly said, "We kindly request her not to come to Mumbai. This is nothing but an insult to Mumbai Police." Hitting back, Ranaut tweeted, "Why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir?" The tweet evoked strong reaction from leaders of the Sena and ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rpia-workers-will-protect-kangana-in-mumbai-ramdas-athawale-884450.html
08-09-2020||National||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu pitches for organ donation||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday underlined the need to increase the number of eye donations in the country to help eradicate corneal blindness. Organ donation is one of the noblest cause, he said while addressing the virtual valedictory programme of the National Eye Donation Fortnight here. Describing 'netra daan' (eye donation) as 'sreshth daan' (best donation), the vice president appealed to people to participate in eye donation and inspire others. Terming visual impairment as one of the major health challenges, Naidu highlighted that around 46 lakh people suffer from blindness in India and most of them are in the 50 plus age group, an official statement said. Terming corneal blindness as the second leading cause of blindness after cataract with about 20,000 cases every year, the vice president expressed concern as most of the people affected in this category were young adults and children. Naidu called for adopting preventive measures, early treatment and corneal transplantation surgery to address the challenge. Drawing attention to the low numbers of organ donors in the country, he called for changing this mindset by spreading awareness as well as building adequate medical infrastructure for organ harvesting and transplantation at the district level. He cited the examples of king Shibi and sage Dadhichi who had donated their bodies for the welfare of others, and called for redefining the values and narratives in modern context to inspire people and promote organ donation. By donating an organ, one sets an example for others to work towards the larger good of society, Naidu said and called upon every citizen, especially the youth, to overcome apprehensions and pledge to donate their organs. Noting that time is a critical factor in harvesting an organ from a donor's body and transplanting it, the vice president emphasised the need to create storage infrastructure and expertise to conduct transplant surgeries at the local level so that people from smaller towns are not forced to travel to metros for an organ transplant. "These measures along with increased availability of donated organs would also help in curbing unethical medical practices," Naidu felt. He also suggested that doctors working in government hospitals should devote some time and go to remote areas to provide eye care to rural people. "Let us eliminate the blindness from the country," Naidu said. Quoting the National Blindness survey (2015-19), he hailed the fact that the prevalence of blindness has been reduced to 0.36 per cent as compared to one per cent in the 2006-07 national survey. India has also successfully met the goals of the 'WHO Global Action Plan for Universal Eye Health 2014-2019' which targeted a reduction in the prevalence of visual impairment by 25 per cent by 2019 from the baseline level of 2010. Data shows that over 64 lakh cataract operations were performed under a programme in 2019-20, a total of 65,000 donated eyes were collected for corneal transplantation and 8.57 lakh free spectacles were given to school children. The vice president also expressed happiness that eye banking activities have resumed in non-Covid hospitals after being adversely affected by the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-pitches-for-organ-donation-884462.html
08-09-2020||National||RPF disrupts software used for cornering confirmed railway tickets||The Railway Protection Force on Tuesday claimed that it has disrupted the use of illegal software ''Real Mango'' that was used for cornering confirmed train reservations during the coronavirus pandemic and made 50 arrests in an investigation spanning different parts of the country. In the course of the systematic unravelling of the working of the illegal software, it has been found that it bypasses captcha, synchronises bank OTP with the help of a mobile app and feeds it to the requisite form to book tickets automatically. It also auto-fills the passenger and payment details in the forms, the railways said in a statement. The software logs in to the IRCTC website through multiple IRCTC Ids. The illegal software is sold through a five-tiered structure with the system admin receiving payment in bitcoins. The RPF also intensified its drive against touts in view of the apprehension of increase in touting activity after the restart of the passenger services. Operation of an illegal software called ''Rare Mango'' (whose name was later changed to ''Real Mango'') was revealed on August 9 during action against touts by the field units of RPF, the Railways said. During the pandemic period, the RPF conducted various drives and arrested 994 touts and advance tickets worth Rs 87.70 crore have been blocked. It has also disrupted many illegal softwares like ANMS/ Red Mirchi/Black TS, TikTok, I-Ball, Red Bull, MAC, N-GET, Cycle, Star-V2 etc. The RPF arrested 50 people  including the system developer who was the kingpin and key managers involved in the operation of the illegal software.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rpf-disrupts-software-used-for-cornering-confirmed-railway-tickets-884475.html
08-09-2020||National||Ashok Leyland Chairman Emeritus R J Shahaney passes away||R J Shahaney, Chairman Emeritus of Hinduja Group flagship company Ashok Leyland, died here on Tuesday following a brief illness, the heavy commercial maker said. Shahaney was the city-based company's first Managing Director who served in that capacity between 1978 and 1998 and later as chairman till 2010. The company in a statement described him as a visionary architect who laid a strong foundation in manufacturing, engineering and technology. Ashok Leyland's Hosur, Alwar and the Bhandara plants were the creations of Shahaney, the company said. Shahaney had also served the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) as its president. Ashok Leyland chairman Dheeraj Hinduja said "We mourn the loss of a great leader, ally and friend. Shahaney was with Ashok Leyland and the group for over three decades, leading the company to where we are today. Under his able leadership, we expanded our footprint and manufacturing capacity. Even after his retirement, he was always available to share his wisdom and was a personal friend of the Hinduja Family", he said. Noted industry icon and Ashok Leyland's former non- executive vice-chairman R Seshasayee said, "I had the privilege of working for him for three decades and watching him at close quarters". "Every day was a new learning experience for me and every action and thought, a new enlightenment. He was undoubtedly a key architect of Ashok Leyland's growth and success", Seshasayee said. The company's current Managing Director Vipin Sondhi said, "while I did not have the good fortune of working with Mr Shahaney directly, I had the privilege of knowing him personally. I have always looked up to him and what he has done for Ashok Leyland. His contribution to the company and the industry is unparalleled. He was part of our family and we will truly miss him", he added. After his tenure in Ashok Leyland, Shahaney also led the company's project services and was also involved in many Hinduja Group activities such as Hinduja National Power, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-leyland-chairman-emeritus-r-j-shahaney-passes-away-884477.html
08-09-2020||National||NCW chief Rekha Sharma tests positive for Covid-19||National Commission for Women (NCW) chief Rekha Sharma on Tuesday said she has tested positive for Covid-19 and has home quarantined herself. The NCW chairperson advised anyone who came in contact with her to get themselves tested. "I got myself tested for Covid-19 today as I was having cold and the report came positive. Anyone who came in my contact please get yourself tested. I have home quarantined myself," Sharma said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-chief-rekha-sharma-tests-positive-for-covid-19-884483.html
08-09-2020||National||Govt issues guidelines for partial reopening of schools for 9-12 classes||Students from Classes 9-12 can attend schools on a voluntary basis from September 21 after written consent from their parents or guardians, provided that the institutions organise such interaction with teachers in a staggered manner. The Health Ministry on Tuesday issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Partial Re-opening of Schools for Students of 9th to 12th classes which continue to encourage online learning. The SOPs allow the opening of schools outside the containment zones with express instructions for “deep cleaning” and “proper sanitisation” of buildings that were used as quarantine centres as per the health ministry guidelines. Students and teachers will always have to maintain six feet distance with an option to use outdoor spaces for such interactions if weather permits. “Similarly, physical distancing shall also be maintained in staff rooms, office areas, including the reception area, and other places (mess, libraries, cafeterias, etc.),” the SOPs said.  The SOPs strictly prohibit assemblies, sports and events that can lead to overcrowding. Schools have also been asked to stagger the guidance activities with separate time slots to allow for adequate physical distancing and disinfection of classroom premises. “The teaching faculty will ensure that they themselves and students wear masks throughout the conduct of the teaching/guidance activities,” the SOPs state. It also disallows sharing of items such as notebook, pens/pencil, eraser, water bottle amongst students. For practical activities in laboratories, the SOPs prescribed four-meter square floor area per person for working on equipment or workstation and disinfection of equipments, particularly the frequently touched surfaces before and after each use. For skill or entrepreneurship training and higher educational institutions conducting doctoral courses and post-graduate studies have been asked to plan the academic calendar with a view to avoid overcrowding and congregation. “As far as possible, the academic calendar should promote a mix of regular classes and online teaching/training, assessments,” the SOPs said. The SOPs also asks institutions to allot hostel rooms on priority to students who are not local residents of the city, or do not have any support at home or do not have the facility for on-line education. “Since students may be coming from different locations, they shall remain in quarantine and self-monitor their health for a period of 14 days before being allowed to attend classes or as per the policy opted by the State Government for quarantine,” the SOPs said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-issues-guidelines-for-partial-reopening-of-schools-for-9-12-classes-884489.html
08-09-2020||National||Chinese troops carry rods, spears and clubs in aggressive approach towards Indian post along LAC||Chinese troops carried rods, spears, clubs and pole weapons called 'Guandao' in aggressively trying to close in on an Indian position in Mukhpari area of Rezang-La ridgeline in eastern Ladakh on Monday evening, government sources said on Tuesday. As tension escalated at the Line of Actual Control(LAC), the sources said around 50-60 soldiers of Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) approached the Indian post in the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake area at around 6 pm but the Indian Army personnel posted there strongly confronted them, forcing their retreat. It may be recalled that the Chinese troops had mounted a savage attack on Indian soldiers with stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs during the Galwan Valley clashes in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The government sources said the Chinese army may have planned to engage Indian troops on Monday evening in a way similar to the clashes in Galwan Valley as its soldiers were carrying rods, spears, clubs and 'Guandao'. Guandao is a type of Chinese pole weapon that is used in some forms of Chinese martial arts. It has a blade mounted atop a long wooden pole. When the Indian Army forced the Chinese troops to return, they fired 10-15 rounds in the air to intimidate Indian soldiers, in the first use of firearms along the LAC after a gap of 45 years. The previous instance of shots being fired at the de-facto border was in 1975. The sources said Indian troops did not use any firearm. They said the attempt of the Chinese troops was to remove Indian Army from the strategic heights in Mukhpari peak and Rezang-La areas. The PLA has been eyeing to capture the strategic heights in the last three-four days, the sources said, adding the Chinese troops damaged an iron fence on Monday evening which was put up by Indian troops in the area. India continues to dominate strategic peaks around the southern bank of Pangong lake area overlooking key Chinese formations in the Moldo area. The PLA late on Monday night alleged that Indian troops crossed the LAC and "outrageously fired" warning shots near the Pangong lake. Rejecting the charges, the Army on Tuesday said that at no stage the Indian troops crossed the LAC or resorted to use of any "aggressive means", including firing, as alleged by the Chinese PLA. "At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing. It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive maneuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress," the Army said. Tensions escalated manifold along the LAC in eastern Ladakh after the Galwan Valley clashes. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The border situation deteriorated again after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India's move. However, India has maintained that the heights are on its side of the LAC. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following China's transgression attempts. Following China's fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake, India has further bolstered its military presence in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-troops-carry-rods-spears-and-clubs-in-aggressive-approach-towards-indian-post-along-lac-884491.html
08-09-2020||National||States' borrowings soar 51% to Rs 2.97 lakh crore so far this fiscal||The coronavirus pandemic-stricken states have borrowed a whopping Rs 2.97 lakh crore so far this financial year, which is as much as 51 per cent more than the corresponding period a year ago. But, the massive spike is led by just three states -- Karnataka, which borrowed Rs 23,000 crore, 475 per cent more than last year's Rs 4,000  crore; Maharashtra borrowed 200 per cent more at Rs 37,500 crore as against Rs 12,500  crore last year; and Tamil Nadu borrowed Rs 46,000 crore or 117 per cent over Rs 21,190 crore of last year. This means that these three states contributed as much as 38 per cent of the total incremental borrowing by the states so far this fiscal, according to domestic rating agency CARE. However, heavily indebted Uttar Pradesh borrowed 43 per cent less than what it had borrowed last fiscal till September 8. "While UP's borrowings so far this fiscal has been 43 per cent less than last year, there has been a marked spike in borrowings by Karnataka (475 per per cent), Maharashtra (200 per cent) and Tamil Nadu (117 per cent) so far in the current fiscal year," the report said. It added that these three states account for 38 per cent of the total incremental borrowings so far, which is 12 per cent more than their share a year ago. The cash-starved states are grappling with rising expenses due to the pandemic. But, the biggest negative surprise came from the Centre, which went back on its commitment to compensate them at 14 per cent for the revenue losses arising from GST. At the last GST Council meeting, the Centre gave two options to the states to bridge the revenue gap which is aggravated by a 40 per cent plunge in GST collection. At the August 27 meeting, the Centre admitted that states will together face a revenue shortfall of Rs 3 lakh crore but refused to pay them; it instead offered them two options to borrow. The Centre estimates that states' GST revenue gap is Rs 3 lakh crore, while cess collections are likely to be around Rs 65,000 crore, leaving a shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, of which Rs 97,000 crore is due to shortfall in GST. Accordingly, they are given two options -- a special RBI window for Rs 97,000 crore at a reasonable rate of interest with a five-year tenure, or borrowing the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore gap from the RBI. According to CARE, between April 7 and September 8, 26 states and two Union territories have cumulatively raised Rs 2.97 lakh crore via market borrowings, which is a 51 per cent more than the amount they had raised in the corresponding period of 2019-20 when it had stood at Rs 1.97 lakh crore. On Tuesday, 13 states raised Rs 15,675 crore at the auction of state government securities, which is Rs 1,500 crore more than the notified amount as Haryana and Maharashtra exercised the greenshoe. While Haryana accepted an additional Rs 500 crore of the 10-year loan, Maharashtra accepted a further Rs 1,000 crore of the 11-year security. Of the 26 states that have borrowed so far this fiscal, nine have seen their market borrowings increase by 50 per cent over last fiscal, while five of them borrowed 20-41 per cent more and three of them between 4-13 per cent, the CARE report said. At the same time, eight states — UP, Punjab, Manipur, Uttrakhand, Assam, Bihar, Arunachal Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh — have so far borrowed less than a year ago. In more worries to the states, their borrowing cost has risen to a four-month high now with the weighted average yield of their debt jumping 8 basis points to 6.57 per cent at Tuesday's auctions over last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-borrowings-soar-51-to-rs-297-lakh-crore-so-far-this-fiscal-884503.html
08-09-2020||National||Calcutta HC seeks reports on Visva-Bharati violence||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday sought reports from the authorities on the violence at the Visva-Bharati university last month. A division bench comprising Chief Justice TBN Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar directed the varsity, Sriniketan Santiniketan Development Authority and the West Bengal government to file the reports in the form of affidavits by September 16. The PIL, which urged for a CBI investigation into the vandalism on August 17 over the construction of a boundary wall, will be taken up for hearing again on September 18. Trouble erupted at Visva-Bharati, a central university, in the Birbhum district on August 17 as a mob ransacked its properties to protest the construction of a boundary wall at the 'Poush Mela' ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/calcutta-hc-seeks-reports-on-visva-bharati-violence-884507.html
08-09-2020||National||FSSAI bans sales, ads of junk foods in school canteens||Sales and advertisements of junk foods in school canteens and within 50 metres around school campuses have been banned in order to promote safe and wholesome food for children, regulator FSSAI said on Tuesday. The Food Safety and Standards (Safe Food and healthy diets for School Children) Regulations, 2020 in this regard has been notified now after consideration of stakeholders' comments, FSSAI said in a statement. "Sufficient transition time will be given to all stakeholders before enforcing these regulations," the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) said. Meanwhile, FSSAI would direct the State Food Authorities/Department of School Education to frame safe and balanced diets for children in school in accordance with the general guidance given in these regulations, it added. As per the regulations, "Foods which are referred to as food products high in saturated fat or trans-fat or added sugar or sodium (HFSS) cannot be sold to school children in school canteens/mess premises/hostel kitchens or in an area within fifty meters from the school gate in any direction." Also, food business operators (FBOs) manufacturing HFSS foods are "barred from advertising and marketing of such foods to children in school premises including through logos, brand names, posters, textbook covers etc. or in an area within fifty meters from the school gate in any direction." The school authority should ensure that a board containing warning "Do not sell (including free sale or market or advertise) the food products high in saturated fat or trans-fat or added sugar or sodium within school premises or campus" in English or one Indian language, as applicable, is displayed prominently at the entrance gate or gates of the school. Besides, a license will have to be obtained for selling or catering school meals by the school authority itself or FBOs contracted by the school authority. FBOs contracted by the state government for operation of Mid-day Meal Scheme will also have to get the license. They have to comply with the requirements of sanitary and hygienic practices to the foodservice establishments as specified under schedule 4 of the Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Businesses) Regulations, 2011, the FSSAI added. FSSAI said schools should adopt a comprehensive program for promoting 'safe food and balanced diets' amongst school children, and to convert school campuses into 'Eat Right Campus' focusing on the provision of safe and healthy food, local and seasonal food and developing practices amongst kids on food waste as per the specified benchmarks. To promote the consumption of a safe and balanced diet in the school as per the guidelines issued by the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), the school authority should engage nutritionists, dietitians to assist in the preparation of menu for the children, periodically. There should be regular inspection of premises to ensure that safe, balanced and hygienic food is served to students and a 'Health and Wellness Ambassador' or 'Health and Wellness Team' may be appointed as the nodal persons to monitor the availability of safe, balanced and hygienic food, it said. The local public authorities, in addition to state food authority, should ensure compliance of these regulations. The regulation also provides for the creation of a sub-committee by the State Level Advisory Committee for monitoring implementation of these regulations and to ensure availability of safe and wholesome food to school children. "It is important that the right eating habits should be ingrained in children right from early childhood. The importance of a healthy and balanced diet leads to the development of cognitive ability in children and helps them learn better and grow healthy," FSSAI said. At the heart of these regulations is a fundamental idea to make it clear what is healthy for children and what is not, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fssai-bans-sales-ads-of-junk-foods-in-school-canteens-884511.html
08-09-2020||National||CPI to hold all India protest on September 14||The CPI will observe September 14 as 'All India Protest Day' to highlight the state of the economy, according to a statement issued by the party on Tuesday. "The party has decided to organise a protest on September 14, 2020, the day on which the Parliament is to meet. This is to highlight that the Indian economy is in ruins and democracy is in peril," it said. The protest "is to mobilise people against the disastrous policies of the Modi government which have caused massive unemployment, poverty and loss of livelihood. This is to demand that the finance minister has no moral right to continue for her false claims and lies about the economy", the statement said. The CPI has called upon the masses to join it to "save India for livelihood, equality and justice for all", it said. The party also said that it will observe October 2, Gandhi Jayanti, as a celebration of secularism and plurality of the Indian democracy. "The party must see all secular democratic forces come together to express our strong resolve to fight communal fascist forces. State units must organise functions and meetings in a suitable manner on October 2, 2020, which is Gandhi's birth anniversary," the CPI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpi-to-hold-all-india-protest-on-september-14-884515.html
08-09-2020||National||Highways Ministry settles claims worth Rs 14,248 cr to fast track projects||The government on Tuesday said it has settled highways developers' claims worth Rs 14,248 crore this year to fast track projects and boost their confidence in building quality road infrastructure. Besides, conciliation committees of independent experts have also been formed to settle all issues amicably, it said. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) in a statement said it has undertaken settling of contractors' issues, including dues, through arbitration in a big way to not only ensure ease of doing business but also to boost stakeholder confidence in building quality road infrastructure in the country. "Conciliation Committees have been formed consisting of Independent Experts (CCIEs) for this purpose. All contractors are being called for conciliations for expeditious settlement of their claims and get their payments released immediately. 47 cases involving claims of Rs 14,248 Crore have been settled during this year. Discussions are underway on another 59 cases," the statement said. The annual annuity obligations for NHAI (National Highways Authority of India) are approx Rs 5,000 crore, it said, adding all annuities payments are made in time. In HAM (hybrid annuity mode) projects, NHAI provides 40 per cent of the bid project cost as construction support based on achievement of the milestone. "Whenever the milestones are achieved, payments are made quickly. The Grant /VGF (voluntary gap funding) towards BOT (Toll) Projects are paid as per the terms of the Concession Agreement and depends on many factors including physical progress, equity and debt infusion," the statement said. No overdue payments are pending with NHAI, it said, adding various systems have been introduced for immediate payment of dues. Special efforts were made and over Rs 10,000 crore were disbursed towards various payments in the first nine days of nationwide lockdown, the statement said. The payment structure has been further simplified under the Atma-nirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) scheme, and contractors' payments are being made every month instead of milestone achievement basis, it noted. The ministry said it has also extended several relief packages for its contractors and concessionaires owing to Covid-19 scenario. "Retention money (which is a part of the Performance Security till construction period) is being released in proportion to the work already executed in accordance with the Contract specification, and retention money for upto six months' period is not deducted from the Bills raised by the Contractor," it said. For HAM/BOT contracts, performance guarantee is released on a pro-rata basis. "Out of total 1,253 applications under 1,155 projects for this relief, Rs 3,527 crore has been released, while over Rs 189 crore is under process," the statement said. Extension of Time is being given to contractor/concessionaire for meeting their obligation under the contract for up to six months depending on site conditions. Out of total 207 applications under 196 projects for this relief, Rs 34 crore has been released, while Rs 15 crore is under process. "Relaxation is given... to provide monthly payment to the Contractor for the work done and accepted as per the specification of the contract during the month EPC/HAM Contract. Out of total 863 applications under 774 projects for this relief, Rs 6,526 crore has been released, while over Rs 2,241 crore is under process," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highways-ministry-settles-claims-worth-rs-14248-cr-to-fast-track-projects-884520.html
08-09-2020||National||Tripura's healthcare system has collapsed: Manik Sarkar||Raising concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Tripura, former chief minister Manik Sarkar said that people have lost faith in the public healthcare system of the state. Speaking to reporters, the senior CPI(M) leader said that patients are afraid to get admitted to government hospitals in the state and queues are getting longer at private clinics. There is a shortage of PPE in the state. Doctors are afraid of going to Covid wards as they are not provided with protective equipment. Patients are afraid of getting admitted to the GB Pant Hospital as people over there are not getting treatment. People have lost faith in the public healthcare system," Sarkar said. A six-member team of CPI(M) legislators recently met Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb and apprised him of the situation, seeking immediate steps to boost testing, tracing and treatment of the coronavirus infected people, he said. Not only the GB Pant Hospital, but all the public hospitals are badly managed. The healthcare system has collapsed in the state. The GB Pant Hospital was once the pride of the people because of the care and treatment that were provided there, but now admitted patients are fleeing from the hospital," Sarkar added. He said the CPI(M) demands that the workforce should be augmented to tackle the pandemic and the state government should induct doctors, nurses and paramedics immediately. Sarkar said that poverty, the crisis of food and work have become a larger threat to people's lives than the Covid-19 in Tripura. The people, who are poverty-stricken are facing severe livelihood crises as MGNREGA, Tripura Urban Employment Programme (TUEP) and other poverty alleviation schemes have fallen face down in the wake of the pandemic. People need food to build immunity against coronavirus and for that they need work," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tripuras-healthcare-system-has-collapsed-manik-sarkar-884531.html
08-09-2020||National||Militants hurl grenade at security forces' camp in J&K's Pulwama, no damage caused||Militants on Tuesday fired an under-barrel grenade launcher (UBGL) towards a security forces' camp in the Tral area of Jammu and Kashmir but there was damage caused by the explosion, officials said. The ultras fired the UBGL grenade towards a CRPF camp at Nowadays in the Tral area of Pulwama district, they said. The officials said the grenade exploded without causing any damage. Some gunshots were also heard after the blast, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/militants-hurl-grenade-at-security-forces-camp-in-jks-pulwama-no-damage-caused-884534.html
08-09-2020||National||Jaishankar reaches Moscow, expected to meet his Chinese counterpart||Amid escalating tension on the bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, Russia on Tuesday expressed hope that India and China would reach a “common ground” during the meeting between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, in Moscow. Jaishankar reached Moscow on Tuesday to take part in a conclave of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). He is expected to hold a bilateral meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister on the side-line of the conclave on Thursday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh too had bilateral talks with his Chinese counterpart, Wei Fenghe, on the side-line of another SCO meet in the capital of Russia last Friday. “Russia is hopeful and will be happy to see that India and China reach common ground in these meetings and reach a mutually acceptable solution (to the military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations),” Roman Babushkin, Moscow’s deputy envoy to New Delhi, said here on Tuesday. Moscow has been quietly in touch with both New Delhi and Beijing to resolve the military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations. It, however, publicly maintains that the two neighbouring nations should defuse tension along the LAC through bilateral negotiations. Unlike the mediation offers made by the United States President Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin’s government preferred to back-channel talks with New Delhi and Beijing and tacitly nudged the two sides to hold high-level talks on the side-line of the SCO meets it is hosting in Moscow.    “We are hopeful of positive developments for the sake of a peaceful neighbourhood between the two great civilizations,” he said, adding: “Constructive relationship between our Indian and Chinese friends is very important to promote regional dialogue on stability and sustainable development.” Jaishankar will also hold a bilateral meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov during his stay in Moscow. Besides, Lavrov, Wang and Jaishankar will also hold a trilateral RIC (Russia-India-China) meeting on the side-line of the SCO meet, said Babushkin. Lavrov recently chaired a video conference of the Foreign Ministers of the BRICS nations (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), with both Jaishankar and Wang participating. “(The) SCO, BRICS and the RIC provide opportunities for practical cooperation between member states (of the blocs),” said the Deputy Chief of Mission of the Embassy of Russia in New Delhi. The tension between India and China escalated further following an incident on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de facto boundary between the two nations, on the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake) in eastern Ladakh on Tuesday. The Chinese PLA soldiers made a move to close-in with a position of the Indian Army but were dissuaded. The PLA troops then fired in the air to intimidate the Indian Army personnel. Beijing, however, claimed that the PLA troops had been forced to take countermeasures after the Indian Army personnel fired warning shots at them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-reaches-moscow-expected-to-meet-his-chinese-counterpart-884535.html
08-09-2020||National||Cabinet discusses labour reforms, to push remaining 3 Codes in Monsoon session||The Union Cabinet is believed to have discussed labour reforms in detail on Tuesday so that the remaining three Codes pending in the Lok Sabha could be pushed for Parliament nod during the Monsoon session beginning on Monday. "The Union Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister has brainstormed on labour reforms in its meeting held on Tuesday evening. The government wants to push all three remaining labour codes pending in the Lok Sabha for passage," a source said. Earlier this month, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar had indicated that remaining three labour codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational safety and health would be tabled in the ensuing Monsoon session of Parliament. "The three codes would come in the Monsoon session of Parliament which is scheduled to begin on September 14. We have circulated draft rules of the Code on Wages which would also be finalised soon," Gangwar had said addressing a virtual FICCI conference on 'Code on Wages: Safeguarding Rights of Lakhs of Essential Services Workers' on September 1, 2020. The minister had also asked the FICCI participants to consolidate their suggestions on the labour codes especially 'Wage' and sent that to his ministry for effective implementation of the labour laws in the country. The central government has been working to concise 44 central labour laws into four broad codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational health & safety (OCH). The Code on Wages was approved by Parliament last year. The draft rules on the code were circulated for feedback. Once those are notified, it would become law of the land. The remaining three codes on industrial relations, social security and OCH were introduced in the Lok Sabha last year and then sent for scrutiny of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour. The committee has submitted its report on the remaining three codes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-discusses-labour-reforms-to-push-remaining-3-codes-in-monsoon-session-884537.html
08-09-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty sent to 14-day judicial custody||She was produced by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) before an additional chief judicial magistrate through video- conference after her arrest. The NCB claimed that she was "active member" of a drugs syndicate and procured drugs for Rajput, her boyfriend. The court rejected her bail plea and sent her in judicial custody till September 22 after the NCB said it did not want her custody as it has already questioned her for three days. Her lawyer Satish Maneshinde said they will approach sessions court for bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakraborty-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-884540.html
08-09-2020||National||Russia, India in talks for Covid-19 vaccine production||The Russian government is in talks with India to ramp up the production of the Sputnik-V coronavirus vaccine candidate and carry out Phase-III human trials in the country. The Russians are keen to utilise India’s manufacturing facilities to step up production of the Sputnik-V developed by Gamaleya Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, the first such vaccine in the world against Covid-19. “There has been significant movement, outreach has been extended to several companies in India. Two-three have come forward and are also in touch with the Russian government and the vaccine team,” V K Paul, member of Niti Ayog, told reporters here. He described the discussions with Russia as a “win-win situation” for both the countries. “India can manufacture that vaccine in large and significant quantities, which is good for Russia and India and a specific part of that quantity can also be provided to the world,” Paul said. He said that Indian scientists have also looked at the data of the vaccine trials and there would be Phase-III trials in the normal course if required. “We are working in partnership with this vaccine candidate for manufacturing, trial, and regulatory facilitation in the spirit of partnership, science and humanity,” Paul said. Russia had fast-tracked the Sputnik-V vaccine by granting emergency approvals, a move that was criticised by other countries. However, the results of the preliminary studies of the vaccine, published in the medical journal The Lancet, showed that it had a good safety profile detected over 42 days, and induced antibody responses in all the 76 participants in 21 days. Caution against reckless behaviour: As India witnessed a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, Paul said the irresponsible behaviour of people and avoiding tests despite having symptoms could jeopardise the government’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic. “The situation is still in our command as we have successfully reduced the mortality rate and the share of active cases. However, we have received complaints from the state governments that people are not conforming to Covid-19 testing and appropriate behaviour. This can make India's case volatile,” Paul said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-india-in-talks-for-covid-19-vaccine-production-884543.html
08-09-2020||National||Over 2 crore households across country provided tap water connections under Jal Jeevan Mission so far||Over 2 crore households across the country have been provided tap water connection so far under the Jal Shakti ministry's Jal Jeevan Mission, an official statement said on Tuesday. The ministry held a webinar on the planning, implementation and monitoring of outputs and outcomes of JJM with states. The webinar was attended by about 2,500 state, district and block officials of public health engineering departments and rural water supply departments of various states and Union Territories. Started in August last year, the JJM is being implemented in partnership with states with an aim to ensure that every rural household of the country gets assured drinking water supply by 2024. The major objectives of the mission are to ensure water supply to every home as well as focus on functionality of water supply systems on long-term basis, decentralised operation, management arrangements and water quality surveillance by the local community. While delivering the keynote address, Additional Secretary and Mission Director, National Jal Jeevan Mission, Bharat Lal elaborated the essence of the ambitious programme that aims to improve the lives of people living in rural areas. Lal said the programme is different from earlier ones and requires innovation and a focussed approach and stressed on the salient features of the mission. The ministry officials made a detailed presentation on the targets and achievements of the mission. It was noted that the country has around 5.35 crore rural families enabled with tap water connection and 100 per cent tap connections in 4,700 villages, 351 blocks and nine districts. "In the whole country, more than 2 crore households have been provided tap water connection in the last one year since the launch of the mission i.e. 15 August 2019. "More than 1 lakh families are given tap water connections on a daily basis," the statement said, adding that the speed and scale of work being done under the mission was discussed in detail. "As of now, more than 28 per cent rural homes are getting piped water supply, which has not only reduced the drudgery of rural women, but assured their security and dignity," it added. During the webinar, officials were asked to focus on priority areas like aspirational districts, water quality-affected areas, drought and desert prone areas, SC/ ST dominated habitations and Sansad Adarsh Gramin Yojna villages. "It was highlighted that every source needs to be tested once for chemical parameters and twice for bacteriological contamination in a year as a part of water quality monitoring," the statement said. States were asked to carry out the testing of all water sources accordingly. "It is required to upgrade and to obtain NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) accreditation of all the laboratories in the state. It was urged to plan for obtaining NABL accreditation for the maximum possible number of laboratories during 2020-21. "It was also told to open water quality laboratory facilities to the general public," it added. As envisaged under the mission, the local village community, gram panchayats and or its sub-committee (village water and sanitation committee, paani samite) should be involved in planning, implementation, management, operation and maintenance of water supply systems in villages to ensure long-term sustainability of the ongoing efforts to achieve drinking water security, the statement said. It was explained in detail the importance of Village Action Plan, District Action Plan and State Action plan, the statement said. "Retrofitting and augmentation of existing piped water supply (PWS) systems was highlighted and states were asked to start the works in all such villages in a campaign mode, so that the remaining households belonging to poor and marginalised people in villages, habitations can get tap water at earliest,” the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2-crore-households-across-country-provided-tap-water-connections-under-jal-jeevan-mission-so-far-884566.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||What vision can a ‘dead’ Congress give when it cannot choose its president: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Positioning AAP as an alternative voice in the Opposition, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said a "vacuum" exists at the national level, wondering what vision a "dead" Congress can give to the country when it cannot choose its own chief. However, the AAP supremo said it would be presumptuous on his part to say that AAP will fill the gap at the national level, as his party is "very small" and only time will tell whether it can fill that vacuum. In an interview with DH, the three-time chief minister said it was "unfortunate" that wherever a Congress government was formed, they ended up "selling" their MLAs to other parties. Asked whether he sees any political challenge to the Narendra Modi-led BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, he said, "Congress is dead at the national level and it is no longer an alternative. At a time when the country is going through an unprecedented time, Congress is busy in internal fights." "People’s trust has been severely eroded and they are feeling cheated. What vision can a party give to the country when it can't choose its own chief? But 2024 is still long away and I have faith that the people of this country will come up with an alternative," Kejriwal, whose party decimated Congress in Delhi, said. On why AAP targeted Congress and not the BJP when the former was fighting to save its government from BJP's poaching attempts, he said they targeted both the parties because one was "selling" and the other was "buying MLAs". Kejriwal said efforts were on to topple governments. First it happened in Goa followed by Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. "There is a vacuum at the national level. The main Opposition party, Congress, is dead, and there seems to be no alternative to BJP. People are happy with neither the BJP, nor Congress. In such a scenario, an alternative should emerge in the country," he said. Kejriwal said the two top national parties were fighting in Rajasthan when China was creating trouble at the borders and Covid-19 was spreading across the country. “At this time, the central government and BJP should have taken the entire country together to fight coronavirus and deal with China. Instead, they are doing dirty politics and horse-trading of MLAs," he said. On AAP's prospects, he said his party was small but people have faith in them, as they had shown that one can with honest funding and on the track record of governance. "Due to the work done in health, education, electricity, water and now Covid management, people have hope in AAP and want it to rise up to that role. Only time will tell if AAP will be able to fill that vacuum," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-vision-can-a-dead-congress-give-when-it-cannot-choose-its-president-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-884004.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||Situation in eastern Ladakh very serious, requires deep conversation between sides: External Affairs Minister Jaishankar||Ahead of his expected talks with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Moscow, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday said the state of the border with China cannot be de-linked from the state of the overall relationship with the neighbouring country. The external affairs minister also described the situation in eastern Ladakh as "very serious" which he said calls for "very very deep conversation" between the two sides at a political level. Jaishankar was speaking at an interactive session by The Indian Express newspaper. "The state of the border cannot be de-linked from the state of the relationship. I wrote it before that unfortunate incident happened in Galwan," Jaishankar said referring to his newly published book 'The India Way'. Tensions escalated manifold along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. “If peace and tranquillity on the border are not a given, then it cannot be that the rest of the relationship continues on the same basis, because clearly peace and tranquillity is the basis for the relationship,” the External Affairs Minister said. Jaishankar is set to meet Wang on September 10 in Moscow on the sidelines of the meeting of the foreign ministers of the eight-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). "Exactly what I will tell him, obviously I am not going to tell you," Jaishankar said when asked what message he will deliver to his Chinese counterpart. He, however, said the broad principle around which his position would be constructed would be about the importance of maintaining peace and tranquillity along the border for the overall development of ties which has been reflected in the last 30 years of the relationship. The minister also talked about the number of pacts between the two countries on the border management since 1993, saying they clearly stipulate keeping forces at a minimum level along the border and largely shaped the behaviour of the armed forces. "If these are not observed, then it raises very very important questions... I note that this very serious situation has been going on since the beginning of May, this calls for very very deep conversation between the two sides at a political level," he added. Jaishankar said there were problems left over from history as well. "We have problems left over from history which continue to be an overhang on the relationship," he said, calling the current standoff as of "a very different order".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/situation-in-eastern-ladakh-very-serious-requires-deep-conversation-between-sides-external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-884166.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi to face dissenters in parliamentary panel meet||After Congress party members expressed dissent through an explosive letter last month, Congress Interim President Sonia Gandhi will address some of these key party members and their concerns in a virtual meet, a first since the Working Committee meet held on August 24. Twenty-three leaders, including senior Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma, signed the letter that called for a revamping in leadership, party organisation and internal elections. Along with the dissenters, Sonia Gandhi has also included her loyalists to be part of the meet. Tuesday's meeting will most likley draw attention to the party's strategy during the Parliament session and the turmoil within the Congress party. The party has been questioning the Modi-led government on various issues, such as suspension of the Question Hour, a massive drop in the GDP and the handling of the coronavirus crisis. The group conducted a meeting last week without Sonia Gandhi to discuss these ongoing issues. Although Sonia Gandhi said she has no ill feelings towards those who expressed differing opinions, she has distanced herself from them. The dissenters have been excluded from key promotions in the Congress and even in the upcoming 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-chief-sonia-gandhi-to-face-dissenters-in-parliamentary-panel-meet-884175.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||Speaking loudly could also help spread coronavirus: HP Assembly Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar to MLAs||On Monday, the BJP's Indora MLA Reeta Devi tested positive for the viral disease. According to the legislator, she attended the Assembly session before her Covid-19 test was conducted on Monday evening, but maintained physical distance from other legislators in the Assembly complex. At the beginning of the Assembly session on the second day, Parmar said, "As per standard operating procedure, speaking loudly could also help spread the virus. So, talk in a normal way to check spread of novel coronavirus." At this, the legislators burst into laughter and several MLAs spoke loudly while participating in the discussion on the adjournment motion moved by the Leader of Opposition on Monday. Meanwhile, the Speaker welcomed back the BJP's Doon MLA Paramjeet Singh Pammi, who joined the session on Tuesday after recovering from Covid-19. He had tested positive for the viral infection on August 17. State Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary also attended the session both on Monday and Tuesday following his recovery from the disease. He had tested positive for coronavirus on August 6 and following his recovery on August 23, he remained in home quarantine. Currently three legislators -- Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, Reeta Devi and Nalagarh Congress MLA Lakhvinder Singh Rana are afflicted by the coronavirus infection. The Assembly Speaker urged the MLAs that instead of attending the session, they should home quarantine themselves if they experience any influenza-like illness (ILI) symptom. Parmar also urged them to get themselves to undergo thermal screening while entering the Assembly complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speaking-loudly-could-also-help-spread-coronavirus-hp-assembly-speaker-vipin-singh-parmar-to-mlas-884252.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||Why are Bollywood twitterati getting Y+ security, questions TMC MP Mahua Moitra||Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra on Tuesday wondered if giving Y plus security to Bollywood actors should get priority in a country like India having a poor police to population ratio. Moitra's comments came in the backdrop of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut having been given Y plus category security by central security agencies in view of threat perception to the actor after she spoke about drug use among a section of film industry, in the wake of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Wondering if there could not have been "better use of resources", Moitra pointed out the country has only 138 policemen for every lakh population and questioned the rationale behind granting high-level security to the Bollywood actor. She said India stands at the lower ranks among 71 countries in the world in terms of police to population ratio. "Why are Bollywood twitterati getting Y+ security when India has a police to population ratio of 138 per lakh & ranks 5th lowest globally among 71 countries? No better use of resources, Mister Home Minister?," Moitra who is vocal on the microblogging site on different issues in recent times tweeted. The Union Home Ministry on Monday announced that Kangana Ranaut will be given Y-plus category and will be protected by about 10 armed commandos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-are-bollywood-twitterati-getting-y-security-questions-tmc-mp-mahua-moitra-884288.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition to put up joint candidate for Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman post||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday asked party leaders to coordinate with like-minded opposition parties to put up a common candidate for the election for the post of Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Congress' Parliament Strategy Group chaired by Gandhi. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad will reach out to other opposition parties to finalise the joint candidate for the election scheduled for September 14. The post of the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman fell vacant after the incumbent Harivansh completed his tenure in the Upper House in April. Harivansh has since been re-elected and is expected to be the candidate of the ruling NDA alliance.  The Congress strategy meeting was chaired by Gandhi and attended by Rahul Gandhi, Azad, Anand Sharma, A K Antony, Ahmed Patel, K C Venugopal, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, K Suresh, Gaurav Gogoi, Manickam Tagore, Ravneet Singh Bittu and Jairam Ramesh. The Congress leaders also decided to raise issues such as Chinese transgressions in Ladakh, state of the economy, government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, job loss and other related issues during the monsoon session beginning September 14. Senior Congress leader B K Hariprasad was the joint opposition candidate in the previous election held in August 2018. Harivansh had polled 125 votes to defeat Hariprasad, who could manage 105 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-to-put-up-joint-candidate-for-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-post-884296.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||India's voice becoming global, world paying more attention to us: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Tuesday that not only Indian products but India's voice too is becoming more global with the world paying more attention to the country. Inaugurating Patrika Gate in Jaipur and releasing two books authored by Patrika Group Chairman Gulab Kothari through a video conference, Modi said Indian media also needs to go global at a time when the country enjoys a "very strong presence" at almost every international body. "Our newspapers and magazines should have global reputation. We should reach digitally across the world in this digital age. Indian institutions should give away literary awards like they are given in different parts of the world. This is the need of the hour and necessary for the country," he said. Though the media is also criticised at times, more so in this age of social media, but everybody needs to learn from criticism, he said, adding this is what makes India's democracy strong. Be it his government's campaign to build toilets or 'Swachh Bharat' mission or Ujjwala scheme, which gives cooking gas cylinders free to poor women, or the project to supply piped water to every household, the media has worked to spread awareness, the prime minister said, while also lauding it for its role in shaping the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' project. Praising Kothari's books- Samvad Upanishad and Akshar Yatra, for their attempt to preserve and promote Indian culture, traditions and philosophy, he hoped that the current generation which "depends on Google guru" will read them. "In this age of text and tweet, it is more imperative that our new generation is not weaned away from gaining serious knowledge," he said, asking people to keep a place in house for books and reading them in the same way they reserve some space for worship. Family members should inculcate the habit of reading books by spending some time reading a few pages everyday, he said. Modi said Vedas and Upanishads were not merely confined to spiritual or philosophical wisdom and that they also offer insights into the universe and science. Patrika Gate, he said, will be an attraction for the local population as well as tourists. Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot also attended the virtual ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-voice-becoming-global-world-paying-more-attention-to-us-pm-narendra-modi-884327.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||Gwalior BJP leader Satish Sikarwar, supporters join Congress in Madhya Pradesh||BJP leader from Gwalior Satish Sikarwar joined the Congress along with several of his supporters in the presence of the party's Madhya Pradesh unit chief Kamal Nath on Tuesday. Expressing confidence about winning all 27 seats in the bypolls that are yet to be scheduled, the former chief minister said voters of these constituencies may not support Kamal Nath or the Congress but they will definitely support the truth. After inducting Sikarwar and his supporters in the party, Nath said not only people but even BJP workers were unhappy with the ruling regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gwalior-bjp-leader-satish-sikarwar-supporters-join-congress-in-madhya-pradesh-884363.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||Challenged by estranged wife Aishwarya, Tej Pratap shifts his constituency||A fortnight after Tej Pratap’s estranged wife Aishwarya Rai dropped ample hints that she could contest the ensuing Assembly poll from Mahua in Vaishali against Lalu’s elder son, Tej has decided to shift his constituency from Mahua to Hasanpur in Samastipur. “I will contest the Assembly poll from Hasanpur in Samastipur district. I am overwhelmed by the response of the electorate here,” said Tej Pratap after holding a roadshow in his new constituency. Hasanpur is around two-hour drive from Mahua but is dominated by Yadavs, a reason why Lalu’s son opted for the safe seat in the neighbouring district. “My daughter Aishwarya could possibly contest from Hasanpur,” said Chandrika Rai, father-in-law of Tej, who has now dumped the RJD and joined the JD (U). Chandrika, a former minister in Rabri Devi Government, was also a senior minister in Nitish Kumar regime during the Grand Alliance Government in 2015-17. His relations with Lalu degraded after Tej Pratap filed a divorce petition barely six months after his wedding with Aishwarya in 2018. Aishwarya’s grandfather Daroga Prasad Rai was the Chief Minister of Bihar five decades ago. Tej’s wedding was seen as the coming together of two influential political families. But the divorce petition spoiled their relationship, resulting in Chandrika shifting his allegiance from Lalu to Nitish. It is widely believed that Aishwarya could be the NDA-backed JD (U) nominee against Tej Pratap from whichever constituency he decides to contest. “Tej Pratap will face a crushing defeat, no matter whichever constituency he decides to contest from,” BJP MLC and party spokesperson Sanjay Mayukh told Deccan Herald on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/challenged-by-estranged-wife-aishwarya-tej-pratap-shifts-his-constituency-884402.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||JD(U) did a 'favour' by saying it never had alliance with us: LJP||The Lok Janshakti Party said on Tuesday that the JD(U) has done it a "favour" by making it clear that the two parties have never had any alliance, in a sarcastic reaction as the ties between the two National Democratic Alliance (NDA) members from Bihar continue to unravel.  "We welcome this statement from the JD(U) that his party has never had any alliance with the LJP. JD(U) leader K C Tyagi has done us a favour," the LJP said in a statement.  The party will only join hands with those who support its president Chirag Paswan's agenda to make Bihar the leading state in the country, it added.  Tyagi had said on Tuesday that any party which is a part of the NDA in the state will have to accept Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's leadership, noting that top BJP leaders, including Amit Shah and its president J P Nadda, have announced that the alliance will fight the upcoming Bihar assembly polls under Kumar's stewardship. The JD(U), he said, has always had an alliance with the BJP in Bihar but not with the LJP.  His statement came after the LJP authorised Paswan to take a call on whether the party will fight against the Kumar-headed JD(U) in the assembly polls and decided to prepare a list of candidates for 143 constituencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jdu-did-a-favour-by-saying-it-never-had-alliance-with-us-ljp-884440.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||BJP, RSS taking recourse to communal politics, will fail: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday accused the BJP and RSS of indulging in the "game" of communal politics. "If anybody is playing communal politics today, it is BJP and RSS. We have never played this game. They are playing and they will sink in this game," Abdullah said. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a function held here to pay tributes to his father and NC founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah on his 38th death anniversary. Abdullah, Member of Parliament from Srinagar Lok Sabha constituency, was asked to comment over BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav's reported remarks that "Gupkar leaders are resorting to that dangerous game once again, this time in the name of Islam".  On August 22 this year -- a year after the stripping of J-K's special status -- six political parties including the NC, Peoples Democratic Party and the Congress announced that they stood by the 'Gupkar declaration' announced on August 4 last year, hours before the Centre's move of revoking Article 370 of the Constitution.  The parties said they will jointly fight for the restoration of J-K's special status under Article 370. Abdullah said the National Conference has always remained secular in character. "National Conference has never indulged in politics in the name of religion. Never...it is our history. What was the slogan of Sher-e-Kashmir (Sheikh Abdullah)? He said there was unity among Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs. Wasn't it? "And he turned Muslim Conference into National Conference because he knew all were involved in it. In suffering and in poverty, there are Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Buddhists and Christians. Then how did we become communal today?" he asked. The NC president was flanked by several leaders of the party including its vice president and his son Omar Abdullah. The leaders paid tributes at the grave of Sheikh Abdullah at Hazratbal on the banks of Dal Lake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-rss-taking-recourse-to-communal-politics-will-fail-farooq-abdullah-884442.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||Some senior members wanted two-day Parliament Session: Pralhad Joshi||What are the challenges in convening the monsoon session? It has been a challenge not only for India but for the entire world. We are in the midst of an unprecedented situation. The disease itself is highly contagious. Even if one person is infected, it will create a problem. So, we have to ensure testing, asking members to bring certificates of negative tests. What special arrangements have been made? First of all, each House will sit only for four hours. The chambers of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will be used for the sittings with members occupying visitors’ galleries as well to ensure physical distancing. We have also used technology to link the chambers of both the Houses electronically so that the presiding officer can have seamless access to members seated in either of the chambers. Entry for the personal staff of MPs and ministers has been restricted. Ministers will be allowed to get along only one officer. Sanitisation of the chambers at regular intervals will also be done. How have members of Parliament responded? Some senior members were not in favour of the session. I don’t want to disclose anybody’s name, but they suggested Parliament should also have a two-day session to get all the Ordinances passed. But, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted the bills to be discussed and debated after taking necessary safety measures. Also, we felt a virtual session was not feasible. The Opposition is also unhappy about the scrapping of Question Hour? That is the most unfortunate and irresponsible behaviour of some parties. We had talked to all the leaders and explained to them that all other things, except the Question Hour, will be there. If you take the Question Hour, you have to prepare for 20 questions and at least a minimum of 100 officers would be there. The officers’ gallery is a very small place. The second issue is time. We are meeting only for four hours. We do not fear questions. People have bestowed their trust in the Modi government. We have nothing to hide or run away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/some-senior-members-wanted-two-day-parliament-session-pralhad-joshi-884506.html
08-09-2020||National Politics||Govt selling country's assets 'shameful': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the Modi government of selling the country's assets to recover its economic losses and described as "shameful" reports of the sale of stake in Life Insurance Corporation (LIC). "Modi ji is running the 'Sell Government Companies' campaign. The country's assets are being sold one by one to make up for their own economic mess," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Selling LIC is another shameful attempt of the Modi government while setting aside the future and trust of the people," he said. There are reports that the government may divest its stake by 25 per cent in the public sector LIC, which is fully owned by it at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-selling-countrys-assets-shameful-rahul-gandhi-884533.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 11-year-old boy held for allegedly killing class 5 girl||An 11-year-old boy was nabbed here in Madhya Pradesh on Monday for allegedly killing a 10-year-old girl on suspicion that she had killed his pet, a rat, police said. The boy also harboured a grudge against the victim as she used to defeat him in games played on mobile phones, a senior officer said. The boy allegedly crushed the head of the girl, a student of class 5, with a stone in Lasudia police station area, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) HC Mishra said, adding that the victim died on the spot. The boy told police that he suspected the girl had killed his pet rat after an argument, he added. "He also harboured a grudge against the victim as she used to defeat him in games on mobile phones," Mishra said. The boy will be sent to a child correctional home after the case work gets over, he said. Meanwhile, another police officer ruled out the possibility of the boy raping the girl after killing her. He said police are awaiting postmortem report. Devastated family members of the deceased said she had gone out of the house to pluck flowers. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-11-year-old-boy-held-for-allegedly-killing-class-5-girl-884106.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Congress launches poll campaign with 'Bihar Kranti Virtual Mahasammelan'||The Congress on Monday launched its campaign for the Bihar polls by organising a virtual meeting in the two districts of East Champaran and West Champaran to reach out to people ahead of the elections due in October- November. The party decided to carry out "Bihar Kranti Virtual Mahasammelan" (virtual mega conference) keeping in mind the COVID-19 pandemic and the election commissions guidelines for holding such rallies, party sources said. Similar digital meetings will be held assembly constituency-wise in every district in two phases, they said. Congress national general secretary and MP Avinash Pandey, while addressing the virtual rally from New Delhi, said that Bihar is all set for a change of government as people are fed up with the NDA rule in the state. Congress is a part of the opposition Grand Alliance in the state headed by the RJD. Farmers, students, women, labourers are a harried lot, Pandey said, adding the government has turned a deaf ear to the problems being faced by people especially towards rising crime graph in the state, Pandey said. Pandey, who is also Bihar Congress Screening Committee chairman, said though people in power were making tall claims but no sign of development is visible in the state. National Secretary and Bihar co-incharge Ajay Kapoor also addressed the virtual conference from the national capital in the two districts which were attended by party workers and the locals. After holding 100 such virtual meetings in the state, the party will be holding a state-level conference through virtual mode which will be addressed by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. "The pious land of Bihar will not tolerate atrocities any more and will throw out the current dispensation at any cost", Kapoor said. In his presidential address, Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha said that people had voted for Grand Alliance five years ago but Nitish Kumar switched sides by ditching the mandate. People have been deceived by the NDA government, he said asserting that "we sounded a bugle for change with the launch of Bihar Kranti Virtual Mahasammelan". Congress was part of the coalition government in 2015 along with JD(U) and RJD. Prominent among those who addressed the mega meet included Bihar Congress Campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Prasad Singh, party spokesman Acharya Pramod Krishnan, Tariq Anwar, All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, actor-politician Raj Babbar and others. Bihar Congress spokesman Rajesh Rathor claimed that lakhs of people connected through vitual mahasammelan in assembly constituencies of East Champaran and West Champaran. People were connected through social media facebook, instagram, twitter, youtube etc, Rathor said while terming JD (U)s virtual rally as "super flop". In the first phase, the assembly constituency-wise virtual meeting will be held in 84 constituencies of 19 districts of north Bihar till September 16, while the mahasammelan for seats faling in 19 districts of south Bihar will be held later, the date for which will be announced in future, Rathor said. The virtual meet will be held at Sheohar and later at Sitamarhi Tuesday, Rathor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-launches-poll-campaign-with-bihar-kranti-virtual-mahasammelan-884112.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||CBI probe to bring out truth behind death of Sushant: Nitish in virtual rally||The untimely death of Sushant Singh Rajput has come as a shock to millions of fans of the Patna- born actor, inside Bihar and elsewhere, and the CBI probe is expected to bring out the truth behind it and ensure justice, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday. Kumar, who was addressing a virtual rally here which marked the commencement of JD (U)'s campaign for the upcoming assembly polls, made a reference to the deceased actor towards the end of his more than an hour-long speech. Rajput was found hanging in his apartment in Mumbai's Bandra on June 14. "The death of the young actor had caused grief not only to his family, but also to millions of his fans who reside in Bihar and elsewhere. His father lodged an FIR in Patna when he found that an appropriate investigation was not taking place (in Mumbai)," said Kumar in a veiled attack on the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra. "Finally, when the bereaved father sought a CBI inquiry, we wasted no time in recommending it and the Centre, thankfully, gave its assent in good time. Now, we can hope that justice will be done in the matter," said the JD (U) chief, who seeks his fourth consecutive term in power in Bihar. The actor's father K K Singh lodged an FIR with Rajiv Nagar police station here and levelled various allegations against actress Rhea Chakraborty in connection with his death. These had triggered a tug of war between the governments of Bihar and Maharashtra with the latter questioning the former's "jurisdiction" in the matter. Things reached a flashpoint when a young IPS officer from Patna was forcibly quarantined hours after reaching Mumbai where he was supposed to lead a Bihar police team in investigating the case. The Bihar government's recommendation for a CBI probe was frowned upon by the Uddhav Thackeray regime which dubbed the move as one taken with a "political motive". The Shiv Sena, of which Thackeray is the president, had alleged that Kumar was trying to cash in on the immense sympathy generated for Rajput during the assembly elections, a charge rebutted by the ruling NDA in Bihar. Kumar spoke about the deceased actor in course of paying tributes to a host of public figures who lost their lives recently, including former President Pranab Mukherjee. The chief minister, whose speech was peppered with references to Lalu Prasad, took a swipe at the jailed RJD chief over a recent post on the latter's official twitter handle in which the current regime was called a "bhaar" (burden) on Bihar. "We may be bhaar. But you are andar (inside; also used as a pun for imprisonment). And the people of Bihar have no regrets over that. They are very much relieved," quipped the JD(U) chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-probe-to-bring-out-truth-behind-death-of-sushant-nitish-in-virtual-rally-884114.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||DCW rescues girl sold off to orchestra to work as dancer||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday rescued a 17-year-old girl from Bihar who was allegedly sold off to an orchestra owner to work as a dancer. The commission's 181 helpline received a call from the girl's mother complaining that two persons had taken her daughter to Bihar on the pretext of providing her work but sold her off for Rs 1.10 lakh to an orchestra owner to work as a dancer. The DCW said whenever the girl expressed her desire of going back home, she was threatened by the owner and held captive. Her mother was also threatened by the traffickers to send money for her daughter’s release, the panel said. According to the woman, she had tried filing a complaint with the police several times but her complaint wasn't entertained and the police refused to file an FIR in the matter, it said. A DCW team also did follow ups in the matter and after many efforts, a DD entry was registered in the matter at west Delhi's Tilak Nagar police station, the panel alleged. Due to the lackadaisical approach of the police, the DCW team took up the matter on itself, it claimed. The DCW took the girl's contact number from her mother and tried calling her up. The call was picked up by a man who abruptly disconnected it and the phone was then switched off, it said. To get the details and address of the orchestra, the DCW team then called up the orchestra owner the next day and pretended that they wanted to get a girl job through the orchestra owner, it said. The owner then, under the impression that he shall get another girl, gave the address of the orchestra, the panel said. Subsequently, the girl was rescued with the help of the Bihar Police, it added. Due to the financial crunch, the girl had to leave her studies. Her father had passed away a few years ago and her mother works as domestic help. The girl was lured into a decent paying job and was then sold off to an orchestra to work as a dancer, the DCW said. No immediate reaction was available from the Delhi Police on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dcw-rescues-girl-sold-off-to-orchestra-to-work-as-dancer-884131.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||On Delhi’s Covid-19 fight, Centre can take all the credit, responsibility is mine: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is leading the fight against Covid-19 in Delhi and efforts to bring the capital’s economy back on track. He spoke to DH’s Anand Mishra and Shemin Joy on the Covid-19 pandemic and the political situation in the country. In this first part of the interview, Keiriwal explains his government’s efforts to tackle the pandemic and says that had he fought with the Modi government while Covid-19 cases were rising, the people of Delhi would have suffered. Here are the edited excerpts from the interview: How do you score your government’s performance? The people of Delhi are the best judge of our performance. They gave their verdict by giving us an unprecedented 62 out of 70 seats after a full five-year term. It is the people of Delhi that have given birth to a new kind of politics in this country, which we call “kaam ki rajneeti” (politics of work). Today, politics in this country has become synonymous with fighting over religious and caste issues, and in constant buying and selling of MLAs. Nobody seems to care about what is happening to the country, its people. We believe in ensuring dignity of life for every common man. Every person, rich or poor, should have the right to quality education, health, water, electricity and all such basic facilities. I believe that our country can truly become No.1 in the world if we invest in people first. We have the smartest people in the world, so many CEOs of top global firms are from India, yet we are a developing country. No country has become a developed country without investing in the health and education of its people, yet we failed to do so for the last 70 years. We have done that in Delhi. Today, the entire country and the world are talking about the revolution happening in Delhi’s government schools, about our Mohalla clinics and how we have fought Covid-19 successfully. That’s an outcome of our “kaam ki rajneeti”, which is also now known as Delhi model of governance. What are key lessons of the ‘Delhi model’ to fight Covid-19? The situation in Delhi was under control till May-end. We had anticipated a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases with the opening up of Delhi, but the surge was more than expected. That’s when the entire city and its two crore people came together to bring Covid-19 under control in what is now popularly called the Delhi Model.Three key principles constitute the ‘Delhi model’. The foundation of the Delhi Model is teamwork. The government cannot fight the pandemic without support from various stakeholders and interest groups. So we reached out to everyone -  the Central government, various non-governmental organizations, Resident Welfare Associations, health workers and of course the two crore people of Delhi - and asked for their cooperation. The second principle of the model is acknowledging, appreciating and encouraging constructive criticism from stakeholders. And responding by working towards fixing the problems highlighted by others. For instance, in early June, we started receiving a lot of complaints of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) hospital, Delhi government’s largest Covid-19 hospital with 2,000 beds. Rather than clashing with those highlighting the issues, we understood them and fixed all those issues one by one.  The third principle is that no matter how bad the situation gets, you as a government cannot give up. Recently, the Karnataka Health Minister said: ‘Now only God can save us’. I can understand the anxiety and helplessness of the minister. But as a government, you cannot give up – because if you give up, then you cannot imagine the number of deaths that will lead you to. In terms of specific actions, we pioneered many interventions like home isolation, a dedicated Covid-19 app giving real-time availability of Covid-19 beds and ventilators in both private and government hospitals and Plasma therapy, all of which were critical to deal with the surge in cases. In fact, Delhi’s home-isolation model is a global case study today. It has proven to be extremely successful in treating patients with mild symptoms, which in turn freed up hospital beds for critical patients.  How helpful has been plasma therapy in fight against Covid-19? We studied the experiences of many countries and found Plasma therapy to be a promising option. I am not saying that plasma is the treatment for Covid-19 but even if there is a small chance to save someone’s life, we should try it. Delhi was the first to initiate trials of convalescent plasma therapy in April at LNJP, which showed encouraging results. Subsequently, we launched the country’s first two plasma banks in Delhi in early July so that patients in need of plasma can get it free of cost and without any hassle. We are running large scale awareness campaigns to encourage recovered patients to donate their plasma, which was earlier an issue. All these efforts seem to have yielded results. So far, over 900 recovered patients have donated plasma and around 710 units of plasma have been used in recovery of patients across hospitals in Delhi. The recovery rate in Delhi has gone up to 90 per cent and it has been possible because of measures like plasma therapy. Last week, when the United States announced its decision to promote plasma therapy among critical patients, I felt proud that what Delhi did yesterday, the US is doing today. Delhi has made the nation proud in this regard. There was a perception battle over the fight against Covid-19. Do you concede that the Delhi government faltered? We have worked closely with the Centre in tackling Covid-19, but we have had our share of disagreements, too. The Centre wanted to cancel our home isolation programme which was the main pillar of our overall Covid-19 strategy. We opposed that decision. We sat down with them and cleared all their doubts and apprehensions. As for the credit for Covid-19 turnaround, I have said this before too, let them take all the credit, the responsibility is all mine. As the Chief Minister of Delhi, it is my responsibility to take care of the people of my state. We had to seek everybody’s help to fight Covid-19 in Delhi, we sought Centre’s help too. They helped us with oxygen cylinders, ventilators, testing kits etc. This is such an unprecedented pandemic that one government can't fight it alone -- we need to work together with others. Do you regret proposing the idea of Delhi hospital only for Delhi residents during the pandemic? We had proposed in June that Delhi government’s hospitals, which have around 10,000 beds, and private hospitals should be reserved for Delhi’s residents for some time, while Central government hospitals in Delhi, which also have 10,000 beds can be open for everyone. That decision was taken in view of the projections in June that Delhi would have 5.5 lakh cases. It was important for me to plan for the worst-case scenario for the residents of Delhi. Generally, more than 50% of hospital beds in Delhi are occupied by residents of surrounding states since the health infrastructure there is poor. We managed to control the spread of coronavirus in Delhi so we didn’t have to face that situation. What are your plans to rejuvenate the economy? We are barely collecting 40 per cent of last year’s revenues, which is a big concern. I think two factors are going to be most important. First, people will need to remove the fear of Covid-19 from their minds. Only then can businesses start opening up and consumers will start spending. Second, governments need to avoid imposing arbitrary lockdowns. Many states are imposing two-day, five-day lockdowns. This is not going to help, they will only hurt the economy further. Delhi is the best example of how we managed to control the spread of Covid due to sound management, and without resorting to lockdowns. Each state will need to take specific measures to revive its economy. Delhi has already taken many decisions. For example, in the last month, we reduced the VAT on diesel by Rs 8.38 per litre in one go, allowed street vendors and weekly markets to start operating, de-linked hotels and banquet halls linked to our Covid hospitals so that they can start functioning normally and launched the Rozgar Bazaar jobs portal at jobs.delhi.gov.in to connect employers and job-seekers, which has received an overwhelming response. In just one month, 11 lakh job-seekers have registered and there are over 8 lakh active job vacancies on the portal. I am holding regular meetings with traders, industrial associations, and businesses and listening to their suggestions so that together we can get Delhi’s economy back on track. Do you think the Centre has responded well to Chinese aggression? China has captured our land, that is clear. The country and we are with the Centre and the Army, but we want to get our land back. Nothing less is acceptable. Secondly, the stand-off is also a big economic opportunity. India’s dependence in terms of imports from China is not healthy. Even our toys are coming from China. It would be understandable if we were importing advanced technology from there. Instead, we are importing goods for even our daily needs, which is affecting local production and jobs. I believe this is the opportunity when the central government should, on a war footing, create huge production facilities. A sector-wise list of our dependence should be prepared, and industrialists should be invited. They should be given all facilities. It will end our dependence on China, create jobs and boost our economy. When Delhi riots happened, Congress accused AAP of playing second fiddle to BJP. How do you respond to this? Delhi riots were a blot on the entire country. Only AAP is asking tough questions and seeking accountability from the BJP and the Centre. Delhi’s courts themselves have raised serious questions on the fairness of Delhi Police’s investigations. We have also expressed our strong objection to the decision by the Centre-appointed Lieutenant-General to subvert the judicial process of Delhi riots by appointing its own public prosecutors instead of the Delhi government panel, as per the provisions of law. In both episodes, Congress has been completely silent. Why is a perception gaining ground that you are no longer anti-BJP in the manner you used to be in the past? My allegiance is to the people of Delhi and as their Chief Minister, I am ready to go to any extent to ensure their well-being. If that means I have to plead for help with the BJP-ruled Centre, I will do so. This entire episode of surge in Covid-19 cases is one example. If at that time, I had brought my ego to the fore and fought with the BJP-ruled Centre, who would lose? At the same time, we have repeatedly raised our concerns and protested against the Centre. Where do you see yourself and AAP going from here now? Kejriwal has no ambition. It is the idea of AAP and its brand of politics that has caught people’s imagination across the country. We are still a young party though, and it takes time to expand all over India. We have formed the government thrice in Delhi and are the main opposition in Punjab. No other party has managed to do that in such a short span of time. We want to take our form of politics and governance to all parts of India. Can you tell us more about AAP’s Oximitra campaign in Karnataka and rest of the country? The Karnataka government is doing its best and to complement their efforts, I have asked all AAP volunteers to assist the people in screening for coronavirus by checking people’s oxygen levels through Oximeter -- they will be called Oximitras. Low oxygen levels is the most dangerous symptom of coronavirus. It can go unnoticed until patients get very serious. The Oximeter campaign covers as many villages of Karnataka as possible. It involves four steps: 1) Any person who wants to help people fight coronavirus can register for the campaign. Volunteers are called Oximitras.  2) Our team will visit their home, give them a kit and train them how to use it. 3) One volunteer in each village or mohalla will set up an Oxygen Test Centre. Volunteers will go door to door to check people’s oxygen levels using Oximeters. If they find that oxygen is low, they will assist people in getting hospital admission. 4) If any of the persons feel they have Covid-19 symptoms, they can call Oximitras, who will come check their oxygen levels, and if it is low, help them get hospital admission. We have launched this campaign nationally and have got tremendous response. Just last week in Ahmedabad, we found that a young boy had oxygen level below 80 per cent, which is quite dangerous. I urge all the people of Karnataka to come forward and volunteer in this campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/on-delhi-s-covid-19-fight-centre-can-take-all-the-credit-responsibility-is-mine-cm-arvind-kejriwal-884092.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Search operation in Kashmir’s Budgam continues to flush out militants||The anti-militancy operation in Kawoosa village of central Kashmir’s Budgam district continued on Tuesday after it was halted late Monday night due to darkness. Officials said the search operation resumed early in the morning. Earlier, a joint team of police, army and CRPF launched a cordon-and-search operation (CASO) in Kawoosa village on Monday evening based on a ‘specific input’ about the presence of militants in the area. “As the joint team of forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, triggering an encounter,” a police official said and added there is input about presence of two to three militants in village orchards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/search-operation-in-kashmir-s-budgam-continues-to-flush-out-militants-884259.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Dalit man beaten to death over rumour that he was selling his 16-yr-old daughter||A man died after being allegedly beaten up by some people in Mainpuri district of Uttar Pradesh over accusations that he was trying to sell his teenage daughter, police said on Tuesday. Sarvesh Kumar Diwakar (45), who was a Dalit, was attacked with sticks and rods on Sunday. He was admitted to a hospital, where he died during treatment on Monday, they said, adding that four people involved in the incident have been detained. Opposition Samajwadi Party and the BSP targeted the ruling BJP over the incident and called for justice to the victim's family. "On September 6, on receiving information about a fight, a police team reached the spot and sent one person, Sarvesh Kumar (45), to the district hospital. He died during treatment on September 7. A video related to the incident has been received and police have taken cognisance of the same. Of the five involved in the beating, four have been detained, and search is on for the fifth person. Strict action will be taken against all," Mainpuri Police said on its Twitter handle. The Samajwadi Party announced Rs one lakh aid to the victim's family. "Lynching of Dalit Sarvesh Diwakar in Mainpuri by goons of Bajrang Dal under patronage of the government is unfortunate. Condolences to his family. SP will give Rs 1 lakh to the victim's family. Government should provide Rs 10 lakh to the family," the party said. Targeting the state government, BSP supremo Mayawati cited other similar incidents that had happened in the state recently. "Dalit Sarvesh was beaten to death in Mainpuri. Similar incidents of killing of Govind Chauhan in Maharajganj, Rajveer Maura in Shahjahanpur, Wasid in Bareilly, Sudhir Singh in Kushinagar and Vinod Garg in Banda are saddening," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "Similarly, cab driver's murder in Noida and other incidents expose tall claims of the government on law and order in the state. The government should provide justice to the victim's famliy and give them financial help," she added in another tweet. It has been learnt that Sarvesh Diwakar, who used to run a food stall, was in financial trouble due to the lockdown and had decided to send his 16-year-old daughter to a relative's place in Noida. However, after a rumour spread that he was selling her, he was beaten up by a group of people. The act was caught on video, which surfaced on social media. Earlier, in Kushinagar on Monday, an angry mob thrashed a murder accused to death at a village allegedly in the presence of police which had arrived there after he shot dead a school teacher. A video clip on social media showed policemen present at the scene in riot gear but unable to stop people from raining lathi blows on the man lying on the ground. The incident took place at Rampur Bangra village of the Taryasujan area around 8 am, after Aryaman Yadav killed the teacher, Sudhir Kumar Singh (28), a resident of Rampur Bangra village under Taryasujan police station limit in Kushinagar district. Following the incident, the SHO of Taryasujan police station, under whose jurisdiction the double murder took place, was suspended, and a probe was ordered against the erring policemen, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-man-beaten-to-death-over-rumour-that-he-was-selling-his-16-yr-old-daughter-884263.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||SC pulls up Rajasthan police for attempting to close mysterious death of NLU student||The Supreme Court on Tuesday pulled up the Rajasthan police for trying to close a case related to the mysterious death of Vikrant Nagaich, a student of National Law University, Jodhpur, in 2017. A bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman ticked off the state police for filing a closure report into the matter. The court had, on July 8, given the Rajasthan police two months time to complete its investigation. On Tuesday, the court reserved its judgement on a plea by Neetu Kumar Nagaich, the mother of the deceased, seeking a CBI probe into the matter. "We are of the view that the investigation which is ongoing, pursuant to the High Court’s order dated 24.02.2020, must be completed within a period of two months and final report be filed before this court," the bench had then said. The top court had on June 8 asked the state government to explain as why they failed to achieve a headway for over three years. Advocates Sunil Fernandes and Astha Sharma, who appeared for the petitioner, have accused the state police of "lackadaisical and callous manner of probe" into the FIR lodged on June 29, 2018 with Jodhpur's Mandore police station. "The state police have not even investigated on the basis of 13 to 15 areas which were pointed to the Imvestigating Officer by the father of the deceased student, a retired colonel of the army," they said. The petitioner claimed the state was criminally negligent in the investigation or was trying to cover up for the perpetrators or had some mala fide intention to the detriment of the petitioner who lost her only son. Vikrant, a third-year law student, was found dead in August 14, 2017 under unnatural circumstances near the railway track opposite the university. The authorities first tried to present the case as that of suicide due to alleged depression, though there was no such evidence. After about 10 months of the incident, the FIR was lodged but the CID-CB failed to arrive at any outcome. The petitioner's husband, Colonel Jayant Nagaich procured an Internal Railway Enquiry Report, which showed no record of any incident or accident by any member of lobby crew, locomotive drivers or guards of the trains on the date. The petitioner also approached the Rajasthan HC which on February 24, 2020, disposed of the matter, though the investigating agency among other things failed to create a digital footprint, including retrieval of mobile records, of the circumstances surrounding the place of the incident, which would have led to the apprehension of the offenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-pulls-up-rajasthan-police-for-attempting-to-close-mysterious-death-of-nlu-student-884279.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Taj Mahal to reopen on September 21 even as Covid-19 rages||India's top tourist attraction the Taj Mahal is set to reopen more than six months after it was shut, officials said Tuesday, even as the vast nation battles soaring coronavirus infections. India, home to 1.3 million people, on Monday overtook Brazil to become the world's second most-infected nation with more than 4.2 million cases, behind only the United States. "The Taj Mahal will reopen on September 21. All Covid-19 protocols, like physical distancing, masks will be followed," northern Uttar Pradesh state's Tourism Department deputy director Amit Srivastava told AFP. Visitors will be limited to 5,000 a day, down from the usual daily average of 20,000, he added. One of the New Seven Wonders of the World, the shining marble mausoleum south of the capital New Delhi has been closed since mid-March as part of India's strict virus lockdown. Uttar Pradesh, home to Agra city where the Taj is located, is one of the worst-hit states in India with more than 270,000 virus cases recorded so far. India has pushed ahead with reopening to boost its virus-battered economy even as infections have steadily increased. Since August, India has been reporting the highest single-day rises in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/taj-mahal-to-reopen-on-september-21-even-as-covid-19-rages-884285.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Attempt to make NLSIU an island of exclusion: Ex-NLSIU Vice Chancellor moves SC against separate entrance test||Former Vice Chancellor of National Law School of India University, Bengaluru Prof Venkat Rao has approached the Supreme Court against the decision to conduct a separate admission test for the five-year BA LLB course, saying it would convert the institution from being ‘an island of excellence’ to ‘an island of exclusion’. In a writ petition filed by advocates Sughosh Subramanyam and Vipin Nair, Rao, also as a parent, contended that the present Vice Chancellor did not have requisite consent from the academic counsel for a separate examination as National Law Aptitude Test, other than the Common Law Admission Test. "The reason for the separate test are whimsical and baseless and in breach of legitimate expectation of students. The technical requirement of having a laptop and 1 Mbps of internet speed for taking home proctored examination, is onerous, arbitrary, discriminatory and illegal,'' the plea contended.  The actions by NLSIU constitute serious and egregious violation of the fundamental rights of the various aspirant students and their parents, including the right against arbitrary actions of the State secured under Article 14 and the right to education and other concomitant rights under Article 21 of the Constitution, it claimed. The CLAT, for admission to 22 National Law Universities across the country, was first scheduled on May 10. The NLSIU was invariably listed, being a parent University, since 2007. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the CLAT was rescheduled a number of times. It is now to be held on September 28. The NLSIU, on the ground to avoid zero academic year, decided to hold National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) on September 12 through online mode, giving just a window of seven days for students. The move allowed the University not to accept the scores of CLAT 2020 for admission to BA LLB (Hons) 2020-21.  "The sudden and capricious decision of the NLSIU has not only thrown the aspirants of CLAT 2020 into a frenzy and in a state of fear and confusion, it has also severely jeopardised the varsity's position in the consortium," the plea said. Due to the whimsical conduct of the University, the children are put to extreme pressure and mental stress. It has created an unprecedented uncertainty and has imposed an onerous burden and obligations upon thousands of aspirants, who are now uncertain about the future course of action, the plea added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/attempt-to-make-nlsiu-an-island-of-exclusion-ex-nlsiu-vice-chancellor-moves-sc-against-separate-entrance-test-884309.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Man booked for threatening UP cabinet minister Moti Singh||Police have booked a man here for allegedly threatening Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Moti Singh in a video clip that has been widely shared on social media. In the video, the man can be heard saying, "Mai seedhe Moti Singh ka encounter karunga (I will do encounter of Moti Singh)", amid clapping and cheering by a group of people gathered around. "In the video shared on social media, one person, Chandan Yadav, who is surrounded by around 50 other people, is heard saying that Sabhapati Yadav is his maternal uncle. He threatened cabinet minister Moti Singh and made objectionable remarks," Superintendent of Police Anurag Arya said. Taking note of the video, an FIR was registered against Chandan Yadav and others at the Aaspur Devsara police station, the SP said. A probe is underway and no arrests have so far been made, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-booked-for-threatening-up-cabinet-minister-moti-singh-884314.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Two rape and murder accused escape from police custody in Madhya Pradesh;1 held||Two of three accused arrested for allegedly raping and killing a 13-year-old girl in Ratlam district of Madhya Pradesh have escaped from the custody of police, an officer said on Tuesday. One of them was traced and arrested earlier in the day, hours after his escape on Monday night, while his accomplice is still at large, said Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Indrajeet Singh Bakalwal. The girl was allegedly abducted, raped and killed by the three men on the night of September 5 in an agriculture field in Gurjarpada village, about 20 kms away from Ratlam, after she stepped out of her house to buy grocery, police had said. "Two of the three accused, namely Deepak Singh and Ravi Singh Ninama, gave police the slip while they were getting down from the police vehicle on Monday night on the premises of Bilpank police station," Bakalwal said. After their escape, the police announced a reward of Rs 10,000 on each of the absconding accused. One of them, Ravi Singh Ninama, who is deaf and mute, was arrested on Tuesday while Deepak Singh is still at large, the ASP said. Besides Singh and Ninama, another accused is identified as Kalu Singh Ninama. All of them were arrested on Monday on a tip-off. They were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for abduction, rape and murder, and under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-rape-and-murder-accused-escape-from-police-custody-in-madhya-pradesh1-held-884321.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||'Hunar Haat' to return in Prayagraj next month after Covid-19 break||'Hunar Haat', the Minority Affairs Ministry's initiative to generate employment for master artisans, will make a comeback on October 9 in Prayagraj with the theme of “local to global” and a focus on indigenous Indian toys. After a gap of about six months due to the coronavirus pandemic, the next 'Hunar Haat' will be organised in Prayagraj from October 9 to 18 and more than 30 per cent stalls will be for artisans who prepare indigenous toys, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said. The artisans will also be extended help through various institutions for attractive packaging of 'swadeshi toys', he said. Naqvi said here that every corner of the country has a traditional and ancestral legacy of indigenous toys. This legacy, which was on the verge of extinction, has got a boon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for 'swadeshi toys', the minister said. The Indian toy industry has got a tremendous boost after Modi advocated “vocal for local toys”, he said in a statement. Naqvi said that every corner of the country is endowed with various kinds of indigenous toys made with wood, brass, bamboo, glass, cloth, paper, clay, etc. 'Hunar Haat' will be an enormous platform, providing market and opportunities to master artisans who prepare these indigenous exquisite toys, he said. Prime Minister Modi’s appeal to get “vocal for local toys” will help the Indian toy industry to gain dominance in the toy market. 'Hunar Haat', which has provided employment and employment opportunities to more than 5 lakh Indian artisans, craftsmen, culinary experts and other people associated with them in the last five years, has become a credible brand of rare exquisite indigenous handmade products, Naqvi said. The Minority Affairs Ministry has organised more than two dozen 'Hunar Haats' so far across the country. In the coming days, 'Hunar Haat' will be organised in Jaipur (October 23 -November 1), Chandigarh (November 7- 15), Indore ( November 21 to 29), Mumbai (December 22 to 31), Hyderabad (January 8 to 17), Lucknow (January 23 to 31), India Gate, New Delhi (February 13 to 21), Ranchi (February 20 to 28), Kota (March 5 to 14, 2021), and Surat/Ahmedabad (March 20 to 27, 2021). Naqvi said that this time, people will also be able to buy 'Hunar Haat' products online also. The Minority Affairs Ministry is registering these artisans and their indigenous products on “GeM” (Government e-Marketplace). Several export promotion councils have shown interest to provide international markets on a large scale for handmade indigenous products of these artisans and craftsmen. Naqvi said that several lakh master artisans and craftsmen from across the country are happy and excited that 'Hunar Haat' is going to be organised again||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hunar-haat-to-return-in-prayagraj-next-month-after-covid-19-break-884323.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Government attaches properties of two pro-Khalistan terrorists||The government on Monday ordered attachment of properties of designated pro-Khalistan terrorists Gurpatwant Singh Pannun and Hardeep Singh Nijjar in Punjab, in connection with their secessionist campaign 'Sikh Referendum 2020'. Both Pannun of banned 'Sikhs for Justice' and Nijjar of outlawed 'Khalistan Tiger Force'  are designated terrorists under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967 on July 1. The latest action came following a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the referendum launched by 'Sikhs for Justice' for creating Khalistan. During investigations, the NIA identified immovable properties belonging to Pannun in Amritsar and Nijjar in Jalandhar. According to investigators, the 'Sikhs for Justice' is trying to hold meetings in the United States and other countries to "instigate and mobilise" the diaspora for their illegal activities. Pannun is the "attorney, law and legal advisor" of the 'Sikhs for Justice' and has been issuing appeals regularly to Punjab-based gangsters and youth to fight for the cause of the independent state of Khalistan, challenging the sovereignty, integrity and security of the country, the notification designating him as a terrorist has said. He was also in touch with Canada-based Nijjar and Malkit Singh Fauji among others for the referendum. Nijjar is the chief of 'Khalistan Tiger Force' and is actively involved in operationalizing, networking, training and financing the outfit's module members, the notification had said. Besides the duo, the government had also designated seven others, including Babbar Khalsa International's Pakistan-based chief Wadhawa Singh Babbar who is wanted in Kanishka bombing case, as terrorists. On July 5, the government also blocked 40 websites of 'Sikhs for Justice', which were running the 'Sikh Referendum 2020'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-attaches-properties-of-two-pro-khalistan-terrorists-884340.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||HC declines to waive off Rs 25,000 fine on petitioner who challenged AAP MLA's nomination||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday declined to waive the cost of Rs 25,000 imposed on a petitioner who had challenged nomination of AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan for election as a member of the Delhi Waqf Board. The high court said the petitioner, in his petition, had said he would pay the costs, if it was imposed, and that he had the means to do so and now he was claiming financial hardship. "Who asked you to file the petition," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the petitioner, Mohd Tufail Khan, and dismissed the application moved by him for waiving of the cost imposed on him. The court also declined to entertain the petitioner's lawyer's plea that the costs be reduced. The bench said that in the writ petition "all manner of allegations were made" against the AAP MLA without making him a party. It said that while dismissing the petition, it was of the opinion that the plea was not a bonafide one and "today also we are of the same opinion". "We see no reason to entertain the application," it added. Khan, who claims to be a social worker, had alleged that the Delhi government's decision to nominate the AAP MLA for election as a member of the Board was "illegal, arbitrary and biased". The petitioner had contended that the AAP leader was an accused in a case lodged by CBI on a complaint of corruption made in 2016 by the then Lt Governor of Delhi and was also accused by the CEO and a member of the Board in 2019 of having allegedly misappropriated waqf land worth thousands of crores. Besides that a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been lodged against the AAP leader by the Anti Corruption Branch, the petition had claimed. In view of these corruption cases against him, the AAP MLA ought not to be nominated for being elected to the Board, the petition had contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-declines-to-waive-off-rs-25000-fine-on-petitioner-who-challenged-aap-mlas-nomination-884362.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt suspends Allahabad SSP||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath suspended Allahabad Senior Superintendent of Police Abhishek Dixit on Tuesday for his failure to control crime and corruption and maintain law and order, said Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi. Dixit is also charged with not following the instructions of the government/headquarters properly and is accused of promoting corruption, a home department spokesperson added. The spokesperson said the SSP did not act on government instructions for foot patrolling and increasing security of banks and business establishments against incidents of robbery. There was a steady increase in pending criminal cases in Allahabad in the past three months, the spokesperson said, adding the government instructions on social-distancing were also not followed properly in the district, for which the high court had also expressed its displeasure. During his suspension, Dixit will remain attached to the Director-General of Police Office in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-suspends-allahabad-ssp-884364.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||A 15-year-old becomes new 'king' of cremation ghats in Varanasi||He is barely 15 and studies in the sixth standard, yet he has become the new 'king' of the cremation ghats situated on the bank of the Ganga in Varanasi. For the Hindus, he is the gateway to the 'moksha' (salvation). Fifteen-year-old Hariom Chaudhary was anointed as the new 'dom raja' (Dom King) recently after his father Jagadish Chaudhary, who was among the proposers of Prime Minister Narendra Modi when the latter filed his nomination papers from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat in 2019, died last month. Hariom Chaudhary is the sixth 'dom king' since independence.  Since Hariom is a minor, his grandmother Sarangi Devi would be performing his functions till he becomes an adult, according to one of the family members. The 'doms' (a scheduled caste) play a very important role in the cremation of the bodies at the two cremation ghats-Harish Chandra Ghat and Manikarnika Ghat, on the bank of the Ganga in Varanasi. The rituals at the cremation ghats are considered to be complete only when one of the members of the 'dom' family, which resides on the ghats, light the pyres from what the Hindu mythology refers to as 'eternal' flame. Hindus believe that the dead man would not be able to attain 'moksha' unless the 'dom raja' lights the pyre first. The history of the 'doms' in Varanasi was believed to be as old as the Hindu epic 'Ramayana'. It was also believed that Lord Shiva told the 'doms' that no one would attain salvation until one of them lighted the pyres first. Over the years the number of 'doms', engaged in performing the rituals on the cremation ghats had increased and hence the share of the earnings had gone down. Besides the construction of the electric crematorium has also hit their income adversely. Though the 'dom' community is still considered to be untouchable, the 'doms' of Varanasi still command some respect in the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-15-year-old-becomes-new-king-of-cremation-ghats-in-varanasi-884368.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court allows removal of plea for financial assistance to lawyers||The Delhi High Court Tuesday allowed withdrawal of a plea seeking financial assistance for lawyers enrolled with Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), irrespective of their state of residence, during the Covid-19 pandemic. The lawyer-petitioner sought to withdraw the plea after the court observed that it was filed without any substance. The petition had also sought a moratorium on EMIs and loan repayments till the pandemic situation normalises. "Petitioner seeks to withdraw the petition as the Supreme Court is seized of the issue...," Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad noted and disposed of the plea. The petition by lawyer Sunil Kumar Tiwari contended that levying of interest by lenders on loans and credit card payments during the moratorium has defeated the purpose of the scheme which sought to provide relief during the pandemic. The plea, filed through advocate Mukesh Kumar Singh, has claimed that during the prevalent pandemic neither the Centre nor the Delhi government provided any financial assistance to lawyers, but they did provide economic relief and other aid to corporate, industries and labourers. It has said that the only relief for indigent lawyers came from BCD which gave a one time financial help of Rs 5,000 to such advocates. However, this amount was not all sufficient for their survival, it has also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-allows-removal-of-plea-for-financial-assistance-to-lawyers-884372.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand to present Badrinath beautification master plan worth over Rs 400 crore to PMO||The Uttarakhand government will present its master plan worth Rs 424 crore for the beautification of Badrinath and expansion of facilities for devotees around the Himalayan temple to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) on Wednesday, official sources said here. The master plan for the beautification of Badrinath was prepared on the lines of Kedarpuri reconstruction at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also personally monitoring the progress of projects already under implementation at Kedarnath. Uttarakhand Tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar will make a presentation on the master plan at the PMO on Wednesday in the presence of Chief Secretary Om Prakash, official sources said. Development works around the famous temple are to be carried out in three phases, said Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadouriya, who recently gave final touches to the master plan at a meeting with officials concerned. The beautification of the Shesh Netra and Badrish lakes near the temple is to be taken up in the first phase of the implementation of the master plan, the temple and areas close to it will be beautified in the second and a path connecting the temple directly with the Shesh Netra lake will be built in the third phase, Bhadouriya said. Proposed works under the plan also include beautification of the ponds around the temple, streetscaping, expansion and widening of roads leading to the shrine, developing Badrish Van and construction of a parking facility near it, besides riverfront development in a phased manner, she said. The master plan on Badrinath has already been presented before Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat who has given his nod to it. Officials here believe that the work on the beautification of Badrinath could start before November this year if the Prime Minister okays the master plan as it is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-to-present-badrinath-beautification-master-plan-worth-over-rs-400-crore-to-pmo-884373.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh lifts weekend curbs on markets||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday revoked its order of mandatory closure of markets on Sunday, reverting to the pre-coronavirus lockdown arrangement. According to a statement, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said in a review meeting that markets will now close as per their earlier schedule instead of the weekly closure on Sunday. He said except containment zones, hotels and restaurants should be made operational in all areas and it should be ensured that all safety measures are followed. The chief minister asked officials to take measures for the protection of health workers from the infection. At the meeting, the CM also directed to speed up development work at seven cities under the Smart City Project and asked officials for a regular monitoring.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-lifts-weekend-curbs-on-markets-884392.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||No of containment zones in Delhi over 1K, likely to increase with more testing: officials||The number of containment zones has crossed 1,000 in the national capital according to Delhi government's data and is expected to rise further with increase in testing, officials said. According to district officials, the number of containment zones might rise with the increase in the number of coronavirus screening tests being conducted and the consequent climb in the cases of the infection here. Last month, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that testing to determine the prevalence of Covid-19 will be doubled to 40,000 per day within a week as there has been a marginal increase in the number of coronavirus cases in the city. The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi rose from 539 on August 1 to 716 on August 27 and subsequently to 976 on September 5. It breached the 1,000 mark on September 6, when it reached 1,076 and subsequently increased to 1,114 the next day. There were 437 containment zones marked in the city on July 1 and by July 31, it had risen to 692, according to official data. On August 3, the containment zone count came down to 496. However, since the last week of August, the number of containment zones has been steadily increasing. On August 25, there were 654 containment zones or localised areas from where infections were reported. The number of containment zones rose to 763 on August 28, and then to 833 on August 31 and to 894 zones on September 2. By September 5, the containment zone count stood at 946. The Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days. Barring August 31, when over 14,000 tests were conducted and 1,358 fresh cases reported, since August 30 daily case count has been recorded in excess of 2,000. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported from August 30-September 6 in that order are: 14,389 tests (1,358 fresh cases); 20,437 (2,024); 24,198 (2,312); 28,835 (2,509); 32,834 (2,737); 36,219 (2,914) and 38,895 (2,973), 36,046 (3,256). On September 7, the number of tests stood at 22,954 while 2,077 fresh cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-of-containment-zones-in-delhi-over-1k-likely-to-increase-with-more-testing-officials-884400.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Kejriwal launches online system to file consumer complaints||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched an online system for filing complaints in consumer courts and said it will prove to be a milestone especially during the Covid-19 pandemic.  He said consumers will now be able to file complaints from their homes any time and make payments online. "It will prove to be an important step in the times of Covid-19... We have already been asking people to stay home," the chief minister said.  "I have been told that Delhi is perhaps the first state to start this kind of facility. It will prove to be a milestone and set an example for other states to follow," he said. Kejriwal said around 7,000 consumer cases in the state commission and more than 8,000 such cases in the district courts here were pending.  "I hope that these cases are settled soon," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-launches-online-system-to-file-consumer-complaints-884414.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Arvind Kejriwal to call one crore Delhiites to spread awareness||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will be reaching out to one crore Delhiites through the phone to spread awareness about the necessity to wear masks and follow social distancing norms to prevent Covid-19. Besides the recorded messages through phones, the Delhi government's massive outreach programme also includes radio, TV, outdoor hoardings and digital communication, The Chief Minister's calls will be received by one crore people of Delhi, officials said. Kejriwal decided to engage people directly as Covid-19 cases were increasing in the capital and reports of the negligence of some people in following the Covid-19 norms. Kejriwal feels that there should be no complacency or negligence and an awareness campaign to establish a direct dialogue has been launched, they said. The Chief Minister is of the view that some people have become careless about Covid-19. "Now, we don't have to be complacent and let it spread further under any circumstances. For the last few days, some people have become a little careless. They have stopped wearing masks or following social distancing. I am your brother, your son, you have treated me as a part of your family. I don't want anyone in my family to fall ill. It is a very serious disease. So, I am asking you today to swear that whenever you get out of the house, you will wear a mask and follow social distancing," he said. He said some people are not even getting themselves tested nowadays. "I got a call from someone for some work. While talking, he told me that he had a fever for a few days. When I asked him about whether he got tested, he denied and said he will be fine soon because nowadays, everyone is recovering from Corona just like that. I was amazed. You know, this way, he is risking his life and will also risk his surroundings and his family people," he said. "What is the problem of getting yourself tested? The Delhi government has made the test free. In Delhi, tests are being conducted at various places. So why not get yourself tested? If you have any symptoms or you come in contact with someone who was infected, you should immediately get a test done without delay. I pray to God that you and your family remain healthy and happy," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-arvind-kejriwal-to-call-one-crore-delhiites-to-spread-awareness-884420.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Doctor's prescription not mandatory for Covid-19 testing in Delhi, says HC||The Delhi High Court Tuesday ordered that doctor's prescription will not be mandatory from now on for those going voluntarily for RT/PCR test to detect Covid-19 infection in the national capital. Till now it was mandatory for a person to have a doctor's prescription or symptoms to get tested for the virus. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said people need to carry Aadhaar card for Delhi address proof and fill up a form as prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid-19 testing. The court noted there was a sharp increase in the number of cases in Delhi and asked private laboratories to allow 2,000 Covid-19 tests a day for those who want to undergo the voluntarily screening. Capacity of around 12,000 test per day is available with the Delhi government, it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctors-prescription-not-mandatory-for-covid-19-testing-in-delhi-says-hc-884422.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Nitish Kumar's 'impressive face' can't fetch him seats in Bihar polls if he fights alone: Tejashwi Yadav||Hitting back at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for launching a blistering attack on Lalu Prasad politically as well as personally, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, on Tuesday, said that the JD(U) president's "impressive face" cannot fetch him seats even in double-digit if his party enters the poll fray on its own. Yadav, who served as Kumars Deputy in the previous Grand Alliance government, asserted that his Samata party could win just seven seats in the 1995 assembly elections and again he could bag a meagre two seats in 2014 Lok Sabha polls when JD (U) fought in alliance with the CPI. "His (Nitish Kumar's) impressive face (pratapi chehra) can't win for him seats in double-digit if he fights on his own in his entire lifetime It is my claim and challenge," Yadav said in a tweet. Kumar, while addressing JD(U) a virtual rally made a scathing attack on Lalu Prasad and his family and highlighted comparative statistics to show the pace of development in Bihar during 15 years of "Pati-Patni Raj" (Lalu-Rabri rule) and as much time under him since then. Kumar has been on chief minister's chair since the end of the RJD rule in November 2005 and will be seeking a fourth straight term in office in the polls due in October-November. The JD(U) president had also taken a swipe at Tejashwi Yadav by referring seven sins as enumerated by Mahatma Gandhi who considered "money without work" as a sin among others. Stating that there are many people who have made huge money without doing anything in life, Kumar had said I asked him (Tejashwi) to explain before the people from where the money came, but he was not in a position to do. So I decided to part ways with them (with RJD). Lalu, his wife Rabri Devi, Tejashwi Yadav and some other members of the family are accused in the alleged 'Hotels for Land' scam being probed by the CBI. Lalu and his family members allegedly received prime land in the state capital, when the RJD chief was the railway minister, in return for contracts to run two hotels owned by the IRCTC, a subsidiary of the Indian Railways. Senior JD(U) leader and MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh encountered Tejashwi and asked in whose name vote was sought during 2010 assembly polls when the RJD was reduced to 22 seats. The JD(U)-BJP combine headed by Kumar had won a four-fifth majority in the 243-member assembly in 2010. The RJD's humiliation was complete when Lalu Prasad's wife Rabri Devi was defeated in both the constituencies she had contested. After the collapse of mahagathbandhan government in July 2017, the RJD leaders had claimed that it was because of them that JD(U) won 71 seats in 2015 Bihar assembly polls. JD(U) had fought in alliance with RJD and Congress under grand alliance in the last assembly elections. The JD(U) leaders have been rebutting the claim, saying even then Kumar was the face of the grand alliance. Tejashwi further retweeted party's series of tweets with a slogan "naa bhule hain, naa bhulne denge" in which it took up the issue of migrant labourers who they alleged were left in the lurch by the state government on "Gods mercy" during coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-kumars-impressive-face-cant-fetch-him-seats-in-bihar-polls-if-he-fights-alone-tejashwi-yadav-884429.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Five die due to toxic gas in well||Five people died here on Tuesday after being exposed to toxic gas in a well where locals used to dump garbage, police said. The incident took place at Raja Mohalla in the Kotwali police station area while they were rescuing a calf that had fell into it. According to Additional Superintendent of Police Mahendra Kumar said it was an old and unused well in which people used to dump the garbage. “On Tuesday afternoon, a calf fell into the well. A man went into it using a ladder to pull out the calf,” he said, adding that when the calf was rescued, the man fainted after inhaling toxic gas. Four other people went down to bring him back but they too fainted, Kumar said. The ASP said police, fire brigade and local civic body personnel pulled them out after much effort. "They were taken to the district hospital where doctors declared them dead. The deceased have been identified as Vaibhav (18), Dinesh (30), Ravi Shankar (36), Vishnu Dayal (35) and Mannu Saini (36)," the ASP said. Police have sent bodies for a post-mortem examination. District Magistrate Nitin Bansal said assistance will be given to family members of the deceased as per rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-five-die-due-to-toxic-gas-in-well-884461.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||4.11 lakh Jammu and Kashmir residents returned home from other parts of country during lockdown||The Jammu and Kashmir administration evacuated more than 4.11 lakh residents of the Union Territory, who had been stranded in other parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, through special trains and buses, officials said. The exercise was carried out with strict observance of Covid-19 guidelines and standard operating procedures, they said. As many as 139 special trains arrived in Jammu and Udhampur railway stations carrying about 1,22,621 passengers from other states and union territories, while 2,89,182 people returned home by road through Lakhanpur. So far, 118 trains have reached Jammu with a total of 1,06,925 stranded passengers belonging to different districts, while 15,696 passengers have reached Udhampur in 21 special trains, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/411-lakh-jammu-and-kashmir-residents-returned-home-from-other-parts-of-country-during-lockdown-884471.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro's Blue Line, Pink Line to resume services from Wednesday after 171-day hiatus||Delhi Metro's Blue Line and Pink Line are set to resume operations on Wednesday after being closed for 171 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. On Monday, the Delhi Metro had resumed services on its Yellow Line, with curtailed operations and a slew of measures for safety of passengers and employees. Metro services in Delhi-NCR were closed since March 22 due to the pandemic. The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours. Trains are to operate in batches of four-hour each from 7-11 AM in the morning and 4-8 PM in the evening in the first stage, it said. While nearly 15,500 passengers availed the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro combined on Monday, on Tuesday, the figures after the the end of services at 11 AM, stood at 8,300, officials said. "As part of the stage-I of graded resumption of metro services, the Delhi Metro will resume operations after 171 days on its Blue Line i.e., Line-3/4 from Dwarka Sec -21 to Electronic City/Vaishali (65.35 km, 58 stations)  and  Pink Line i.e., Line-7 from Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar (57.58 km, 38 stations) from tomorrow," the DMRC said in a statement. Services will be available on both of these lines from 7-11 AM in the morning and from 4-8 PM in the evening along with Yellow Line and Rapid Line which are already operational as per the given timings, it said. The re-opening of these two Lines will ensure availability of nine of the existing 28 interchange metro stations from Wednesday, including Rajouri Garden (Blue Line & Pink Like); INA Delhi Haat (Yellow & Pink Line); Mayur Vihar Phase – I (Blue Line & Pink Line); Rajiv Chowk (Blue Line & Yellow Line); Anand Vihar ISBT (Blue Line & Pink Line) and Sikanderpur (Yellow Line & Rapid Metro), the DMRC said. The list of gates which will remain open for entry of passengers at each station along with all necessary updates are available on the home page of Delhi Metro's official website www.delhimetrorail.com for easy access of the passenger information, it said. In addition to above lines, three more lines- Red Line i.e, Line-1 from Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda (Ghaziabad); Green Line i.e, Line-5 from Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brig. Hosihar Singh (Bahadurgarh); and Violet Line i.e, Line-6  from Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh (Ballabhgarh) will also resume services from from September 10 with the same time schedule, it said. The entire metro network is planned to be made operational for passenger services throughout the day from September 12 onwards as it was before March 23 with all social distancing norms and guidelines to be followed by the passengers during the travel due to ongoing pandemic.   Wearing masks is mandatory inside train coaches and at stations' premises, it said. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the rapid transport only if urgently needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metros-blue-line-pink-line-to-resume-services-from-wednesday-after-171-day-hiatus-884479.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Karni Sena supports Kangana Ranaut, holds protest against Sanjay Raut||The Karni Sena on Tuesday came out in support of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and staged a protest here against Shiv Sena MP and its chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, amid the ongoing war of words between the two. They also burnt his effigy during the protest at Shastri Chowk in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur city and demanded an apology from him, saying "the kind of language he used for Ranaut is an insult to all women". The district president of Karni Sena, Devendra Singh said, "Rajputs always supported women whenever they were disrespected and insulted. Sanjay Raut used unparliamentary language for Kangana ji which is very shameful and we condemn his shameful act." "His language is very objectionable and we demand from the Maharashtra government and the Shiv Sena to take stern action against Sanjay Raut, failing which the Karni Sena will come on roads to fight for the respect of women," Singh said. The Karni Sena, known as Shri Rajput Karni Sena (SRKS), is an organisation based in Rajasthan. It got its name from Karni Mata, believed to be an incarnation of Durga. It has been fighting for caste-based quota for the Rajputs in government jobs and education sectors in the state and was in the news for violent protests against the film 'Padmaavat' and also against the release of the movie 'Jodhaa Akbar', claiming they distorted Rajput history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/karni-sena-supports-kangana-ranaut-holds-protest-against-sanjay-raut-884496.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP writes to Manish Sisodia, claims over Rs 18,000 crore unpaid to MCDs||Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor on Tuesday wrote to Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, claiming that over Rs 18,000 crores stand unpaid to municipal corporations due to political averseness of the city government. In a letter to Sisodia, who also is Delhi's Finance minister, Kapoor claimed that the three municipal corporations ruled by the BJP have received only around 25 per cent of the total funds so far in the current financial year from Delhi government.  "As a result of the Delhi government's political averseness, funds of over Rs 18,000 crores stand accumulated, unpaid to municipal corporations till March 31 this year," Kapoor claimed in his letter. No immediate reaction was available from the Delhi government. Kapoor asked  Sisodia "why is the Delhi government on one hand not releasing timely and full municipal funds and on the other its political wing is labelling charges of funds pilferage on the municipal corporations." The AAP leaders have sharpened attack on the Delhi BJP, accusing its leaders of corruption in the three corporations, ahead of civic body polls due in 2022. They have also asked the BJP-ruled municipal corporations to either pay pending salaries of employees or step down. The employees of municipal corporations have been staging a protest over their pending salaries for the past five months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-writes-to-manish-sisodia-claims-over-rs-18000-crore-unpaid-to-mcds-884526.html
08-09-2020||North and Central||86-year-old woman raped in Delhi||An 86-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a man in a secluded area in south west Delhi's Chhawla area, police said on Tuesday. The accused Sonu (37), a plumber, is a resident of Rewla Khanpur. He has been arrested in connection with the incident, they said. The incident took place on Monday evening when the elderly woman was on her way to a nearby village. On the way, she happened to meet the accused who offered her lift on his two-wheeler, a senior police officer said. On the pretext of dropping her safely at her destination, he took her to an isolated field and raped her, he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said, "A case under section 376 (rape) of IPC was registered at Chhawla Police Station and the accused was arrested." The medical examination of the victim was conducted and her statement has been recorded, he said. The woman is stated to be stable now, police said, adding she was discharged from hospital on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) called it an "extremely disturbing" case. According to the woman, she was waiting for milkman at around 5 pm on Monday when the perpetrator came and told her that the milkman would not come that day and that he will take her to the place where she could get milk, the DCW said. He took the woman to a farm instead and then brutally raped her, it said. "The woman kept crying and pleading that she was of his grandmother's age. The perpetrator assaulted her brutally when she tried to resist him and raped her," the women rights panel said. Local villagers rushed to the spot after hearing the woman’s cries. They caught hold of the perpetrator and called the police, it said. The woman was bleeding and in extreme trauma. The locals called her son and the police later took her for medical examination, the DCW said. Her medical examination report reveals several injuries and bruises on her body, it said. DCW chief Swati Maliwal and panel member Vandana Singh met the survivor at her house in Chhawla on Tuesday. "From a six-month-old girl to a 90-year-old woman, no one is safe in Delhi. The kind of trauma this woman had to face clearly indicates that the perpetrators of these crimes are not humans. “I met the woman today, she is an extremely courageous woman. We will ensure she gets justice. This case needs to be fast tracked and justice should be served within six months,” Maliwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/86-year-old-woman-raped-in-delhi-884550.html
08-09-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus crisis shatters India’s big dreams||The hit that India’s dreams have taken from the coronavirus pandemic can be found in the hushed streets of Surat’s industrial zone. You can see it in textile mills that took generations to build but are now sputtering, eking out about one-tenth of the fabric they used to make. You can see it in the lean faces of the families who used to sew the finishing touches on saris but, with so little business, are now cutting back on vegetables and milk. You can see it in the empty barbershops and mobile phone stores, which shoppers have deserted as their meager savings dwindle to nothing. Ashish Gujarati, the head of a textile association in this commercial hub on India’s west coast, stood in front of a deserted factory with a shellshocked look on his face and pointed up the road. “You see that smokestack?” he asked. “There used to be smoke coming out of it.” Not so long ago, India’s future looked entirely different. It boasted a sizzling economy that was lifting millions out of poverty, building modern megacities and amassing serious geopolitical firepower. It aimed to give its people a middle-class lifestyle, update its woefully vintage military and become a regional political and economic superpower that could someday rival China, Asia’s biggest success story. But the economic devastation in Surat and across the country is imperiling many of India’s aspirations. The Indian economy has shrunk faster than any other major nation. As many as 200 million people could slip back into poverty, according to some estimates. Many of its normally vibrant streets are empty, with people too frightened of the outbreak to venture far. Much of this damage was caused by the coronavirus lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi which experts now say was at turns both too tight and too porous, both hurting the economy and spreading the virus. India now has the fastest growing coronavirus crisis, with more than 80,000 new infections reported each day. India still has strengths. It has a huge, young workforce and oodles of tech geniuses. It represents a possible alternative to China at a time when the United States and much of the rest of the world is realigning itself away from Beijing. But its stature in the world is slipping. Last quarter the Indian economy shrank by 24%, while China’s is growing again. Economists say India risks losing its place as the world’s fifth largest economy, behind the U.S., China, Japan and Germany. “This is probably the worst situation India has been in since independence,” said Jayati Ghosh, a development economist at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. “People have no money. Investors aren’t going to invest if there is no market. And the costs have gone up for most production.” Many neighborhoods in the capital of New Delhi where low-paid workers used to live are deserted, shell-like, a hot wind blowing through empty, tin-walled shacks. A few years ago, when the economy was expanding at a 9% clip, it was difficult to find a place to rent. When Modi was swept to power in 2014 on a tide of Hindu nationalism, many Indians felt their nation had finally found the forceful leader to match their aspirations. But Modi has concentrated his energies on divisive ideological projects, like a new citizenship law that blatantly discriminates against Muslims or tightening the government’s grip over the mostly Muslim region of Kashmir. Quarter by quarter, India’s economic growth rate has been dropping, from 8% in 2016 to 4% right before the pandemic. Four percent would be respectable for a developed country like the U.S. But in India, that level is no match for the millions of young people streaming into the workforce each year, hungry for their first job. Many of the complaints that investors make about India — the cumbersome land policies, the restrictive labor laws, the red tape — predate Modi. But his confidence and absolutism, the same qualities that appealed to many voters, may have added to the problems. Four years ago he suddenly wiped out nearly 90% of India’s paper currency to tamp down corruption and encourage digital payments. While economists cheered both goals, they say the way Modi sprang this move on India did long-lasting damage to the economy. That impulsiveness emerged again when the coronavirus struck. On March 24, at 8 p.m., after ordering all Indians to stay indoors, Modi shut down the economy — offices, factories, roads, trains, borders between states, just about everything — with four hours’ notice. Tens of millions of Indians lost their jobs instantly. Many worked in factories or on construction sites or in urban homes, but they were migrants from rural India. Fearing they would starve to death in city slums, millions poured out of the urban centers and walked, rode bicycles or hitched desperate rides back to their villages, an epic reverse migration from city to countryside that India had never seen. That dragged coronavirus into every corner of this country of 1.3 billion people. Now, looking back on it, many economists trace the root of India’s interlocking crises — spiraling infections and a devastated economy — to this moment. “India’s embarrassing slowdown in the second quarter of 2020 is almost entirely because of the nature of the lockdown,” said Kaushik Basu, a former chief economist at the World Bank and now a professor at Cornell. “This may have been worth it if it arrested the pandemic. It did not.” He called the approach “lockdown-and-scatter” and said Modi’s policies had been a “failure.” In Surat’s textile market, Jagdish Goyal sat scowling in his deserted shop with piles of women’s suits in teals and oranges, priced for the working poor, now stacked to the ceiling. “Nobody’s buying,” he said. “Why? Because there are no social functions. No weddings to dress up for. No places to go. No big birthday parties. People are scared to go out.” Fear of catching the virus seems to be a decisive factor in India’s economic crisis, extending beyond the lockdown. Going out to shop means risking illness in a time when sick people are sometimes turned away from hospitals. According to a recent Google Mobility Report, which tracks cellphone data, trips to retail and recreation areas have dropped by 39% compared with before the pandemic. In Brazil and the U.S., the only countries with more coronavirus infections, the drops were less than half as severe. Anxiety hangs in the humid air of Surat’s textile zone. “No one comes for a shave anymore,” lamented Akshay Sen, a young barber with a few coins in his pocket. His words echoed off the shuttered shops. Behind him stood a bunch of men milling around a tea stand but not buying any tea. Behind all that, like a warning sign on the horizon, stood yet another tall brick smokestack, smokeless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-crisis-shatters-india-s-big-dreams-884105.html
08-09-2020||Opinion||Novak Djokovic aims to be all business but misses the mark||Shortly after arriving in New York last month, Novak Djokovic had said that he genuinely wanted to be here for the US Open. He repeated it throughout his stay, which ended much earlier than expected Sunday as the top-seeded Djokovic was defaulted in the fourth round for unsportsmanlike conduct, after hitting a ball in frustration toward the back wall of the court, which struck a line judge in the throat. It was unintentional, no doubt, but it was also a rash move that a 33-year-old superstar, so accustomed to living and playing under the microscope, should have learned to avoid long ago. But Djokovic, the elastic winner of 17 Grand Slam singles titles who has proved himself to be the men’s game’s best competitor under pressure, remains a work very much in progress: capable of charm, magnanimity and deep reflection but also capable of turning too much of what he touches into ash. Despite his earnest attempts to find peace, commune with nature and heed his inner voice, Djokovic remains too often his own worst enemy. And if he truly aims to be beloved on the same scale as his career-long measuring sticks Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal — something he refutes — he has had a rough few months. He has been spreading himself thin: serving as president of the ATP Player Council until the Sunday before the US Open, when he and Canadian player Vasek Pospisil launched a new players’ association that the ATP Tour’s leadership views warily and which Federer, Nadal and numerous other leading players have chosen, for now, not to back. In truth, despite Djokovic’s affirmations, he seemed conflicted about this business trip to New York: He only decided to come last month after extensive negotiations with the US Open organizers over everything from housing to entourage size to testing and quarantine protocols. Though sports writers (and everyone else) should generally steer clear of armchair psychology, it was easy to see Sunday’s ill-timed burst of anger as a product of all that accumulated off-court tension. “If you let yourself be blown to and fro, you lose touch with your root,” tweeted his wife Jelena Djokovic on Monday afternoon in Europe. “If you let restlessness move you, you lose touch with who you are.” She was quoting “The Wisdom of Tao,” and though she did not mention her husband directly, the timing was certainly interesting. It would also be useful to know whether Djokovic agrees, because he was firm last month that his outside endeavors were worth the extra effort. Sitting on a couch in the home he rented for the Western & Southern Open and US Open, he gestured toward his agent Edoardo Artaldi. “I know that Edoardo here wishes that maybe sometimes I don’t speak about some things in public or that I don’t maybe deal with tennis politics as much,” Djokovic said. “But look, I know that I feel deep in my heart that this is the right thing to do because I feel also responsible. And I feel that if I have an opportunity to share something that I feel might serve somebody in a positive way, I will do that.” Pospisil and others who have worked closely with Djokovic expressed respect for his desire to put his reputation and energy on the line for his peers. He has been involved in some major behind-the-scenes power struggles in the last two seasons: helping to lead the ouster of Chris Kermode, the former chairman of the ATP Tour in 2019, and supporting Justin Gimelstob, an influential board member and former American player who pleaded no contest last year to a battery charge and eventually resigned. Now comes the new player association, which Djokovic views in part as an attempt to help lower-ranked players increase their earnings in a sport that has traditionally rewarded the stars handsomely and the hoi polloi meagerly. His labor organizing may yet lead to trouble, just as the Adria Tour, another high-minded initiative organized this year during the coronavirus pandemic, got him into trouble. During the five-month hiatus, Djokovic wanted to help struggling players in the Balkan region and organized a series of charity exhibitions in Serbia and Croatia, where infection rates were low and restrictions were few. The tour raised eyebrows globally as the players hugged, danced the limbo and communed, mask free, with fans. It went truly awry when he, his wife Jelena and several other players and team members ended up contracting the virus, including Borna Coric, a Croatian who is in the quarterfinals of the US Open. “So many times he has the right intentions, it’s just with the timing he’s not getting it right, like the Adria Tour,” said Daniela Hantuchova, a former top-5 player from Slovakia, who has known Djokovic since his early years on tour. “There’s no problem with running an exhibition tour like that, just not when the whole world stops. Same with the ATP stuff. Sure things need to change, but not right now.” In terms of public image, Djokovic’s career has been a roller-coaster ride compared to Federer’s and Nadal’s much steadier courses.   Federer had anger issues when he was young, and largely conquered them, becoming close to inscrutable on court. But for Djokovic, who grew up with precious little when Serbia was viewed as a political pariah, the bubbles still rise frequently to the surface. This was not the first time he put a line umpire in danger. In 2016 at the French Open, his racket slipped backward out of his hand as he swiped it in anger during a quarterfinal match with Tomas Berdych and just missed a judge. That could have been a default in the year Djokovic went on to win his only French Open. Later that season at the ATP Finals, he angrily smacked a ball into the stands without hitting anyone and later squabbled with a reporter who suggested this might be a pattern of behavior and said it could have been dangerous if he had hit a spectator. “It could have been, yes,” Djokovic said. “It could have snowed in O2 Arena, as well, but it didn’t.” Nearly four years later, the mood changed abruptly in Arthur Ashe Stadium as the line judge dropped to the court after being hit. “It feels like sometimes the anger comes out of control,” Hantuchova said of Djokovic. “I care so much about him and respect everything he is doing for our game, but I just hope there is a lesson to be learned, even if this one came at the worst possible time, where pretty much the only thing standing between him and an 18th Grand Slam title was himself, with all my respect to the other players.” Djokovic was fined his prize money of $250,000 on Monday plus $10,000 for unsportsmanlike conduct: a pittance for someone who has won more than $140 million in career prize money. What hurts is the missed opportunity to narrow the gap with Federer, who has won a record 20 major singles titles, and Nadal, who has won 19. For all Djokovic’s talent and drive, the window to secure the record could be narrower than it seems. The younger generation is rising and improving, and one of them will get their first Grand Slam singles title on Sunday. As Djokovic knows too well, he has no one to blame but himself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/novak-djokovic-aims-to-be-all-business-but-misses-the-mark-884117.html
08-09-2020||Panorama||Karnataka should trade excess solar power||Overachieving solar targets is resulting in new challenges for Karnataka. It is not only making the state power surplus but also impeding the development of new solar projects in Karnataka. Karnataka has emerged as one of the top-performing states with a solar capacity of 7,295 MW (as of Dec 2019) against the MNRE‘s (Ministry of New and Renewable Energy) state target of 5,697 MW by 2022, and state government’s own target of 6000 MW by 2021. This exceptional performance was a result of flexible state policies and high solar irradiance in the state, which attracted large solar developers and new investors. Along with solar installation capacity targets, another factor driving RE generation in the state is the renewable purchase obligation (RPO). While most of the states have failed to achieve even 60% of their RPO targets, Karnataka is able to achieve 100% of its annual RPO targets. Significant RE capacity development has led to higher RE generation and higher procurement of power by DISCOMs in Karnataka. This, in turn, has helped the state surpass its annual RPO targets.  Despite achieving both solar capacity and RPO targets, Karnataka’s overall power procurement cost from solar projects (average power purchase cost (APPC), ₹3.85/kWh) remains higher than that of the power procured from Karnataka Power Corporation Limited’s (KPCL) thermal and hydropower plants with an average price of  ₹2.9/kWh.  Considering the high existing grid penetration by solar energy, in May 2019, Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd (KREDL) ordered a temporary halt to bidding in the state for procurement of energy from new solar power projects. A major reason behind this decision is that Karnataka fulfils a large portion of its energy needs from hydropower—the cheapest source of power for the state at a minimum price of ₹0.59/kWh. Another reason is the significantly low APPC of electricity from conventional sources. Moreover, despite high RE procurement, fixed prices have to be paid to thermal power generators. This raises the overall power procurement cost for DISCOMs. Thus, KREDL’s decision seems reasonable as it allows the already cash-strapped, debt-ridden utilities to prefer cheaper energy sources. Nevertheless, because of Karnataka’s high solar potential, it becomes imperative to explore alternative market options to keep the solar market attractive to developers. A potential way forward to keep the RE market attractive for developers and investors is to look at other available market options. Large-scale solar developers in Karnataka with excess power can sell it to other states through bilateral power purchase agreements (PPAs) by using the interstate transmission system (ISTS) model. Further, short-term bilateral PPAs can facilitate the entry of new developers in the market even when power procurement by state DISCOMs is restricted.  Considering the inconsistent business nature of power trading markets, open access (OA) is a sustainable business option. Long-term OA regulations not only provide security to RE developers but also help fulfil the RPO compliance of the end consumer. Despite these benefits, DISCOMs oppose the OA market policy because it eats into their high-paying industrial consumer base. However, the pace of development in the OA market and the support provided by all state regulators to streamline OA regulations make the OA market an attractive avenue for new generators. Another solution to the excess power issue comes from the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (CERC) newly-announced real-time market (RTM) regulations, 2019 for power trade between two entities located anywhere in the country. RTM will help both solar developers and conventional power generators to sell their excess power in almost real-time at reasonable prices. Karnataka needs to support liberal market opportunities to keep large-scale solar development sustainable in the long term, as well as to optimally utilise the abundant solar resources in the state. An integrated approach will not only help maintain the state’s top position in terms of solar generation but also help other states accomplish their targets—through excess-power trade—and support multiple national missions for the RE sector. (The writers work in the area of Energy and Power in CSTEP, a research-based think tank)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/karnataka-should-trade-excess-solar-power-884104.html
08-09-2020||Second Edit||Health of telecom sector vital||The granting of 10 years’ time by the Supreme Court to telecom service operators to pay their Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) dues to the government has provided some relief to the companies which are all financially stressed. They will now have some elbow room and time to make arrangements for the payments. AGR dues are the revenues owed by the companies to the Department of Telecom (DoT) as licence fee and spectrum charges for using the spectrum owned by the government. There was a dispute over the definition and scope of AGR which has now been decided by the court in favour of the DoT, and so the companies have to make the payments now. The total AGR dues of all companies amount to Rs 1.6 lakh crore. The companies had sought 20 years’ time for payment and the government had agreed to this. The government took a sympathetic view because it realised that the industry’s present financial situation is very difficult. It also told the court that a single payment would crush the industry. The court also recognised the difficulties in the situation but was not ready to be very lenient on the repayment timeline. But the order seems to have been generally accepted. Two major companies, Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel, may not find the payment very difficult. Vodafone, the weakest of them, might find the going tough but some fund-raising plans, which have been proposed, might lessen the pain. If Vodafone finds it difficult to meet its obligation or lands in more trouble, it may not be good for the industry or the customers because the competition will be reduced to just two players.  It was the high competition among the players that have kept the telecom tariffs low so far. That competition also led to the communication revolution from which the country benefited hugely. But a combination of low tariffs and high obligations to the DoT made the industry almost sick. Some companies collapsed, others were taken over. The companies also owe much money to the banks. There are many business issues to be resolved even after the various debt burdens are eased. The telcos will not be able to continue with the present tariff regime and stay afloat. So, it is most likely that tariffs will be raised and customers will have to pay more for the data that they consume. There will have to a reasonable balance between the interests of the industry and those of the customers. The health of the sector is vital for the country and the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/health-of-telecom-sector-vital-884100.html
08-09-2020||South||Chennai GST Superintendent says his name dragged without consent in Hindi imposition complaint||A superintendent working in the Capacity Building and Hindi cell of the Commissionerate of GST and Central Excise here on Tuesday said he has no problem working in the section, maintaining that his senior had mentioned his name “without consent” in a letter alleging “Hindi imposition” on non-Hindi speakers. T Sugumar, Superintendent of GST and Central Excise, said in a letter to the Commissioner of GST and Central Excise, Chennai Outer region, that he had not complained to B Balamurugan, Assistant Commissioner, Capacity Building and Hindi cell, regarding his nature of the job in the department. In his letter, Sugumar referred to a letter written by Balamurugan on Monday to the Chairman of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs alleging that all three officers – himself, Sugumar and Vijayakumar -- in the Hindi cell, were posted without their consent and considered the move as “Hindi imposition.” “I hereby submit that I have not complained to my Assistant Commissioner regarding the above subject and my name has been mentioned in the above referred letter without my consent,” he said in the letter. The Superintendent added that he had no knowledge of the letter but admitted having given the letterhead of the section to Balamurugan in a pen drive last week. “I further submit that I am only holding additional charge of the Official Language Section and I have had no issues regarding the works of the section. There are Hindi-speaking officers, Shri Ranjan Dhaiya, who has been relieved from the section only on Monday afternoon, and an assistant who works in the section and we have no issues regarding works or reports regarding Hindi,” Sugumar said in the letter. His clarification comes a day after Balamurugan alleged “Hindi imposition” on him and his colleagues by complaining that they were posted to a section tasked with promoting Hindi within the office despite them not knowing the language. “The documents and files in the Hindi department should mandatorily be in Hindi. At least 50 per cent of the documents should be in Hindi. Inspector Sugumar and I do not know how to write or read Hindi. When inspector Ranjan Daiya or the assistant prepare documents in Hindi, we would just sign without reading as we do not know the language,” Balamurugan had said in the letter. “We cannot write letters or prepare files in Hindi as none of us know Hindi. A deputy commissioner whose mother tongue is Hindi is posted in the Commissioner’s office. Without appointing him to the post in the department, making me in charge of the Hindi section amounts to belittling my emotions towards Tamil language,” he had added in the three-page letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-gst-superintendent-says-his-name-dragged-without-consent-in-hindi-imposition-complaint-884291.html
08-09-2020||South||Gold smuggling case: Swapna Suresh complains of uneasiness, hospitalised||The prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh has been admitted to a medical college hospital here after she complained of uneasiness and chest pain. Suresh, who is currently lodged at the Viyur jail near here was shifted to the Thrissur Medical College hospital on Monday evening, prison authorities said. "She complained of uneasiness.. after consulting with the prison doctors, we shifted her to the medical college hospital here. Adequate police protection has been provided to her," a senior prison official told PTI on Tuesday. Swapna, who is a former employee of the UAE consulate in the state capital, is among the four accused booked by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the smuggling of 30 kg of gold through diplomatic baggage which arrived at the Thiruvanathapuram International airport on July 5. The gold valued at around Rs 15 crore was seized by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-swapna-suresh-complains-of-uneasiness-hospitalised-884339.html
08-09-2020||South||Telangana CM condoles actor Jayaprakash Reddy's death||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao on Tuesday condoled the death of noted film actor Jayaprakash Reddy. The Chief Minister, who conveyed his condolences to the members of the bereaved family said Reddy acted in several films in a variety of roles and also won people's admiration as a theatre artiste. Reddy died of heart attack at his residence in Guntur in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday. He was 74 and is survived by wife and a son, family sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-condoles-actor-jayaprakash-reddys-death-884345.html
08-09-2020||South||Puducherry sees 12 more Covid-19 deaths; toll climbs to 337||Puducherry continued to see an upward trend in Covid-19 deaths as 12 more people died of the deadly virus on Tuesday, raising the toll in the union territory to 337. A release from Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said 440 new cases of the viral infection were reported, pushing the overall tally to 17,749. Of the fresh cases as many as 4,831 were active followed by 12,581 cases of recovery and discharge. The Director said 440 new cases were identified after examination of 2,081 samples in the last 24 hours, while 446 patients were discharged from hospitals. The fatality and recovery rates were 1.9 percent and 70.88 percent respectively. Kumar said the department examined 85,906 samples so far and it was found that 66,500 of them tested negative. Results of examination of remaining samples was awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-sees-12-more-covid-19-deaths-toll-climbs-to-337-884375.html
08-09-2020||South||PM PVN Rao's diplomacy ensured border peace with China for three decades, says Telangana CM KCR||At a time when the Indian forces are in a face-off with the Chinese troops along the LAC, and the Narendra Modi and Xi Jinping governments are battling to arrive at a peaceful resolution, Telangana Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao has credited former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao for “the three-decade border peace with China.”     The Telangana Assembly has, on Tuesday, passed a resolution requesting the Modi government to confer Bharat Ratna posthumously on Rao. CM KCR, who moved the resolution, said in his speech, "PV kept aside the border issues with China and intending to enhance the commerce (between the two countries), visited Beijing and clinched a deal. It was PV’s diplomacy that kept the Indo-China border peaceful for about three decades.” KCR’s apparent reference was to PM Rao’s September 1993 visit to Beijing. According to the Ministry of External Affairs, “It was during this visit that the landmark agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquility along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the India-China Border Area was signed, providing for both sides to respect the status quo on the border, clarify the LAC when there are doubts and undertake CBMs.”  Rao was followed by Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee who visited Beijing a decade later, in June 2003. “(The) visit elevated the bilateral relationship to a new level of mutual understanding and expanded ties to full-scale cooperation,” the MEA website page on Prime Ministerial visits to China says. The KCR government had flagged off PVN Rao’s birth centenary celebrations on 28 June 2020. CM KCR further said that the “nation should honour itself by conferring the Bharat Ratna on Telangana’s dear son PV, who is a global intellectual, “Apara Chanakya,” a polyglot, and the builder of a prosperous India.” “As we are celebrating PV’s centenary, it would be befitting if the announcement is made during the forthcoming Parliament session,” he said while observing that the highest civilian award on PV has been overdue. The resolution unanimously passed by the assembly wants PVN Rao’s statue and portrait installed in Parliament premises. It also wants the Hyderabad central university named after Rao, who had also served as the union HRD minister. Incidentally, PVN Rao was the first to head the HRD ministry formed under the then PM Rajiv Gandhi. The Ministry’s name was changed back to the Ministry of Education by the Modi government in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-pvn-raos-diplomacy-ensured-border-peace-with-china-for-three-decades-says-telangana-cm-kcr-884408.html
08-09-2020||South||Kerala: Police raids Manjeshwar MLA M C Kamaruddin's house in cheating case||The city police on Tuesday carried out a search at the house of Manjeshwar MLA M C Kamaruddin in connection with the cheating cases registered against him. Over a dozen cheating cases have already been registered against the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) MLA from Kasargod district on the basis of petitions filed by investors of the Fashion Gold Jewellery business. Kamaruddin is the chairman of the shop. Managing director T K Pookoya Thangal has also been arraigned in the case. According to police sources, searches were carried out at the houses of Kamaruddin and Pookoya Thangal. Documents related to the investments were recovered. Most documents were found at the house of Pookoya Thangal. The statement of the MLA would be recorded soon, said police sources. The Kasargod district crime branch is probing the case. Meanwhile, Kamaruddin told a section of media that he did not intend to cheat anyone. The business was started for livelihood and ended up in a loss, but there was sufficient means for returning the investments. He said the case against him was politically motivated. The Kasargod-based jewellery firm has branches in Kasargod and Kannur districts. It pulled shutters earlier this year citing losses. There were around 800 investors in the firm who invested crores in it. Nine mahal committees in Kasargod also spoke about illegal investments in the MLA's gold business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-raids-manjeshwar-mla-m-c-kamaruddins-house-in-cheating-case-884445.html
08-09-2020||South||Kerala Health Minister endorses homoeopathy for Covid-19 fight||Allopaths and traditional medical practitioners in Kerala are locking horns after Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja backed the effectiveness of homoeopathic medicine in curbing Covid-19 spread. While the allopaths are alleging that there are no scientific justifications for homoeopathic medicine's effectiveness in stopping Covid-19, the homoeopaths are accusing that even the allopaths are experimenting medicines and trying plasma therapy without any scientific studies. The homoeopaths point out instances of 'very few' Covid-19 infection among people who took homoeopathic preventive medicine. District medical officer of Pathanamthitta, Dr Biju Kumar had even brought out a report in this regard. Some local body representatives had also earlier stated that the number of Covid-19 cases in localities where homoeopathic preventive medicines were distributed was very low. Based on these, the Health Minister stated that homoeopathy medicines are effective in curbing the Covid-19 spread. The number of coronavirus positive cases among those who took the homoeopathy preventive medicine was very low and those who got infected were also found coming out of the infection swiftly. The Indian Medical Association Kerala strongly criticised the Minister alleging that she is endorsing homoeopathy for Covid-19 even as there is no scientific study, but merely based on some reports that are not scientific studies conducted as per the standard norms. "There are no scientific studies on the effects the homoeopathy medicines create in the human body. The Minister's statement amount to insulting and demoralising the allopaths and health workers who had been restlessly fighting Covid-19," said IMA Kerala president Dr Abraham Varghese and secretary Dr P Gopikumar in a statement. The Institute of Homoeopaths-Kerala state president Dr K N Santosh Kumar said that the homoeopaths are open to any scientific study conducted by the government to address the concern of those raising objection against the use of homoeopathy for Covid-19. "The allopaths are questioning the scientific effects of homoeopathy. But they themselves are also making experiments like plasma therapy. The homoeopaths are highly confident in fighting Covid-19. But owing to the strong pressure by the lobbies in modern medicine, it is not being allowed," he said. The Vaidya Maha Sabha, a forum of traditional medical practitioners, has also strongly backed the Health Minister. It also alleged that the allopaths are often trying to downgrade traditional medical streams like Ayurveda owing to professional jealousy.  The AYUSH department of the centre had earlier issued an advisory on the use of Indian traditional medicine practices like Ayurveda, Homeopathy and Unani in fighting Covid-19. It specifically suggested Homoeopathy medicines for fighting Covid-19. But even then strong camping was unleashed against traditional medicines, allegedly by the commercial lobbies involved in modern medicines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-health-minister-endorses-homoeopathy-for-covid-19-fight-884447.html
08-09-2020||South||Congress shuts doors to the Jose K Mani faction in Kerala||Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala on Tuesday shut doors to the faction of Kerala Congress (M) led by party founder leader K M Mani's son and Rajya Sabha MP Jose K Mani. The faction led by former minister and veteran leader P J Joseph would remain with the UDF. Though the UDF earlier decided to oust the Jose K Mani faction on charges of dishonouring an understanding to share a panchayat president post with the P J Joseph faction, the UDF was later reconsidering the decision as the Election Commission recently allocated the party's symbol, two leaves, to the Jose K Mani faction. But Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said on Tuesday after a meeting of the UDF that Jose K Mani faction ditched the UDF. He also said that the MLAs and MPs of the faction should quit those post if they were leaving the UDF. Jose K Mani, however, rejected the demand citing that the Congress also gained by aligning with the Kerala Congress (M) in the elections. Future plans of the faction would be decided soon, he said. Of the five MLAs of Kerala Congress (M), two are with the Jose K Mani faction. The lone Lok Sabha MP of the party, Thomas Chazhikadan is also with the Jose K Mani faction. Jose K Mani was elected to Rajya Sabha with Congress's support. Meanwhile, the UDF has decided to allocate the Kuttanad Assembly seat of the party to the P J Joseph faction for the upcoming Assembly poll. The P J Joseph faction has been contesting from the seat over the last many elections. Jacob Abraham, the party candidate in the 2016 Assembly election, would be fielded for the by-polls, said Joseph.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-shuts-doors-to-the-jose-k-mani-faction-in-kerala-884468.html
08-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu opposes RBI’s new rules on master direction for priority sector lending||Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday termed the recent master directions for priority sector lending issued vide RBI as “unfair and regressive” by contending that they contain a “very disturbing and discriminatory provision.” In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said para 7 of the Master Directions entitled “Adjustments for weights in PSL Achievement” contains a provision to incentivise flow of priority sector credit to districts with the comparatively lower flow of credit with a higher weightage of 125 percent. “Prima facie this is not objectionable. However, what we find unacceptable is the dis-incentive framework contained in the guideline for districts with a comparatively higher flow of priority sector credit with a lower weightage of 90 percent,” he said in the letter. The Chief Minister noted that as per Annexure 1A of the Master Directions, all 32 districts of Tamil Nadu (prior to bifurcation) are categorised as districts with a comparatively high flow of priority sector credit which means all of Tamil Nadu has been covered in the dis-incentive framework for priority sector lending. In no other State have so many districts been covered in the dis-incentive framework, Palaniswami said, adding that Tamil Nadu appears to have been singled out for particularly adverse treatment in the Master Directions. “The overall size of the pie needs to be increased alongside greater financial penetration. Districts in Tamil Nadu have received a higher flow of credit on account of the enterprise, hard work, diligence, and timely repayment of loans by households and businesses in the State,” Palaniswami said. These households and businesses, the CM said, have been good borrowers, utilising the loans for the intended purpose and servicing the debt on time. “They should not now be penalised for having abided by the rules, by directing the flow of credit away from them. On the contrary, they should be encouraged to expand the economic activities in the country. Hence, this policy of the RBI is unfair and regressive and must be reversed immediately,” he said in his letter. He asked Modi to prevail upon the RBI to immediately reverse this decision and restore the earlier weightage system for the free flow of priority sector credit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-opposes-rbi-s-new-rules-on-master-direction-for-priority-sector-lending-884472.html
08-09-2020||South||Kerala Opposition leader's woman harassment remark triggers row||Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has landed in an embarrassing situation over a remark on whether only DYFI workers could harass women. It was while replying to a query at a press conference on Tuesday on the allegations that the health official accused of raping a woman who approached for Covid-19 negative certificate was a Congress activist that Chennithala made the controversial remark. "Is it written anywhere that only DYFI activists can harass women," the Congress leader asked, adding that to his knowledge the accused health official was a member of pro-CPM service organisation. With Chennithala's statement inviting widespread criticism, Kerala Health and Social Justice Minister K K Shailaja demanded him to tender an apology for the remark as it caused insult to womanhood. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan demanded Chennithala to withdraw the statement. Chennithala's statement was also widely criticised in social media. However, Chennithala later maintained that a portion of his statement was being spread misleadingly in order to cause damage to him. He said that what he meant was that not only DYFI workers, but the activists were also involved in harassing women. He also alleged that the aim of twisting his statement was to divert attention from the sexual assault on Covid-19 patients in the state. The health minister said that those who harass women would have no place in the health department. Swift action was taken against the ambulance driver and the junior health inspector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposition-leaders-woman-harassment-remark-triggers-row-884474.html
08-09-2020||South||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala draws flak for insensitive rape comment; women's panel demands apology||Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Assembly Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday found himself at the centre of a row after he allegedly made a disparaging remark in connection with a rape case in the state. Chennithala's statement came during a press conference after the Congress-led UDF meeting when a scribe asked him about a junior health inspector who was arrested yesterday on charges of raping a woman who sought a Covid-19 certificate and if he was affiliated to the Congress party. "Is it written somewhere that only DYFI (CPI-M youth wing) workers can sexually abuse women? It's all lies that the accused belongs to the Congress party or anything," Chennithala said denying that he belongs to any service organisation affiliated to the Congress. The statement drew a flurry of criticism with state Health Minister K K Shailaja and the state women's commission asking Chennithala to withdraw his remarks and demanding an apology from him. "The Opposition Leader, who made derogatory statement against women should apologise. Those who disrespect women will have no place in the health department," Shailaja said in a Facebook post. State women's panel chief M C Josephine said such a statement from the Opposition Leader was not acceptable. "The statement must be withdrawn and the Opposition Leader should apologise to the Kerala society," she said in a tweet. However, Chennithala, later issued a clarification, saying his words were cherry-picked and used against him. "What I said was that it is not just DYFI workers, but workers from the Left-affiliated service organisation NGO Union too are involved in sexual abuse. What I meant was that no women should be abused," Chennithala said. The health inspector was arrested following a complaint from a woman who said he had invited her home to give her a Covid-19 certificate and raped her, police said. The woman in her complaint stated that she went to his house on September 3 and was sexually attacked after being tied up and was allowed to leave only the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-leader-ramesh-chennithala-draws-flak-for-insensitive-rape-comment-womens-panel-demands-apology-884478.html
08-09-2020||South||'SP Balasubrahmanyam stable, but current clinical condition warrants extended stay in ICU'||Veteran singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, undergoing treatment for Covid-19, remains stable but his "current clinical condition warrants an extended stay in the ICU," the hospital treating him said on Tuesday. The 74-year-old multilingual musician "remains stable and continues to require ventilator and ECMO (heart-lung assistance) support," Dr Anuradha Baskaran, Assistant Director - Medical Services, MGM Healthcare said in a health bulletin. "He remains awake, responsive and his vital parameters are satisfactory." "His current clinical condition warrants an extended stay in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU)," Baskaran added. The singer was admitted to the hospital on August 5 after he tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sp-balasubrahmanyam-stable-but-current-clinical-condition-warrants-extended-stay-in-icu-884486.html
08-09-2020||South||PM Kisan scheme runs into trouble in Tamil Nadu with fake beneficiaries||In a major scam that has embarrassed Tamil Nadu government, over five lakh ineligible farmers have claimed Rs 110 crore after being added as beneficiaries under the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme by officials and “private individuals.” As the government came under all-round attack from political parties and various farmers’ organisations, Agriculture Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi said three officials have been placed under suspension, disciplinary action has been initiated against 34 officials, while 80 temporary staff from various governments have been sacked from their positions. Besides, the CB-CID wing of the Tamil Nadu police is investigating the case and has already arrested a few officials. Bedi said the government has zero-tolerance towards the issue and will go to the bottom of the issue to ensure that eligible farmers are not affected. Addressing a press conference here, Bedi said around 5.5 lakh “ineligible” farmers have been added as beneficiaries of the PM Kisan scheme in 13 districts of the state and over Rs 110 crore has so far been transferred to the accounts of the “fake beneficiaries.” However, Rs 32 crore has been recovered from the “ineligible farmers” while efforts are on to retrieve the entire amount. Eligible farmers get an assistance of Rs 6,000 per year in three instalments under the scheme and the scam came to light in the second week of August when district collectors noticed unusually large number of beneficiaries being added to the scheme. By getting ineligible farmers registered, these individuals made money by collecting half of the Rs 2,000 that the “fake beneficiaries” received in their bank accounts. While Kallakurichi and Villupuram is the “epicentre” of the scam, thousands of fake accounts have been found in districts such as Kanchipuram, Ranipet, Villupuram, Krishnagiri, Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai, Salem, and Dharmapuri. “The Covid-19 period was used to register the fake beneficiaries by individuals and some officials using passwords. The scheme also allows farmers to register themselves and some individuals used this opportunity to make money,” Bedi said. He added that the district collectors used powers vested with them to request the managing directors of the banks to get the money reverted back to the government. “We will ensure that the remaining amount that was credited to the bank accounts of fake beneficiaries is also credited back. We will not take this lightly. We are transparent on the issue,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-kisan-scheme-runs-into-trouble-in-tamil-nadu-with-fake-beneficiaries-884490.html
08-09-2020||South||AIMIM stays away from resolution seeking Bharat Ratna for P V Narasimha Rao||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen party on Tuesday stayed away from the Telangana assembly session which passed a resolution in support of Bharat Ratna for late prime minister P V Narasimha Rao. The Chandrasekhar Rao government, which is celebrating PV’s birth centenary beginning 28 June, has also proposed that the former PM’s portrait and statue be installed in the Parliament house. Except for the AIMIM, a party with seven MLAs, all other parties—the Congress, the BJP have supported the proposal to confer the highest honour of the country on PV. The party led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi is an ally of the ruling TRS in Telangana. “AIMIM party has decided to boycott today's proceedings in Telangana legislative assembly and council. Our party cannot support the resolution and discussion on centenary celebrations of Late P V Narasimha Rao,” the party said in a message. The AIMIM alleges that the then PM Rao’s complacent approach in dealing with the prevalent situation in Ayodhya in December 1992 as leading to the Babri Masjid demolition. “As prime minister, Rao failed to protect Babri Masjid from demolition and his communal politics is well-known,” AIMIM said in a tweet on Tuesday. The party had refused to express sympathies and walked out when the then Andhra Pradesh assembly was adopting a resolution condoling the death of PV (1921-2004).   AMIM is also not in support of the PV centenary celebrations the TRS government is organising in a grand manner with national, international events. CM Rao has declared PV as the pride of Telangana. “PV’s centenary is an extraordinary event in the history of India. While Jawaharlal Nehru is the maker of modern India and PV is the maker of global India. PV’s vision has transformed the lifestyle of Indians – this fact should be accepted by everyone,” CM Rao said while moving the resolution. Rao also credited PV, born in a landlord’s family in Telangana, for the land reforms brought in 1972 when he was the chief minister of united Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aimim-stays-away-from-resolution-seeking-bharat-ratna-for-p-v-narasimha-rao-884494.html
08-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt's move to cancel arrear exams face AICTE roadblock||Tamil Nadu government’s decision to cancel arrear exams for students, except those in the final semester, in engineering colleges has run into rough weather with the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) taking strong objection to the move. The AICTE has warned the Anna University, the premier engineering institute owned by the Tamil Nadu government, that it would revoke all permissions granted if it went ahead with the decision of promoting all students who have arrears without taking the exams. The warning came in the form of an e-mail from AICTE Anil Sahasrabudhe to Anna University Vice-Chancellor M K Surappa in which the central agency has flagged senior concerns over the move to give all pass to students who have arrears. Experts have also toed the line, saying the students who are allowed to get pass marks without appearing for arrear exams will not be able to find jobs in the market. In the letter, Sahasrabudhe is understood to have expressed his concern over final year degree students who had failed in various courses in the earlier semester have been passed without conducting examinations. “It is not acceptable to award marks without conducting any examination and graduating students. Such students will not be recognized by the industry or any other university for higher education," he is understood to have told the V-C. Though Surappa confirmed receiving the letter, the government continues to be in a denial. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had last month announced the cancellation of arrear exams for students, except those in the final semester, in engineering and other colleges in the state due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Though students welcomed the move gleefully by even erecting banners and thanking Palaniswami through memes and posters, educationists took objection to the move saying it was short-sighted. Over 2 lakh students will get pass marks without having to appear for exams in Tamil Nadu due to the government’s decision. Despite objection from the AICTE, the government defends its move saying it cannot conduct exams for everyone during a pandemic. The government also told the Madras High Court on Tuesday that it had the authority to cancel exams using the Disaster Management Act. The court was hearing a petition filed by a few individuals, including former vice-chancellor of Anna University, E Balagurusamy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govts-move-to-cancel-arrear-exams-face-aicte-roadblock-884495.html
08-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu plans 2,000 mini clinics||The Tamil Nadu government plans to start around 2,000 mini clinics in the state to treat people for issues like ordinary fever amid the coronavirus pandemic, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Tuesday. Following aggressive testing and treatment strategy, the virus spread has also reduced in the state, he said, addressing top government officials at a consultative meeting on medical infrastructure. The proposed mini clinics will come up in areas where there are no Primary Health Centres and due to people not able to get treatment for fever and other issues owing to the 'apprehension' of Covid-19 spread, he said. "A mini clinic will have a doctor, nurse and an assistant, besides the required medical equipment and medicines. Medicines will be provided here for easily treatable diseases like fever," he said. On the virus caseloads, he said the spread was gradually slowing down due to aggressive government intervention, with the state testing around 85,000 samples a day. "After testing, we ensure due medical care to the affected," he said. He pointed out that capital city Chennai, which has the highest number of cases in the state, has been reporting less than 1,000 daily infections for the past few days and attributed the dip to the door-to-door survey of people with symptoms and subsequent treatment. Fever camps were also being held across the state, he said. As of Tuesday, the state's overall Covid-19 tally stood at 4,74,940, with 4,16,715 discharges and 8,012 deaths. Chennai tops the list with a total of 1,43,602 cases. With the government allowing a series of relaxations, officials should mount extra vigil since the e-pass system for inter-district travel has now been scrapped, paving the way for free movement of people, the Chief Minister said. He also stressed on health protocols like wearing of masks and pointed out that violation will now attract a fine. Meanwhile, Palaniswami apprised state Governor Banwarilal Purohit over the government's measures to tackle the virus spread. The Chief Minister met Purohit at the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-plans-2000-mini-clinics-884541.html
08-09-2020||State||Dasara celebrations in Karnataka to be low-key this year: CT Ravi||Based on the recommendations of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the High Level Committee formed for Dasara celebrations has resolved to celebrate it in a simple manner, said Kannada and Culture Minister CT Ravi, here Tuesday. Five corona warriors will inaugurate the Dasara celebrations, and several events including Yuva Dasara, Mahila Dasara and others will not be held as a precautionary measure during the pandemic, he said. The famous Jamboo Savari will be restricted to Mysuru Palace premises alone and Rs 10 crore will be allotted by the state government for the festivities, Ravi said. All traditional events in Chamundeshwari Temple and Amba Vilas Palace premises will be held by ensuring social distancing measures. Only prominent locations of the city will be illuminated for Dasara. Dasara film festival, wresting contest, Food Mela, Exhibition, Yoga Dasara and other events will not be held. "Details of the events will be finalised in a meeting scheduled at Mysuru in the coming days," Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dasara-celebrations-in-karnataka-to-be-low-key-this-year-ct-ravi-884253.html
08-09-2020||State||Govt to rope in tech-savvy villages to push crop survey||With the ambitious app-based crop survey showing signs of fatigue, the state government has decided to rope in tech-savvy residents in villages to help farmers and give the exercise a push towards the finish line.   The 2020-21 crop survey is a first-of-its-kind exercise in India, the government has claimed, as farmers have been allowed to upload their crop details on their own through a mobile app.  Karnataka has 2.12 crore agricultural plots (every piece of land with survey number is considered one plot). More than a month after the crop survey was launched, crop data has been uploaded for 73 lakh agricultural plots, which is a progress of just 34% till September 8. “Our expectation is that we will still reach the one crore mark with the help of farmers alone,” Agriculture Commissioner Brijesh Kumar Dikshit told DH. “Using private residents was a fallback option, which the government has decided to exercise now to push the progress rate up,” he said.  A private resident is someone tech-savvy who has an Android-powered smartphone, Dikshit said. “These persons are engaged by the taluk administration and they’re paid Rs 10-20 for every crop captured,” he said, adding that such private residents did the crop survey in 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20.  The survey is crucial as it will provide policymakers with data on crops being grown by 73 lakh-odd farmers in the state, which will be used to determine Minimum Support Price (MSP) and insurance benefits. The data is also linked with land records so that records of rights, tenancy and crops (RTC) or Pahani documents reflect crop details.  The use of private residents will also come handy in villages where the app does not work as the maps are not digitized. “Digitization will take time. So, in villages without digital maps, instead of leaving farmers wondering what to do, we will use private residents who will do the job along with village accountants who will have a hard copy of the village map,” Dikshit said.  According to data, the flood-hit Kodagu district has registered the lowest crop survey progress at 12.67%, followed by Bengaluru Urban (15.18%), Bengaluru Rural (18.26%) and Mandya (19.57%).  This year’s floods have destroyed crops on 4.02 lakh hectares. “In such places, the survey will simply record no crop,” Dikshit said. The last date for the ongoing crop survey is September 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-to-rope-in-tech-savvy-villages-to-push-crop-survey-884524.html
08-09-2020||State||Karnataka reports 7,866 new cases, 146 deaths||Karnataka reported 7,866 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday.  The recoveries were almost equal to new cases. As many as 7,803 people were discharged but 146 new deaths were also reported taking toll to 6,680. The state capital accounted for 55 of Tuesday's deaths. The total number of cases in the state has now risen to 4,12,190. Currently, 96,918 cases are active in the state out of which 784 cases are in Intensive Care Units across the state. Top five districts that reported high number of cases are Bengaluru Urban (3,102) Ballari (404), Dakshina Kannada (374), Mysuru (337), and Dharwad (318).  A total of 67,443 tests were conducted on Tuesday of which 38,291 were Rapid Antigen Tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-7866-new-cases-146-deaths-884536.html
08-09-2020||State||Karnataka High Court: Additional advocate generals appointed||The state government on Tuesday appointed advocates Aruna Shyam and Y H Vijaya Kumar as additional advocate generals of Karnataka High Court. The order also extended the term of advocate Dhyan Chinnappa as additional advocate general at Dharwad bench of the high court. Meanwhile, a women organisation – Akhila Bharata Janavadi Mahila Sanghatane – has questioned the appointment of Aruna Shyam as the additional advocate general. In a statement, the office-bearers of the organisation alleged that Aruna Shyam was an accused in two rape cases against Raghaveshwara Bharathi of Ramachandrapura Mutt. The orgnaisation has requested the governor to recall the order. Reacting to the allegations, additional advocate general Aruna Shyam said the cases against him have closed. "The police have filed 'B' reports in the cases against me. No cases are pending against me. Besides, I would not represent the state in cases in which Raghaveshwara seer is a respondent,’’ he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-high-court-additional-advocate-generals-appointed-884545.html
08-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka orders study after reinfection||Karnataka has commissioned a clinical study on Covid-19 reinfection after some alarm was raised about this during a high-level meeting on Monday. This comes on a day the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said it detected four cases of Covid-19 reinfection, including a 60-year-old housewife and three resident doctors. Last week, a 27-year-old Bengaluru woman tested positive for Covid-19 a month after she recovered from the infection. This was seen as the first possible case of Covid-19 reinfection in Bengaluru. This case was discussed in detail during Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar’s meeting with senior officials where he expressed concern about reinfection. “I’ve asked for a report on Covid-19 reinfection to be given by the end of this week,” Sudhakar told DH. “We can’t be much perturbed and show our anguish about this right now, but we must take precautions. Those who have recovered should not assume that there can’t be a relapse,” he said. Sudhakar has asked officials to study Covid-19 reinfection in other countries. “Also, we need to know if reinfection is happening in people who developed antibodies in the first episode or after that,” he said. “If antibodies aren’t generated, it could be possible that they may be susceptible for a second infection within two months. And, if there are other strains of the same virus, it could cause reinfection. “There are so many ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ that need validation through a proper analysis,” he explained. Sudhakar said he asked officials to devise a method to keep track of those who have recovered. “We cannot possibly do antibody tests on all three lakh people who have recovered. But, we must have some thumb rule,” he said. In Ahmedabad, one of the patients visited Kerala before getting infected the second time while the three others remained in the city. Officials said that these patients had been tested positive first time between April 13 and April 21 and reinfected between August 18 and September 6. “All these cases had mild or asymptomatic disease in first infection as well as in the second infection,” the AMC said in a release. Officials claim that these cases are “very much in line” with AMC sero-prevalence surveys that suggested a large number of previous infected cases showed loss of antibodies that could result in reinfection. However, experts said that there is no definite evidence to suggest recurrence of the virus as it requires a lot of research before arriving to a conclusion.  Dileep Mavalankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, said reinfections are being reported in the world and need to be studied. “We are also seeing reports of long-haulers as the virus lingers in their body.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-orders-study-after-reinfection-884096.html
08-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka High Court grants interim stay on 25% domicile quota in NLSIU||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday granted an interim stay on the 25 per cent horizontal domicile reservation in National Law School India University (NLSIU). The bench had earlier reserved orders on a batch of petitions filed challenging the domicile reservation. However, in view of National Law Aptitude Test 2020 (NLAT) scheduled on September 12, the bench passed the interim order. A division bench comprising Justice B V Nagarathna and Justice Ravi Hosmani directed the NLSIU to prepare a new list. The court stated that the list, however, will be a provisional one and will be subject to the final orders on the writ petitions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-high-court-grants-interim-stay-on-25-domicile-quota-in-nlsiu-884269.html
08-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Govt doctors threaten to go on strike from September 15||Government doctors in Karnataka have threatened to go on strike from September 15 if their demand for salaries on par with the Central Government Health Scheme scale were not met. "There is a disparity in our pay scale compared to the doctors in the Medical Education Department. We want that we should get pay equal to the doctors in the MED or on par with the Central Government Health Scheme scale," Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association president Dr G A Srinivas told P T I. He also said the association had submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Health Minister B Sriramulu, adding they asked us to keep these demands on hold for sometime in view of Covid-19 pandemic. According to Dr Srinivas, there are over 4,000 doctors associated with the KGMOA. The KGMOA is also upset that many government hospitals do not have adequate facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-doctors-threaten-to-go-on-strike-from-september-15-884357.html
08-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BS Yediyurappa to travel to New Delhi to seek more flood relief||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said a central team was visiting the flood-hit areas to assess the damage, and that he will also be going to New Delhi to seek more relief from the Centre. With Yediyurappa's Delhi visit plans, speculations are rife in party circles that he might get a green signal from the BJP high command for the much awaited cabinet expansion or reshuffle. "In three teams, the central team is visiting flood-affected areas, our officials are also with them, after doing the survey, they will meet the Chief Secretary," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said last evening he had detailed discussion with the central team members on the destruction caused by floods in the last three successive years and have given a memorandum to the Centre through them. "Looking at the report they submit to the union government, I will go to Delhi and try to get more relief," he said,adding he has yet to decide on the travel dates.   Karnataka has suffered a loss of Rs 8,071 crore due to the recent floods, Yediyurappa had on Monday informed the six-member inter ministerial central team (IMCT) headed by Ministry of Home Affairs Joint Secretary K V Pratap. He also said that the guidelines for providing relief under State disaster response fund and National disaster response fund need to be revised this year and requested the Centre to revise it immediately and release more funds to help people in distress. More than ten districts of the state were affected by floods this year. Heavy rainfall since August 1 has killed at least 20 people, displaced thousands, damaged more than 10,000 homes and crops in about 4.03 lakh hectares, and wrecked 14,182 km of roads. It is speculated that Yediyurappa is likely to travel to Delhi ahead of the legislature session from September 21 to 30, during which he is expected to seek approval from party high command for cabinet expansion or approval. The Chief Minister has reportedly indicated this to his cabinet colleagues during the informal meeting on Monday. Asked about the meeting with cabinet colleagues, Yediyurappa said the meeting was in view of the upcoming legislature session, and that he has asked them to make required preparations by gathering data, and to inform people with facts about the government's functioning through the assembly. He did not say anything about the proposed cabinet expansion or reshuffle. While several of the old guard are awaiting a chance to be inducted into the Ministry, those who defected from the Congress and JD(S) like A H Vishwanath, R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj, who are now BJP MLCs, are also aspiring for slots. The cabinet currently has 28 members and six berths are still vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bs-yediyurappa-to-travel-to-new-delhi-to-seek-more-flood-relief-884417.html
08-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Air ambulance services launched in Karnataka; Covid-19 patients can also avail aid||Air ambulance services, especially during a pandemic, are a boon to patients in remote areas where there are inadequate medical facilities. They need to reach metropolitan cities for appropriate medical care. But the cost of these flights betrays the very people it hopes to serve. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the entire top brass of the Karnataka Government including two Deputy CMs, health minister, medical education minister and tourism minister inaugurated Bengaluru-based ICATT Kyathi's integrated air ambulance services here at Jakkur Aerodrome on Tuesday. Dubbed as South India's first, as a part of this service, a fixed-wing aircraft (in plain English, an airplane), a helicopter and a land ambulance will be stationed at HAL Airport on Old Airport Road here for emergency shifting of critically ill patients. But the nagging question is making the service financially viable for the needy. The air transfer of a Covid-19 patient recently in a negative pressure controlled German isolation pod from Kolkata to Chennai by ICATT Kyathi costed Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh totally paid for by the patient. A recent transfer of a patient with leg infection from Ballari to Bengaluru costed Rs 2.5 lakh, again paid for by the patient. International Critical Air Transfer Team (ICATT) has this year alone so far completed 63 domestic transfers, 10 international transfers, and seven organ transfers. The city-based company on its part wants the service to be completely funded by the government and wants it to appoint a nodal officer on whose directions they can transfer patients. CM B S Yediyurappa and Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan were rather non-committal in their answers. The CM while inaugurating the medical service said, "The introduction of a German isolation pod has enabled safe transfer of Covid-19 patients via air ambulances. I assure, we will commence air ambulance services soon, to serve the needy." Dr Rahul Singh Sardar, an anesthetist and critical care specialist, who is the co-founder and Director of ICATT, told DH, "We were very close to getting commitments from various state governments before the Covid-19 pandemic started. But everything stalled because the government had other priorities. We will be revisiting all those governments, starting with the Karnataka government to help us. We want complete subsidy and a government-funded air ambulance. We want it to be completely controlled by them." This is where the CM and other ministers have promised support, especially in the northern part of Karnataka, he added. "Each piece of medical equipment (the ventilators and monitors) inside are Rs 40 lakh to Rs. 45 lakh. In all, the medical equipment notwithstanding the helicopter, costs crore rupees. It is capital intensive but we cannot compromise on the care of critical patients. The German isolation pod for Covid-19 patients costs Rs. 20 lakh each. We have two, we have ordered four more. We hope to get CSR funding and donations from charities," he said. During the 2018 Kerala floods, the company in fact made social media announcements that if anyone donates Rs. 1 lakh, they can save one life with the help of their helicopter.Pilots apprehensive. So far ICATT Kyathi has managed to convince four pilots to fly Covid-19 patients. "No pilot was ready to fly Covid-19 patients. So we had to get the isolation pod. Even after that, they insisted on a barrier between the patient and the cockpit. Currently, the cockpit is not a closed environment. The pilots are either commercial or are ex-IAF. So far we've convinced four pilots to fly." Pilot Naveen Peneru who has more than 200 hours of flying experience in Pawan Hans helicopters told DH, "In pressurised aircrafts, whatever air is exhaled stays in the aircraft. This is for flying above 10,000 feet. But in helicopters, as against fixed-wing aircrafts, we have the option of not using AC and opening vents where we can let in outside air. There have been no filters that have been designed for keeping the Covid virus out."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/air-ambulance-services-launched-in-karnataka-covid-19-patients-can-also-avail-aid-884452.html
08-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Session: Covid-19 test must for Karnataka MLAs, participants||Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the upcoming session of the Karnataka legislature will face several restrictions this year. While galleries for the general public will be closed for the session from September 21 to 30, all participants will have to undergo mandatory RT-PCR tests for Covid-19. Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri told reporters that everyone who participates in the session will have to get tested before 72 hours and keep their Covid-19 reports with them. "RT-PCR tests will be conducted at the taluk and district level (for MLAs). On August 18, officials and media persons will be tested. Covid-19 negative certificate is compulsory for participation," he said. Inside the Assembly, seats of various members are separated by transparent shields. Participants will also have to wear face shields, which will be provided. Gunmen will be seated outside the Assembly canteen, while discussions are being held regarding seating arrangements for media persons, Kageri said. He said that while all proceedings will go on as normal, a few have raised objections to the duration of the session saying that it was insufficient. "There are 10 Bills, 19 ordinances and two Bills pending from the previous session. Though it is a difficult task to discuss all Bills along with other proceedings during the session, the Business Advisory Committee will hold discussions and finalise the issue," the Speaker said. Kageri requested those bringing delegations to Vidhana Soudha during the session to meet the concerned ministers at the Legislators Home or their chambers. Precautionary measures will be taken for those legislators aged above 70 years. Unstarred questions will be sent via e-mail to the legislators, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/session-covid-19-test-must-for-karnataka-mlas-participants-884476.html
08-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Mega e-Lok-Adalat on September 19||A mega e-Lok-Adalat will be held on September 19 in all court complexes in the state. In a release, Karnataka State Legal Services Authority requested parties in pre-litigation cases to approach the legal services authorities concerned or committees prior to the date of mega e-Lok-Adalat through video conference. The litigants whose cases are pending in courts are requested to approach the High Court Legal Services Committee, District Legal Services Authorities in the district headquarters, Taluk Legal Services Committees in every taluk and the Permanent Lok Adalats of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mega-e-lok-adalat-on-september-19-884510.html
08-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Now, NLSIU allows exam at physical centres too||Following criticism over the home-based online entrance test, the National Law School India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, has announced that it will also allow candidates to write the exam at physical test centres set up by the university.  The university will set up centres in 15 cities. It has changed some technical specifications for the test. As per the revised technical requirements updated on the university website, "candidates can take the test on desktop computers, laptops and android mobile devices. The minimum internet bandwidth is now 512 Kbps. The university had earlier said that the internet bandwidth has to be 1 Mbps. The candidates can take the test on desktops and laptops: Window 7 or above (Windows 10 recommended), Mac OS 10.13 and above, and Linux (ubuntu versions 18.04, 16.04, 15.04 only) systems. Candidates who wish to take the test on their mobile phones need to have the android version 6 and later." NLSIU decided to conduct NLAT – its own admission test for BA, LLB and LLM programmes after the Common Law Entrance Test (CLAT) was postponed multiple times due to the Covid pandemic. While NLAT is scheduled on September 12, CLAT is scheduled on September 28. 'Online test a bad decision' The decision by NLSIU, Bengaluru for a separate test and switching to online mode has been criticised by students on various social media platforms. "The CLAT was switched from online mode to offline few years ago considering technical glitches, but NLSIU's decision to conduct it's own entrance test and by online mode is a bad decision," said one of the seat aspirants. NLSIU's former vice chancellor Dr Venkata Rao, who has filed a petition in the Supreme Court questioning the decision, told DH, "I have joined petitioner to file the petition. The rest is sub judice and I cannot comment."   Mock test today NLSIU has decided to conduct mock test for NLAT 2020 from 9 am on September 9 to 12 am on September 11. Candidates can attempt the mock test multiple times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-now-nlsiu-allows-exam-at-physical-centres-too-884512.html
08-09-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Central team visits Belagavi to assess flood losses||The Inter Ministerial Central Team (ICMT) commenced visit to parts of the Belagavi district for assessing the damages to crops and infrastructure due to heavy rains and floods on Tuesday. The team members include Dr Manoharan, Director, Directorate of Oilseeds Development, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Cooperation, Hyderabad and Guru Prasad J, Superintendent Engineer, Ministry of Jalshakt, Bengaluru. The Central team was briefed about the crop losses and damage to infrastructure due to rains and floods by Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath on its arrival at the district headquarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/central-team-visits-belagavi-to-assess-flood-losses-884221.html
08-09-2020||West||Rhea Chakraborty's complaint against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister transferred to CBI court||Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty’s complaint against late Sushant Singh Rajput’s New Delhi-based sister Priyanka Singh and Dr Tarun Kumar has been transferred by the Mumbai police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Bandra police station took the complaint and transferred it to the CBI for further investigations. “As per the complaint of Rhea Chakraborty, a case has been registered at Bandra Police Station, Mumbai Cr. No. 576/2020 under sections 420, 464, 465, 466, 468, 474, 306, 120B, 34 IPC and read with sections 8(c), 21, 22(A), 29 of NDPS Act. In line with orders of the Supreme Court of India, the case is duly transferred to CBI for further investigation,” a Mumbai police official said. The complaint has been filed against Priyanka Singh, Dr Tarun Kumar of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and others for forgery under Indian Penal Code, 1860, the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 and Tele Medicine Practice Guidelines, 2020.  “They have sent a bogus medical prescription depicting Sushant Singh Rajput as an Out Patient Department person when he was in Mumbai on June 8, 2020 prescribing Schedule Drugs which are listed in Schedule of NDPS Act listed at items 36 and 37 as Psychotropic Substances and TeleMedicines Practice Guidelines 3.7.4 dealing with Prohibited List , which prohibits prescribing of any narcotic or psychotropic substance listed in the NDPS Act,” Rhea’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said. Meanwhile, Sushant’s father Krishna Kishore Singh’s said: “It’s an effort to keep jurisdiction of Mumbai Police in this matter as the Supreme Court said complaints with regard to death of Sushant Singh Rajput will be investigated by CBI.” Rhea lodged her complaint on the basis of WhatsApp chats between Sushant and Priyanka that were leaked in the media. According to the chats, Priyanka procured a prescription for Sushant from a family friend, Dr Tarun Kumar of Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi. The prescription gave access to anti-anxiety medication. The chats between Sushant and Priyanka suggest that the latter had asked the actor to take drugs like Librium, Nexito and Lonazep. The complaint filed by Rhea said: "I say that during the course of my relationship with the deceased, he had been undergoing treatment for various mental health issues and had been diagnosed as suffering from Bipolar Disorder by multiple renowned doctors. However, the deceased was not disciplined in respect of his treatment and would often abruptly stop his medication to the dismay of his doctors and myself.” "I say that on the morning of June 8, 2020, the deceased had been on his phone incessantly and when I enquired what he was doing, he showed me the messages he was exchanging with his sister Priyanka Singh. I say that I was shocked upon reading the said messages as his sister Priyanka had sent him a list of medications to take. I explained to the deceased that given the seriousness of his condition, and the fact that he already had medications prescribed by doctors who had examined and treated him over several months, he ought not to take any other medication, least of all medication being prescribed by his sister who has no medical degree. I say that the deceased and I disagreed on this aspect and he insisted that he would only take the medicine his sister was prescribing him.” She noted that Sushant asked her to leave the house as his other sister Meetu Singh was coming to live with him and would take care of him. The complaint filed by Rhea further reads, "It has now come to light that his sister Priyanka had subsequently on the same day sent him a prescription by one Dr Tarun Kumar, an Associate Professor of Cardiology from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi. I say that prime facie the said document appears forged and fabricated.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rhea-chakrabortys-complaint-against-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sister-transferred-to-cbi-court-884189.html
08-09-2020||West||Maharashtra hospital asked to deposit Rs 1.9 lakh overcharged amount to CM Fund||A private hospital here in Maharashtra has been asked by the district administration to deposit Rs 1.93 lakh into the Chief Minister's Relief Fund for allegedly overcharging Covid-19 patients, officials said. Jalna Collector Ravindra Binwade issued the order on Monday following complaints that some private hospitals were charging hefty amounts from Covid-19 patients. The collector appointed auditors to look into the bills of patients and it was found that Vivekanand Hospital, a private medical facility here, had allegedly overcharged patients to the tune of Rs 1,93,986, the district administration said in a release. Hence, the collector ordered the hospital management to deposit the overcharged amount into the CM's Relief Fund, the release said. The action was taken under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and provisions of the Disaster Management Act, it said. Last month, the district administration had suspended the licence of Arogyam Hospital, another private medical facility designated to treat Covid-19 patients, for inflated bills and deficiency in service. Some other private hospitals here are also under the scanner following complaints of overcharging patients, the release said. The district administration has also appointed a committee to monitor implementation of the government health schemes - Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana - in 11 private hospitals here, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-hospital-asked-to-deposit-rs-19-lakh-overcharged-amount-to-cm-fund-884201.html
08-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput's death case: Rhea Chakraborty appears before NCB for 3rd day||Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty, who has been grilled by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for 14 hours so far, appeared for the third day before the apex anti-drug agency on Tuesday.Rhea (28), the live-in partner of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, was grilled on Sunday and Monday, for six and eight hours, respectively. Rhea’s brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda and house help Dipesh Sawant have been arrested by the NCB and are in remand till Wednesday. The NCB is probing the drug angle in the case of the death of Sushant and the larger nexus of Bollywood and drug mafia. Two peddlers Abdel Basit Parihar and Zaid Vilatra are also in custody in the case. During the interrogation, Rhea was questioned separately and confronted with other accused. Meanwhile, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (Esplanade court) in south Mumbai has passed an order saying all accused in the Sushant Singh Rajput's death case shall be produced for remand via video conferencing and shall not be brought to court physically keeping in mind the pandemic and law and order situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-rhea-chakraborty-appears-before-ncb-for-3rd-day-884203.html
08-09-2020||West||Sanjay Raut named Shiv Sena chief spokesperson||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and journalist-politician Sanjay Raut has been named as the chief spokesperson of the Shiv Sena. The 58-year-old Raut is the executive editor of Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, and a three-time Rajya Sabha member. Raut was groomed by the late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray and over the last two decades, he has emerged as the most-trusted troubleshooter of the party. Raut is also the writer of Thackeray, a biopic about Bal Thackeray, the founder of Shiv Sena, which was released in 2019. Raut played a key role in installing the Maha Vikas Aghadi government comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – keeping his party’s former ally, the BJP, out of power. Besides, Lok Sabha members Arvind Sawant and Dhairyasheel Mane, Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi, Maharashtra ministers Uday Samant, Anil Parab, Gulabrao Patil, MLAs Sunil Prabhu and Pratap Sarnaik, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar and senior leader Neelam Gorhe have been nominated as the party's spokespersons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-named-shiv-sena-chief-spokesperson-884233.html
08-09-2020||West||Water discharged from Jayakwadi dam in Maharashtra as inflow goes up||Water is being discharged from the Jayakwadi dam in Maharashtra after it got filled up to 98.62 per cent of its total storage capacity following heavy rain in its catchment areas, an official said. After continuous inflow, 16 gates of the dam, which is located on the Godavari river, have been opened and 11,473 cusecs (cubic foot per second) water is being discharged from it, the dam's executive engineer Rajendra Kale told PTI on Monday. "The water level of Jayakwadi reached 1,521.75 ft which is 98.62 per cent of total storage capacity of the dam. Hence, water is being discharged from it into the Godavari river," he said. Heavy rains have been lashing parts of Aurangabad district since the last few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/water-discharged-from-jayakwadi-dam-in-maharashtra-as-inflow-goes-up-884272.html
08-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB arrests Rhea Chakraborty||In the first major step to unravel the mystery behind the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, his live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday. The 28-year-old Rhea was arrested after three days of grilling during which she was jointly interrogated with three other accused – her brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda and house help Dipesh Sawant. “We have arrested Rhea Chakraborty…she was interrogated by us, she was also confronted with other accused,” NCB’s deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain said outside the Exchange Building, the NCB regional office at Ballard Estate. “We don't need her custody remand so we sought judicial custody. We aren't asking for her custody remand as whatever we wanted to cross-check with her, we've done already,” she said. Rhea was taken to the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion, where her medical examination and Covid-19 test was done, which was negative. Rhea was booked under sections 8, 20, 28, 29 of the Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. Showik, Samuel and Miranda and two other accused  - alleged peddlers Abdel Basit Parihar and Zaid Vilatra will be produced before the magistrate’s court through video-conferencing on Wednesday on expiry of their remand.    Suffering for loving a drug addict, says lawyer  Describing the arrest as “travesty of justice”, Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said that  she was being hounded because she was in love with a drug addict and facing mental issues.  “Three central agencies hounding a single woman, just because she was in love with a drug addict and was suffering from mental health issues for several years under the care of five leading psychiatrists in Mumbai, who ended up committing suicide due to consumption of illegally administered medicines and used drugs,” Maneshinde said God is with us, says Sushant’s family “God is with us,” reacted Shweta Singh Kirti, the sister of Sushant Singh Rajput, as soon as Rhea was arrested. The family has blamed Rhea for the death of Sushant and has been demanding her arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-arrests-rhea-chakraborty-884312.html
08-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Raj Bhavan coronavirus survivors turn Covid-19 warriors||Staff and officers of Raj Bhavan who have recovered from coronavirus in recent weeks turned Covid-19 warriors, by lining up for blood and plasma donation at a Blood Donation Camp held at Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. Inaugurating the Blood Donation Camp, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari patted the blood and plasma donors and appealed to the people to come forward for blood and plasma donation. As many as 140 members of Raj Bhavan staff, officers, family members and residents of Walkeshwar registered themselves for blood and plasma donation camp organised by Raj Bhavan in association with Sir J J Group of Hospitals. Principal Secretary to the Governor, Santosh Kumar was the first to donate his blood at the camp. Referring to the fear and apprehension developed by people in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Governor Koshyari urged people ‘Not to be fearful, but be careful’ while facing the challenge. Chief Blood Transfusion Officer of Sir J J Hospital Dr Kalyani Kulkarni, Raj Bhavan Medical Officer Dr Prasad Jathar, doctors and paramedical staff of JJ Hospital and the medical team of Raj Bhavan were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-raj-bhavan-coronavirus-survivors-turn-covid-19-warriors-884346.html
08-09-2020||West||Kangana's comments amounted to insult of police: Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday condemned the remarks made by actress Kangana Ranaut about the Mumbai Police in the context of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case, which he said amounted to "insult" of the police force. Ranaut had recently said that she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia", and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre. Speaking on the floor of the Legislative Assembly, the Leader of Opposition said he knew the capacity of the Mumbai Police since had had served as chief minister of the state for five years. "But, the police can come under political pressure," he said. Fadnavis also said since handling of Rajput death casewas "wrong", the probe was entrusted to the CBI. "What had been happening? 40 days of inquest? This was a perfect case of 'aa bail mujhe maar' (inviting trouble)," he said referring to the probe of the case by Mumbai Police. Seeking to dismiss allegations raised by the Shiv Sena and other ruling parties the the BJP's demand for a CBI probe had demoralised the police, Fadnavis said many legislators had passed adverse remarks against the police at different points of time. "Even Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, during a rally in Kalyan, had said the police were capable of only washing utensils," he said. Ranaut's recent remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan- occupied Kashmir (PoK) has drawn ire of the ruling Shiv Sena whose leaders are targeting the BJP for defending her. Fadnavis further said any reference to the CM without respect was wrong. "Even though we are in opposition, but Uddhavji is our chief minister," the senior BJP leader said. Citing the arrest of a Marathi news channel reporter over a report on partial resumption of train services during the initial phase of lockdown, Fadnavis said the state government wanted to stifle the voice of journalists who are critical of its functioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kanganas-comments-amounted-to-insult-of-police-devendra-fadnavis-884353.html
08-09-2020||West||Devendra Fadnavis hits out at Maharashtra govt over Covid-19 crisis||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday slammed the state government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, alleging that it only trying to show the number of cases of low and was not focusing on more tests. During a debate on supplementary demands in the Lower House, Fadnavis said there was no audit of medical expenses incurred and that there was overall mismanagement of the pandemic. The BJP leader said when the budget session of the Maharashtra legislature ended in March this year, the number of Covid-19 patients in the state was 26. "Today it (Covid-19 tally) is 9,07,212 and 27,027 deaths. As many as 16,401 policemen in the state contracted Covid-19 and 162 of them succumbed to the infection," he said. "Chief Minister Uddhav Thackerayreviews only the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai, while Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar is interested in Pune. Don't Aurangabad and Nagpur come under Maharashtra? Have you reviewed the situation there and understood the regions need?" he asked. Fadnavis claimed all government decisions taken so far were only on paper while the ground situation was different.  "The government only wants to show Covid-19 numbers are low and is not focussing on more tests. We are ready to cooperate with the government in tackling Covid-19, it is up to the government to realise the seriousness of the situation," the former state chief minister said He said there is a need to review the treatment protocol, and noted that there have been instances of side- effects among those who have recovered from Covid-19. "Have the non-paying poor and the middle class been left to die while only the rich can survive Covid-19?" he asked while demanding more RT-PCR tests, oxygen supply and isolation facilities for patients. Fadnavis alleged that the jumbo facilities set up for treating Covid-19 patients were mired in corruption and have not benefitted the needy. "The government has to understand that there is an increase in the percentage of virus spread," he noted. He also targeted the government for incidents of atrocities against women in Covid-19 care centres. Fadnavis further said farmers were facing difficulties, but the government "turned a blind eye" to their problems like lack of seeds, not getting market price for their produce and crop damage due to excess rains. "The government is interested only in bureaucratic transfers. Administrative expenses for transfers is Rs 500 crore. Is it necessary to transfer bureaucrats in a pandemic?" he asked. Fadnavis also asked the government to reconsider the proposal to shift the Metro car shed from Aarey Colony (Mumbai's green lung) to Pahadi Goregaon and said the government should function for people and not to satisfy egos. Keeping the Metro construction work shut in Aarey is causing losses worth Rs 400 crore, he claimed. "No detailed project report has been prepared yet for shifting the car shed. As per technical experts, there is a technical difficulty in merging line 3 with line 6 of the Metro," the former chief minister said. He said the Aarey area was earlier chosen for the car shed by his government because no other area was feasible. "Don't make everything a prestige issue. Even the high court had cleared the Aarey car shed," he said. Fadnavis also hit out at the government over complaints of inflated electricity bills from several power consumers. In sarcastic remarks, he said, "This government understands only what celebrities say. Asha Bhosale, Tapsee Pannu, Renuka Shahane all have highlighted the inflated electricity bills they have got." Fadnavis also criticised the chief minister for ignoring the flood situation in Vidarbha region.  "He hasn't even tweeted about the situation. Only Rs 16 crore has been earmarked for relief," he claimed. Targeting the government on the issue of final year university exams in the state, Fadnavis said, "You can't take populist decisions every time. You have to take hard decisions keeping in mind the future (of students)," he said. Fadnavis also hit out at the government for ignoring the demands of milk producers, who have been seeking a hike in milk procurement prices. "The government has no vision for the welfare of any section of the society," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/devendra-fadnavis-hits-out-at-maharashtra-govt-over-covid-19-crisis-884371.html
08-09-2020||West||Maharashtra Assembly approves supplementary demands of Rs 29,000 crore||The Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on Tuesday passed by voice vote the supplementary demands of Rs 29,084 crore for the year 2020-21. A major chunk of the demands, Rs 10,500 crore, was allocated to farmer loan waiver, while Rs 2,100 crore was earmarked for health and medical education. A sum of Rs 50 crore was proposed for purchase of ambulances for rural and urban areas. The House also passed two state GST (Goods and Services Tax) amendment bills which were tabled on Monday. The amendment was aimed at bringing uniformity between the state and the Central GST. Meanwhile, Health minister Rajesh Tope said a special cell will be set up to check side effects in the patients who have recovered from Covid-19. He said Remdesivir medicine will be provided to Covid-19 patients at the expense of the state government. Home Minister Anil Dehsmukh said the draft of a bill modelled on Andhra Pradesh's Disha Act regarding crimes against women and children was ready, but it has been put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-assembly-approves-supplementary-demands-of-rs-29000-crore-884385.html
08-09-2020||West||Rhea Chakraborty being hounded because she loved a drug addict with mental issues: Lawyer||Actor Rhea Chakraborty's lawyer said after her arrest by the NCB on Tuesday that she was being hounded by three agencies only because she was in love with a man who was a "drug addict" and had "mental health issues". Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau in a drugs case linked to her boyfriend, actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. "This is a complete travesty of justice," said her lawyer Satish Maneshinde. "Three central agencies hounding a single woman, just because she was in love with a drug addict and a person suffering from mental health issues," he added. Rajput, who allegedly hanged himself at his Bandra residence here on June 14, had been been treated by five leading psychiatrists in the city, Maneshinde claimed. "But he ended up ending his life due to consumption of illegally administered medicines and (also) used to consume drugs," the lawyer said, adding that Chakraborty was prepared for the worst. Chakraborty (28) was arrested under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act's sections 8(c) (sale, possession or manufacture of banned drugs), 20(b)(ii) (possession or use of small quantity of banned drugs) and other relevant provisions. She is likely to be produced before a magistrate's court through video link on Wednesday. Apart from the drugs case, she is facing an abetment of suicide case in connection with Rajput's death which the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing, and a related money laundering case being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Rajput's father who accused Chakraborty of abeting his son's suicide had also claimed that she siphoned off Rs 15 crore from his son's bank accounts. The ED launched a probe into this aspect. The NCB began a probe after Chakraborty's mobile phone chats allegedly revealed that she used to consume drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rhea-chakraborty-being-hounded-because-she-loved-a-drug-addict-with-mental-issues-lawyer-884424.html
08-09-2020||West||Pune first district in India to cross 2 lakh Covid-19 cases||Driven by a surge in Covid-19 cases in the last few days, Pune has become the first district in the country to record more than two lakh cases. As per data of the Maharashtra government's health department, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Pune district reached 2,03,468 on Monday after 4,165 more people tested positive for the disease. Officials here said increased testing was one of the main reasons for the surge in cases in the district. Pune crossed the one lakh-mark on August 5 and in a month's time, the cases have doubled in the district, according to official figures. Compared to Pune, Delhi reported 1,93,526 Covid-19 cases till Monday, while Mumbai recorded 1,57,410 cases. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Pune is around 22 per cent, Collector Rajesh Deshmukh told PTI on Tuesday. "Currently, Pune district is on top in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The reason behind thesurge in cases is the aggressive testing strategy adopted by the district administration," he said. Not just recently, but Pune has been doing aggressive testing for the last two months and the number of cases is bound to increase, he said. "In fact, no other district is conducting tests the way Pune is doing," he claimed. Effective contact-tracing, tracking of co-morbid people and isolation of patients have been possible due to the large number of tests, Deshmukh said. "Testing, tracking and tracing are the main factors behind the surge. Even the results of sero survey (conducted on nearly 1,500 people) found out that 50 per cent people had antibodies," he said. Despite the number of Covid-19 cases being high, the recovery rate in Pune is encouraging as it is now about 78 per cent, he said. According to the district administration records, over 1.57 lakh patients have so far been discharged or have recovered from the disease. Till Monday, 4,651 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in Pune as against 7,897 in Mumbai. Deshmukh said the fatality rate in Pune is around 2.3 per cent, which is better compared to Mumbai. "Our aim is to further bring down the fatality rate by detecting co-morbid patients at an early stage," he said. District health officer Dr Bhagwan Pawar said the number of cases will further rise in the coming days. "From today, we are setting up camps in 65 villages where more than 15 cases have been reported. Rapid antigen tests will be conducted on a large population there and as a result, the number of cases will go up," Pawar said. Deshmukh said besides aggressive testing, the administration is stressing on awareness, strict implementation of social distancing norms and use of masks. "Considering the rise in cases, there is an emphasis on strengthening healthcare facilities in Pune city and in the district, and medical teams have also been set up to screen people aged above 60 having co-morbid conditions," he added. While the district administration has claimed that health care facilities have been strengthened, there have been complaints about unavailability of beds in hospitals and other medical aids. Two jumbo facilities in Pune city and neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad industrial area were opened last month. But, the functioning of the facility in Pune came under scanner after allegations of lapses and mismanagement there. Pune-based Congress leader and former MLC Mohan Joshi blamed the BJP-led Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for the increase in number of Covid-19 cases in the city. "The BJP is in power in the PMC with a strength of 100 corporators. Besides, Girish Bapat of the BJP is a Lok Sabha member from Pune and five MLAs in the city are from the saffron party. Union minister Prakash Javadekar is from Pune, and despite all this, the situation in the city has become critical," Joshi said. However, BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole, who represents Shivajinagar constituency in Pune, said the number of Covid-19 cases is bound to go up as testing has been increased. "Our thrust should be on bringing the mortality rate down and for that efforts need to be made," he said. Talking about Pune's jumbo Covid-19 facility and the alleged mismanagement there, Shirole said it was the state government's decision to set up such facilities in Pune. "It is the state government's responsibility to ensure proper functioning of the jumbo facilities in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Thrust should be on how to improve the situation at these facilities and how lives of people can be saved," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-first-district-in-india-to-cross-2-lakh-covid-19-cases-884426.html
08-09-2020||West||NIA makes three more arrests in Bhima Koregaon case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has made three fresh arrests in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case. The accused are identified as Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe (32), resident of Wakad, Ramesh Murlidhar Gaichor ( 36), resident of Yervada, and Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap (33 ), resident of Kondwa, in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case. The accused persons are members of the Kabir Kala Manch, a frontal organisation of the banned terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist). During the investigation, it was revealed that senior leaders of CPI (Maoist) that was banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, were in contact with the organizers of Elgar Parishad as well as the accused arrested in the case so as to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities. During further investigation, it was revealed that accused Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe, Ramesh Murlidhar Gaichor and Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap were propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and were co-conspirators with other arrested accused. It has also come on record that they were in contact with absconding accused Milind Teltumbde about the urban network of CPI (Maoist). Also, it is established that during their visits in the jungle, they underwent weapon and explosive training and awareness programme on various topics related to Maoist movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-makes-three-more-arrests-in-bhima-koregaon-case-884444.html
08-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Mainstream Bollywood silent, but Rhea Chakraborty finds support from several others||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest on Tuesday in a drugs case linked to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput found its echo on Twitter with several people in the Hindi film industry decrying the “witch hunt” and “trial by media” but some others speaking of karma and the consequences of wrongdoing. Chakraborty, who has been accused of abetting Rajput's suicide by his family and subjected to intense media scrutiny, was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after three days of questioning. Wearing a black T-shirt with a quote proclaiming "Roses are red, violets are blue, Let's smash patriarchy, me and you" when she was arrested, the 28-year-old waved at media personnel as she came out of the NCB office in south Mumbai. Though mainstream Bollywood was mostly silent, directors Hansal Mehta, Anubhav Sinha, Alankrita Shrivastava and writer Atika Chohan were among those who reacted sharply to her arrest. Sinha, the director of films such as “Mulk” and “Article 15”, simply asked mediapersons to "resign" and seek different employment avenues. "If you still feel like a journalist, RESIGN. You won't die of hunger. You will discover new friends, opportunities and avenues," the director said in a scathing tweet. “Aligarh” director Hansal Mehta was equally distressed. "Not abetment of suicide, not money laundering, not murder? Now I know why marijuana is not legalised in India yet," he said. Chohan, co-writer of "Chhapaak", said the actor was being "incriminated" for the life choices of Rajput, her boyfriend. "He engaged in drugs and suffered from mental illness. Why is this so difficult to accept. Why is a woman incriminated and called names for an adult man's life choice," she tweeted. In an acerbic tweet, Shrivastava said, "Excellent job, India! Enjoy the burning of the witch. And while we are at it we may as well get Sati back." "And no, lets not lift a finger to stem any crimes against women. Lets dance wildly and applaud the fire," added the director of “Lipstick Under My Burkha”. "Sacred Games" star Kubbra Sait said Chakraborty may have been arrested but she is "still not a murderer". "May the universe give the parents of Rhea the strength through this devastating time. Arrested by NCB. Still not a murderer. #MediaCircus I wonder your conversations over your shaam ki chai (evening tea)" she said. Hours before Chakraborty's arrest, producer Pritish Nandy pointed out how all the other charges against her had failed. "All charges against Rhea have failed. Murder? No evidence. Abetment to murder? She wasn’t there. Stealing Rs 15 crore? Sushant never got the money. What remains is drugs. None found on her. She’s ready for a test. Who was it for? Obvious, na?#justiceforSushant #JusticeForRhea," Nandy tweeted. He said if one wanted to find out "what killed" Rajput, they need to go back to the original charges. "Harassment, a humiliation in public, bullying. There are people in Bollywood who constantly ridiculed him. In this @kangna_official is right. You cannot survive Bollywood with a fragile mind," Nandy added. Actor-comic Vir Das tweeted, "Reminder. Abuse legal drugs...like power." Bidita Bag, an actor and model, wrote, "Rhea arrested...now please can we concentrate on real issues that our country is facing?... #JaiHind." TV actor Kritika kamra called out the media for peddling "bloodlust". "The media has successfully pushed us into a bottomless pit of bloodlust and hate. We're so far down in it that we see nothing, hear nothing, feel nothing," she wrote on Twitter. Not all reactions were critical of Chakraborty's arrest that followed days of her being literally mobbed by camera crews and others. Actor Ankita Lokhande, Rajput's former girlfriend and "Pavitra Rishta" co-star, said "justice" has been served. "Nothing happens by chance, by fate. You create your own fate by your actions. That's karma," she shared a post on Twitter. Rajput's sister Shweta Singh Kirti tweeted, "#GodIsWithUs" after Chakraborty's arrest. Actor Shekhar Suman also hailed Chakraborty's arrest, saying, "You sow so you shall reap." BJP leader and singer Manoj Tiwari used the same words in his response. "What you sow, so shall you reap! Today's arrest teaches us that nobody can escape the consequences of wrongdoings! My prayers for the truth to unfold soon," he said on the social media platform. Chakraborty has in recent TV interviews denied that she consumed drugs. Apart from the drugs case, she is facing an abetment of suicide case in connection with Rajput's death which the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing, and a related money laundering case being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Rajput's father who accused Chakraborty of abetting his son's suicide had also claimed that she siphoned Rs 15 crore from his son's bank accounts. The ED launched a probe into this aspect. The NCB began a probe after Chakraborty's mobile phone chats allegedly revealed that she used to consume drugs. The NCB has also arrested her brother Showik Chakraborty and Rajput's manager Samuel Miranda on drug supply charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-mainstream-bollywood-silent-but-rhea-chakraborty-finds-support-from-several-others-884473.html
08-09-2020||West||Gujarat's controversial Anti-terror Act challenged, notice to govt||The Gujarat High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Advocate General on a petition challenging the constitutional validity of controversial law 'Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime Act' or GCTOC Act, also known as anti-terror act, which came into force in December 2019. A division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala issued the notice and sought response within four weeks. The petition has been filed by a 36-year-old Mohammed Hussain Makrani alias Mamu, a resident of Rajkot, through Advocate Virat Popat. The controversial law, which was passed in 2015 and became the law last year, has several contentious issues which have been raised in the petition. Popat said that Makrani has been booked under the new law for 10-year-old three offences. One of the cases has already been quashed by the high court while another stayed. Despite that, Rajkot police booked Makrani last month for allegedly being a member of a gang which is involved in murder, attempt to murder, rioting, among others based on offences registered a decade back. Makrani has challenged the constitutional validity of the act and its contentious provisions including Section 2(1)(c), 2(e), 20(3), 20(4) among others on the basis that they are violative of Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution. Section 2 (1)(c) of the act has a provision that a person can be booked if he or she continues with offences “either singly or jointly, as a member of an organised crime syndicate or on behalf of such syndicate in respect of which more than one charge sheets have been filed before a competent court within the preceding period of ten years and that court has taken cognizance of such offence.” Similarly, Section 2(e) defines “organised crime” as “continuing unlawful activity and terrorist act including extortion, land grabbing, contract killing, economic offences, cybercrime having severe consequences, prostitution or ransom by an individual, singly or jointly, either as a syndicate, by use of violence…” The petitioner has said that if both the provisions are read together it would indicate that “a person can be arrested, prosecuted and convicted under the act if there is more than one chargesheet filed against the person in the preceding period of ten years. In other words, the act introduces the creation of a new offence for the acts which have taken place even before the enactment of the law.” The petition argues that such provisions under the law which didn’t exist when the offence was committed is violative retroactively/retrospectively. “Article 20 is not a remedy but a protection which can’t be taken away by such legislation. The person accused of an offence also has a fundamental right not to be prosecuted for greater penalty than what existed at the time when the offence is committed,” the petitioner has argued. The petition has also challenged one of the most controversial provisions that allows confession made before a police officer not below the rank of Superintendent of Police to be accepted as admissible evidence. "This provision violates all statutory and mandatory rights given to the accused. Article 20(3) provides that no person accused of an offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself," the petitioner has said. The petition also challenges provision that prevents a suspect from getting anticipatory bail stating that such a law is contrary to fundamental right safeguarded under Article 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-controversial-anti-terror-act-challenged-notice-to-govt-884519.html
08-09-2020||West||Take efforts to make Sanskrit national language: Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday said Sanskrit was "lively, perpetual and classical" and collective efforts must be made to make it the national language. Koshyari was speaking through video-conferencing at the 9th convocation of Kavikulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University. "Unlike Roman or Latin languages, Sanskrit is lively, perpetual and classical language which has the potential to revive, rejuvenate and resurrect itself time and again," he said. Yoga guru Ramdev, who was a special guest at the function, said Sanskrit was not just a language but a culture and called for imparting lessons in Engineering, Medicine, Law, Management and other streams in Sanskrit. Ramdev said the new education police had laid renewed thrust on Sanskrit and appealed to the university to meet the requirement of good Sanskrit teachers in the country. Dr Pankaj Chande, founder vice chancellor of Kavikulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University and Om Prakash Tiwari, secretary of Kaivalyadham Yoga Institute were awarded honorary D.Litt at the function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/take-efforts-to-make-sanskrit-national-language-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-884527.html
08-09-2020||West||Maharashtra adds 20,131 Covid-19 cases; 380 die, 13,234 recover||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 20,131 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 9,43,772, the state health department said. With 380 patients succumbing to the infection, including 42 in Mumbai, the total toll went up to 27,407 in the state, it said. A total of 13,234 patients were discharged after treatment in the day, taking the number of recoveries to 6,72,556, a health official said. The state is now left with 2,43,446 active cases. With 1,346 new cases, Mumbai's tally rose to 1,58,756, while the fatality count reached 7,942. 47,89,682 tests have been conducted in the state until now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-adds-20131-covid-19-cases-380-die-13234-recover-884529.html
