09-09-2020||Comment||India’s waning soft power||Leading political scientist and former dean of the John F Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, Joseph Nye, had propounded the theory of soft power. He had described soft power as, “the ability to get what you want through attraction rather than coercion or payments. It arises from the attractiveness of a country’s culture, political ideals, and policies.” Given India’s civilisational depth, entrenched democracy and commitment to morality and ‘unity in diversity’, it was only a matter of time before India recaptured global imagination. The post-liberalization India opened itself to the global highway and found an interested market for its intangible wares and values that accompanied the ‘Idea of India’. Even before the conceptual articulation of the term soft power, former Chinese Ambassador to India, Hu Shih, had famously said, “India conquered and dominated China culturally for 20 centuries without ever having to send a single soldier across her border.” The national treasure trove was brimming with vivid antiquity, yoga, spiritualism, thriving entertainment industry, culture, civility and polity that prided on plurality, non-violence and independent institutions that reflected the nobility of its hallowed Constitution -- the attraction was instantaneous and palpable. Except suddenly, something seems amiss and barring the hard-sell of yoga, the undeniable promise of Indian soft power is missing, and perceptions in the neighbourhood warrant concerns. The 2019 Statista Global ranking for the top 30 countries on soft power did not have India. Instead, countries like China, the Russian Federation, Turkey, etc., made the surprising cut. Despite the brouhaha of India having ‘arrived on the world stage’ and with the whirlwind trips by its national leadership, the rare lead in celebrating and appropriating the ‘International Yoga Day’ notwithstanding, the perceptions about India were not as rose-tinted as internally claimed. While the likes of China, Russia and Turkey were indeed talked about globally, a lot of that had to do with their belligerent, expansionist and aggressive stands as opposed to any winning appeal. Yet India punched below them? The usual practice is to rubbish such rankings by international agencies, indulge in some whataboutery and to persist with the convenient echo-chamber bravado of India having finally ‘arrived on the world stage.’ The other option is to go beyond jingoistic fervour, auto-denial mode and, instead, to introspect and question ourselves. Beyond China and Pakistan, why are our traditional allies in Nepal, Bangladesh, Maldives and Sri Lanka seeking what they ostensibly call a more ‘balanced’ relationship (euphemism for correcting the traditional ‘pro-India’ tilt) with Delhi? Why are the regional murmurs of India’s ‘big brother’ attitude growing louder and louder? Indeed, China has baited them with its supposed largesse (read, debt-traps), but that automatically suggests that Indian soft power could not compensate for Chinese ‘payments’ or reassure them of protection against the nefarious designs of the Dragon? The tone, tenor and visible moorings of any dispensation of the day impact its perceived soft power. Nye says Trump’s presidency has eroded American soft power with its inconsistencies with truth, arrogance, and a culture of intolerant politics that has debased the currency of trust and respect. This would not be the view shared by Donald Trump himself or by his loyalists, who are enthralled by his suggestions of ‘hard power’, even as impartial and unbiased reactions from across the world would suggest otherwise. It is important to question if we, too, have been carried away by our make-believe muscularity and ‘arrival on the global centre-stage’? Culturally, the hardening of anchorage from the inclusive tenets of pacifism to disconcerting nativism, to now even to revisionism, has polarised our society like never before. Societal dissonance and communal riots were always an integral part of the Indian reality and its faultlines, but the sanctified contextualisation of the same as an inevitable step to correct and rewrite history does incalculable disservice to the perceived spirit of India. The ‘us versus them’ narrative within the country was never more glaring, and the same will not go unnoticed globally. Faith has got weaponised and the accompanying ‘divide’, seemingly institutionalised. But it is militating not just in the eyes of the internal ‘others’, but even a neighbouring nation with the same majoritarian faith has provocatively decided to define its own version of holy texts by counter-claiming and appropriating places of divine births! Political discourse, language and temper have hit new lows. Proudly independent institutions which were relatively free of political interference and biases are said to be creaking. Statesmanship of a Nehru, Narasimha Rao, Vajpayee or a Manmohan Singh is on the retreat – intellect is pooh-poohed as ‘pseudo-intellectual’, liberality as ‘libtards’ and the moral conscience of the nation, i.e. Mahatma Gandhi, now shares public imagination with the man who shot him. All in the name of ‘correcting history’. Those questioning the direction of the country could be easily labelled seditious and ‘anti-national’. The beautiful, imperfect and still work-in-progress ‘Idea of India’ that was slowly coming out of its closeted shell and which inspired a Mandela, a Vaclav Havel or a Barack Obama is now slowly closing those doors, and working on new found uber-nationalistic impulse that has so far not benefited the socio-economic upliftment, economy, fight against the pandemic or even the restive borders. It is true that soft power alone does not suffice in the 21st century, and it needs to be added to hard power, to truly act as an invaluable force-multiplier. The required ‘smart power’ of today need not be either soft or hard, but both. Conversely, China is over-accelerating on its hard power and that could undo its own cause, as increasingly the real intent behind the Chinese ‘aid’, is getting questioned. That cannot lull us into complacency or status quoist impulses. Ironically, we are underleveraging the assets that we have, and which initially wowed the world, and we instead posture with those that we neither possess nor perhaps need to possess. The sad diminishment of our soft power in recent years is a fact, and it shows in our ranking. (The writer is former Lt Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Puducherry)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/india-s-waning-soft-power-884726.html
09-09-2020||First Edit||Making political profit out of an actor’s death||It is not unusual for political parties to use a death or a murder for electoral purposes, to gain mileage over other parties or for other ends. The reported suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in Mumbai is now at the centre of a drama which has characters who were close to the actor, members of his family, various crime investigating agencies and even the media and others who have no reason to be in the play. It has a political script and is directed by persons whose interest in the play may be different from their claims. Any death needs to be investigated if those who are close to the deceased person or even outsiders have reasonable and credible doubts about it. Rajput’s death was being investigated by Mumbai police, but the investigations now being done by the CBI and other agencies, and the whole drama about it may have aims other than just finding out the truth.  The probe has turned out be a proxy war between the BJP-led Centre and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government, with much of the media taking sides. The Bihar government, in which the BJP is a partner, took interest in the death ostensibly because Rajput was from the state. That interest has turned into the BJP’s election campaign in Bihar. The BJP has already issued campaign posters calling for ‘Justice for Sushant’. The fact that the CBI is probing the case and other central agencies are involved will raise the import and appeal of the case. But it is cynical politics to make an issue of the death of an actor who had no links with politics, to create a smokescreen around it, and then seek to clear it, all with the aim of appealing to parochial and baser emotions and to benefit electorally.  In the whole circus, there is also an unmistakeable attempt on the part of the central government and the BJP to run down the Maharashtra government and the Shiv Sena, which had ditched the BJP after the last Assembly elections. There is an attempt to bring in the name of Aditya Thackeray, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son, into the case. There is also an attempt to politicise Bollywood, which influences public perceptions in the country. Some actors have taken political positions and others may be prompted to do so. Apart from all this, there may be a grand political design to divert attention from issues like the pandemic, the state of the economy, national security, floods and other important matters by creating a melodrama with all spicy elements and engaging the people with it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/making-political-profit-out-of-an-actor-s-death-884725.html
09-09-2020||In Perspective||Primacy to Hindi-Sanskrit?||Language is an inseparable part of personal and socio-cultural identity. Wars have been fought on the basis of language, exemplified by West Pakistan imposing Urdu on the Bengali-speaking people of East Pakistan, causing the birth of Bangladesh in 1971.   Article 351 of the Constitution accords Hindi and Sanskrit prime status by making it the duty of the Union to promote the spread of Hindi and secure its enrichment, drawing primarily on Sanskrit for vocabulary. Primacy accorded to Hindi-Sanskrit in 1950 was understandable, given that communications were poor and the languages and cultures, particularly of Southern and Eastern India, were not widely known. Since then, electronic communications and physical mobility have increased awareness of India’s cultural and linguistic plurality. Thus, in 2003, the Eighth Schedule listed 22 languages, and Census 2011 recognised 31 languages. Although constitutionally directed, the primacy of Hindi-Sanskrit is being questioned today. The Congress ordered compulsory Hindi in schools of Madras State in 1937. Following anti-Hindi-imposition agitation, it was withdrawn in 1940. In 1948, Congress again introduced compulsory Hindi, followed by agitations and withdrawal of the order. In 1965, riots followed Congress making Hindi the sole official language. Repeated attempts at Hindi-imposition have resulted in Congress’ influence and presence in Tamil Nadu getting decimated. Tamil, with 6.9-crore speakers, is an ancient language with a rich heritage, culture and literature. Tamilians are not against Hindi per se, but they oppose imposition of Hindi. That the Dakshin Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha, founded by Gandhiji in 1918 in Madras, functions even today is proof. The Kasturirangan Panel submitted a draft National Education Policy (NEP) to the Union government on May 31, 2019, stirring a hornet’s nest. Non-Hindi-speaking states alleged “imposition of Hindi”. Tamil Nadu saw public protests against the three-language formula (TLF), while West Bengal and Karnataka opposed the imposition of Hindi, demanding primacy to the regional language. Notwithstanding, the government approved NEP-2020 on July 29, 2020. To its credit, NEP-2020 states: “The purpose of the education system is to develop good human beings ... for building an equitable, inclusive, and plural society as envisaged by our Constitution”. Non-Hindi speakers, taken together, are 56.37%, but Hindi at 43.63% is the single largest spoken language, with Bengali a distant second at 8.03%. NEP-2020 terms Sanskrit “an important modern language”. Because of its literary wealth, it“will be offered at all levels of school and higher education ... including as an option in the three-language formula”. Further, “India also has an extremely rich literature in other classical languages, including classical Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Odia.” The government accorded Tamil “Classical” status in 2004, followed by Sanskrit (2005), Kannada (2008), Telugu (2009), Malayalam (2013) and Odia (2014). The antiquity of Tamil compares with, perhaps even exceeds that of Sanskrit. With the exception of Sanskrit, these “also” Classical languages are all living languages, each with a wealth of ancient, medieval and modern literature. Sanskrit undoubtedly has priceless but predominantly ancient literature and a minuscule 24,821 speakers.Notwithstanding, NEP-2020 forefronts Sanskrit “due to its vast and significant contributions and literature across genres and subjects, its cultural significance, and its scientific nature”, and mainstreams Sanskrit “...with strong offerings in schools – including as one of the options in the three-language formula – as well as in higher education”. NEP-2020 retains TLF, and assures that “no language will be imposed on any state”. The three languages learned by students “will be the choices of states, regions, and of course the students themselves”. Making Sanskrit a TLF option was earlier objected to by non-Hindi speaking states, since North Indian students preferred Sanskrit to a South Indian language. As one report noted, “... indeed contrary to the spirit of TLF no South Indian language is generally taught in most schools in Hindi speaking states.” Terming Sanskrit a modern language and, despite its negligible speaker-population, according it primacy over other living languages, is a questionable gambit of current majoritarian politics. Some examples demonstrate how Hindi-speakers view non-Hindi speakers. A CISF official at Chennai airport asked MP Kanimozhi if she was Indian for requesting her to explain something in Tamil or English; during a virtual training session, Ministry of AYUSH Secretary Rajesh Kotecha said participants who did not speak Hindi “could leave”; a Hindi professor from a prestigious college in Delhi University is quoted to have asked: “Saabji, yeh ‘Kannad’ kahaan ki bhasha hai?”.  Thus, Hindi-speakers ranging from a low-ranking CISF official to a Secretary-level official to a university professor, reveal the Hindi language-culture mindset: # Every Indian needs to know/understand Hindi, # There is no need to know any other language for All-India duties, # Hindi is understood by non-Hindi speakers, and # Ignorance of non-Hindi names, places and cultures remains. As DH reported, this mindset was rudely dismissed in Tamil Nadu with Twitter-trending T-shirts bearing the Hindi-get-lost slogan, “Hindi Theriyadu, Poda”. Civilized social transactions between individuals whose language or appearance are different, is based upon education and respect for differences in language, religion, custom, etc. Fraternity, envisaged in our Constitution, can be promoted only with genuine interest in India’s diverse languages and cultures, and by upholding the dignity of individuals speaking these languages. This is not possible if one language or culture is given primacy over another. The political consequences of language imposition in Tamil Nadu in 1937, 1948 and 1965 and East Pakistan should be remembered. The concerns of non-Hindi speakers that Hindi-imposition leads to cultural homogenization detrimental to their cultures, need to be sincerely addressed, lest divisiveness rather than integration grows.   Building “... an equitable, inclusive, and plural society as envisaged by our Constitution” cannot happen by giving primacy to Hindi-Sanskrit over other languages. It may only increase Hindi-speakers’ insularity. TLF needs revision to give due importance to non-Hindi languages, for an inclusive and plural society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/primacy-to-hindi-sanskrit-884727.html
09-09-2020||In Perspective||Beyond a point, diplomacy becomes counterproductive||Amidst the India-China military stand-off in Eastern Ladakh, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat recently said there are military options to deal with transgressions by the Chinese army, but it will be exercised only if talks at the military and the diplomatic level fail. This is a significant statement that implies that war begins when diplomacy ends. China appears to favour its military, rather than diplomacy with India, as an instrument of foreign policy. For any country, the instruments of foreign policy available are: aid, diplomacy, trade and war (and terrorism, as Pakistan uses).  Prime Minister Narendra Modi met President Xi Jinping 18 times since May 2014 and pursued personal diplomacy in the hope that this would solve the border dispute, which remains the main irritant in India-China relations. Political direction and vision determines the nature and content of the country’s China policy. India’s relations with China are handled by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), armed forces and Intelligence agencies. In a sense, the MEA is the lead agency that calls the shots, while the military leadership and the Intelligence agencies have a peripheral role in the formulation of New Delhi’s China policy. The political leadership has all along made the diplomatic corps the centrepiece of its China policy and downgraded the role of the military on this score.  India’s diplomats dealt with China till the 1980s exclusively. Since the 1990s, India has also added military diplomacy, with its military commanders at various levels visiting China to promote goodwill between the two militaries. Besides, warship visits and joint military exercises were other elements of military diplomacy. Over the years, New Delhi has attempted to appease Beijing with its ‘One China’ policy and by politically reining in the Tibetan community in India. Such soft options appear to have failed with China which has consistently adopted a hostile posture towards India, as evident from territorial incursions as well as its pro-Pakistan moves in international fora like the UN.     Clearly, for India, diplomacy has not worked with China, given the military incursions along the border from time to time.  Most notably, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) attempted to occupy Sumdorung Chu in 1986-87 but was successfully evicted by the Indian Army. To what extent India demonstrated the role of force to do so remains debatable. However, this proved to be a major challenge to peaceful bilateral relations and eventually led to summit diplomacy.    The two Asian neighbours, which share a 4,056-km border, embarked on diplomacy in December 1988 when then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi visited the then Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping in Beijing. Ever since then, there have been innumerable joint working group meetings between the two sides. These diplomatic dialogues initiated bilateral trade, with the understanding that the tricky border dispute between the two countries should not hamper other aspects of their relationship. As a result, bilateral trade eventually reached gargantuan proportions, and China at one point became India’s largest trade partner. However, it is now time to acknowledge that India’s China policy has proved a failure despite the time, effort, energy and expenditure invested to promote the relationship.   In fact, the Border Defence Cooperation Agreement, like all other previous bilateral agreements signed by the two sides in 1993, 1996, 2005 and 2012, has remained ineffective in checking Chinese incursions in Ladakh. On an average, PLA intrusions occur 250-300 times annually and usually during July and August, when the weather is favourable. From 2010 to 2013, China made nearly 600 incursions into the Indian side. Why is the Indian Army unable to stop these intrusions? New Delhi expects the Indian Army to repeatedly thwart Chinese intrusions, without clear political directions to tackle the Chinese military threat, which nibbles away at Indian territory. For instance, the development of border roads was never accorded the priority it merited. This hampers rapid military mobilisation to the LAC to enhance force levels against China. Moreover, military modernisation is not backed by political will and drags on at a glacial pace. Also, interaction between the political and military leadership remains weak during peacetime, when financial sanctions are cleared for armament procurements and allied equipment to ensure peak military preparedness.  For instance, frontline troops, particularly infantry soldiers,  deployed on the LAC are not issued combat support systems like battlefield management systems, battlefield surveillance radars, long-range reconnaissance systems and night vision devices – all ‘force multipliers’ against a determined adversary.   Today, the political leadership needs to come to grips with the harsh reality that Chinese strategic culture, which conditions the mindset of its leadership, only respects the role of force in international politics. India’s military muscle to engage China should not be underestimated, especially its airpower capabilities, which could prove a potent weapon in the Himalayan airspace. Besides, Indian soldiers have demonstrated their daring deeds on the Himalayan heights against Pakistan.  The ghost of 1962 should not cloud the thinking of the political leadership 58 years later. Today, the political leadership should not hesitate to repose their faith in the country’s military prowess to protect its territorial integrity. The pursuit of diplomacy beyond a point becomes counterproductive to national interest and image.    (The writer is a former Professor of International Relations and Strategic Studies, Christ Deemed to be University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/beyond-a-point-diplomacy-becomes-counterproductive-885118.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru fisherman, adrift in dinghy, finally traced after 36 hours||A fisherman in a dinghy, which went adrift after being separated from a purse seine boat, was finally traced in Malpe after 36 hours. The fisherman, Sunil Coehlo from Ullal Hoige, along with 28 others had left for fishing in a purse seine boat. The belt of the boat had been cut at around 11.30 am on September 6. At midnight, heavy rain coupled with gusty wind lashed at the boat and the rope of the dinghy tethered to the purse seine boat got snapped. Owing to a technical glitch in the purse seine boat, the fishermen could not rescue Sunil who was in the dinghy. After a daylong search, the members filed a missing complaint at Ullal Police Station on Monday night. Sunil Coelho, along with his dinghy, finally reached near Malpe after overcoming turbulent waves on Tuesday. Other fishermen who saw him with his dinghy rushed to his rescue and provided first-aid to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-fisherman-adrift-in-dinghy-finally-traced-after-36-hours-884711.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||374 fresh Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada||The surge in Covid-19 cases continued with the district administration recording 374 fresh cases on Tuesday. The total Covid 19 positive cases registered in the district  stands at 15,452. DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that ILI symptoms had contributed highest of 236 fresh cases while 18 persons with SARI symptoms too had tested positive for the deadly virus. Contact tracing of 120 persons is underway.   Of the fresh cases, 254 are symptomatic. Mangaluru taluk contributed the highest Covid infections with 219 cases followed by 61 in Bantwal, 36 in Puttur, 32 from Belthangady, six in Sullia and 20 from other districts. On a positive note, 232 of those infected have recovered and been discharged from hospitals, covid care centres and home isolation. The total number of people discharged post-recovery in the district is 11, 986. A total of 3,054 are undergoing treatment in hospitals, covid care centres and in home isolation. With three more fatalities, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in the district has risen to 412. Among the deaths, one was a resident from Puttur and two were from outside the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/374-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-884716.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||40-kg marijuana seized in Mangaluru; 1 held||DCIB sleuths arrested a man and seized nearly 40 kg marijuana from a house at Madda in Bantwal taluk. The value of the seized ganja is Rs 19,97,400. According to SP B M Laxmi Prasad, the arrested is Ahmmed Sabith (39) and his associate Mohammed Ansar fled the spot during the raid. The seized cannabis was stored in polythene bags, it include buds of the marijuana plant, leaves and others. The police have booked a case at Bantwal Town Police Station under Section 8 (C), 20 (B) (II) (c) of the NDPS Act 1985.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/40-kg-marijuana-seized-in-mangaluru-1-held-884731.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Supreme Court grants bail to anti-CAA protesters of Mangaluru||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted bail to 21 anti-CAA-NPR-NRC protesters who were allegedly involved in the agitation that resulted in police firing, causing the death of two persons in Mangaluru in December 2019. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian allowed an application filed by Ashik alias Mohammad Asik and others. The petitioners were already granted bail by the Karnataka High Court on February 17. However, this order was stayed by the apex court on March 6. On Wednesday, the court lifted its stay on the HC's order. It directed all the petitioners to report to the concerned police station every alternate Monday as a condition for their bail. The petitioners, led by senior advocate R Basant and advocate Haris Beeran, contended that they were involved in peaceful protests only but the police resorted to the firing leading to the death of two persons.  They said they have been in custody for more than seven months since December 22, 2019, and the police have already filed its charge sheet, so they are not required for investigation any more. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Karnataka government, contended that the High Court's observations while granting bail to the accused should be expunged. The court said the HC's observations should be treated for the purpose of bail only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/supreme-court-grants-bail-to-anti-caa-protesters-of-mangaluru-884875.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Girl dies as house wall collapses after heavy rain in Chitradurga||A six-year-old girl died at Jaajuru village, Challakere taluk on Tuesday night, after a wall of the house collapsed due to heavy rains that lashed the region over the last two days. According to Tahasildar M Mallikarjun, Srunaja, daughter of Chalmesha and Lakshmi Devi died when she was asleep. He also promised that he would take steps towards providing compensation to the family. It may be mentioned here that the district known for drought received heavy rainfall for the past two days. Many houses were damaged in the district. Many check dams are also in full spate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/girl-dies-as-house-wall-collapses-after-heavy-rain-in-chitradurga-884876.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: MP Prathap Simha alleges misuse of Mysuru City Corporation funds||MP Prathap Simha alleged misuse of funds sanctioned for Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and urged Deputy Commissioner to ensure that the funds released by Union government to the civic body will be utilized on necessary works. The MP has written a letter to DC B Sharat and has mentioned that the Union government released Rs 69.39 crore under 15 Finance Commission and the MCC has Rs 9.30 crore sanctioned under 14th Finance Commission pending. According to the MP, 50% of funds, Rs 34.70 crore, of the 15th Finance Commission and the pending Rs 9.30 crore, must be utilized after discussing with respective District-in-charge Minister, MLAs and MPs. The MP also alleged that former mayors, standing committee presidents,  political party leaders have misused funds||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-mp-prathap-simha-alleges-misuse-of-mysuru-city-corporation-funds-884885.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Lone tusker enters Matasagara village, creates panic||The residents of Matasagara village were in for a shock when a wild jumbo walked into the village on Wednesday morning. It was 7.30 am, and the people were doing their routine activities when they saw a jumbo walking near them. They started screaming out of fear and ran into the safety of their houses. The wild elephant strolled on the streets for about 15 minutes, then walked towards a coffee plantation. It did not attack anybody or damage properties. It may be mentioned that a wild elephant had trampled a temple priest very near to the village, 10 days ago. The villagers suspect that it might be the same elephant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lone-tusker-enters-matasagara-village-creates-panic-884964.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi railway station to be named after Siddharoodha Swami||The Hubballi railway station will be named as ‘Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Railway Station - Hubballi’ after the Ministry of Home Affairs cleared the state government’s proposal. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced this on Wednesday evening. Siddharoodha Swami set up the Siddharoodha Mutt in Hubballi. The 19th-century saint is known to have a considerable following, and his disciples even took out a padayatra two years ago demanding that the Hubballi airport be named after him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-railway-station-to-be-named-after-siddharoodha-swami-885041.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Naganahalli Circle Inspector dies of Covid-19||Naganahalli's Police Training Centre (PTC) Circle Inspector S M Yalagi (57) died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. PTC Principal Iada Martin Marbaniang said he tested positive for the virus on August 4. He was first undergoing treatment at ESIC hospital here and then was shifted to a private hospital. The circle inspector breathed his last as he failed to respond to the treatment, he told. Hailing from Yalagi village in Surapura taluk of Yadgir district, he was working at the PTC from January 2019. He is survived by a wife and four sons. His last rites were performed as per the protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/naganahalli-circle-inspector-dies-of-covid-19-885043.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||BJP has raised drug issue to cover its failures: MP||MP D K Suresh alleged that in an effort to hide the corruption and its failure in tackling the Covid-19 spread, the state government has been successful in diverting the people by raising the drug mafia issue. The police too are cooperating with them, he said. Addressing media persons here, on Wednesday, he said that Kannada film industry is being tarnished by alleging drug mafia connections. Without proper evidences, they are trying to bring disrepute to the film industry. "Instead of arresting the artistes, the police could have traced the drug peddlers and cracked the cases. But, they have arrested two lady artistes, which will not solve the issue," he opined. The government, which was quiet all these days, has got up from its slumber. College students getting addicted to drugs is a serious issue. But, the police officials have been simply harassing the industrialists and influential that their family is involved in drug cases. They have found a way to make money, Suresh alleged. If these actors are let out, there is a danger of them exposing the names of influential persons and their children. Hence, they have been retained in their custody. The issue has created fear among the leaders of all parties. They should understand that everyone are equal before the law, he said. A influential person, running a club in the state, had left to Sri Lanka to escape from the police. He played a major role in toppling of the coalition government, he alleged. Congress will begin a movement to reopen the Chamundeshwari Sugar Factory in Channarayapatna. The factory was constructed by Srikantaiah of Congress party, which stands neglected. The legislators would raise the issue in the session, the MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-has-raised-drug-issue-to-cover-its-failures-mp-885057.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid takes away the sheen of ‘Jamboo Savari’||Come September, it is common for the people of Mysuru, to watch Dasara elephants walking majestically on the roads in morning and evening, rehearsing for the grand event, Jamboo Savari, the last leg of Mysuru Dasara. But, this year, with the coronavirus casting a shadow on the annual Dasara event, witnessed by lakhs of people, will be limited to only a few events. Nada Habba Dasara will be held from October 17 to 26, this year. As expected and already hinted by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the Dasara High Power Committee meeting has decided to observe a simple Dasara this year, for the safety of the people. The government will be releasing Rs 10 crore for the event. As there was confusions over the festival, the popular ‘Gajapayana’, the journey of Dasara elephants to Mysuru from the forests, was postponed. After the officials in the Dasara meeting decided to limit the number of elephants participating in the Dasara festivities to five, the jumbos would be brought to Mysuru soon. Every year, around 12 jumbos, used to travel to Mysuru, to be a part of Dasara. The jamboo savari will be held within the Palace premises this year, and will not be taken out on a procession in the city, like the previous years. According to sources, with Arjuna crossing 60 years, the Forest department is planning to experiment the jamboo savari, with another elephant, as the event is being held within the palace premises. It is speculated that Abhimanyu might carry the ‘golden howdah’ this year. However, a final decision is yet to be taken on who will carry the ‘Ambari’ this year, and which elephants will be selected to be a part of Dasara. It may be mentioned that the farmers of the region too were against the extravagant celebrations and demanded the government to observe a simple Dasara, and divert the funds to tackle the Covid pandemic. Majority of the people too were of the opinion that the Dasara celebrations should be scaled down this year, to prevent any further spread of the pandemic.  The Horticultural department too, sensing that Dasara would be scaled down, had not made any preparations for the popular flower show, that attracts thousands of people during the nine-day festival. However, it is the hotel industry that has been badly affected by the decision, which hoped of some business during the Dasara. But, they are hoping that ‘Mysuru Habba’, promised by the authorities, after the Covid 19 is brought under control, would help them to revive business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-takes-away-the-sheen-of-jamboo-savari-885058.html
09-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||4-year-old boy found dead near railway track in Belagavi||A four-year-old boy was found dead beside railway track between Desur and Idalhond railway stations on Wednesday. Police said that it is feared that the boy could have fallen from one of the passenger trains that passed between Tuesday night to Wednesday dawn as per primary information.Investigations will bring more things to the fore. The boy was about three feet tall and had been wearing blue jeans pant and blue coloured full sleeve shirt. A black thread too was tied on its neck.Belagavi Railway police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-year-old-boy-found-dead-near-railway-track-in-belagavi-885090.html
09-09-2020||Main Article||Reform contempt law||The recent conviction of lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court has brought into focus not only the case itself, but the very law of contempt of court, too. To that extent, the case is a timely reminder of the friction that exists between individual freedoms, particularly freedom of speech as is guaranteed by Article 19(a) of the Constitution, in a modern democracy -- indeed, one touted as the world’s largest democracy -- and the law of contempt of court. To understand the issue in its entirety, one must have an understanding of what the contempt law states and the rationale for it; only then can one determine the merits of the law and its place in a modern liberal democracy.  There are two kinds of contempt of court -- civil and criminal. Civil contempt is when one willfully disobeys a court order or breaches an undertaking given to the court. Criminal contempt has been defined as the publication (whether by words, spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise) of any matter or the doing of any other act whatsoever which (i) Scandalises or tends to scandalise, or lowers or tends to lower the authority of, any court, or (ii) Prejudices, or interferes or tends to interfere with the due course of any judicial proceeding, or (iii) Interferes or tends to interfere with, or obstructs or tends to obstruct, the administration of justice in any other manner. Its raison d’être flows from the clauses listed above. As Rajeev Dhawan wrote in his essay in the edited volume by K N Harikumar, ‘Courts, Legislatures, Media Freedom’, it serves the purposes of “(i) discipline inside courts (ii) compliance with court directions and orders (iii) exclusivity and integrity of the justice system and (iv) (maintaining) the prestige and reputation of the judges and the courts.” It is as a result of the anachronism of the fourth of those purposes -- maintaining the prestige and reputation of the judges and the courts -- that Prashant Bhushan got into hot water with the court, and it is the first of the clauses of criminal contempt – scandalising the court -- under which he was convicted. Many of the clauses of the contempt law are justified. However, the clause against scandalising the court, for the purpose of maintaining its prestige and reputation, has obvious problems. For one, both the clause and the purpose it serves are far too vague and all-encompassing. Furthermore, this portion of the law is out of sync with prevailing trends in society. The contempt law has its origins in the common law of Victorian-era England and its raison d’être -- upholding the prestige and reputation of the court -- is steeped in Victorian mores. I would argue that the court’s prestige would go up, not down, immeasurably in the eyes of the common man were it to expose itself to critique, rather than resorting to convicting people for mean tweets. In the age of social media, the principles of free speech should be bolstered, and the courts should show restraint in exercising the contempt law. The onus of maintaining the image and prestige of the courts (and of the judges) must lie primarily with the courts and judges themselves. However, because judges are also human, the only surest guarantee of being able to do so is for the courts and judges to keep themselves open and responsive to criticism. Who can argue that a judge sitting on judgement on his own ruling, instead of recusing himself, or a chief justice facing sexual harassment allegations sitting on the bench hearing that very case, add to the prestige of the courts? Indeed, it is mere common sense, and a fundamental principle of natural justice, that no one may be the judge in his or her own case. However, the contempt law enables just that as it stifles dissent and criticism and the judiciary sits in judgement on itself. Finally, one must observe the tension between criminalising ‘scandalising the court’ and freedom of speech. Of course, freedom of speech in India is not absolute and is bound by reasonable restrictions. However, the keyword in that phrase is ‘reasonable’. Indeed, the Supreme Court, which has for long protected and expanded the ambit of free speech, seemed to give a nod to this standard even in the Prashant Bhushan case when it let him off with a nominal Re 1 fine.   One may take the United States and the United Kingdom as examples of liberal democracies in which there is no law at all on contempt of court involving scandalising the judiciary. In the United States, thanks to the First Amendment, freedom of speech is paramount, and the notion of contempt is limited to “behaviour carried out in the direct presence of the courts or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice.” Courts in the US now limit contempt citations for criticism when necessary to avoid “clear and present danger”. In the UK, contempt laws currently are restricted to: (i) Contempt "in the face of the court" (not to be taken literally; the judge does not need to see it, provided it took place within the court precincts or relates to a case currently before that court); (ii) Disobedience of a court order; and (iii) A breach of undertaking to the court. There is no clause on contempt for ‘scandalising the court’ or bringing down its reputation or prestige. India, too, would be well served, as an evolving liberal democracy, if the clause on scandalising the court is done away with in our contempt law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/reform-contempt-law-885117.html
09-09-2020||National||S Jaishankar meets Zarif amid concerns in India over Iran-China deal in Tehran||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met his counterpart in Iranian Government, M Javad Zarif, in Tehran on Tuesday, amid growing concerns in New Delhi over China’s proposed $400 billion investment in the West Asian nation. Jaishankar had a brief stopover in Tehran while flying from New Delhi to Moscow. His meeting with Iranian Foreign Minister came just two days after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met Iranian Defence Minister Amir Hatami. Singh met Hatami on Sunday, during a stopover in Tehran while flying from Moscow to New Delhi. The back-to-back high-level engagement saw India and Iran discussing the evolving situation in Afghanistan, after the withdrawal of the US from the war-torn nation following a deal with the Taliban. “A productive meeting with FM @JZarif during a stopover in Tehran. Discussed strengthening our bilateral cooperation and reviewed regional developments. Thank him for his gracious hospitality,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with Zarif.     Zarif tweeted that he and Jaishankar discussed “expansion of bilateral relations and trade and exchanged views on important regional issues”. Even as it is about to ink a deal with Beijing for a whopping $400 billion investment by China in strategic sectors in Iran over the next 25 years, the Islamic Republic sought to reassure New Delhi stating that its deal with the communist country would not have any impact on its relations with India. Tehran conveyed to New Delhi that the proposed Iran-China agreement would be a roadmap of cooperation between the two nations over the next two-and-a-half decades and it was not being worked out with any “hidden agenda”, sources told DH. The proposed Iran-China deal sent alarm bells ringing in the US and the officials of President Donald Trump’s administration informally warned New Delhi about the possibility of the pact paving the way for Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) setting up military bases in the Islamic Republic in future. With the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA engaged in a military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi is cautiously waiting for the details of the proposed deal to come out so that its implications on regional security could be assessed. Tehran is understood to have conveyed to New Delhi that its proposed deal with Beijing signalled its willingness to expand its relations, not only with China but also with India and other nations in Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-meets-zarif-amid-concerns-in-india-over-iran-china-deal-in-tehran-884568.html
09-09-2020||National||Allahabad HC stays demolition of Azam Khan's resort||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday stayed the demolition of a resort of Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan in Ramgarh till a decision is taken on his appeal. The order was passed by a two-judge bench of justices S K Gupta and Piyush Agrawal on a petition filed by Khan's wife Tazeen Fatima against the order of demolition by the Uttar Pradesh government date August 27. It is alleged that the resort is built on government land. Counsel for the petitioner said the appeal would be filed within two weeks from today. The court said as against the order of demolition the petitioner has an alternative statutory remedy of appeal and "he may, if so advised, file an appeal against the impugned order of demolition under section 27(2) U.P. Urban Planning and Development Act before the appropriate authority within two weeks from today". "If any such an appeal is filed by the petitioner within the stipulated period, the concerned appellate authority shall decide the same on merits expeditiously preferably within four weeks from the date of filing of the said appeal in accordance with law by a speaking and reasoned order," it said. For a period of six weeks or till the disposal of the appeal, whichever is earlier, no coercive measures shall be taken against the petitioner, the court said. The plea was opposed by the state's counsel, who said that the petitioner has an alternative and efficacious statutory remedy by way of an appeal under Section 27(2) of the Act for redressal of his grievance before the appellate authority. But instead of availing the said alternative remedy, the petitioner has chosen to file the present writ petition, which is not maintainable before this court, the state's counsel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allahabad-hc-stays-demolition-of-azam-khans-resort-884633.html
09-09-2020||National||Neelanshu Shukla, television journalist, dies at 30||Neelanshu Shukla’s family wanted him to apply for the civil service after college, a stable and prestigious career in India. But he had other ideas: He was determined to become a journalist and cover the big stories. He started as an unpaid intern with the Hindi paper Aaj in his hometown, Kanpur, in Uttar Pradesh for several months. A journalist cousin, Rishi Shukla, encouraged him to go to journalism school in New Delhi. Soon came an offer from NDTV, one of the best-known English news channels in India. He rose through the ranks, becoming an assistant producer. But where he really wanted to be was in the field, covering breaking news. He got his chance with a new TV channel, Republic TV, which assigned him as the correspondent in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. He quickly started receiving notice. “He loved politics and he had a very keen sense of what was happening on the ground,” said his best friend and a former colleague at NDTV, Saurabh Shukla, who is unrelated. “He had that ability to find the right angle to cover every story. ” In 2018, he moved to the TV Today network where he reported in both Hindi and English and covered his home state of Uttar Pradesh. A tenacious reporter, he came to be well regarded by politicians across the political spectrum. Shukla was out reporting every day during the coronavirus crisis. He traveled with migrants returning to their hometowns in the heartlands of Uttar Pradesh from the megacities of Delhi and Mumbai. His family said he took precautions while out on the field and had regular coronavirus tests. On Aug. 20, he tested positive. His last tweet said, “Unfortunately I have tested positive for COVID-19. I am asymptomatic and have been advised home isolation. Those who came in contact with me kindly get tested and follow all the necessary guidelines.” He developed symptoms, they worsened and his cousins drove to Lucknow to bring him home to Kanpur. He died at a hospital there Sept. 1. He was 30. Neelanshu Shukla was born on March 26, 1990, in Kanpur to Jagdish Narayan Shukla, a contractor for the local municipality, and Suman Shukla, a homemaker. The family lived with the senior Shukla’s parents and four brothers and their families, a close-knit “joint” family, as these arrangements are typically called in India. It was a large, rambunctious household of nearly 40 people, Rishi Shukla said. When Neelanshu Shukla was 5, his father died in a car accident, but growing up with so many loving relatives cushioned the blow. He is survived by his mother and brother, Priyanshu Shukla, 35, a major in the Indian Army. Shukla was engaged to Shweta Dayal, a preschool teacher. They were to marry in December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neelanshu-shukla-television-journalist-dies-at-30-884636.html
09-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 9||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 44 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  44,53,884 as of September 9 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  74,926 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  33,98,844  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-9-884638.html
09-09-2020||National||DH Toon | What happened to literacy?||According to viral visuals from several channels on social media, actor Rhea Chakraborty was seen being heckled and pushed by the media as she made her way to the NCB office for questioning, before her arrest, escorted by Mumbai Police over her involvement in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case and procuring drugs for the late actor. Media's behaviour was criticised by Twitter users, including celebrities from the fraternity who called it "disgusting". A study by National Statistical Office (NSO) survey has pegged the overall literacy rate in the country at about 77.7 per cent. In rural areas, the literacy rate is 73.5 per cent compared to 87.7 per cent in urban areas of the country. At the all-India level, the male literacy rate is higher at 84.7 per cent compared to 70.3 per cent among women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-what-happened-to-literacy-884665.html
09-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Maharashtra doctors threaten to go into self-quarantine mode||As private doctors and the Maharashtra government continue to be at loggerheads on multiple issues, the private doctors’ apex body has threatened that doctors may be forced to go into ‘self-quarantine’ mode. The Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State, that commands a membership of 45,000 doctors, has once again appealed to look into their issues even as the state battles the deadly outbreak of Covid-19. IMA-Maharashtra president Dr Avinash Bhondwe and honorary state secretary Dr Pankaj Bandarkar said that for the last six months, all the doctors in Maharashtra have been serving Covid-19 patients without taking any leave, without caring for their own lives. More than 150 doctors doing their private practice have died in this pandemic. “Numerous doctors have been infected with Covid-19. All the doctors who have worked tirelessly have been providing services to the patients and have been putting their own life at risk. Just as many leaders and government officials in Maharashtra have 'self-quarantined' themselves, it is time for us doctors to be 'self-quarantined', as a mass movement. The separation period may range from one day to 14 days,” Dr Bhondwe said. From 10 September, doctors across the state would be protesting – during which they would also burn replicas of medical registration certificates. According to them, since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government, the health secretaries and all district administrative officials, have been treating the IMA and all other private doctors unfairly.   “All the doctors are being treated like criminals. The treatment rates at Covid hospitals were fixed up unilaterally without discussing it with the doctors or the hospital bodies, whether they are affordable or not.  Because of these unaffordable rates the time has come that many private hospitals in the state are on the verge of closure on economic grounds,” according to Dr Bhonwde. “On one side the unaffordable rates have been forced on the doctors and on the other side doctors are being prosecuted by the sending auditors if there is any minor mistake in the bills prepared with the unaffordable rates. At the same time, ministers and leaders have continuously been proclaiming that the Doctors are robbing patients. Because of this unjust criticism the doctors in the state of Maharashtra are losing their self confidence,” the association noted. “The reason for the failure of the Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra state lies in the short-sighted, unscientific, inhumane and repressive practices of the administrators, who are fully responsible for controlling the epidemic in this fashion, by tyrannizing the doctors instead of  consulting a them. All the citizens know that the contribution of all the private hospitals in controlling the corona outbreak in Maharashtra is invaluable,” he added. The doctors’ body said that hospitals are finding it difficult to meet the cost of oxygen, PPE kits, biomedical waste charges, staff salaries, disinfection at the current rates set for hospital ICUs.“Therefore, out of 25000 hospitals in Maharashtra, it is time to close most of the hospitals. For this, the Health Minister had convened a meeting to increase the rates, and it was decided to hold a meeting with  IMA representatives, before August 31,  to discuss the hike. However, without holding such a meeting, the state health secretary issued a circular on August 31 to maintain the rates and add more items in it to make it more unaffordable. IMA Maharashtra State informed about this to the health ministers office  on September 1. The minister of Health was requested by IMA to hold a meeting in the next three days to discuss the rates, but to date the state government has not responded,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-doctors-threaten-to-go-into-self-quarantine-mode-884705.html
09-09-2020||National||PUBG Corp looks for Indian gaming partner: Report||Almost a week after the online mobile game PUBG was banned in the country, the South Korean maker is looking to tie up with an Indian firm to ensure survival in its biggest market. PUBG Corp on Tuesday cancelled the license to the Chinese firm Tencent Games to operate PUBG Mobile in India. The deal will have an Indian partner running the distribution side of the game, while PUBG Corp will hold the publishing rights. The app ban has caused severe economic damage to Tenecent, as industry experts claim PUBG Mobile made over $100 million in 2019 from in-app purchases in the country.  The mobile game joins the list of popular Chinese apps such as TikTok, Camscanner, Shein among others. The government's move to remove 118 Chinese apps came as retaliation against China in the wake of the border clashes at the Galwan Valley in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pubg-corp-looks-for-indian-gaming-partner-report-884718.html
09-09-2020||National||India reports 89,706 fresh Covid-19 cases; death toll rises to 73,890 with 1,115 fatalities||With 89,706 infections being reported in a day, India's Covid-19 tally went past 43 lakh, while 33,98,844 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 77.77 per cent on Wednesday, according to data shared by the Union Health Ministry. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 43,70,128, while the death toll rose to 73,890 with 1,115 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.69 per cent. There are 8,97,394 active cases of Covid-19, which is 20.53 per cent of the total caseload in the country, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, reached 30 lakh on August 23 and went past 40 lakh on September 5. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 5,18,04,677 samples have been tested up to September 8 with 11,54,549 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-89706-fresh-covid-19-cases-death-toll-rises-to-73890-with-1115-fatalities-884740.html
09-09-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Rhea Chakraborty sent to Byculla jail||Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty was sent to the Byculla women’s jail on Wednesday. The 28-year-old actor, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), was on Tuesday night remanded to judicial custody till 22 September. However, being evening hours, she could not be shifted to jail. On Wednesday morning, she was shifted to the Byculla jail from Exchange Building at Ballard Estate, the regional office of the NCB. Rhea’s bail was rejected by the Metropolitan Magistrate court, however, she is now expected to apply for bail and move the Mumbai city civil and sessions court. The 28-year-old Rhea was arrested after three days of grilling during which she was jointly interrogated and confronted with three other accused – her brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda and house help Dipesh Sawant. Rhea was booked under sections 8, 20, 27, 28, 29 of the Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. Showik, Samuel and Miranda  and two other accused  - alleged peddlers Abdel Basit Parihar and Zaid Vilatra will be produced before the magistrate’s court through video-conferencing on Wednesday noon on expiry of their remand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-rhea-chakraborty-sent-to-byculla-jail-884745.html
09-09-2020||National||Dr Reddy's launches Remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment in India||Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd on Wednesday announced the launch of Remdesivir, meant for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, under a brand name 'Redyx' in India. According to a press release from the drug maker, the launch is part of the licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) that grants Dr Reddys the right to register, manufacture and sell Remdesivir, a potential treatment for Covid-19, in 127 countries including India. Remdesivir is approved by Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for restricted emergency use in India for the treatment of Covid-19 patients hospitalized with severe symptoms. "Dr Reddy's Redyx is available in strength of 100 mg vial," it said. Chief Executive Officer of Branded Markets (India and Emerging Markets), Dr Reddy's Laboratories, M V Ramana said, "We will continue our efforts to develop products that address significant unmet needs of patients. The launch of Redyx reaffirms our commitment to bringing in critical medicine for patients suffering from Covid-19 in India."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-reddys-launches-remdesivir-for-covid-19-treatment-in-india-884748.html
09-09-2020||National||BMC starts demolition at Kangana's house; actor calls it 'death of democracy,' refers to Mumbai as Pakistan||Sending out a strong message,  the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has commenced demolition of illegal structure at Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's bungalow at Pali Hill at Bandra here. Responding to the demolition, Kangana tweeted images of the Mumbai police with captions referring to them as Babur and his army and calling Mumbai Pakistan and POK.   The face-off between Kangana Ranaut and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government took a new turn on Wednesday with the Mumbai civic body serving a demolition notice vis-à-vis illegal alteration that she has undertaken at her bungalow. The demolition was pasted at the gate of Bungalow No. 5, Chetak Row House located at the Nargis Dutt road at Pali Hill at Bandra. The bungalow also houses her office Manikarnika Films Pvt Ltd where illegal alterations have been carried out. The new development took place in Mumbai even as Kangana is on her way back to the city from her native in Himachal Pradesh. The ruling dispensation has taken unkindly to her comments describing Mumbai as a city being “addicted to blood” and equating India’s financial capital with “Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir”. The submission of Kangana's lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee  has been rejected by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. A BMC demolition squad has reached the Pali Hill bungalow. The notice pasted stated - "...work carried out by you  as mentioned in the notice schedule is declared as unauthorised. Further I am satisfied that you have not stopped work. Thereafter, the notice structure as mentioned in the schedule of the notice is liable for forthwith demolition at your risk, cost and consequences thereon." It further stated that she was liable for punishment. "Further note that under 475-A of Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, you shall be punished with  imprisonment for a terms which shall not be less than one month but which may extend to one year and with a fine which shall not be less than Rs 5,000 but which may extend to 25,000 and in case of continuing offence with further daily fine which may extend to Rs 500."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bmc-starts-demolition-at-kanganas-house-actor-calls-it-death-of-democracy-refers-to-mumbai-as-pakistan-884752.html
09-09-2020||National||Experts say Covid-19 vaccine for masses in India to be available only by end of 2021: Report||Even if the Covid-19 vaccine in India gets regulatory approval by the end of this year, experts believe that the vaccine will be available to everybody in the country only by the end of 2021.  “We will see readouts from the Phase-3 efficacy trials before the end of the year. And as soon as efficacy results are available, we will see these companies apply for Emergency Authorisation. So, if they get licence, and many companies are already manufacturing at risk, we may see doses available by 2021,” Kang told the publication. He added that even when it happens the supply will still be limited. There are several challenges involving the vaccination process including logistical problems of distribution, priority vaccination, and limited efficacy, all of which can defer the time for wide-spread availability of the vaccine.  Efficacy and supply continue to remain key challenges. Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said that there was no assurance over the longevity of the immunity. He said the company would monitor 70,000 trial participants for at least two years to assess the immunity and determine if people require revaccinations.   A recent report by logistics firm DHL and consulting company McKinsey stated that in the next two years, there would be a need of 2 lakh movements by pallet shippers on 15,000 flights to ensure global vaccination coverage. “Large parts of Africa, South America and Asia could not be readily supplied at scale due to lack of cold chain logistics capacity suitable for life science products. Governments and NGOs would need to implement special measures to ensure vaccine distribution,” the report said. World Health Organisation's COVAX initiative plans to procure vaccines from different sources and make them available to low- and middle-income countries. It also plans to vaccinate 20 per cent of countries by the end of 2021.  Meanwhile, the governments across the globe have begun to arrange vaccines for their respective countries by placing orders beforehand. Frontline and essential workers are likely to be first in line, followed by elderly persons. However, the aged and persons with other comorbidities will be on hold for the vaccine until there are definitive studies assuring safety. The rush for the vaccine has led to cutting down trial times thus, experts say, efficacy may be impacted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-say-covid-19-vaccine-for-masses-in-india-to-be-available-only-by-end-of-2021-report-884757.html
09-09-2020||National||HAL’s light utility helicopter completes hot and high altitude trials in Himalayas||The indigenously developed Light Utility Helicopter (LUH) demonstrated its high-altitude capabilities in hot and high weather conditions in the Himalayas recently for about 10 days, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) said on Wednesday. The company said that a comprehensive test plan was executed at Leh, which is 3,300 metres above mean sea level, in temperatures up to +320C (international standard atmosphere) which included envelope expansion, performance and flying qualities.   The helicopter took off from Leh and demonstrated its hot and high hover performance at the Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) Advanced Landing Ground (ALG), which is situated at an altitude of 5,000 metres above mean sea level. “The helicopter also demonstrated its payload capability in Siachen glacier high altitude.  During the trials, pilots landed the helicopter at the highest helipads of Amar and Sonam,” HAL said. R Madhavan, Chairman and Managing Director of HAL, said that the Army version of LUH is now ready for Initial Operational Clearance. According to Arup Chatterjee, Director (Engineering and R&D), HAL, the performance of the helicopter and its systems are satisfactory fulfilling the requirements of the users. The flights were carried out by a composite trial team comprising HAL pilots: Wing Commander (Retired) Unni Pillai, Wing Commander (Retired) Anil Bhambani, Group Captain (Retired) Pupinder Singh. Also involved were serving Indian Air Force pilots, Group Captain V Panwar, Group Captain R Dubey and Squadron Leader Joshi, plus Lt Colonels R Grewal and Pawan from the Indian Army). “Representatives from certification authority witnessed the trials,” HAL added. The Initial Operational Clearance for basic Light Utility Helicopter was accorded by CEMILAC for Indian Air Force variant on February 7, 2020 during DefExpo 2020 at Lucknow in the presence of Defence Minister and the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hal-s-light-utility-helicopter-completes-hot-and-high-altitude-trials-in-himalayas-884781.html
09-09-2020||National||SC refuses to consider plea against NEET UG on September 13||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to consider a fresh plea to postpone National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) Undergraduate, scheduled on September 13, for admission to medical colleges across the country. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said, "we are not inclined to entertain the petitions". The top court had earlier, on August 17, dismissed the plea for postponing the JEE Mains and NEET UG. The court had subsequently declined to review its order on a petition filed by six Cabinet ministers of Opposition-ruled states. Senior Advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for petitioner sought a direction to postpone the exams for three weeks, citing practical difficulty including flood and non-availability of trains in states like Bihar. Senior advocate KTS Tulsi, also for petitioner, referred to the rising number of Covid-19 cases. He referred to the Disaster Management Act and Article 21 of the Constitution to contend that the students would be put to high risk. The court, however, said only a few days were left for the examination and all arrangements would be made. It also pointed out that a review petition has already been dismissed. It also said the National Testing Agency would consider necessary precautions and safety of the students||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-against-neet-ug-on-september-13-884793.html
09-09-2020||National||All you need to know about Indian Railways's Clone Train Scheme||In what could bring relief to passengers with waitlist tickets, the Indian Railways is planning to run special 'clone trains' in routes with high passenger traffic.  At a media briefing, Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman of Railway Board, while talking about various steps taken by Indian Railways amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, said that the trains that are currently in operation are being monitored to determine which ones generally have a longer waitlist. "Wherever there is a demand for a particular train, wherever the waiting list is long, we will run a clone train ahead of the actual train so that passengers can travel," he added. According to multiple reports, the ‘clone trains’ will begin plying in a phased manner in the next 15 days and the Indian Railways will be issuing a notification about it soon. Here is everything you need to know about the Clone Train Scheme: 1. Although an alternative, a clone train will run with the same train number as the actual train. When a train gets fully booked and has a significant number of waitlisted passengers, the Indian Railways will run another train.  2. A clone train will be operated only if there is a large number of passengers on the waiting list of the particular train. 3. Only passengers with valid waitlisted tickets will be accommodated in the clone trains. 4. A clone train will not stop at all halts of the original train. However, it will halt at key stations. 5. After the reservation charts for the original train is put up, the waitlisted passengers will be informed about their allocated births in the clone train. It should be noted that the Clone Train Scheme is similar to the ‘Vikalp Scheme’ under which passengers with waitlisted tickets, when opted for, are accommodated in another train along the same route. At present, the Railways is operating 230 special trains connecting major cities across the country. There is a huge demand for tickets in some of these trains as economic activities are picking up in several parts of the country. V K Yadav said that of the 230 trains that are currently being operated, the ones that are running on reverse routes of the Shramik Specials have 80-85 per cent occupancy, indicating that migrant workers were returning to their workplaces. The Railways had on last Thursday said it has met all the existing demand of states for Shramik Special trains to ferry stranded migrant workers home, with the last service being operated on July 9. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-indian-railwayss-clone-train-scheme-884795.html
09-09-2020||National||Bombay HC orders stay on demolition of Kangana Ranaut's house||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the BMC to stay the demolition work at Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut’s illegal office at her bungalow in Pali Hill in Bandra after the actor approached the court challenging BMC's notice. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had on Wednesday begun demolition of "illegal alterations" at the Bandra bungalow of Ranaut. Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui had challenged the BMC notice earlier in the morning before the High Court contending that there are no illegalities in the office.  Ranaut's recent remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan- occupied-Kashmir (PoK) has drawn the ire of the ruling Shiv Sena which also controls the BMC. The BMC on Tuesday pasted a stop-work notice at the actor's bungalow at Pali Hill in suburban Bandra. "The stop work notice is illegal. In fact, there was no work going on the work of completed one-and-a-half years ago," Siddiqui said. The civic body claimed that during regular inspection it found several illegal constructions and modifications have been carried out without taking necessary approvals from the civic body. The Bombay High Court has directed the BMC to file its reply to Ranaut’s plea challenging the demolition order by 3 pm on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-orders-stay-on-demolition-of-kangana-ranauts-house-884803.html
09-09-2020||National||Manmohan Singh, P V Narasimha Rao deserve Bharat Ratna, says M Veerappa Moily||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh deserves to get Bharat Ratna award, along with P V Narasimha Rao, veteran Congress leader M Veerappa Moily advocated on Wednesday. The Telangana Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution urging the Centre to confer the country's highest civilian honour on Rao posthumously on the occasion of his ongoing birth centenary celebrations. Speaking to PTI, Moily, a former Union Minister, said Rao richly deserves the award but added that Singh's contribution on the economic front was equally important. "When he (Rao) took over (as PM), the (country's) economy was in a shambles and the country was in a bad shape. He (Rao) along with Manmohan Singh saw to it that the economy recovered," he said. "This credit should go to both Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh. It's more appropriate that both of them are awarded Bharat Ratna," the former Karnataka Chief Minister said. Moily recalled that Singh had served as the Finance Minister in Rao's Cabinet. Moreover, he said, Singh is regarded as one of the "most eminent" economists in the world, not just in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singh-p-v-narasimha-rao-deserve-bharat-ratna-says-m-veerappa-moily-884804.html
09-09-2020||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on plea for opening places of worship||The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to explore possibility of opening all places of worship across country which have remained closed due to Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to the Ministry of Home Affairs, seeking its response on the petition filed by Ahmedabad-based 'Gitarth Ganga Trust'.  The trust, a religious research institute, through lawyer Surjendu Sankar Das, said the petition has been filed with the "solemn and pious objective to protect the fundamental rights enshrined and guaranteed under the Articles 14, 19(1)(a) and (b), 25, 26 and 21, in particular, of the residents of India pertaining to opening of the places of worship and religious places".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-plea-for-opening-places-of-worship-884812.html
09-09-2020||National||Delimitation Commission compiles data without interacting with people of Jammu and Kashmir||The Delimitation Commission set up by the Central government to redraw parliamentary and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir has completed data collection process even as it has yet to visit the Union Territory to interact with people. Officials said the Commission has completed data collection and it is preparing a framework to carve out assembly constituencies on the basis of the 2011 census. The government had on March 6 constituted the Commission, to be headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai, to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir and the northeastern states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Nagaland. BJP General Secretary (Organisation) Ashok Koul said the Commission will increase the assembly seats. “After completing its report, it will visit J&K to seek views of political parties and people,” he said and added by the end of December, the Commission may complete its exercise and submit the report. However, the opposition parties in J&K have questioned the credibility of the data collection. “Nothing is known about the Delimitation Commission on the ground. The Commission may be doing some paperwork on its own, but it is not in the public domain,” J&K Congress chief spokesperson, Ravinder Sharma, said. He said that any such exercise should be conducted by taking into confidence the mainstream political parties of J&K. Senior leader of the regional National Conference, Ali Mohammed Sagar said the party has disassociated itself from the delimitation process. “However, we want that delimitation should be conducted with the participation of representatives of the people and people themselves,” he demanded. The erstwhile state of J&K had 87 seats in the assembly and six in Parliament, which got reduced to 83 and five, respectively, after it was bifurcated to make Ladakh a separate UT. So effectively, the seats will go up from 83 to 90 for J&K. People and politicians in Kashmir view the exercise as a move to tilt the balance of power towards Jammu, by increasing the assembly seats in Jammu. However, in Jammu it is being regarded as a move correcting Kashmir’s historical ‘dominance’ over Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delimitation-commission-compiles-data-without-interacting-with-people-of-jammu-and-kashmir-884817.html
09-09-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty's brother, Miranda sent to 14-day judicial custody||Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty's Showik Chakraborty, Sushant Singh Rajput's house owner Samuel Miranda, and drug peddlers, Zaid Vilatra and Basit Parihar, have been sent to 14-day judicial custody in the actor's death case.  Earlier today, the 28-year-old actor Rhea was sent to the Byculla women’s jail. She was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday. Rhea has been remanded to judicial custody till September 22. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakrabortys-brother-miranda-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-884818.html
09-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recoveries near 34-lakh mark||The number of people recovered from Covid-19 in India has surged to 33,98,844, further improving the recovery rate to 77.77 per cent, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.69 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said Wednesday. It also said five states have contributed 61 per cent of the total active cases. A record 74,894 patients recovered from Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The total number of recoveries on a weekly basis has increased from 1,53,118 during the third week of July to 4,84,068 in the first week of September, the ministry said. A total of 89,706 new cases have been reported in a span of 24 hours, of which Maharashtra has contributed more than 20,000 and Andhra Pradesh more than 10,000 cases. Nearly 60 per cent of the new cases are reported from only five states, it said. There are 8,97,394 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.53 per cent of the total caseload, it said. Maharashtra is leading this tally with more than 2,40,000 active cases whereas Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh follow with more than 96,000 each. "Five states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu — contribute 61 per cent of the total active cases of coronavirus infection," the ministry said. A total of 1,115 deaths have been registered in a day. Maharashtra has reported 380 deaths followed by Karnataka with 146 deaths, whereas Tamil Nadu has logged 87 deaths, it said. With 89,706 infections being reported in a day, India's Covid-19 tally of cases mounted to 43,70,128, while the death toll rose to 73,890 with 1,115 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recoveries-near-34-lakh-mark-884833.html
09-09-2020||National||S Jaishankar meets Kyrgyz counterpart on sidelines of SCO meeting||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday said he held a fruitful interaction with his Kyrgyz counterpart Chingiz Aidarbekov here on the sidelines of the SCO meeting during which they agreed to further enhance their strategic partnership in all spheres. Jaishankar arrived here on Tuesday on a four-day visit to Russia to attend a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) "A fruitful meeting with FM Chingiz Aidarbekov of Kyrgyz Republic on SCO sidelines," Jaishankar tweeted. The two leaders discussed issues of bilateral and regional interest. "Agreed to further enhance our strategic partnership in all spheres," Jaishankar wrote. Jaishankar thanked Aidarbekov for the support in facilitating the return of Indian nationals from the Central Asian country. About 4,500 Indian students are studying medicine in various medical institutions in Kyrgyzstan. A few businessmen are engaged in trade and services in Kyrgyzstan, according to the Indian Embassy in Bishkek.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-meets-kyrgyz-counterpart-on-sidelines-of-sco-meeting-884842.html
09-09-2020||National||Undue importance being given to Kangana's remarks: Pawar||Undue importance is being attached to the statements made by Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Wednesday without naming her. He said people are not taking her remarks seriously. The former Union minister also said that he does not take seriously the threat calls he received earlier this week. Ranaut waded into controversy after she recently likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and said she feared the city Police more than the "movie mafia". "We are giving undue importance to those making such statements. We will have to see what influence such statements have on the people at large," Pawar told reporters. "In my opinion, people do not take seriously (such statements)," the veteran leader said. Pawar said the people of Maharashtra and Mumbai have "years of experience" of how the state and city's police work. "They (people) know the performance of the police. And hence, we need not pay heed to what one says," he added. Asked about the threat calls he received, Pawar said, "I have just been given the record of threat calls I received and from where those were made. "I have received calls in the past too. We don't take it seriously," the leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/undue-importance-being-given-to-kanganas-remarks-pawar-884846.html
09-09-2020||National||PM Modi to launch flagship fisheries scheme, app for farmers on September 10||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will digitally launch the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) on Thursday and also inaugurate the e-Gopala App, a comprehensive breed improvement marketplace and information portal for the direct use of farmers.  In a statement on Wednesday, the Prime Minister's Office said that Modi will also launch several other initiatives in the fisheries and animal husbandry sectors in Bihar, a state which is heading for the assembly polls in October-November.  The PMMSY is a flagship scheme for focused and sustainable development of fisheries sector in the country with an estimated investment of Rs. 20,050 crore for its implementation during 2020-21 to 2024-25 as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package.  The investment of Rs. 20,050 crore under PMMSY is the highest ever in the fisheries sector, the PMO said.  The project in Bihar envisages investment of Rs 1,390 crore with the central share of Rs 535 crore and the additional fish production target pegged at three lakh tons.  During the current fiscal, the Union government has sanctioned Bihar's proposal costing Rs 107 crore. Modi will also announce the establishment of a fish brood bank at Sitamarhi and of aquatic disease referral laboratory at Kishanganj, for which assistance has been provided under the PMMSY. "These facilities will help in enhancing production and productivity of fish by ensuring timely availability of quality and affordable fish seed for the fish farmers and address the need for disease diagnosis as well as water and soil testing facilities," the statement said.  The e-Gopala app, it added, is a comprehensive breed improvement marketplace and information portal for direct use of farmers. At present no digital platform is available in the country for farmers managing livestock including buying and selling of disease-free germplasm in all forms, availability of quality breeding services and guiding farmers for animal nutrition, treatment of animals using appropriate medicine.  There is no mechanism to send alerts on due date for vaccination, pregnancy diagnosis and calving among other issues and inform farmers about various government schemes and campaigns in the area.  The e-Gopala app will provide solutions to farmers on all these aspects, the PMO said.  The prime minister will also inaugurate a one-unit fish feed mill at Madhepura and two units of 'Fish on Wheels' assisted at Patna under 'blue revolution'. He will also interact with the beneficiaries on the occasion. Among other launches by Modi is the comprehensive fish production technology centre at Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University in Pusa in Bihar.  The centre, with facilities for seed production technology and demonstration unit technology for fish, referral laboratory and diagnostic testing, will facilitate in boosting fish production and assist in capacity building of fish farmers, the PMO said. The PMMSY aims at enhancing fish production by an additional 70 lakh tonne by 2024-25, increasing fisheries export earnings to Rs 1,00,000 crore by 2024-25, doubling of incomes of fishers and fish farmers, reducing post-harvest losses from 20-25 per cent to about 10 per cent and generation of additional 55 lakhs direct and indirect gainful employment opportunities in fisheries sector and allied activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-flagship-fisheries-scheme-app-for-farmers-on-september-10-884866.html
09-09-2020||National||Supreme Court asks Centre to clarify if refund will be given for tickets booked for air travel during lockdown||The Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that an air travel ticket booked during the Covid-19 lockdown would be refunded irrespective of the fact when it was booked. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah, that suppose a ticket was booked on March 15, that is before the lockdown period, then also full refund would be given.  However, he said that he would file an additional affidavit clarifying the position in this regard. The court gave him one week's time for the purpose. It also asked the airlines to respond to the proposal given by the Union government and the DGCA on refund of tickets during the flights cancelled due to the lockdown. The response from Mehta came after senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said that relief should not be limited to people who had booked a ticket during the first lockdown period. He said many people had booked tickets earlier but the flights were cancelled so relief should be irrespective of the date of booking and should not be limited to the lockdown period.  The airlines, for their part, agreed to the refund proposal earlier made by the Centre, giving outer limit of March 2021. The court put the PIL filed by NGO Pravasi Legal Cell for consideration on September 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-clarify-if-refund-will-be-given-for-tickets-booked-for-air-travel-during-lockdown-884868.html
09-09-2020||National||NGT seeks govt response on plea challenging notification on mining lease for Environment Clearance||The National Green Tribunal has directed the environment ministry to file response on a plea challenging a government notification exempting mining leases from requirement of environmental clearance (EC) for two years. A bench comprising NGT Chairperson Justice and Justice S P Wangdi asked the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to furnish its response within one month by e-mail. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Kerala activist Noble M Paikada challenging the March 28 notification which amended the 2006 laws on the need for an EC before undertaking a project impacting environment.  “The amendment exempts mining leases from requirement of EC for two years, apart from exempting, inter-alia, extraction of earth for linear projects such as roads, pipelines, etc,” the plea said. The counsel for the applicant argued that the EC requirement for mining leases has been laid down by the Supreme Court and that cannot be exempted.  With regard to the exemption to extraction of earth for linear projects, the lawyer submitted that there is condition for exemption nor there is any limit to the extent of such extraction. Blanket exemption will be against the 'Sustainable Development' concept, including the 'Precautionary' principle required to be enforced by this Tribunal under Section 20 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010, he said. The apex court in July had dismissed a plea by an NGO challenging the notification saying that development will come to standstill if mining of ordinary earth also needs an EC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-seeks-govt-response-on-plea-challenging-notification-on-mining-lease-for-environment-clearance-884869.html
09-09-2020||National||Covid-19: India's cumulative testing crosses 5.18 crore; recoveries near 34 lakh||Over 11.54 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours taking India's cumulative tests to over 5.18 crore so far, while during the same period nearly 75,000 people have recuperated from the disease taking the total number of recoveries to 33,98,844 in the country, the Centre said on Wednesday.  Timely diagnosis through higher levels of countrywide testing has furnished valuable opportunities to isolate or hospitalize the positive cases adequately in advance for appropriate treatment. This in turn has facilitated lower mortality rates (1.69 per cent as on date) and speedy recovery, the Union Health Ministry underlined. "India is one of the few countries that have reported very high numbers of daily testing. The daily testing capacity has already crossed 11 lakh," it highlighted. With 11,54,549 tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours on Tuesday, India's cumulative tests have reached 5,18,04,677. Expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country through various calibrated measures have given a substantial boost. Building on this achievement, the Tests Per Million (TPM) have seen a sharp increase to 37,539, the ministry said.  "It continues to maintain the constant upward trend," it underscored. From one testing lab in Pune in January, the country presently stands strengthened with 1,678 labs including 1,040 labs in the government sector and 638 private labs.  With 89,706 infections being reported in a day, India's Covid-19 tally of cases  mounted to 43,70,128, while the death toll rose  to 73,890 with 1,115 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indias-cumulative-testing-crosses-518-crore-recoveries-near-34-lakh-884870.html
09-09-2020||National||SC to examine if animal kingdom can be legal entity||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that it is very unlikely that the entire animal kingdom can be declared as a legal entity with a right to sue and be sued. A bench, presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, however, agreed to examine a plea to declare the entire animal kingdom as legal entity. "What exactly do you want? You want animals to have right to sue and be sued? Do you want them to be given legal personality," the bench asked a counsel, who claimed animals are akin to humans. He said the situation of animals needs to be elevated beyond property as they were being tortured. "But they are not equal to human beings. Is your dog equal to you?" the bench asked him. The counsel then pointed out religious texts stated that they are equal to human beings, just lower in strata in evolution. They have feelings and intentions. "So, let's make trees also legal entities," the bench further asked. The counsel said the situation in the country was bad. They are being hurt. "You are talking about an increase in liability. We understand humans should be punished for hurting animals but we are on the legal entity argument," the bench asked. The court finally agreed to examine the matter and issued notice to the Union government. The petition filed through advocate Shashwat Anand wanted entire animal kingdom, including avian and aquatic species, to be declared as legal entities with distinct person and corresponding rights of a living person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-examine-if-animal-kingdom-can-be-legal-entity-884874.html
09-09-2020||National||South India's first Kisan Rail flags off from Anantapur||South India's first Kisan Rail from Anantapur to Delhi, carrying 322 tonnes of fresh farm produce, flagged off on Wednesday. Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy flagged off the inaugural Kisan Rail, the second in the country, via a video link from New Delhi and Amaravati. Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi also joined the event. The newly introduced train started from Anantapur Railway Station in Andhra Pradesh and will reach Adarsh Nagar Station, New Delhi. The inaugural train loaded with tomato, bananas, sweet orange, papaya, muskmelons and mangoes grown in Anantapuram district. The train provides fast transport connectivity between Anantapur to New Delhi with the distance of 2150 Km being covered in approximately 40 hours, the railways said in a statement. Anantapur is fast becoming the fruit bowl of Andhra Pradesh. More than 80% of the 58 lakh tonne of fruits and vegetables in the district is marketed out of the state, particularly to the north Indian states including  Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana. Earlier this was being transported by road transport. The Kisan Rail is planned to be run once a week now but as harvesting picks up after October, the frequency may be increased based on the demand. The country's first Kisan Special Parcel Train carrying fruits and vegetables between  Devlali near Nasik to Danapur near Patna last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south-indias-first-kisan-rail-flags-off-from-anantapur-884881.html
09-09-2020||National||NIA charge sheets 9 in Fake Indian Currency Notes case of Chhattisgarh||The NIA has filed a supplementary charge sheet naming nine persons in a Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) case of Chhattisgarh, an official said. The charge sheet was filed before an NIA court in Bilaspur on Tuesday. The case pertains to the seizure of FICNs with a face value of Rs 7,39,300 from the possession of seven persons -- Devendra Chandra, Manoj Sahu, Rohit Bhardwaz, Gyandas Kurre, Dilip Kumar Mahilange, Doman Miri and Nohar Sinha, all residents of Chhattisgarh. The state police filed a charge sheet on September 16 last year against the seven accused under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Subsequently, the NIA re-registered the case on August 9 last year and during the investigation, two more persons Hemlal Sahu and Sewak Ram were arrested. Kurre was the mastermind in counterfeiting Indian currency notes and government stamp papers and involved Mahilange and Miri. The three started making FICNs with the help of computer desktops and coloured printer/scanner, the NIA official said. Kurre also influenced Baghel and Bharadwaj and involved them in the printing and circulation of FICNs, he said. Sahu and Chandra came in contact with Kurre and were involved in the circulation of the counterfeit currency, the official said. Later, Hemlal and Sinha were lured into the circulation of FICNs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-charge-sheets-9-in-fake-indian-currency-notes-case-of-chhattisgarh-884893.html
09-09-2020||National||4 Maoists killed in gunfight with forces in Odisha's Kalahandi||Four Maoists were killed in a gunfight with the security forces in Odisha's Kalahandi district on Wednesday, a senior officer said. The exchange of fire, in which a jawan of the Odisha Police's Special Operations Group (SOG) was also injured, took place in the Bhandarangi Sirki forest area on the Kalahandi- Kandhamal border, he said. In the exchange of fire, four Maoists have been neutralised and a SOG jawan is injured. The injured jawan is being evacuated for treatment, the officer engaged in anti- Maoist operations said. Acting on an intelligence input, the SOG along with the District Voluntary Force (DVF) launched the operation on Tuesday, he said. Two composite teams of the SOG and DVF were part of the operation, he added. The exchange of fire took place around 11 am on Wednesday, the officer said. The gunfight lasted for about half an hour, he said, adding that more teams of SOG, DVF and CRPF have been rushed to the area for combing and search operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-maoists-killed-in-gunfight-with-forces-in-odishas-kalahandi-884898.html
09-09-2020||National||Indian and Chinese troops man remote Himalayan outposts just hundreds of metres apart||Indian and Chinese troops were facing off on Wednesday, barely a few hundred metres apart, in a remote Himalayan region where shots were fired for the first time in decades, Indian officials said. The nuclear-armed neighbours have accused each other of firing in the air during a fresh flare-up in the Ladakh region on Monday, violating long-standing protocols to avoid using firearms along their undemarcated borders. "The situation is tense," an official in New Delhi said, adding that Indian and Chinese troops were squaring off in close proximity in at least four locations south of the Pangong Tso lake that both lay claim to. "Both are on their own sides of the LAC," the official said, referring to the Line of Actual Control, the de facto border. At a forward position near the Rezang La mountain pass, Indian and Chinese troops were only around 200 metres apart, another official in New Delhi said. Both officials declined to be named. On Monday, the Indian military said Chinese troops fired in the air after attempting to close in on a forward Indian position. But the China military said it was Indian troops who fired the shots, threatening Chinese border guards during a patrol. In photographs provided by sources in New Delhi from an area south of Pangong Tso taken on Monday, around two dozen Chinese troops with assault rifles hanging off their backs can be seen holding long poles with a curved blade. Reuters could not independently verify the photographs. A 70-km long patch of desolate snow desert south of Pangong Tso has emerged as the latest flash-point between the Asian giants, with some 3,000 Indian troops strung along strategic ridges and hilltops, the first Indian official said. The confrontation erupted after New Delhi mobilised soldiers late last month to occupy key heights to deter Chinese troops, whose movements suggested they aimed to occupy a hilltop that falls within the territory that India considers its own, according to Indian officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-and-chinese-troops-man-remote-himalayan-outposts-just-hundreds-of-metres-apart-884923.html
09-09-2020||National||India-China tension: All eyes on Jaishankar-Wang meeting in Moscow||With Indian and Chinese soldiers locked in an intense stand-off in eastern Ladakh, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart from China, Wang Yi, are likely to meet in Moscow on Thursday and make another attempt to defuse tension along the disputed boundary between the two nations. Jaishankar and Wang are expected to hold a bilateral meeting on the side-line of a Foreign Ministers' conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Moscow. They will also have a separate luncheon with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who has been overseeing Moscow’s discreet diplomacy with New Delhi and Beijing to help resolve the military stand-off. The External Affairs Minister already had a bilateral meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister on Wednesday and briefed him about the latest situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two nations. Jaishankar is expected to convey to Wang on Thursday that escalation of tension on the banks of Pangong Tso (lake) over the past few days had underlined the grave risk that Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) poses to the future of overall relations between the two nations by not adhering to the understand it had reached with the Indian Army a couple of months back for the phased withdrawal of front-line troops from face-off points, a source in New Delhi told the DH. He is likely to drive home the point during his discussion with the Chinese Foreign Minister that restoration of peace and tranquillity along the LAC is a pre-requisite for any attempt to bring bilateral relations between the two countries back on track. He is also expected to insist on strict adherence to the agreements and protocols the two nations had inked in the past to maintain peace in the border region.        New Delhi is keen to send across the message to Beijing that business cannot be as usual between India and China unless the PLA withdraws its troops to restore the status quo ante along the disputed boundary between the two nations and refrains from making further unilateral moves to push the LAC westwards. During the meeting, Jaishankar is likely to assisted by Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Naveen Upadhyay, who has been coordinating New Delhi’s diplomatic engagement with Beijing to resolve the stand-off ever since it started in early May. The diplomats of India and China were in touch on Tuesday and Wednesday to set the stage for the meeting between the Ministers on Thursday. The talks between Jaishankar and Wang is going to be the second high-level engagement between India and China in less than a week. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had a bilateral meeting with his Chinese counterpart on the side-line of another SCO meet in Moscow last Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-tension-all-eyes-on-jaishankar-wang-meeting-in-moscow-884930.html
09-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Bombay High Court stays Kangana Ranaut's office demolition||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Bombay HC asks BMC to stay demolition work at Kangana Ranaut’s office’ Rahul Gandhi says that lockdown was not an attack on coronavirus but on the poor people and proved to be a "death sentence" for the unorganised sector as it "finished" jobs and small businesses and AstraZeneca pauses global trials of its experimental coronavirus vaccine.    Here are the top news of today, Wednesday: September 09, 2020:   Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the lockdown was not an attack on coronavirus but on the poor people and proved to be a "death sentence" for the unorganised sector as it "finished" jobs and small businesses. Everyone should stand against the attack, he said. "The lockdown was not an attack on corona. The lockdown was an attack on the poor of India. It was an attack on the future of our youth," Gandhi said in a video series on the lockdown triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. "The lockdown was an attack on labourers, farmers and small shopkeepers. It was an attack on our unorganised sector. We have to understand this. We all have to stand against this attack," he said. "Whatever was done in the name of Corona was the third attack on the unorganised sector," he also said. This is the fourth part of the video series launched by the former Congress president on the economy and the lockdown.   US President Donald Trump has been nominated for the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize, according to reports. A member of the Norwegian Parliament, Christian Tybring-Gjedde submitted the nomination, praising Trump's efforts in resolving conflicts globally.   Public sector banks should learn from FMCG players and "democratize credit", a move that can help state-run banks solve the "biggest fiscal challenge" of recapitalisation, former RBI deputy governor Viral Acharya said on Wednesday. Acharya further said that re-privatisation of the lenders is necessary to help reduce the recapitalisation burden, and stressed that public sector banks (PSBs) have had a mixed performance on the stated goals of financial inclusion as well. Banks were nationalised in 1969 and depend on the government for capital support, which has gone up in recent times with the spurt in non-performing assets (NPAs). In the present times, as Covid-19 is likely to have an impact on buffers, many of the private sector banks have already raised capital but most of the PSBs are yet to move on and there is speculation of re-privatising some of the PSBs.   AstraZeneca has paused global trials of its experimental coronavirus vaccine after an unexplained illness in a participant, denting the British drugmaker's shares on Wednesday as the move was seen as dimming prospects for an early rollout. On Tuesday, AstraZeneca said it voluntarily paused trials, including late-stage ones, to allow an independent committee to review safety data, and it was working to expedite the review to minimise any potential impact on the trial timeline. The vaccine, which AstraZeneca is developing with the University of Oxford, has been described by the World Health Organization (WHO) as probably the world's leading candidate and the most advanced in terms of development. Britain's medical regulator said on Wednesday it is urgently reviewing the information available to determine whether AstraZeneca can restart trials of its experimental coronavirus vaccine after an unexplained illness in a participant.   The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the BMC to stay the demolition work at Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut’s office at her bungalow in Pali Hill in Bandra after the actor approached the court challenging BMC's notice. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had on Wednesday begun demolition of "illegal alterations" at the Bandra bungalow of Ranaut. Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui had challenged the BMC notice earlier in the morning before the High Court contending that there are no illegalities in the office.  Ranaut's recent remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan- occupied-Kashmir (PoK) has drawn the ire of the ruling Shiv Sena which also controls the BMC.   The BMC on Tuesday pasted a stop-work notice at the actor's bungalow at Pali Hill in suburban Bandra. "The stop-work notice is illegal. In fact, there was no work going on the work of completed one-and-a-half years ago," Siddiqui said. The civic body claimed that during the regular inspection it found several illegal constructions and modifications have been carried out without taking necessary approvals from the civic body. The Bombay High Court has directed the BMC to file its reply to Ranaut’s plea challenging the demolition order by 3 pm on Thursday.   Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bombay-high-court-stays-kangana-ranauts-office-demolition-884933.html
09-09-2020||National||Govt releases over Rs 10,000 crore to expedite highways work||To expedite the highway construction during coronavirus pandemic, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has released Rs 10,000 crore to developers for past few months. "A sum of Rs 10,339 crore has been released by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) during the Covid-19 period under the simplified payment process as envisaged in the ambitious atmanirbhar Bharat scheme. Another sum of Rs 2,475 crore is being processed and is likely to be released soon," the Ministry said in a statement. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has simplified the payment process under the atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, and contractors'' payments are being made every month instead of milestone achievement basis. Besides, the government has also extended a number of relief packages for its contractors and concessionaires owing to the Covid-19 scenario. "Retention money (which is a part of the performance security till construction period) is being released in proportion to the work already executed in accordance with the Contract specification, and retention money for up to six months'' period is not deducted from the bills raised by the Contractor," the statement said. For HAM (hybrid, annuity mode)/ BOT (build, operate, transfer) contracts, performance guarantee is released on pro-rata basis, it said, adding out of total 1,253 applications under 1,155 projects for this relief, Rs 3,527 crore has been released, while over Rs 189 crore is under process. The extension is being given to contractors/concessionaires for meeting their obligation under the contract for up to six months, depending on site conditions. Direct payment is being made to approved sub-contractor through an escrow account, it said, adding out of total 21 applications under 19 projects for this relief, Rs 241 crore has been released, while over Rs 27 crore is under process. For loss in collection of the user fee, the concession period is extended in accordance with the contract till the time daily collection is below 90 per cent of the average daily fee, the ministry noted. For all National Highway Tolling Contracts, loss in collection of a fee (remittances) is compensated in accordance with the contract, it added. The Ministry has also undertaken settling of contractors issues, including dues, through arbitration, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-releases-over-rs-10000-crore-to-expedite-highways-work-884943.html
09-09-2020||National||'BMC lying about illegal construction at Kangana's bungalow'||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's lawyer on Wednesday alleged that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which demolished part of her Bandra bungalow earlier in the day, was lying about illegal construction there. Amid a raging row over Ranaut's remarks about Mumbai police, the Shiv Sena-controlled BMC on Wednesday started demolishing "illegal alterations" at her Bandra bungalow. However, the Bombay High Court later stayed the demolition process and sought to know how the civic body entered the property when the owner was not present. Talking to reporters outside the actor's office after the stay order, her lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui said, "The BMC is lying. It's lying on record (about illegal construction at the bungalow). They said they have given stop-work notice. But such notice is given when the construction process is underway." "There is no construction going on at the place. It was over about one-and-a-half years ago," he added. Siddiqui said that even as the BMC officials were told that they have moved the Bombay High Court against the demolition, the civic authorities did not stop the process. "They rejected our reply at 10.19 am. Immediately, we moved the court (HC) and served the copies (of the plea) to BMC office as well the official present on the spot," the lawyer said. "I also told them that the matter is in court. Despite that, they didn't stop the demolition. The work stopped only after the HC gave a stay on it," he added. Ranaut's recent remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan- occupied-Kashmir (PoK) has drawn the ire of the ruling Shiv Sena, which also controls the BMC. The 33-year-old actor has alleged that the Maharashtra government is targeting her because of her fight with the Shiv Sena. The BMC on Tuesday pasted a stop-work notice at the actor's bungalow. The civic body said that during the regular inspection it found several illegal constructions and modifications, which it claimed were carried out without necessary approvals from it||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bmc-lying-about-illegal-construction-at-kanganas-bungalow-884957.html
09-09-2020||National||France joins India, Australia in Indo-Pacific amid growing belligerence of China||India, Australia and France on Wednesday launched a new trilateral dialogue, signalling strategic convergence in Indo-Pacific region amid growing belligerence of China. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had a video conference with his French and Australian counterparts, François Delattre and Frances Adamson, and discussed ways for “enhancing cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region”. France has for the first time joined a plurilateral initiative in Indo-Pacific. India, Australia, Japan and the United States have already been working for strategic convergences in the region within the framework of the ‘Quad’ – a coalition of the four democratic nations relaunched in November 2017 to counter expansionist aspirations of China. Shringla, Adamson and Delattre discussed economic and geostrategic challenges and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, according to similar press-releases issued in New Delhi, Canberra and Paris after the video conference. They also touched upon the Covid-19 outbreak and exchanged experiences on domestic responses to the pandemic. The move comes amid growing belligerence of China, not only along its disputed boundary with India but elsewhere in Indo-Pacific too: the South China Sea, the East China Sea and Taiwan Strait. The video conference was held “with the objective of building on the strong bilateral relations that the three countries share with each other and synergising their respective strengths to ensure a peaceful, secure, prosperous and rules-based Indo-Pacific region”. The three nations also agreed to hold the trilateral dialogue once in every year. The top diplomats of India, France and Australia on Wednesday discussed “cooperation on marine global commons and potential areas for practical cooperation at the trilateral and regional level”, including through regional organisations such as Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), Indian Ocean Regional Association (IORA) and the Indian Ocean Commission (IOC). They had an exchange on “the priorities, challenges and trends in regional and global multilateral institutions, including the best ways to strengthen and reform multilateralism”. France has substantial geopolitical interests in western Indian Ocean and southern Pacific, with a large number of its military personnel deployed in the region. The French Government has territorial control over Réunion and Mayotte islands in the Indian Ocean and New Caledonia and French Polynesia in the Pacific. While over 60% of France’s Exclusive Economic Zone is in the Pacific, over 20% is in the Indian Ocean. Djibouti on the Horn of Africa has a base of the French Army. Though the US has been trying to expand the “Quad” into a “Quad Plus” by roping in other democratic nations to contain China, France has so far been an outlier – reluctant to join any plurilateral initiative in the Indo-Pacific, ostensibly to avoid making its strategy for the region look overtly adversarial to China. It, however, now finally moved to join India and Australia for a trilateral dialogue, building on its bilateral strategic partnerships with both the nations. India of late quietly added a military heft to the Quad by inking an agreement on Mutual Logistics Support Arrangement (MLSA) with Australia. The agreement is intended to open up the military bases of India and Australia for each other’s army, navy and air forces. India is also likely to sign a similar agreement with Japan. It had already signed the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) with the US in August 2016. The Prime Ministers of Japan and Australia, Shinzo Abe and Scott Morrison, too recently agreed to expand military cooperation among the Quad nations to counter China’s expansionist moves in Indo-Pacific.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/france-joins-india-australia-in-indo-pacific-amid-growing-belligerence-of-china-884965.html
09-09-2020||National||India's trials of Covid-19 vaccine going on: Serum Institute||Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday said it is continuing with the trials of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India. The statement came after AstraZeneca announced that late-stage studies of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by the Oxford University are on temporary hold as a UK participant had an adverse reaction to it. SII has entered into a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce and supply 1 billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. It is doing the clinical trials of the potential vaccine in India. Commenting on the recent reports on AstraZeneca halting the trials in the UK, SII said in a statement: "We can't comment much on the UK trials, but they have been paused for further review and they hope to restart soon." It further said: "As far as Indian trials are concerned, it is continuing and we have faced no issues at all". Last month, the Drug Controller General of India had granted permission to the Pune-based SII to conduct Phase-II and -III human clinical trials of the coronavirus vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-going-on-serum-institute-884968.html
09-09-2020||National||Unclaimed suitcase creates bomb scare in Poonch||An unclaimed suitcase on the roadside in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir created a bomb scare on Wednesday, prompting the Army to rush in a special squad to examine the object, police said. However, no explosive was detected in the suitcase, which, it was later found, belonged to a soldier and contained his clothes and daily use items, a police official said. He said some locals noticed the "abandoned" suitcase on the roadside near Bhimber Gali main chowk and immediately informed the police and the Army. Police immediately cordoned off the area and diverted the traffic, the official said, adding the Army’s bomb disposal squad found no explosive material in it on inspection. Later, a soldier approached the army team on the spot and claimed the suitcase, the police said, but could not share other details such as how the army man missed his suitcase there and if he was on leave or on duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unclaimed-suitcase-creates-bomb-scare-in-poonch-884997.html
09-09-2020||National||Maliwal demands chargesheets in 3 days, capital punishment for rapists of minor & 86-yr-old||Delhi Commission For Women chief Swati Maliwal on Wednesday wrote to LG Anil Baijal to ensure that the police file charge sheets in the rape cases of a 12-year-old girl and an 86-year-old woman within three days. She also urged Baijal to ensure exemplary punishment of the death penalty to the culprits in both the cases in a fast-tracked manner.  A 12-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted last month while an 86-year-old woman was raped on September 7. "The minor has suffered untold miseries and grievous injuries on her private parts and still continues to be hospitalised in AIIMS. The 90-year-old woman, who was raped the day before yesterday, has also been subjected to vicious beatings and gruesome rape by a 37-year-old man. She continues to be in deep trauma," she said in the letter. The Delhi Police has registered FIRs in both the matters and has arrested the concerned men, Maliwal said. "Since these cases are really distressing and brutal, I appeal to you to kindly look into the matter and ensure exemplary punishment – death penalty to the culprits in both the cases in a fast-tracked manner," she said. Maliwal urged him "to issue necessary orders to the police to file the charge sheet in both matters within next three days and also direct suitable arrangements for speedy trial of the cases ensuring the completion of trial in two months". "I plead your hon'ble self to try and ensure the strongest action against the culprits in both these cases," she added. Maliwal said she had met both the survivors and "can never ever forget their pain and trauma". The families of the survivors also want that their cases be fast-tracked and the perpetrators are given the capital punishment, she added. It’s unfortunate that in today’s time's females of all ages whether it's an eight-month-old baby, a 12-year-old girl or a 90-year-old woman are all unsafe, she said, adding that "there is a complete lack of fear of law in the minds of criminals and the laxity of the system emboldens them to commit gruesome crimes against women and girls in the country". "The justice delivery mechanism in the country is painfully long and cumbersome which more often than not breaks the spirit of the girl or woman who has been raped," the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maliwal-demands-chargesheets-in-3-days-capital-punishment-for-rapists-of-minor-86-yr-old-884999.html
09-09-2020||National||I-T Dept issues refunds worth Rs 1.01 lakh cr to 27.55 lakh taxpayers till September 8||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday said it has issued refunds of over Rs 1.01 lakh crore to 27.55 lakh taxpayers between April 1 to September 8. This includes personal income tax (PIT) refunds amounting to Rs 30,768 crore issued to 25.83 lakh taxpayers and corporate tax refunds amounting to Rs 70,540 crore issued to over 1.71 lakh taxpayers during this period. "CBDT issues refunds of over Rs 1,01,308 crore to more than 27.55 lakh taxpayers between 1st April 2020 to 08th September 2020. Income tax refunds of Rs. 30,768 crore have been issued in 25,83,507 cases &corporate tax refunds of Rs.70,540 crore have been issued in 1,71,155 cases," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) tweeted. The government has emphasised on providing tax-related services to taxpayers without any hassles during the Covid-19 pandemic and accordingly has been clearing up pending tax refunds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-issues-refunds-worth-rs-101-lakh-cr-to-2755-lakh-taxpayers-till-september-8-885003.html
09-09-2020||National||NABARD sanctioned micro irrigation projects worth Rs 3,805.67 cr so far: Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has sanctioned micro-irrigation projects worth Rs 3,805.67 crore so far. The projects have been sanctioned under the dedicated Rs 5,000-crore Micro Irrigation Fund (MIF) set up under NABARD in 2019-20 to facilitate states in mobilizing resources for expanding coverage of micro-irrigation. Under MIF, funds are given to states at a concessional rate of interest in order to promote micro-irrigation. Addressing a webinar, Tomar advised states to access MIF for incentivizing micro irrigation through an additional (top up) subsidy over and above the one available under the Per Drop More Crop (PDMC) component of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayi Yojana (PMKSY) for achieving the target. He also asked states to access the fund for innovative integrated projects, including projects in Public-Private Partnership (PPP) mode, depending on state-specific requirements to bring the additional area under micro-irrigation PDMC, an official statement said. "The Steering Committee of MIF and NABARD has sanctioned projects of Rs 3,805.67 crore for covering 12.53 lakh hectare under MIF," the statement quoted the minister as saying. The government has set a target of covering 100 lakh hectares of area under micro-irrigation in five years. It has been implementing PMKSY-PDMC since 2015-16 for enhancing water use efficiency in the agriculture sector. "During the last five years, an area of 47.92 lakh hectares has been covered under micro-irrigation in the country which includes 11.72 lakh hectares for the year 2019-20 which is a significant achievement," Tomar said. Stressing that micro-irrigation not only increases water use efficiency but also the productivity of the crops, Tomar said there is a need for adopting a holistic approach for more production from unit areas by improving soil health, reduction in input costs, enhancing crop productivity and increasing farmers' awareness for benefiting the farming community. He also said that the integrated and concerted efforts of various stakeholders in a "mission mode" would help in achieving the targets and bringing more coverage under micro-irrigation for the benefit of the farming community. Tomar called upon the state governments to come forward to achieve the target coverage of micro-irrigation for enhancing water use efficiency in agriculture which would contribute to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call of making India self-reliant through self-reliant agriculture. Ministers of State for Agriculture Parshottam Rupala and Kailash Chaudhary, NITI Aayog Member Ramesh Chand and Additional Secretary of Agriculture Ministry Alka Bhargava were also present for the webinar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nabard-sanctioned-micro-irrigation-projects-worth-rs-380567-cr-so-far-tomar-885004.html
09-09-2020||National||Develop Badrinath as a smart spiritual city, says PM; reviews Kedarnath project as well||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked the Uttarakhand government to develop Badrinath Dham as a smart city, retaining its spiritual and mythological characteristics. Modi viewed through a video conference a state government presentation on its masterplan for the beautification of the Himalayan temple and its surroundings, a project which will cost Rs 424 crore and take about five years. The prime minister also reviewed the ongoing development work at Kedarnath Dham and emphasized the need to create pilgrim- and environment-friendly facilities there. Kedarnath and Badrinath are two of the four “dhams” that draw lakhs of pilgrims every year to Uttarakhand. The prime minister said while implementing the Badrinath plan, special attention should be paid on retaining the spiritual and mythological elements embedded in the character of the place. He said Badrinath should be developed as a smart spiritual city, according to an official statement. Modi said homestay facilities should be developed near the temple. He suggested making a special lighting arrangement that blends with the spiritual ambience of the place at the main Badrinath Dham entrance. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, state Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj and senior officials including Chief Secretary Om Prakash attended the presentation on Badrinath. The masterplan will be implemented over an area of 85 hectares by 2025, a statement said. The chief minister said local people were highly cooperative and there will be no shortage of land for carrying out the reconstruction work at Badrinath. Rawat also suggested developing Keshavprayag, the confluence of Alaknanda and Saraswati rivers near Badrinath. The Badrinath masterplan, which includes the construction of a museum, an art gallery and dissemination of information about 'Dashavtar' through a light-and-sound programme, has been prepared in accordance with the Himalayan location of the temple, the prime minister was told. Modi also reviewed the progress of reconstruction projects at Kedarpuri, which houses the Kedarnath shrine and was badly damaged during the 2013 floods. He was told that the work on the reconstruction of Adi Shankaracharya's 'samadhi’ there and the building of two more meditation caves is being carried out expeditiously. Construction of a bridge at Garudchatti is complete and a place has been identified for developing a nursery for Brahma Kamal, the state flower. In a statement, the Prime Minister's Office said Modi called for using the latest technology in the efforts underway for developing Kedarnath and its surrounding areas. "PM @narendramodi reviewed the ongoing development work at Kedarnath Dham. The review included boosting infrastructure at Kedarnath, which would enable more pilgrims as well as tourists to visit," the PMO tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/develop-badrinath-as-a-smart-spiritual-city-says-pm-reviews-kedarnath-project-as-well-885017.html
09-09-2020||National||10 labourers injured after under-construction building collapses in Jaipur||Ten labourers were injured after an under-construction building collapsed in Jaipur on Wednesday, police said. The labourers were pulled out from the rubble in a four-hour rescue operation conducted by police and civil defence personnel, they said. An under-construction building in Krishna Vihar Colony in Muhana area collapsed. The construction work had been going on for nearly a month, the police said. Ten labourers were rescued from the debris. They have been admitted to a hospital, they said. A probe is underway to ascertain the cause of the collapse, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-labourers-injured-after-under-construction-building-collapses-in-jaipur-885021.html
09-09-2020||National||Javadekar hopeful that India will achieve goal of reducing carbon emissions by 35% in 10 years||Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said he was hopeful that India would achieve its goal of reducing carbon emissions by 35 per cent in the next ten years. Addressing a session on Action Agenda for Sustainable and Self Reliant India during the 15th Sustainability Summit 2020, Javadekar said India was committed to reducing carbon emissions and was confident about upscaling solar power capacity from 175 gigawatts to 220 gigawatts by 2022. "We are confident we will achieve this," the minister said. He also said that it is important to achieve a green Earth with clean air and blue skies post Covid-19 despite the odds, and that it is possible to do so alongside industrial activity.  He pitched for promoting sustainability as only it could save humankind from nature's worst fury. Highlighting the country's achievement towards a greener growth in the past few years the minister said, "India is walking the talk on climate change. Our work on Ujjwala, e-vehicles, BS-VI engines, biofuels, clean air, and disaster resilience pave the way for a sustainable and resilient India." "Targeting 35 per cent emission reduction, we have reached 21 per cent already and in 10 years, we will achieve the target," the minister said. He further elaborated that energy mix in the installed capacity now includes 37 per cent of renewable energy sources. He said the country's solar power capacity has been increasing rapidly and noted that 68 countries have ratified the International Solar Alliance Agreement. "The share of non-fossil sources in the installed capacity stands at 37 per cent today. Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared and upscaled the target from 175 GW of solar power to 220 GW by 2022 and we are confident we will achieve this," he said. Talking about the Aatmanirbhar Bharat programme launched by the prime minister to make India self-reliant, Javadekar said, "Aatmanirbharta is not cutting away from the world, it is more about engaging with the world." "Innovation and research become the key. The thrust is being given on innovation and research, and efforts are being made to reduce imports and increase the exports," he said, adding that India should become a leader in innovations and start owning them to take the country to the next level in terms of development in the next decade or so. Speaking on compassionate capitalism for an Atmanirbhar Bharat, Sanjiv Puri, Chairman, Advisory Council, CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development and Chairman and Managing Director, ITC Limited, said that sustainability strategies are integral to business. Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, Confederation of Indian Industry, emphasised on the role of inclusive recovery for a self-reliant and sustainable India. The Sustainability Summit is the annual flagship event of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in sustainability, launched in 2006 to raise the bar of dialogue, practice and performance of sustainable business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javadekar-hopeful-that-india-will-achieve-goal-of-reducing-carbon-emissions-by-35-in-10-years-885027.html
09-09-2020||National||JD (U)'s Harivansh enters fray for Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman post||JD (U) leader Harivansh on Wednesday filed his nomination papers for the post of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson. BJP President J P Nadda proposed the nomination of Harivansh and Lok Janashakti Party's Ramvilas Paswan seconded it. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Leader of Rajya Sabha Thawarchand Gehlot, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Akali Dal leader Naresh Gujaral, BJP leaders Bhupendra Yadav, Shiv Pratap Shukla were among those present when Harivansh submitted his papers to Rajya Sabha Secretary General Desh Deepak Verma. BJP has issued a three-line whip to its members to be present in the Rajya Sabha on September 14 when the election is scheduled to take place. Opposition parties have also decided to put up a candidate as they are not keen to give the BJP-led NDA a walkover. DMK member Tiruchi Siva is the frontrunner as the joint opposition candidate.  The last date for filing of nomination papers is September 11. As the elections for the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson got underway, Leader of  Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Speaker Om Birla about the post of Deputy Speaker, which was yet to be filled. “Already a year has elapsed but still the Lok Sabha is deprived of having a Deputy Speaker, as if it appears one-horn chair of the lower house. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha has been on the verge electing Deputy Chairman of the Upper House, it is an opportune moment to elect the Deputy Speaker of the lower house,” Chowdhury said. The post of the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson fell vacant after the tenure of Harivansh as member of the Upper House ended in April. Harivansh has since been re-elected to the Rajya Sabha and is in the fray again for the post. In the Upper House of 244 members, the BJP has 87 members and its allies AIADMK (9), JDU (5), Akali Dal (3), LJP (1), RPI-A (1), MDMK (1), Nominated (4) and Independent (2). Besides the support of 113 members, the BJP is also hoping to get parties such as YSRCP (6), BJD (9), and TRS (7) to support the NDA candidate. In the previous elections held in August 2018, Harivansh had defeated Congress member B K Hariprasad - the joint opposition candidate. Harivansh had polled 125 votes while Hariprasad managed to secure 105 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jd-us-harivansh-enters-fray-for-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-post-885030.html
09-09-2020||National||Jaishankar meets Russian counterpart; discusses ways to enhance bilateral ties||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday said he held "excellent talks" with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov during which they discussed bilateral strategic ties and exchanged views on the international situation. Jaishankar is here on a four-day visit to Russia to attend a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). "Pleasure to meet FM Sergey Lavrov, this time in person. Excellent talks that reflect our Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership. Value our exchanges on the international situation," Jaishankar tweeted. Earlier in the day, Jaishankar held separate bilateral meetings with his Kyrgyz and Tajik counterparts here and discussed ways to boost India's strategic partnership with the two Central Asian countries. "A fruitful meeting with FM Chingiz Aidarbekov of Kyrgyz Republic on SCO sidelines," Jaishankar tweeted after his first bilateral meeting of the day. The two leaders discussed issues of bilateral and regional interest. "Agreed to further enhance our strategic partnership in all spheres," Jaishankar wrote. Jaishankar thanked Aidarbekov for the support in facilitating the return of Indian nationals from the Central Asian country. Air India operated several flights under Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate its nationals stranded in other nations due to lockdown. About 4,500 Indian students are studying medicine in various medical institutions in Kyrgyzstan. A few businessmen are engaged in trade and services in Kyrgyzstan, according to the Indian Embassy in Bishkek. Jaishankar later said he held a warm meeting with Tajik counterpart Sirojiddin Muhriddin. "Pleased with our growing bilateral and regional cooperation. Highly value this strategic partnership," Jaishankar tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-russian-counterpart-discusses-ways-to-enhance-bilateral-ties-885039.html
09-09-2020||National||Uttarakhand CM asks forest department to give jobs to 10,000 people||Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday said many people who have returned to Uttarakhand due to the Covid-19 pandemic need jobs and asked the forest department to employ at least 10,000 of them. Citing the example of the Electricity department which has provided 10,000 jobs for setting up solar plants in rural areas, Rawat said the forest department too should provide employment to at least 10,000 people.  The chief minister was addressing a meeting of Uttarakhand Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) here. Rawat said such measures are necessary to give employment to the people who have returned to their homes under the pressure of circumstances induced by the Covid-19 pandemic.    "Both our villages and our forests will benefit from this," he said at the meeting attended by state Forest Minister Harak Singh Rawat, Forest Secretary Anand Bardhan and Head of the Forest Force Jairaj.  During the meeting, Rawat acknowledged the effectiveness of solar fencing for the protection of forests from wild animals but said awareness needs to be created among villagers on how to protect the solar fences.                     The chief minister suggested an amount of Rs 20000 can be given to schools and colleges on the occasion of Himalaya Diwas for creating awareness among people for environment and forest conservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-asks-forest-department-to-give-jobs-to-10000-people-885042.html
09-09-2020||National||Air quality not a class issue, but mass issue: Tharoor||Air quality is not a class issue but a mass issue and politicians should not ignore it like the poor are the biggest victims of smog and air pollution, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Wednesday. Tharoor said despite the magnitude of the "crisis" of toxic air, he was shocked to find limited involvement on the issue. "The issue of air quality in some ways is like our concerns about foreign policy. I have always said there is no BJP foreign policy or Congress foreign policy, there is only Indian policy. "Similarly with air quality, our political differences on the subject must end with the beginning of stratosphere," the former Union minister said at a webinar hosted by Air Quality Asia. In a bid to move beyond the Delhi-centric perspective on clean air, Air Quality Asia (AQA) and Tharoor were in conversation with Chhattisgarh health minister T S Singh Deo, Chhattisgarh's Environment minister Mohammed Akbar and other senior MLAs from the state on piloting state-level committees to address the issue of bad air quality. "The fact is that air quality is not an election issue. In fact, public health has not been an election issue. In the US, the prime concern for 41 per cent of the voters in the mid-term elections was healthcare. In India, neither public health generally nor healthcare specifically has won or lost an election for any Indian politician," the Lok Sabha MP said. He said issues like jobs, poverty eradication, financial growth and food security were among the things that voters understand. Air quality is seen as an upper-class luxury that the poor can't afford, but that is not true as the poor are the biggest victims of it, Tharoor asserted. The rising levels of smog and poor air quality affect the poor more as those with financial resources will turn to short term remedies like air purifiers, he said. "It is the poor that have no choice as their lives are dominated by the need for a daily wage and basic necessities of sustenance. For them, the air around them can really affect their lives and they have to endure it," Tharoor said. "I must say that the argument that the political class can afford to ignore air quality because it does not affect the poor who are the majority of voters, that is wrong," he said. "Politicians must understand that the majority of our voters are victims of bad air, it is not a class issue, it is a mass issue," Tharoor said, adding that, "we want to take this campaign to the political class of India." Deo underlined that toxic air quality is a global issue and isn't limited only to the big cities. The Chhattisgarh minister also listed various steps taken by the state government to improve air quality in cities like Raipur and Raigarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-quality-not-a-class-issue-but-mass-issue-tharoor-885047.html
09-09-2020||National||Indian prisons, Nirav Modi’s mental health in focus at UK extradition case||The prison conditions in India and Nirav Modi’s fragile mental health were once again in focus during the diamond merchant’s ongoing extradition hearing related to the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London on Wednesday. The third day of the five-day hearing, presided over by Justice Samuel Goozee, was devoted to the defence laying out further arguments against a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering against Modi, who observed the court proceedings via live video link from Wandsworth Prison in London where he has been lodged since his arrest in March last year. The 49-year-old jeweller seemed particularly inanimate through most part of the day, with the judge at one point pausing the hearing to check if the videolink had frozen and asked Modi to keep moving from time to time so the court can be sure he is still connected to the proceedings. Modi’s defence team, led by barrister Clare Montgomery, raised further issues around the conditions at Barrack 12 at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where he is to be lodged on being extradited, claiming it is covered in its entirety in a blue metallic cover since it housed a terrorist in 2007. This makes the barrack “incredibly hot”, with other problems such as damp, dust, insects and rodents, she quoted testimony as saying. Besides fears related to a COVID-19 outbreak earlier in the year, references were also made to a medical expert’s “addendum report” which highlighted “much more serious” concerns around Modi’s mental health. UK-based prisons expert Dr Alan Mitchell, who has previously given witness statements in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines boss Vijay Mallya, and the medical expert are among a set of defence witnesses scheduled to give live evidence in court over these issues later this week. They will be cross-examined by Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) barrister Helen Malcolm, who is arguing on behalf of the Indian government. During Wednesday's hearing, Modi's defence team also claimed their client had been the subject of a “trial by media” and would not receive a fair trial in India. After the judge had turned down a defence request earlier this week to allow retired Indian high court judge Abhay Thipsay to give his videolink expert statement privately, his written statement was briefly presented in court to highlight assertions against the admissibility of certain evidence presented by the government of India. Thipsay’s testimony questions whether the statements provided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) meet the “statutory requirements” under Indian law and raises doubts over whether certain alleged actions, such as the destruction of mobile phones, “amount to the disappearance of evidence”. Modi is subject to two sets of criminal proceedings, the first brought by the CBI relating to a large-scale fraud said to have been committed upon PNB and the ED case, relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. A further extradition request was made in February this year of two additional offences of the disappearance of evidence and intimidating a witness. The CPS must establish a prima facie case against Modi to allow the judge to rule that he has a case to answer before the Indian courts. If the judge finds in favour of the Indian government, the issue will go back to UK Home Secretary Priti Patel to formally certify his extradition to India to stand trial. A ruling in the case is not expected before the end of this year or early next year, as a final submissions hearing has been tentatively scheduled for December 1. The charges against the diamond merchant centre around his firms Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds making fraudulent use of a credit facility offered by PNB, known as “letters of undertaking” (LoUs), which resulted in a fraud amounting to nearly USD 2 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-prisons-nirav-modi-s-mental-health-in-focus-at-uk-extradition-case-885049.html
09-09-2020||National||Aiming 5 crore additional jobs in MSME sector in five years: Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said the government is aiming to create 5 crore additional jobs in the MSME sector in five years. The Minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways reiterated that he aims to enhance MSMEs' contribution to the GDP from about 30 per cent to 50 per cent, and in exports from 49 per cent to 60 per cent.   The sector presently employs about 11 crore people. The minister also called for broadbasing support for innovations and entrepreneurship so that bonafide new talent also gets a chance to grow.  Gadkari also said risk-taking ability in innovations and finding new solutions need to be promoted and those making bonafide mistakes in the process need to be protected, the MSME Ministry said in a release. He also felt that performance audit of schemes related to agriculture and Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes will help in better targeting of the schemes. Addressing a virtual meet, Gadkari applauded the Aatmanirbhar Bharat ARISE Atal New India Challenge initiative of government think tank Niti Aayog. He also called for encouraging use of new technology in finding solutions to the problems being faced in different areas and ensuring value addition.  He cited the issue of excess rice which can be utilised for producing ethanol thereby addressing the problem of storage on the one hand and providing green fuel to the country as import replacement on the other. The minister stressed that country's growth will be further accelerated when the backward and tribal areas including the 115 aspirational districts are brought on growth trajectory.  Gadkari also said there is a need to work according to spirit of  the Prime Minister's vision that science should work in solving problems of common people including those from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The objective of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat ARISE Atal New India Challenges programme is to proactively collaborate with Ministries and the associated industries to catalyse research, innovation and facilitate innovative solutions to sectoral problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiming-5-crore-additional-jobs-in-msme-sector-in-five-years-gadkari-885059.html
09-09-2020||National||India-China row: Situation remains tense in Ladakh||The India-China face-off situation in eastern Ladakh continues to be very tense a day after 45 years of silence at the Line of Actual Control was shattered by gunshots, as Chinese People’s Liberation Army made one more attempt to engage with the Indian troops near Finger 4 on the northern bank of Pangong Tso. In the Chushul sector in the southern banks of the lake, Indian troops dominate the heights but the PLA soldiers are in an aggressive stand-off at a distance of 100-200 metre between the men from the two sides. With no reservation on firing now, the situation is even more volatile. Multiple television channels reported Wednesday that the India-China face-off could take any trajectory but hadn't reached the threshold of war, quoting an unnamed government official. The official said it was the Chinese leadership and not the local commanders, who had been controlling the situation, A four-hour-long Brigade Commander level meeting took place at Chushul, but it failed to end the impasse. The two sides agreed to hold a Corps Commander level talk, but the date and venue are yet to be finalized. Five such talks have happened so far without any result. Sources said India strengthened its defences on the south bank of Pangong Tso including the heights near Rezang La and Renchen La. Some of the areas have been cordoned off with barbed wires and the PLA has been warned about the consequences if such fencing are breached. On the north bank of the 135 km long V-shaped lake, Indian troops have occupied a few higher points themselves above the PLA troops who occupy the lower heights of the ridgeline. The Chinese soldiers made an attempt on Tuesday to come close to the Indian positions and provoke the troops near the Finger-4 on the north bank. The efforts, however, didn’t succeed because of a strong Indian build-up. The Army headquarters has asked the field commanders to ensure that no Chinese transgression takes place. The forces have also been told to go by the rule books while guarding the territory. The two countries have amassed thousands of troops, heavy artillery, tanks and firepower on both sides of the disputed boundary as a part of the build-up. The Indian Army on Tuesday said Chinese troops attempted to close in on an Indian position near the southern bank of Pangong lake on the evening of September 7 and fired shots in the air. But a day before, the PLA alleged that Indian troops crossed the LAC and "outrageously fired" warning shots near the Pangong lake. Last week Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met his Chinese counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe in Moscow, but the first ever meeting between the two Defence Ministers since the crisis broke out in eastern Ladakh in May failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-row-situation-remains-tense-in-ladakh-885063.html
09-09-2020||National||Youth wants employment, govt giving them 'hollow speeches': Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said the youth of the country want employment and alleged that the government was giving "hollow speeches" and "ignoring them". Asserting that the country's young population wants employment, she said they want to join their stalled recruitments, dates for examinations, notifications for new jobs, proper recruitment process and more job opportunities. "In return, the government gives them hollow speeches, sticks and is ignoring them," the Congress general secretary said in a tweet in Hindi and asked, "till when". The youth of this country want to make their voice heard, Priyanka Gandhi said in an earlier tweet in Hindi using the hashtag '9 baje 9-minute yuvaon ki baat' and 'stop privatization save govt job'. The youth are raising their voice against stalled recruitments, exam dates, appointments and new jobs, she said. "Today, all of us need to support the youth in their fight for employment," she said. The Congress has stepped up its attack on the government over the state of the economy and alleged rise in unemployment after the gross domestic product (GDP) contracted by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this year as the coronavirus-related lockdowns weighed on the already-declining consumer demand and investment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-wants-employment-govt-giving-them-hollow-speeches-priyanka-gandhi-885073.html
09-09-2020||National||PM Modi speaks to Saudi King, exchanges views on global challenges following Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke over phone with Saudi Arabia’s King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. The Prime Minister and the King of Saudi Arabia exchanged views on the global challenges in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. The leaders agreed that the initiatives taken at the level of the G20 had helped in promoting a coordinated response to the pandemic. They also discussed the main priorities presently on the agenda of the G20. Saudi Arabia currently holds the presidency of the G20. The two leaders committed to further strengthen cooperation between India and Saudi Arabia in all areas. Modi thanked Salman for the support provided to Indian expatriates in Saudi Arabia during the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi conveyed his warm wishes for the good health and well-being of King Salman, other members of the royal family of Saudi Arabia and all citizens of the kingdom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-speaks-to-saudi-king-exchanges-views-on-global-challenges-following-covid-19-885075.html
09-09-2020||National||Delhi records highest single-day tally of 4,000 new Covid-19 cases||Delhi reported 4,039 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike here so far, as the tally breached the two lakh-mark in the national capital, where a record 54,517 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, authorities said. This is the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic, that over 4,000 cases have been recorded in Delhi in a day. The previous highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases in the city was recorded on June 23. Twenty fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,638, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The tally of active cases rose to 23,773 from 22,377 the previous day, it said. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 4,618 on Tuesday. The bulletin on Wednesday said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 4,638 and the total number of cases has climbed to 2,01,174.  Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days. Barring August 31 when over 14,000 tests were conducted and 1,358 fresh cases reported, since Sunday, daily cases count has been recorded in excess of 2,000. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported from August 30-September 8 in that order are: 14389 (1358); 20437 (2024); 24198 (2312); 28835 (2509); 32834 (2737); 36219 (2914) 38895 (2973), 36046 (3256); 22954 (2077); and 45797 (3609).  The number of tests done per million, as on Wednesday, crossed the one-lakh mark, the count being 1,00,198, it said.  The positivity rate on Wednesday stood at 7.4 per cent while the recovery rate was over 85 per cent, the bulletin, adding that the case fatality rate stood at 2.31 per cent. The number of containment zones in Delhi jumped to 1,226 from 1,166 the previous day. Meanwhile, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal directed medical superintendents and authorities to take every possible step to prevent the spread of the virus in the city. The chief minister earlier held a review meeting with Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, senior officials and medical superintendents of Delhi government-run hospitals. Later he also tweeted to acknowledge the highest number of daily cases in Delhi, but asserted that the day saw "highest number of tests-54,517 against 15,000/20,000 tests till last week". "If we did same no of tests, today's cases wud be less than 1500. So, don't b scared by no of cases. Del wages war against corona wid aggressive testing (sic)," he tweeted. "No of deaths continues to below. It is 20 today, against more than 100 per day in June. People falling ill and recovering. Thro aggressive testing, we r isolating them and preventing its spread (sic)," Kejriwal said. Jain also held a meeting with medical directors and medical superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing, the bulletin said.  Delhi chief secretary also held a review meeting with all district magistrates on Covid-19 management, it said. Since August 18, cases again have been coming in four-figure count in the city. According to the bulletin, out of the total number of beds in Covid hospitals, 8,636 are vacant. Also, 2,906 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights, it said. According to the bulletin, 1,72,763 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. The number of people in home isolation stands at 12,518. The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Wednesday stood at 43,416 while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 11,101, in all adding to 54,517, according to the bulletin. The total number of tests done till date in Delhi stands at 19,03,780.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-records-highest-single-day-tally-of-4000-new-covid-19-cases-885077.html
09-09-2020||National||Rising Covid-19 cases due to aggressive testing; death rate low: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said Covid-19 cases in Delhi would have been in the range of 1,500 had the government continued to conduct only 15,000-20,000 tests per day. His reaction came in response to data that showed Delhi recorded 4,039 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike so far, as the total number of cases breached the two lakh-mark. The Chief Minister asked people not to be afraid due to the rising number of cases, pointing out that the number of deaths due to Covid-19 was low in Delhi. "Today, highest no of cases -- 4039. But also, highest no of tests -- 54,517 against 15,000/20,000 tests till last week. If we did same no of tests, today's cases wud be less than 1500. So, don't b scared by no of cases. Del wages war against corona wid aggressive testing (sic)," he tweeted. The national capital recorded 4,039 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike so far, as the tally breached the two lakh-mark while the death toll mounted to 4,638, authorities said. "No of deaths continues to below. It is 20 today, against more than 100 per day in June. People falling ill and recovering. Thru aggressive testing, we r isolating them and preventing its spread (sic)," Kejriwal said in another tweet. This is the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic that over 4,000 cases have been recorded in Delhi in a day. Twenty fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rising-covid-19-cases-due-to-aggressive-testing-death-rate-low-kejriwal-885079.html
09-09-2020||National||Kushwaha writes letter to PM for OBC quota in medical colleges||Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) president Upendra Kushwaha Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to give necessary directions for ensuring reservation for OBC candidates in medical colleges in view of the recent Supreme Court judgement. Kushwaha in his letter said that the Medical Council of India (MCI) has framed rules which has provision of zero per cent reservation for candidates belonging to Other Backward Class on seats contributed by states under all India quota in medical colleges. In a judgment delivered by five-judge constitution bench on August 31, 2020, the apex court had said that the Medical Council of India, which has been constituted under MCI Act 1956, has no power to make provisions for giving reservation. The court had also said that states are empowered to make special provisions for reservation of seats for in service doctors in postgraduate medical courses, Kushwaha said quoting the judgment. The judgement further said that in a federal structure, both states and the Parliament have the constitutional mandate to take steps and act for the welfare of SC, ST and socially backward classes, he quoted. Kushwaha said that despite the apex court judgment, no efforts have been made by the health ministry to dispose of the issue so far and drew the prime minister's attention to UG-2020 NEET exam which has not been held yet. He urged the prime minister to give directions to the health ministry in this regard so that OBC reservation can be implemented from this academic session on seats contributed by states under all India quota in medical colleges. Considering the urgency and significance of the issue, I would request you to kindly give necessary directions at the earliest for the implementation of the apex court judgment delivered on August 31, 2020 so that OBC candidates can get justice, Kushwaha said in his letter to Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kushwaha-writes-letter-to-pm-for-obc-quota-in-medical-colleges-885094.html
09-09-2020||National||Heavy rains lash Kerala, north India remains dry||Heavy rains lashed several parts of southern India including Kerala on Wednesday while dry and sultry weather prevailed in the north, even as the IMD forecast widespread rainfall over Peninsular regions in the next four to five days. Three fishermen drowned when their boat capsized in the rough seas in Thiruvananthapuram as heavy rains lashed parts of Kerala. In Delhi, dry weather pushed the mercury up slightly as the maximum temperature settled at 35.6 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. According to the Met department forecast, the city’s maximum temperature is expected to rise by a few notches as rainfall is unlikely over the next few days. Delhi has recorded just 20.9 mm rainfall against the normal of 58.3 mm -- a deficiency of 64 per cent -- in September so far. Overall, it has recorded 576.5 mm precipitation against the normal of 582.1 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts. In the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, hot and humid weather conditions prevailed at most places, with maximum temperatures settling two-three notches above the normal limits. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 35.2 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a maximum of 35.4 degrees Celsius while Hisar's maximum settled at 36.6 degrees Celsius. Bhiwani experienced a hot day with a maximum temperature of 37.2 degrees Celsius. In Punjab, Patiala recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana's maximum temperature settled at 34.6 degrees Celsius while Amritsar's maximum settled at 35.4 degrees Celsius. According to the Met department forecast, monsoon activity is likely to be subdued over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during the next four to five days and dry weather is likely to prevail during this period. In Uttar Pradesh, thunderstorm accompanied with lightning occurred at isolated places in the eastern part of the state. The met department has forecast rain/thundershower at isolated places and light thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at some places over eastern parts of the state. As heavy rains lashed Kerala, three fishermen, who had put out to sea from the coastal town of Anchuthengu, drowned when their boat overturned due to the rough sea and strong waves. The capital city of Thiruvananthapuram received 10 cm rains with low lying areas getting water logged and five families being shifted to relief camps. Fishermen have been warned against venturing into the sea as strong winds with speed ranging from 45-55 kmph are likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast from Wednesday, officials said. Rain/thundershowers were observed at most places over Mahe and Lakshadweep; at many places over Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Jharkhand, Rayalaseema and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on Wednesday. A few places in Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, south Karnataka too witnessed rains while isolated places in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Konkan and Goa, Uttar Pradesh, West Rajasthan, Gujarat, West Bengal, Sikkim, Chhattisgarh, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana received showers. In its monsoon forecast, the IMD said that under the influence of an off-shore trough from south Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls, thunderstorm and lightning are very likely over Peninsular India during the next four to five days. While heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely over coastal Karnataka from September 10 to 13, south Karnataka (September 9-12), Kerala and Mahe (September 9-11). Extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places is also very likely over coastal and south Karnataka on September 11. The western part of the monsoon trough lies north of its normal position and the eastern end lies near to its normal position. A cyclonic circulation lies over Gangetic West Bengal and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. Under their influence, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm and lightning are very likely over northeast and adjoining east India. Heavy rainfall at isolated places is also very likely over sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during next 5 days and over Northeast India during the next four to five days. Under the influence of likely formation of a low pressure area over west central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh coast around September 13, rainfall distribution and intensity is very likely to increase over Odisha, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Telangana, Vidarbha and adjoining areas from September 12 onwards, the IMD said. While moderate thunderstorm with lightning very likely at isolated places over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rayalseema and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during the next 12 hours, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-rains-lash-kerala-north-india-remains-dry-885112.html
09-09-2020||National Politics||JD(U) MP Harivansh files nomination as NDA candidate for Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman post||JD(U) MP Harivansh on Wednesday filed his nomination as the ruling NDA candidate to the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman's post and is likely to be elected, even as the opposition is working to field a joint candidate against him to force a contest.  The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance's tally stands at 116 in the 245-member House, which has an effective strength of 244, and its senior leaders have expressed confidence that non-NDA parties like Biju Janta Dal, YSR Congress, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, which has nine, six and seven members respectively, will back Harivansh.  BJP's floor managers believe that he will get support of around 140 MPs in case of a contest.  Harivansh filed his nomination in presence of Leader of Rajya Sabha Thawarchand Gehlot and BJP ally SAD leader Naresh Gujral. BJP president J P Nadda and LJP's Ram Vilas Paswan are among his proposers.  The election to the Deputy Chairman post will be held on September 14, the first day of Parliament's monsoon session, which will end on October 1. September 11 is the last day of filing of nomination.  Harivansh was the last person holding the post as well and the end of his Rajya Sabha term caused the vacancy. He was elected to the House from Bihar recently.  With the Congress favouring putting up a joint opposition candidate for the Deputy Chairman post, a contest is on cards. Harivansh had comfortably defeated B K Hariprasad of the Congress in the 2018 election to the post, bagging 125 votes to his rival's 105. The NDA has since then further strengthened its presence in Rajya Sabha, with a disjointed opposition weakened further by its dwindling numbers unable to put up any strong obstacle in the government's legislative agenda in the House.  On Tuesday, the Congress in its parliamentary strategy group meeting decided not let the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman's post go uncontested and favoured putting up a joint candidate for the entire opposition. The decision was taken at the meeting chaired by the party chief Sonia Gandhi. The sources said the party may offer the deputy chairman's post to its ally DMK, and Tiruchi Siva is among the candidates being considered. In case the DMK does not contest, the Congress will field its own candidate as it does not want the post to go uncontested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jdu-mp-harivansh-files-nomination-as-nda-candidate-for-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-post-884844.html
09-09-2020||National Politics||Need to support youth in their fight for employment: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said the youth are raising their voice over stalled recruitments, examination dates and new jobs, as she underlined the need for supporting their "fight" for employment. The youth of this country want to make their voice heard, Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag '9 baje 9 minute yuvaon ki baat' and 'stop privatization save govt job'. The youth are raising their voice over stalled recruitments, exam dates, appointments and new jobs, the Congress general secretary said. "Today, all of us need to support the youth in their fight for employment," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/need-to-support-youth-in-their-fight-for-employment-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-884877.html
09-09-2020||National Politics||Lockdown not an attack on Covid-19, but on poor: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of “misleading” the country over the fight against Covid-19 and destroying the unorganised sector by forcing an unplanned lockdown. The unplanned coronavirus lockdown, imposed without prior notice, was the “third attack” on the unorganised sector, he said in the fourth short video on the state of the economy, particularly the informal sector. In the earlier videos, Rahul had listed out “demonetisation” and “faulty implementation of the GST” as the other reasons that hit the unorganised sector hard during the regime of Modi government. अचानक किया गया लॉकडाउन असंगठित वर्ग के लिए मृत्युदंड जैसा साबित हुआ। वादा था 21 दिन में कोरोना ख़त्म करने का, लेकिन ख़त्म किए करोड़ों रोज़गार और छोटे उद्योग। “The poor, those in small and medium businesses, are daily wage earners. They eat with what they earn each day. When you announced a lockdown without notice, you attacked them. The Prime Minister said the fight will be for 21 days, the backbone of the unorganized sector broke in 21 days,” Rahul said. The former Congress president said that his party had suggested a package for small and medium businesses. “Instead, the government waived off taxes worth lakhs of crores of the richest fifteen-twenty people,” he said. “The lockdown was not an attack on the coronavirus. The lockdown was an attack on the poor of India. The lockdown was an attack on labourers, farmers and small shopkeepers. It was an attack on our unorganised sector," Rahul said. Earlier, he had released short videos on the Chinese transgressions in Ladakh. The videos are part of efforts of the Congress to present Rahul as the only challenger to Modi amid the growing demands for his return as the party president. Rahul had stepped down as Congress president in July last year, after losing the second consecutive Lok Sabha elections to Modi-led BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lockdown-not-an-attack-on-covid-19-but-on-poor-rahul-gandhi-884883.html
09-09-2020||National Politics||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury writes to Om Birla on Deputy Speaker's post||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla urging him that the post of Deputy Speaker be filled in the upcoming Monsoon Session of Parliament. Chowdhury, who is the leader of the Congress party in the lower house, said the post of Deputy Speaker has been lying vacant since the new Lok Sabha was constituted a year ago. "I would urge upon you that during the Monsoon session itself the Deputy Speaker of Lok Sabha must be elected. I hope that this house will be adhering to the constitutional mandate under your guidance," he said in his letter to the Speaker. The Monsoon Session will commence from September 14. The Congress leader pointed out that the deputy speaker's post is offered to the opposition by convention and there are several examples in this regard. "...According to the constitutional mandate, the seat of the Deputy Speaker of Lok Sabha should be filled either by election or consensus as early as may after a new Lok Sabha is constituted," he said. Chowdhury said Parliament has been set in motion to conduct the Monsoon Session of this year and this is the first time in the history of Parliament that "we are poised to participate in an alien ambience" given the pandemic situation which is once in a century human tragedy. "Already a year has elapsed but still Lok Sabha is deprived of having a Deputy Speaker," the Congress leader noted, adding that Rajya Sabha is preparing to elect its Deputy Chairman. "Sir, it is an opportune moment to elect the Deputy Speaker of the lower house," Chowdhury said. The BJP is the single-largest party with 303 MPs and the Congress is the second largest with 51 members in the 543-member House. Birla, a BJP MP, was elected unopposed as the Speaker in June last year. Congress does not have the post of Leader of Opposition as its strength is less than 10 per cent of the total strength of the House. In the last Lok Sabha, AIADMK leader M Thambidurai was elected unopposed as the Deputy Speaker. In the absence of the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker, the house is run by a senior member from among the panel of chairpersons nominated by the Speaker. The process for filling the Deputy Chairman's post in Rajya Sabha is already on and the election would be held on the first day of the Monsoon session on September 14. Janata Dal (United) member Harivansh has filed his nomination for the post once again. He was the Deputy Chairman till his term expired. He has since been re-elected as a member from Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-writes-to-om-birla-on-deputy-speakers-post-884955.html
09-09-2020||National Politics||B C Patil meets BJP national president J P Nadda||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Wednesday met BJP national president J P Nadda in Delhi. Though what transpired between them is not known, sources in BJP said that Patil discussed the party's developments in Karnataka. Patil also informed the party president about his department activities including crop survey app and Agri startups. Meanwhile, Heavy Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar also arrived in Delhi. Shettar met Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Chemical and Fertilizer Minister D V Sadananda Gowda and discussed departmental issues. Shettar is likely to meet the party leaders during his stay in Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/b-c-patil-meets-bjp-national-president-j-p-nadda-885060.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||17-year-old alleges rape by three youths in Haryana's Nuh district||A 17-year-old girl from a village in Haryana's Nuh district has alleged that she was raped by three youths, police said on Tuesday and added that a case has been registered on a complaint from her father. The girl's father has alleged that his daughter had gone to the fields near her house a few days ago where her neighbour who was joined by two more youths allegedly drugged and raped her, a police official from Nuh district said over phone. The complainant has alleged that the three youths threatened her with dire consequences if informed anyone about the incident. After holding her captive for some time, the accused later fled, the complainant claimed. Police said that she informed her family after reaching her house. Medical examination of the victim would be conducted, the police official said, adding that a case was registered under relevant provisions of the law on Tuesday and efforts were on to nab the perpetrators Further investigation in the case is on, said Investigating Officer, Sub-Inspector Chander Bhan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-alleges-rape-by-three-youths-in-haryanas-nuh-district-884581.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Delhi Metro's Blue Line, Pink Line to resume services after 171-day hiatus||Delhi Metro's Blue Line and Pink Line resumed services with interchange facilities at nine stations on Wednesday after being closed for 171 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. The services resumed with curtailed operations on these two lines at 7 am with strict safety and social distancing measures being in place. Trains are to operate in two batches of four-hour each from 7-11 AM and 4-8 PM in the first stage. "The Blue and Pink lines resumed services today. Slowly and steadily, Delhi Metro will be back to take you places! #MetroBackOnTrack," the DMRC tweeted. As the day began, some riders wearing face masks were seen entering the premises of key stations like Rajiv Chowk, Noida Sector 15 and Anand Bihar on the Blue Line, which connects Dwarka Sector 21 in Delhi to Electronic City (Noida) and Vaishali (Ghaziabad). Pink Line connects Majlis Park to Shiv Bihar. Raj Kumar, who boarded the Metro at Anand Vihar, said that he faced no inconvenience during his journey. "There was no issue regarding social distancing. I have to go to Rajiv Chowk and the journey was smooth, but we are not sure during our journey which gate is open and which is not," Kumar said. According to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the Blue and Pink lines will ensure availability of nine of the existing 28 interchange Metro stations, including Rajouri Garden (Blue Line & Pink Line); INA Delhi Haat (Yellow & Pink Line); Mayur Vihar Phase – I (Blue Line & Pink Line); Rajiv Chowk (Blue Line & Yellow Line); Anand Vihar ISBT (Blue Line & Pink Line) and Sikanderpur (Yellow Line & Rapid Metro). On Monday, the Delhi Metro had resumed services with the curtailed operation of the Yellow Line, since the closure of the urban transporter on March 22. The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. In addition to Yellow, Blue and Pink lines, three more lines --- Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda (Ghaziabad); Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brig. Hosihar Singh (Bahadurgarh); and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh (Ballabhgarh) -- will also resume services from September 10 with the same time schedule. The DMRC said the entire Metro network will resume normal services from September 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-metros-blue-line-pink-line-to-resume-services-after-171-day-hiatus-884627.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Gehlot decides not to meet people for one month after string of infections at CMO, his residence||After nearly 40 personnel at the Chief Minister's Office and his residence tested positive for COVID-19 in the last few days, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has decided not to meet people for the next one month, according to a release. "As per the advice of doctors, the chief minister has decided not to meet people for the next one month. During this time he will participate only through video conference," a release said. Nearly 40 personnel of the CMO and the Chief Minister's Residence (CMR) including some security staff have tested positive for the novel coronavirus over the last few days. The chief minister also appealed to the people to follow social distancing norms, wear face masks and take all precautions to stay safe from the coronavirus||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gehlot-decides-not-to-meet-people-for-one-month-after-string-of-infections-at-cmo-his-residence-884635.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||4,442 cases pending against MPs, MLAs, SC informed||The Supreme Court has been informed that a total of 4,442 cases were pending against MPs and MLAs in special courts across the country. Out of this, sitting legislators are accused persons in 2,556 cases. Trials in 352 cases are held up due to stays granted by higher courts.  Of all the states, Uttar Pradesh topped the list with 1,217 cases. As many as 413 cases related to offences punishable with life imprisonment were pending. Out of this,174 cases involved sitting legislators as accused.   Acting on a PIL by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, the top court, on December 14, 2017, directed for the setting up of 12 special courts as proposed by the Union government. The High Courts were directed to transfer cases against MPs and MLAs to such special courts. On December 4, 2018, the apex court asked each High Court to assign criminal cases involving former and sitting legislators to as many Sessions Courts and Magisterial Courts as each High Court may consider proper, fit and expedient. A note was submitted on Tuesday by amicus curiae senior advocate Vijay Hansaria on compilation of data received from High Courts. He asked the court to issue directions to the State Governments for passing notification on recommendation of the High Court on allocation of cases. Among numerous suggestions, he said each High Court should register a Suo Moto case with the title “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs” to monitor the progress of cases pending in the State and ensure compliance of directions of the Supreme Court for speeding up trial against former and sitting legislators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4442-cases-pending-against-mps-mlas-sc-informed-884697.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Two arrested after recovery of arms, ammunition from truck on Jammu-Srinagar highway||Security forces arrested two persons found with arms and ammunition, including an M4 US carbine, an AK rifle and six pistols, near Jawahar tunnel in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Tuesday night. Official sources said a joint team of police and army intercepted a truck (JK22B-1737), coming from Samba district, near Jawahar tunnel after inputs that militants were travelling along with a huge cache of arms and ammunition. They said during search of the truck, which was coming from Jammu/Akhnoor, one AK rifle with two magazines, one M4 US Carbine with three magazines, and six Chinese pistols with 12 magazines, were recovered. A senior police officer said two persons onboard the truck were arrested and their interrogation was going on. The arrested persons were identified as Bilal Ahmad Kuttey and Shahnawaz Ahmad Mir, both residents of Shopian district. Besides, he said, at least three more persons were detained on a lead of police from Ramban district in connection with the incident. “The investigations are underway and further details would be shared later,” the officer added. Recently J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh had said that Pakistan had adopted a new technique of sending arms and ammunition to the Union Territory using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). He had said such incidents of Pakistani UAVs carrying weapons were detected in Hira Nagar, Kathua and Rajouri districts of Jammu. Another modus operandi of Pakistan to dispatch weapons through trucks to J&K was unearthed in Punjab in the past, he had said. A senior police officer told DH that the latest cache of arms recovered by the security forces near Jawahar tunnel may have been sent by Pakistan through the same mode. “The militants then use trucks coming to Kashmir from Punjab and Jammu to ferry these weapons,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-arrested-after-recovery-of-arms-ammunition-from-truck-on-jammu-srinagar-highway-884737.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Jawan posted at Rashtrapati Bhawan dies by suicide||A 40-year-old Army jawan ended his life on Wednesday morning by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in the barracks of Gorkha Rifles in Rashtrapati Bhawan, police said. The deceased was identified as Tek Bahadur Thapa, a resident of Tikhayan in Nepal, they said. The incident was reported around 4 am at the South Avenue police station. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi), Deepak Yadav, said the jawan was found hanging from a ceiling fan in the barrack of Gorkha Rifles. A crime team visited the spot and inquest proceedings have been initiated. A colleague saw Tek Bahdur hanging from the ceiling around 3:30 am and raised an alarm. He was shifted to Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment where he was declared brought dead. On preliminary enquiry, it is found that the jawan was suffering from acute lower back pain and high blood pressure, a senior police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jawan-posted-at-rashtrapati-bhawan-dies-by-suicide-884753.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi metro more convenient with interchange facility say commuters||As Delhi Metro's Blue Line and Pink Line resumed services on Wednesday, commuters said travelling on the Metro made more sense with the availability of interchange facilities. The Delhi Metro had resumed operations in a graded manner on Monday. The Yellow Line was the first to be reopened. A lesser number of commuters travelled on the Metro on the first day. Many said non-availability of interchange facilities and limited number of entry-exit gates caused delay and inconvenience. Priyanka Singh, 21, who lives in Shahdara, took a Metro from the Karkardooma metro station. "My brother dropped me at Karkardooma metro station. I have to go to Gurgaon where I work. Travelling on the Metro is of great help, especially when interchange facility is available,” she said. Aniket Kanker, 28, who travelled from Vaishali to Saket for work, said he availed the rapid transport system only when services on the Blue Line resumed on Wednesday. Vinay Singh, who boarded the Metro at GTB Nagar, said resumption of the services was a huge sign of life returning back to normal. "I am not sure about the last mile connectivity as I asked my friend to drop me at the Metro station. The interchange was smooth....," he said. Raj Kumar, who boarded the Metro at Anand Vihar, said that he faced no inconvenience during his journey. "There was no issue regarding social distancing. I have to go to Rajiv Chowk and the journey was smooth, but we are not sure during our journey which gate is open and which is not," Kumar said. The Blue and Pink lines resumed services Wednesday morning after being closed for 171 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Trains are to operate in batches of four-hour each from 7-11 am in the morning and 4-8 pm in the evening in the first stage. "The Blue and Pink lines resumed services today. Slowly and steadily, Delhi Metro will be back to take you places! #MetroBackOnTrack," the DMRC tweeted. On Monday, the Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operation of the Yellow Line, since the closure of the urban transporter on March 22. The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours -- 7-11 am and 4-8 pm. While nearly 15,500 passengers availed the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro combined on Monday, the figures stood at nearly 17,600 on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-more-convenient-with-interchange-facility-say-commuters-884771.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Omar Abdullah to vacate government accommodation in Srinagar||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Wednesday said he was voluntarily vacating the government accommodation provided to him 18 years ago due to the change in rules of entitlement in the union territory. Abdullah, who was a Lok Sabha member when the government accommodation in high security Gupkar area here was provided to him in 2002, released a letter on his Twitter handle that he had written in July this year. He had informed the Administrative secretary concerned about his decision to vacate the Gupkar residence that was alloted to him first in 2002 as Member of Parliament from Srinagar and then after taking over as chief minister of the erstwhile State from 2009 to 2015.  "My letter to the J&K administration. I will be vacating my government accommodation in Srinagar before the end of October. The point to note is that contrary to stories planted in the media last year I received no notice to vacate & have chosen to do so of my own accord," he tweeted. The National Conference vice president said he is searching for a suitable accommodation which may take eight to 10 weeks in view of the constraints caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.  "Consequent upon the change in entitlements for former CMs of J&K some months ago, I now find myself in an unauthorized occupation of this accommodation as no attempt has been made to regularise the allotment to me on security or any other grounds.This is a situation that is unacceptable to me," he said.  Abdullah said he has never held on to any government property that he was not entitled to and "I have no intention to start now".  Former chief ministers in erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir State were entitled to government accommodation either in Jammu or Srinagar but this entitlement was withdrawn by the administration earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omar-abdullah-to-vacate-government-accommodation-in-srinagar-884774.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Unnao rape case: CBI cites lapses, recommends appropriate action against four officials||The CBI has recommended "appropriate action" against four officials, including an IAS officer, citing lapses in handling the case of rape of a minor girl by former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, officials said Wednesday. The central agency, in its letter to the UP Government in August, has named the then DM Unnao and IAS officer Aditi Singh, the then Superintendent of Police and IPS officers Pushpanjali Devi and Neha Pandey posted in Unnao between 2017 and 2018 besides ASP Ashtbhuja Singh who was promoted to IPS in 2019, they said. In its letter, the agency has underlined lapses in handling the rape case of the minor at Sengar's residence in Makhi village, Bangarmau, Unnao by the MLA and subsequent harassment of the family by his henchmen, they said.  The CBI has not sought any disciplinary action instead it has only highlighted the lapses under these officers and left it on the Uttar Pradesh Government to take "appropriate action" in the light of the agency's observations, they said. Aditi Singh, a 2009-batch IAS officer, is presently the DM of Hapur. She was posted as DM, Unnao between January 24, 2017 and October 25, 2017 and the victim had written a number of letters to her about the trauma suffered by her at the hands of the powerful ruling party MLA but no substantial action was taken, they said. Neha Pandey, a 2009 batch IPS officer, is presently posted as Assistant Director in the Intelligence Bureau. She was the Superintendent of Police in Unnao between February, 2016 and October, 2017 and allegedly ignored plea of minor girl who was raped in June, 2017, they said. Pushpanjali Devi, a 2006 batch IPS officer and presently DIG railways, succeeded Pandey and remained SP in the district till April 30, 2018. She also allegedly did not pay any heed to prayers of the victim whose father was also framed in an arms act case and was beaten to death in the jail in April, 2018, they said. The then ASP Ashtbhuja Singh, now posted as Commandant PAC Fatehpur, was also posted in Unnao during the period but allegedly did not take adequate action on the complaints against Sengar, they said.  Last year in December, a Delhi court had convicted Sengar for raping the minor girl in Unnao in 2017 saying the victim's testimony was "truthful and unblemished" against a "powerful person". The court had sentenced Sengar to life imprisonment for rape under the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act for offence of a public servant committing penetrative sexual assault against child. Convicting Sengar, 53, under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the court had said the CBI proved that the victim was a minor. "I found her statement truthful and unblemished that she was sexually assaulted. She was under threat, worried. She is a village girl, not from cosmopolitan educated area... Sengar was powerful person. So she took her time..," the judge had said. The court had noted that after the victim wrote letter to the UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, several criminal cases were filed against her family and "imprints of Sengar" were visible in them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unnao-rape-case-cbi-cites-lapses-recommends-appropriate-action-against-four-officials-884807.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 reaches community transmission stage in Shimla||Community spread of the novel coronavirus has been witnessed in Himachal Pradesh's capital Shimla, a senior health official said Wednesday. In a statement, Shimla Chief Medical Officer Surekha Chopra said the recent data of Covid-19 cases established community spread of the virus. The coronavirus cases are increasing day by day and neither their index cases nor travel history is being found which establishes its community spread, she added. The Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, with just about 70 lakh population, have reached 7,832, according to the data provided by the state health department till Tuesday. "That was why, the monthly meeting of doctors with ASHA workers was held under the open sky in Shimla on September 7 as open-air and sunlight help in reducing the spread of the virus," she said. The Health and Family Welfare Department of Shimla district has launched a campaign to hold routine meetings and workshops of the health department in the open in hospital premises and the September 7 meeting was a part of this campaign, she added. The CMO said wherever possible, the meetings and other programmes should be held in the open. A total of 59 coronavirus patients have succumbed to the virus in the hill state till now. Solan accounts for 15 of the total Covid-19 deaths in the state, followed by 11 in Kangra, eight in Mandi, seven in Shimla, five each in Hamirpur, Chamba and Una, and three in Sirmaur. The number of active cases has climbed to 2,316, Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said. Solan has the highest number of active cases in the state at 477, followed by Kangra (424), Sirmaur (234), Una (206), Hamirpur (180), Shimla (168), Chamba (161), Mandi (160), Bilaspur (153), Kullu (108), Kinnaur (33) and Lahaul-Spiti (12), the data showed. The total number of recoveries has risen to 5,444, the official said, adding that 11 patients have migrated out of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-reaches-community-transmission-stage-in-shimla-884811.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Use earthen pitchers for drinking water than plastic bottles, says Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday interacted with the beneficiaries of PM Street Vendors' Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme from Madhya Pradesh and stressed on the use earthen pitchers instead of single-use plastic bottles for drinking water. He interacted virtually with street vendor Chaganlal and his wife from Sanver in Indore district, Gwalior's Archana Sharma and vegetable vendor Dalchand in Raisen district. Modi advised Chaganlal how to enhance his business by asking customers to return the pipe used in making broomsticks to reduce the cost of making a broomstick. Chaganlal also told Modi that he wantedto enhance his business. The PM advised him to use an earthen pitcher insteadof a single-use plastic bottle for drinkingwater to save the environment. Modi also asked him about the Ujjwala Yojna and how it benefited his family. Interacting with Gwalior's Archana Sharma, Modi asked whether she would serve him 'tikki' (patties) that she sells at her joint. He also asked her about the SVANidhi scheme and how it benefitted her. He also asked her if she is aware of the Ayushman scheme, to which she said her husband was getting treatment through this scheme only. Modi also interacted with her husband Rajendra Sharma. Talking to vegetable vendor Dalchand from Sanchi in Raisen district of Madhya Pradesh, Modi praised him for using the QR code digital platform for receiving payments. He also suggested him ways to improve his vegetable business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/use-earthen-pitchers-for-drinking-water-than-plastic-bottles-says-narendra-modi-884813.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court asks police not to take coercive action against Alt News co-founder for threatening minor||The Delhi High Court Wednesday directed the police not to take any coercive steps against fact-check website Alt News co-founder Mohd Zubair for allegedly threatening and torturing of a minor girl on social media. Justice Yogesh Khanna also sought response of the police and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), on whose complaint a case was lodged, on the journalist’s plea seeking quashing of the FIR against him. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on December 8. Delhi Police has registered an FIR against Zubair on August 9 for alleged offences under the Information Technology Act for allegedly threatening and torturing a girl child on Twitter. He approached the high court seeking quashing of the FIR against him. He also sought a copy of the FIR. The court asked the police to provide him the copy of FIR so that he can respond to the allegations. Zubair refuted the allegation levelled in the FIR as “an absolutely frivolous complaint”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-asks-police-not-to-take-coercive-action-against-alt-news-co-founder-for-threatening-minor-884816.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Two Pakistani intruders killed along International Border in Rajasthan||The BSF killed two Pakistani nationals trying to sneak into India through the International Border in Rajasthan's Sri Ganganagar sector in the early hours of Wednesday, an official said. The Border Security Force recovered two pistols, Pakistani currency and eight kg heroin, among other things, from the intruders after the incident, they said. Early this morning, two persons were seen approaching the fencing near Khyaliwala border post in Sri Ganganagar sector, Deputy Inspector General, Rajasthan Frontier, Madan Singh Rathore said. "The guards on patrol challenged them and asked them to return. They did not heed the warning and the patrol party fired at them," he said, adding that both the intruders were killed in the firing. The BSF recovered two pistols, some live cartridges and magazines, eight packets containing one kg heroin each, a night vision device and Pakistani currency worth Rs 13,000 from the intruders. On the basis of an identity card recovered from one of the intruders, he has been identified as Shahbaz Ali, Rathore said, adding that the other hasn't been identified yet. "We have initiated the process of handing over the bodies to Pakistani Rangers by holding a meeting with them," he said. This is the second such incident in a little over a month. A Pakistani national was shot dead by the BSF at the BKD border post in Barmer district's Bakhasar village on August 7 while he was trying to cross the fencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-pakistani-intruders-killed-along-international-border-in-rajasthan-884830.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||India condemns bomb attack on Afghanistan's Vice President Amrullah Saleh||India on Wednesday strongly condemned the deadly bomb attack targeting Afghanistan's first Vice President Amrullah Saleh in Kabul. The Afghan vice president was "slightly injured" in the bomb attack on his convoy this morning that killed 10 people and injured more than a dozen, according to Afghan media reports. "India strongly condemns cowardly terrorist attack on Afg VP @AmrullahSaleh2. Our condolences to martyrs & prayers with injured," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Twitter. He said India stands with Afghanistan in the fight to eradicate "terror infrastructure and sponsors" for enduring peace in that country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-condemns-bomb-attack-on-afghanistans-vice-president-amrullah-saleh-884832.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Haryana Education Minister tests positive for coronavirus||Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal said on Wednesday that he has tested positive for coronavirus. He requested all those who might have come in his contact during the past few days to isolate themselves and get their tests done. “After some symptoms, I got my Covid test done and it returned positive. I request all those who might have come in my contact to isolate themselves and get their tests done,” the minister tweeted. The minister's aide said that Kanwar Pal's report came positive in the morning and he was currently in Chandigarh. In a tweet, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar wished the minister a speedy recovery. Earlier, Khattar, Power Minister Ranjeet Singh Chautala, Agriculture Minister J P Dalal, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma and Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta had also tested positive for the infection. Khattar was admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram after he tested positive on August 25. The chief minister is making steady progress in his recovery from the infection, hospital authorities said on Tuesday. As of Tuesday, Haryana had 81,059 Covid-19 cases and 854 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-education-minister-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-884855.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Poet Munawwar Rana's daughter claims she has been put under house arrest, police deny||Noted poet Munawwar Rana's daughter Sumaiya Rana, who had given a call to hold a demonstration near Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s residence to protest against the government’s alleged failure in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, on Wednesday claimed she has been put under house arrest, a charge denied by the police. "I have been put under house arrest since Monday evening. There is police outside my residence in Kaiserbagh locality. I have not been allowed to move outside,” Sumaiya told PTI. “This is the violation of my rights,” she added, while claiming that policemen have also been deployed outside her father Munawwar Rana's residence. "I have not been shown any notice or order regarding house arrest. I have got a notice on Tuesday saying that there is a restriction on agitations due to Covid-19. The notice also said the high court has also restricted agitations in Hazratganj and Gautampalli areas," she said. She said she was to hold a protest demonstration at Kalidas Marg crossing on Tuesday over the government’s failure to deal with the Covid-19 situation in the state. Holding "peaceful protests is our constitutional right", said Sumaiya, who along with her sister Uzma Parveen had played a key role in the anti-CAA protests in the state capital in December-January. Cases against them were registered on charges of public obstruction, making objectionable comments on social media, violating Section 144 of the CrPC and disturbing peace. "The government has failed to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and all arrangements have collapsed. It's people's right to raise voice against the failure of government," she said. Police, however, denied Sumaiya’s allegations. "No action has been taken against anyone. No one has been put under house arrest," Kaiserbagh SHO Dinanant Mishra told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/poet-munawwar-ranas-daughter-claims-she-has-been-put-under-house-arrest-police-deny-884863.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Man arrested with 7 cartridges at IGI airport||A 41-year-old man was arrested after seven cartridges were found in his hand baggage during a security check at Terminal-3 of the Indira Gandhi International Airport here, police said on Wednesday. The man has been identified as Kalathiya Rajeshbhai, a resident of Surat in Gujarat. He works as a labour contractor and was travelling from Delhi to Ahmedabad, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said five live and two empty cartridges were recovered from the passenger during pre-embarkation security check at IGI's T-3 by the Central Industrial Security Force on Tuesday. "During questioning, he produced his arms licence and asserted that the ammunition recovered from his hand baggage actually belongs to his licensed weapon and he was not conscious about the presence of rounds in his bag," he said. A case has been registered against him under sections of the Arms act since the arms license produced by him is valid only for the state of Gujarat, he said. A total of 51 such cases under the Arms Act have been registered by the IGI Airport Unit during the current year so far in which passengers have been inadvertently or knowingly detected with ammunition while security screening at the airport, the DCP said. The officer said despite issuing appeals to the public that "carrying ammunition at the airport is a non-bailable offence", such cases where ammunition or cartridges are detected in the baggage of the passengers are still being reported, which is a matter of concern.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-with-7-cartridges-at-igi-airport-884889.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh bypolls: A test for political parties before next Assembly elections||Billed as the mini assembly polls before the bigger battle in little over a year's time, the forthcoming bypolls for eight seats in Uttar Pradesh would be a test for all the major players, especially the ruling BJP and the main opposition Samajwadi Party (SP). The bypolls are being held at a time when the BJP government led by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is facing flak from the opposition parties over the alleged deteriorating condition of law and order in the state and its failure to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. Of the eight seats going to the polls, six were won by the BJP in the 2017 assembly elections. The remaining two seats were won by the SP. While the BJP would strive hard to make a clean sweep by winning all the seats, the SP would also not leave any stone unturned to not only retain its seats but also snatch a few from the saffron party. Congress and BSP would also apply full strength to make their presence felt, and if possible spring some surprise as well. According to the political observers in UP, the results of the bypolls could reflect a ''broad trend'' in this politically crucial state.   ''A clean sweep for BJP will further strengthen Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's position in the party....he may be given a greater say in the selection of the party candidates in the assembly polls,'' said a political analyst here. He said that the opposition will certainly make law and order, 'woes' of the migrant workers and rising cases of Covid-19 its main plank in the bypolls. The constituencies, where a tough contest is expected, include Swar, which fell vacant after the disqualification of firebrand SP Muslim leader Azam Khan's son Abdullah Azam and Unnao, where a bypoll has been necessitated after the disqualification of expelled rape convict former BJP MLA Kuldeep Senger. The bypolls are likely to be held next month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bypolls-a-test-for-political-parties-before-next-assembly-elections-884894.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Tamil Nadu students to get 5-day break from online classes||In a respite to school students attending online classes in the state, the Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday announced there would be a five-day break for them starting September 21 to reduce their stress and help them refresh. School Education Minister K A Sengottaiyan said a brief vacation has been planned for the school students to help reduce their stress. "On normal occasions, students are provided quarterly and half-yearly holidays. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, schools had to switch to online mode of teaching. With Chief Minister K Palaniswami's consent, online classes and telecast of video lessons on television channels will not be conducted from September 21 to 25," he said. Speaking to reporters in Gobichettipalayam, he said this vacation for students would help them refresh. All the schools, including private institutions, would be monitored by block-level officers to check whether classes are conducted during these five days, the Minister added. On the Centre's standard operating procedures (SOP) for partial re-opening of schools for students of classes 9 to 12, Sengottaiyan said the consultation would be done after the Covid-19 situation improves in Tamil Nadu. On Saturday, the government had directed the schools not to compel students to attend online classes. Commissioner of School Education Sigy Thomas Vaidhyan wrote to all Chief Educational Officers (CEOs) in the state directing them not to compel students to attend online classes. Teachers have also been asked to ensure all students, who have been absent from online sessions, are suitably coached and brought on par with other students when the schools reopen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tamil-nadu-students-to-get-5-day-break-from-online-classes-884904.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Negative Covid-19 test report, prior hotel booking must for visiting Una’s Chintpurni temple||For people visiting famous Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh's Una district from outside the state, a negative Covid-19 test report and a prior hotel booking for two days will be mandatory. Chintpurni temple is one of the five “Shakti Peeths” located in the state. The other four are Jwalamukhi, Vajreshwari and Chamunda Devi in Kangra and Naina Devi in Bilaspur district. Issuing the standard operating procedure (SOP) for visitors to Chintpurni temple in Amb tehsil from outside the state, Una Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar said a negative “reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for Covid-19 would be a must. The other mandatory requirement will be that of prior hotel booking for at least two days, he added. Chintpurni temple along with other religious places in Himachal Pradesh is being reopened from September 10. Religious places in the state were closed for the general public on March 16 to check the spread of novel coronavirus. All the devotees will have to register themselves at Chintpurni Sadan before going to pay obeisance at the temple, the deputy commissioner said. All the devotees will be medically screened and symptomatic people will not be allowed to visit the temple, he said, adding that they would be isolated and hospitalised. Urging the devotees to abide by the guidelines issued by the state government and the district administration, Sandeep Kumar said that all types of offerings including Prasad, coconut and flower will not be allowed in the temple. As per the SOP, issued earlier by the state government for visiting religious shrines, the visitors will be barred from touching any statue or the temple bells etc, said Kumar. The visitors will have to adhere to all the anti-Covid precautions including maintaining physical distancing, wearing of face masks, etc, he added. People above 65 years of age and children below 10 years, besides persons with comorbidities and pregnant women are advised to stay at home, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/negative-covid-19-test-report-prior-hotel-booking-must-for-visiting-una-s-chintpurni-temple-884906.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur condemns BMC demolition at Kangana Ranaut's bungalow||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur condemned the demolition of a portion of Kangana Ranaut's Mumbai bungalow by the civic body Wednesday, saying she "is a daughter" of the state and she should get a "proper atmosphere" to work in her field. Speaking on a point of order raised by Independent MLA from Dehra, Hoshyar Singh, in the assembly, the chief minister said the demolition at Ranaut's office is a matter of concern. A notice had been served to the Bollywood actor but the demolition happened without completing the process, Thakur said. "We condemn this move." The Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished "illegal alterations" at the Bandra bungalow of the 33-year-old actor, a civic official said in Mumbai. Ranaut, who reached Mumbai after the demolition process began, has alleged the Maharashtra government was targeting her because of her fight with the Shiv Sena after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and said she feared Mumbai police more than the movie mafia following the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. On Tuesday, the Shiv Sena government said Mumbai police will probe allegations that Ranaut took drugs. She has also spoken about drug abuse by a section of the film industry. On Wednesday, the Himachal Pradesh chief minister said his government has provided security at Ranaut's Manali residence and 11 CRPF commandos would accompany her wherever she would go in the country as part of the Y-plus security provided by the Centre. Himachal Pradesh will do its best to ensure her security, Thakur added. "Kangana is a daughter of Himachal Pradesh and she has brought laurels not only to the state but to the entire country," he said in the assembly, adding she should get proper atmosphere to work in her field. At this, Congress legislator Ram Lal Thakur said the matter of her office is sub-judice, so making any comment in the assembly on it is not proper. The Naina Deviji MLA said as far as the privilege motion moved against Ranaut in the Maharashtra Assembly is concerned, it is not appropriate to discuss the motion in Himachal Assembly. "We should consider legal aspects," he added. Thakur said he has not commented on the privilege motion or the court proceeding. Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihtori said he agreed that Ranaut should be provided security but "we cannot intervene in the privilege motion moved in Maharashtra Assembly as stated by Ram Lal Thakur". Sarkaghat BJP MLA Inder Singh said Ranaut's native village is in his assembly segment. "Her father is a family friend and she is from my constituency," he said adding he was worried about her. Education Minister and Manali MLA Govind Singh Thakur said Ranaut also has a house in his constituency. "She keeps on speaking against the wrong things. She also spoke regarding Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the drug mafia," he said, thanking the chief minister for providing her security. On Wednesday, the Bombay High Court stayed the demolition process underway at Ranaut's bungalow and sought to know how the civic body entered the property when the owner was not present. The court posted the matter for hearing on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-cm-jai-ram-thakur-condemns-bmc-demolition-at-kangana-ranauts-bungalow-884913.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Only dedicated police teams to issue challans for violating Covid-19 norms in Delhi||All police stations in Delhi will have a dedicated team to check violations of Covid-19 regulations like wearing of masks, as the traffic wing has been withdrawn from such duties and asked to focus on maintaining vehicular movement that is returning to near normal. No other police personnel will be allowed to issue challans in this regard. So far, the Delhi Traffic Police was given the mandate of issuing challans for spitting in public, not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms among others that were put in place to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. An order issued by the traffic wing said that it has been decided that traffic police shall not challan any person for not wearing masks or spitting in public places etc. According to an order issued by the office of Delhi Police Commissioner, the traffic police will concentrate on regulating the traffic and should not be assigned the task of prosecuting public for violating Covid-19 protocol. "The primary attention (of traffic police) shall be regulating traffic in view of near normalcy of traffic on the roads. As regards prosecution for traffic violations, they shall concentrate on those violations which affect the security of road users," it said. The order said each police station should assign one "dedicated" team in uniform in one particular location to prosecute violators. "The district Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) shall select one area/location by rotation where the violation is noticed for prosecution under the supervision of the Inspector for the concerned police station," it said. As such, one dedicated team from all police stations should be on duty at one location from 10 AM to 6 PM. The order has made it clear that other police personnel, who are deployed for checking at pickets, patrolling and those engaged in crime control, should not prosecute people for violations of Covid-19 regulations. They should "concentrate" on crime control and law and order management and should not be issued challan books, it said. All challan books available with district/traffic policemen shall be taken back and kept in safe custody under the knowledge of concerned Deputy Commissioners of Police. According to Delhi Police data, a total of 3,06,693 challans were issued till 4 pm on September 8. This includes 2,77,131 challans for not wearing masks, 2,434 for spitting in public places and 26,116 for violating social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-dedicated-police-teams-to-issue-challans-for-violating-covid-19-norms-in-delhi-884924.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain moves Delhi High Court against ED custody||Suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain Wednesday approached the Delhi High Court challenging his three days remand to ED custody in a money laundering case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Hussain has sought setting aside the remand order of September 7, passed by a trial court and a direction to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to immediately send him to Tihar jail. The plea came up before Justice Yogesh Khanna who asked the counsel for Hussain to place on record the judgements which he was referring to and listed it for hearing on Thursday. The ED was probing the allegation that Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs 1.10 crore funds, by using purported shell or dummy companies, to fuel the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the riots. In his plea before the high court, Hussain said he was formally arrested by ED on August 20 from Tihar jail and on August 28, he was remanded to the six days in the agency’s custody. The ED again sought extension of Hussain’s custody by nine days and the court on September 7 granted them three days to quiz him with the direction that he be handed over to Tihar jail authorities on September 10. Hussain’s counsel challenged the trial court’s extension of remand order on the ground that the 15 days period for grant of police custody has to begin from the date of formal arrest, that is, August 20 and thus, further extension of police remand is not permissible in law. ED had earlier told the trial court that Hussain was allegedly involved in money laundering and various other fraudulent acts of cheating, falsification and forgery of documents, and criminal conspiracy. ED had alleged that Hussain had entered into a criminal conspiracy by fraudulently transferring money from the accounts of many companies. The money so obtained are allegedly proceeds of crime which were then used for committing various other scheduled offences, the agency had claimed. Hussain’s counsel had claimed that he was a victim of circumstances and was not required for custodial interrogation as he faced the threat of torture. Hussain was arrested in connection with the riots in northeast Delhi in February. He has also been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a conspiracy case related to the riots. He was also arrested in connection with the alleged murder of IB official Ankit Sharma during the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-moves-delhi-high-court-against-ed-custody-884925.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||13-million-year-old fossil ape discovered in Uttarakhand||An international team of researchers has unearthed a 13-million-year-old fossil of a newly discovered ape species in Uttarakhand, which is the earliest known ancestor of the modern-day gibbon. The finding, published in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B, fills a major void in the ape fossil record and provides important new evidence about when the ancestors of today's gibbon migrated to Asia from Africa. The fossil, a complete lower molar, belongs to a previously unknown genus and species (Kapi ramnagarensis), and represents the first new fossil ape species discovered at the famous fossil site of Ramnagar in nearly a century. The researchers, including those from Arizona State University in the US and Panjab University in Chandigarh, were climbing a small hill in an area where a fossil primate jaw had been found the year before. While pausing for a short rest, the team spotted something shiny in a small pile of dirt on the ground. "We knew immediately it was a primate tooth, but it did not look like the tooth of any of the primates previously found in the area," said Christopher C. Gilbert, from City University of New York in the US. "From the shape and size of the molar, our initial guess was that it might be from a gibbon ancestor, but that seemed too good to be true, given that the fossil record of lesser apes is virtually nonexistent,” Gilbert noted. He explained that there are other primate species known during that time, and no gibbon fossils have previously been found anywhere near Ramnagar. Since the fossil's discovery in 2015, years of study, analysis, and comparison were conducted to verify that the tooth belongs to a new species, as well as to accurately determine its place in the ape family tree, the researchers said. The molar was photographed and CT-scanned, and comparative samples of living and extinct ape teeth were examined to highlight important similarities and differences in dental anatomy, they said. "What we found was quite compelling and undeniably pointed to the close affinities of the 13-million-year-old tooth with gibbons," said Alejandra Ortiz, from Arizona State University, who is part of the research team. "Even if, for now, we only have one tooth, and thus, we need to be cautious, this is a unique discovery. It pushes back the oldest known fossil record of gibbons by at least five million years, providing a much-needed glimpse into the early stages of their evolutionary history," said Ortiz. The researchers noted that the age of the fossil, around 13 million years old, is contemporaneous with well-known great ape fossils. This provides evidence that the migration of great apes, including orangutan ancestors, and lesser apes from Africa to Asia happened around the same time and through the same places, they said. "I found the biogeographic component to be really interesting," said Chris Campisano from Arizona State University. "Today, gibbons and orangutans can both be found in Sumatra and Borneo in Southeast Asia, and the oldest fossil apes are from Africa. "Knowing that gibbon and orangutan ancestors existed in the same spot together in northern India 13 million years ago, and may have a similar migration history across Asia, is pretty cool," Campisano added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-million-year-old-fossil-ape-discovered-in-uttarakhand-884938.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||CBI books Delhi Additional DCP for 'submitting' forged documents for DANIPS selection||The CBI has books Delhi Police Additional DCP Sanjay Kumar for allegedly submitting forged credentials and documents for selection in the Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Police Service (DANIPS), officials said Wednesday. The agency's teams carried out searches at the office and residential premises of Kumar on Wednesday after registering the case, they said. The CBI acted on a complaint against Kumar that he used credentials of another person having similar name to get selected in DANIPS, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-books-delhi-additional-dcp-for-submitting-forged-documents-for-danips-selection-884948.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Cop suspended for sending obscene picture to woman constable||A police constable in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur district was suspended for allegedly sending a message with an obscene picture to a woman colleague, a senior officer said on Wednesday. A probe has been ordered into the matter, he said. "Constable Nisar Hussain, who was posted at Kotwali police station, had sent an obscene picture to a woman constable, following which she complained. Prima facie, Nisar Hussain has been found guilty, and has been suspended with immediate effect," Superintendent of Police S Anand told PTI. He said Circle Officer (city) Praveen Kumar has been asked to probe the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cop-suspended-for-sending-obscene-picture-to-woman-constable-885028.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire in 2 sectors along LoC in Poonch, shells heavily||Pakistan army violated ceasefire on Wednesday by resorting to heavy firing and mortar shelling in forward areas in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, officials said. "At about 1730 hours today, Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Degwar and Malti sector," a Defence spokesman said. Indian Army retaliated befittingly, he said. There was no report of any casualty on the Indian side, the spokesman said, adding the exchange of fire between the two sides was going on when last reports were received.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-2-sectors-along-loc-in-poonch-shells-heavily-885032.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Dry weather in Delhi, rain unlikely over next few days||Dry weather pushed the mercury up slightly in the national capital on Wednesday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a maximum of 35.6 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. Humidity levels shot up to 90 per cent causing slight inconvenience to residents. According to the Met department forecast, the maximum temperature is expected to rise by a few notches as rainfall is unlikely over the next few days. The city has recorded just 20.9 mm rainfall against the normal of 58.3 mm -- a deficiency of 64 per cent -- in September so far.    Overall, it has recorded 576.5 mm precipitation against the normal of 582.1 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dry-weather-in-delhi-rain-unlikely-over-next-few-days-885035.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Couple garlanded with shoes, paraded in Uttar Pradesh village; 12 people held||Twelve people were held in Kushinagar district of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday after a man and a woman were allegedly paraded in a village there, wearing garlands of shoes and their faces blackened, police said. The incident took place in the Hata police station area of Kushinagar, and a purported video of it surfaced on social media, they added. The 'sabhasad' (representative of the ward) is among those taken into custody, Superintendent of Police Vinod Kumar Mishra said. "A video of Hata area of the district went viral on social media which shows that a woman and a man were made to wear a garland of shoes, and with blackened faces, they were paraded in the village. Police have taken cognisance of the matter, and 12 people, including the 'sabhasad', have been taken into custody," he said. "Police are interrogating them. Strict action will be taken against the culprit," the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/couple-garlanded-with-shoes-paraded-in-uttar-pradesh-village-12-people-held-885056.html
09-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab: 108 social media accounts blocked over Covid-19 hate propaganda||The Punjab Police on Wednesday said it has got 38 Facebook, 49 Twitter and 21 YouTube accounts and links blocked by competent authorities for spreading vicious propaganda on coronavirus. “A total of 151 accounts/links of Facebook, 100 of Twitter, four of Instagram and 37 of YouTube have been reported to the authorities concerned, with 121 FIRs registered so far at various police stations across Punjab,” a government release said. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said the force had taken up the matter of blocking the spiteful accounts of “anti-national” and “anti-social” elements with Cyber Law Division of the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, following which 108 accounts/links have been blocked so far. Further action on the remaining accounts is awaited, he said. The top cop said the competent authorities of the social media platforms had also been requested to provide information of the users. Suitable legal action will be initiated against the miscreants under relevant provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Indian Penal Code as soon as the user information is received, he asserted. Commenting on the matter, Arpit Shukla, Director Bureau of Investigations said the State Cyber Crime Cell, Punjab, has appealed to the people not to share any kind of unverified or unauthentic posts, news, videos or stories regarding Covid-19 on social media, in the interest of the safety, security and maintenance of public order. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had ordered the crackdown amid widespread rumour-mongering and spread of fake news and spiteful videos on social media platforms, intentionally to spread hatred, misinformation and disaffection. Videos are being uploaded by anti-social elements to incite the public in the name of “human organ trade during Covid-19”, the release said. A wave of misinformation is being spread through various social media platforms that doctors and paramedics are falsely declaring people Covid-19 positive and then taking out their organs for monetary benefits, it said. “These obnoxious posts/videos on social media are not only defamatory to the state government and doctors, but are also seen discouraging people from testing and treatment for Covid-19 from various health facilities,” the release said. Notably, circulation of several rumours, including organ harvesting at government health facilities, has turned out to be a new challenge for the state health department in its fight against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-108-social-media-accounts-blocked-over-covid-19-hate-propaganda-885091.html
09-09-2020||Opinion||Understanding China’s LAC deployment capabilities||All eyes are on the meeting between Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart on September 10 in Moscow, nevertheless, it has increasingly become clear over the past few weeks that the two countries are preparing for a long-drawn standoff in Eastern Ladakh.  Despite multiple rounds of military and diplomatic talks between India and China, the disengagement and de-escalation process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) appears to have stalled. In fact, the last few days of August and early September witnessed renewed jostling along Pangong Tso, one of the sites where India says the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had advanced in April-May to change the status quo. The spike in tensions at Pangong Tso came after nearly two months of talks leading to little material change in the ground situation. In that time, the rhetoric from Beijing had been positive, but this did not translate into actions on the ground. This approach, at best, reflects a willful denial of the changed bilateral circumstances after the Galwan Valley clashes and, at worst, a complete lack of understanding about the mood in India.  For the Indian government, restoration of the status quo ante in Eastern Ladakh is not just a critical military objective but also a political imperative. One can view Indian ambassador Vikram Misri’s recent outreach to officials from China’s Central Military Commission and Foreign Affairs Commission in this context. Nevertheless, it appears that neither have these meetings nor have the punitive economic measures or posturing by New Delhi forced a rethink in Beijing. What complicates the situation further is the opacity around the political objective that the Chinese leadership aims to achieve through this standoff, because, at present, it appears that Beijing has made minor tactical gains in exchange for strategic losses. The question that then arises is how well is the PLA positioned to deal with such a situation. In our assessment, organisational and structural reforms carried out over the past few years along with new equipment development have enhanced the PLA’s capacity to hold the fort. Chinese troops could continue to hold the territories that they have encroached upon, with logistics, supplies, equipment maintenance, and the weather being the key challenges. In fact, given the infrastructure development on the Chinese side and equipment availability, the PLA might enjoy a relative advantage in this context. For instance, former Indian army generals have written about the PLA troops at the LAC being fresher during patrols because they travel in centrally-heated vehicles. However, an exchange of hostilities and the broadening of the stand-off into multiple theatres will present formidable challenges for the Chinese forces. Chinese troop strength and firepower Besides, it is also home to China’s two most politically sensitive and unstable regions: Xinjiang and Tibet. Here, the PLA supports the work of the People’s Armed Police in maintaining social stability. Thus, WTC’s total strength cannot be deployed in entirety for an Indian contingency along the LAC in the short term. But, one swallow does not make a summer. This process of deployment from other theatres will be challenging. These soldiers will require at least 10 to 14 days of acclimatisation before being deployable and combat-ready. This is because CTC and Southern Theatre Command forces are largely based along the plains of the Yellow and Yangtze Rivers. Deployment on the Tibet plateau with tougher climatic conditions, therefore, cannot be immediate without acclimatisation. The aircraft range from the J-10s, J-11s, J-16s to Su-27s, among others. As of now, there have been no reports of the Su-35s being deployed at forward bases facing India. However, the H-6 strategic bombers, whose jurisdiction went to CTC from WTC during the recent reforms, are reportedly deployed with China’s forward bases facing India. These were also deployed in the frontline bases during the 2017 Doklam stand-off. Under the current circumstances, both China and India have made significant deployments to ensure that a stalemate continues for an extended period. Yet, the possibility of escalation cannot be ruled out. This, however, will depend on events on the ground along with the changing incentives of each side. (Manoj Kewalramani and Suyash Desai are with the China Studies Programme at the Takshashila Institution) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/understanding-china-s-lac-deployment-capabilities-884952.html
09-09-2020||Opinion||Whither the basic structure?||Kesavananda Bharati, the head of Edneer mutt in Kasaragod, who passed away on Monday, left a major imprint on India’s constitutional history, as few others did. It was a case that he filed challenging the acquisition of the mutt property by the Kerala government under the land reforms law that led to the enunciation of the idea of the basic structure of the Constitution by the Supreme Court in 1973. Bharati lost his personal battle as the court rejected his claim to the mutt property, which he said was inalienable under the fundamental rights relating to property, profession of religion and management of religious property. But he won an unintended war for protection of the principles at the heart of the Constitution. A 13-judge bench sat for 68 days to pronounce the judgement which circumscribed Parliament’s power to amend the Constitution.  The basic structure doctrine has since guided constitutional thought and decisions by courts on a number of issues. It has given a sense of stability and reassurance to the polity and the republic and has been used as the standard to test the validity of amendments to the Constitution and of laws enacted by the legislature. Ironically, the court which conceived the idea did not define the basic structure. There were disagreements among the judges about what constituted it. The court has also not clarified it since then. But it is accepted that parliamentary democracy, fundamental rights, separation of powers, secularism and federalism are all essential features of the Constitution. It has been said that the lack of a definition has introduced an element of subjectivity into the interpretation. This is not correct because it is not a single judge but a bench of many who would usually make an important interpretation. But a bench of one generation can have a different view from a bench of another generation. There is also a view that the judgement tilts the balance in favour of the judiciary in relation to other organs of State.  But a more important question is whether the idea of the inviolability of the basic structure has prevented the abuse of the Constitution. It was just two years after the Kesavananda Bharati case judgement that the fundamental rights of citizens were suspended during the Emergency, and the courts could not do anything about it. Those rights are under pressure even now and there have been legislations, decisions and actions by the government that are at odds with what is considered to be the basic structure. It has given rise to apprehension whether the basic structure can be undermined even without amending the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/whither-the-basic-structure-885115.html
09-09-2020||Opinion||What the Northeast faces from Delhi is environmental racism||The central government’s step-motherly treatment towards the Northeast and its indigenous peoples is not a new phenomenon. Northeast India comprises mostly of indigenous tribal populations living in the hinterlands and the frontiers of the country, who are seen as being culturally different from people living in mainland India. There have been several instances of ‘othering’ and stereotyping these people by the people of mainland India. The voices of these people have also been under-represented in the political sphere. While the racism experienced by people of the Northeast does get some amount of mainstream media attention, the environmental racism against the region is yet to be recognised. It all started when the Government of India stooped to a new low with the recent environmental controversies surrounding the land and its people. The National Board of Wildlife (NBWL) has recently given its approval to use 98.59 hectares of land that is a part of the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Reserve, often known as the “Amazon of the East”, for coal mining to Coal India Limited. Despite widespread protests against the allotment from all quarters in the Northeast, the voices fell on the deaf ears of the government, much like it always has been the case, be it the silencing of the voices during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests or the excruciating pain and suffering of the people in the recent Assam floods. And this is not the only case in recent times. Another environmental disaster struck Assam on June 9 -- a gas leak at Oil India’s Baghjan oil field. The disaster killed two people and displaced more than 7,000. The disaster also had a huge impact on the local biodiversity of Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. Following the disaster, there were several discrepancies that came up that indicated how sheer negligence on the part of the government could have led to the disaster. For any oil drilling firm to carry out oil and gas exploration in an eco-sensitive zone, it requires public hearings and an environmental impact assessment plan. However, in this particular case, it was found that the Union Environment Ministry tweaked this norm in January this year, exempting oil and gas firms looking to conduct exploratory drilling from seeking environmental clearance. Even more shameful is that despite the horrible incident and strong public protest by the people of the region, the Environment Ministry gave further clearance to seven more oil drilling sites inside the same Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, crushing public good for economic gains. Apart from these recent incidents, there have been several instances like the Etalin Dam in Arunachal Pradesh, Dibang Multi-purpose project and nearly 169 other dams that are being built in the region which have been vehemently opposed by the local people. These projects are set to displace some 26 major tribes and 100 sub-tribes from their land. But the government uses the jargon of economic growth and prosperity and superlatives like “the longest”, “the biggest” for these projects to carry on with its agenda. The most recent and the most draconian addition to the list is the draft amendment to the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) rules. Under the draft amendments, the government has defined several classes of projects that will be exempt from public consultations, one among which are projects that are within 100 km of the country’s borders. In the Northeast (the region represents 98% of the total international border area that India shares with Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, China and Myanmar), most projects would fall within 100 km of an international border and therefore not need public consultation anymore. The Northeast is one of the most ecologically sensitive areas of India, where the people of the land have worshipped and preserved its forests for centuries. These untouched forests now stand endangered due to the new amendments, if enforced. The proposed changes in the EIA rules are also in contravention of the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, which empowers the tribal Northeast states with the right to look after their lands, customs and natural resources. The draft EIA rules therefore, if implemented, will leave no scope for public consultation with the people of the land and would deprive them of their basic rights granted by the Constitution. The tribal groups in the Northeast have always strived to live in harmony with nature. However, successive governments have tried to use their innocence to pursue their own interests. This, to the extent that today tribal groups comprise 40-50% of the displaced population in India, although their share in the total population is only 8%. This skewed phenomenon needs to be addressed before it’s too late. The price of economic development can’t be the destruction of the ecology and ethnicity of the land. Economic development and environmental sustainability should be complementary, not at the cost of one another. As His Holiness the Dalai Lama once said, “It is our collective and individual responsibility to preserve and tend to the world in which we all live.” I hope, we will all collectively fight for the cause and save Northeast India’s mesmerizing cultural, geographic and ethnic richness from being ruined in the name of concrete development. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his recent address to the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) called on the industry to think in terms of the PPP ‘triple-bottom-line’, emphasizing on the importance of taking care of people and planet, along with profit. I hope his government’s actions will walk the talk in matters relating to environmental sustainability and do not curb the voice of the first ‘P’ in PPP -- the people. (The writer is a development economist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-the-northeast-faces-from-delhi-is-environmental-racism-885120.html
09-09-2020||Panorama||Digital access, democratic rights||A few days ago, Omidyar Network India launched a report that highlighted what could be the new trajectory of digital innovation in the government. The Covid-19 pandemic is an opportune moment to transition into digital service delivery. Yet, as we navigate concerns of where such technology can be deployed, appropriate legal frameworks, governance models and concerns of state surveillance --it is also a moment to think deeply about questions of inclusion and access. The pandemic has made visible what everyone always knew – the enormous gap between the state and the citizen. Digital solutions can have an impact in bridging this gap as they may offset the opportunity costs. Easily accessible and navigable technologies in this space may be able to enable many citizens to make claims. Technology may also create an accessible trail of data – in particular, governments are stymied in serving citizens. It may, if done very carefully with appropriate design and accountability mechanisms, also enable visualising problems while masking identity.  Thinking about inclusion, therefore, is more than just functional. Yes, it does widen the networks that access a platform – amplifying what is called network effect. Dangerously, these wide networks may enable the creation of monopolies in data and access, or enable the amplification of the work of some bad actors. However, the quest for inclusion needs to be framed from the lens of who the state is supposed to serve. And the answer to that is everyone. This is encoded in the legal and constitutional framework. Everyone has a right to access the state.  This fundamental insight into the nature of a government platform (as ODEs are) is the entry point to building for inclusion. Thinking about inclusion and reach is indeed a duty for platforms of the government. Thinking about inclusion at the outset may offer modest efficiency gains as retrofitting programs may be costly and difficult.  Doing this is hard work and requires us to recognise the lived realities of state access and digital use. Ongoing empirical research at Aapti Institute (as yet unpublished), in the context of government technology, is highlighting breakdowns at the ground in awareness – both of rights with respect to the state and of the availability of digital solutions, and ability to navigate digital solutions and trust the state. This fraying of awareness and ability is fundamental, wide-spread, and amplifies breakdowns in state accountability for the most vulnerable. It has the potential to undermine any potential value from digital ecosystems. At its worst, it encodes and widens access gaps along existing lines of caste, gender and community.  However, these very lived realities of how people navigate these breakdowns to access their rights give us hope and suggest an opportunity. Our research shows the continued role of the civil and political society in bridging the gap between the citizen and the state. NGOs and CSOs play a significant role in going beyond their mandates to ensure access in wider access in a variety of domains. NGOs, that work in disparate areas, help citizen file grievances and make claims through technology. Local political leadership – both informal community-level leaders and elected officials – play a significant role in bridging these access gaps by directly interfacing with government officials.  While these types of intermediation are embedded in political economies of their own – for instance, rational politicians seek re-election over everything else - leaning on the intermediaries carefully can offer leverage for inclusion. Intermediaries can be supported to be actors for trust, and navigating digital solutions. Over time, it may also become clear that some aspects of interfacing with the state are best left to the civil and political society. Equally, thinking about accessibility and inclusion from the technological perspective such as availability in multiple languages, inclusion for disabled and more needs thought. Thinking about the limits of tech here, and leaning on offline architectures where relevant can support ODEs to achieve impact. However, just this is not it. It is critical to transcend these functional gains around enhanced use and adoption and embed cultures of inclusion in ODEs. Inclusion by design as an approach offers a pathway. However, care must be taken to move from design principles to enforceable inclusion. Simultaneously, we must think of how to retrofit solutions around inclusion.   The starting point is to acknowledge that engagement with the state is about citizenship – which includes claiming accountability of institutions of the state. Community institutions play a critical and enduring role in this. Technology-enabled access to the state can be one of many rallying points around which groups of citizens come together to assert democratic rights.   (The writer is the Founder of Aapti Institute)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/digital-access-democratic-rights-884730.html
09-09-2020||Panorama||Forced linguistic unity bad idea||A language, at the most rudimentary level is a means of communication. With the progress of human civilization, language has added more value to itself than just being a medium of conversation. It has come to be a source of identity and a thread through which the culture of a community is passed on from one generation to another. Hence language becomes a unifying force and has historically played an important role in the formation of nation-states. But we also see examples of countries, which comprise of people speaking different languages and still constitute a single nation. India is one such unique nation. However, in the years subsequent to independence, there have been subtle and not so subtle attempts at imposing the predominantly spoken language, Hindi, on the non-Hindi speaking states in the name of national unity.  While Hindi was introduced as a third language in the southern states (except Tamilnadu which has always opposed the imposition of Hindi) in the course of implementation of NEP 1968, the Hindi speaking states never bothered to teach their populace any other Indian language. The fact that no attempt was made to correct this anomaly has given rise to feelings of animosity towards the language in the southern states, which are agitated at the secondary status accorded to their languages. The issue of making Hindi a compulsory third language in non-Hindi speaking states, which was lying low for some time, got a new fillip when it was once again included in the draft NEP in 2019. Met with stiff resistance from the southern states, the compulsory part has been now dropped from the policy. But it is highly unlikely that this policy objective will be buried once for all and the likelihood of it raising its head again doesn’t augur well for the unity of the country.  By a traditional definition, geographic continuity, language, race, religion and shared history constitute the essential elements of a ‘nation’. But, there are countries that constitute a nation inspite of linguistic multiplicity, like Switzerland. On the other hand there are countries that consist of people speaking the same tongue but constitute two different nations, for instance - Germany and Austria.  A thinking that a nation can exist or that national unity can be achieved only when there is homogeneity in terms of language, culture, race or religion is dangerous. Keeping in mind the linguistic diversity of our country, the makers of our constitution, through Article 29, have explicitly recognized the right to preserve and foster one’s language as fundamental. This cannot happen if anyone language is accorded a place of eminence over others. One of the reasons behind linguistic re-organisation was the fact that of the two or more languages spoken in the state, those which were not the administrative language received a step-motherly treatment. Just as a religion followed by the majority of the people has not been declared as State religion, the predominant language cannot become the national language. A sense of nationhood exists in India is because of shared history and way of life. It is a bond that unites Indians in spite of linguistic and religious diversity. Any attempt to augment this unity has to be based on policies that do not hurt the identity of any group. A three-language policy is welcome as long as it is based on consensus and consent. The implementation should happen in all the states of India.  The choice of a third language should be left entirely to the state. Any attempt to impose a particular language will, instead of promoting national unity have a contrarian effect and give rise to resentment. All Indian languages have a rich heritage and a vast repertoire of literature. A study of these languages would definitely broaden the horizons of our knowledge of the rich cultural heritage of India. This fact has been elucidated in the NEP of 2020. What is required is a genuine effort on the part of the government to bring people on board through educative campaigns.  This would go far in building national unity rather than imposing any one language on the whole of the populace.  (The writer is anindependent researcher)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/forced-linguistic-unity-bad-idea-885122.html
09-09-2020||Right in the Middle||The little bubble||Have you ever thought where bubbles go? Usually, they pop in front of you but there are also bubbles that don’t pop so soon.  So where do they go?  Once upon a time, a little boy went out into the open and blew some bubbles. He blew lots of bubbles, big and small, tall and short. All of them popped, except one round little bubble. It flew higher and higher out of the boy’s reach. After the little bubble was way high in the sky, it opened its eyes. It was left spellbound after it saw the beautiful sight. It was a nice cool evening, the sun was mellow yellow, and there were green trees and rolling green meadows and people doing their everyday work. Thousands of questions rushed into its mind. It felt so curious and decided to go on an adventure. It was flying over the houses observing and learning about people and their everyday lives. It passed schools and colleges and universities and offices. It passed shops and hotels and houses and meadows and trees. It heard birds chirping, it learned a lot from people-- to be specific, from a mother who was teaching her child about history, language, arts, science, math, and whatever else you learn at school and from your parents.  The little bubble watched in wonder as sunset came. After night had fallen, the little bubble went to a peaceful meadow and settled himself into the wet grass blades after they had been given water from the sprinklers. The next morning, when it woke up, it flew up and saw the sunrise and said to itself, “Today another adventure shall begin. Later in the day, it met other bubbles, it was a joy playing with them. But as other bubbles were other bubbles, they popped. The little bubble wondered, “Where do bubbles go when they pop?” It knew that if it made itself pop, then it wouldn’t be able to come back. It was already a lucky bubble to stay so long, and secondly, it wanted to explore more. A week later, after it knew half more than one human could know, it set off to the unknown.  It flew over mountains and listened to many stories from the mountain people. It flew all over the world learning and exploring, one time it almost popped himself against the pointy top of the school gates!  As the years passed, the little bubble travelled to many places, saw lots and lots of things. And so, if you look closely, you might spot the little bubble flying around, learning and discovering. (The writer is a seven-year-old girl based in California)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-little-bubble-885119.html
09-09-2020||Second Edit||Militancy isn’t ending, it’s just shifting base||The epicentre of Kashmiri militancy, which had moved to the southern districts of the Valley since 2015, is now said to be moving back to the northern districts again. Security officials are pointing to the rising number of militant attacks and encounters, such as the 36-hour face-off between militants and security forces at Kreeri in Baramulla on August 17-18, that have taken place in recent months in North Kashmir. Militants appear to be making North Kashmir their base. Under pressure from the security forces in South Kashmir, they have shifted to the north, security officials say. It was in South Kashmir that the ‘new militancy’ emerged. Inspired by the slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani from Anantnag, the ‘new militancy’ drew dozens of young Kashmiris from South Kashmir districts like Pulwama and Anantnag to take up arms against the Indian State. The emergence of South Kashmir as the new epicentre of the militancy had forced the security forces to focus their attention on the southern districts. This focus resulted in the security forces successfully eliminating several militant leaders and cadres. With the network in the Valley’s southern districts largely destroyed, militants appear to have moved to the north. While the weakening of the militant network in South Kashmir is a positive development, its shift to the northern districts is not. The northern districts of Baramulla, Kupwara and Bandipora border Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir. These districts were the epicentre of the militancy for 25 years because of their proximity to POK. After training in POK, militants could slip into these districts without much trouble. Transport of weapons here was easier. Thicker forests in the northern districts provided them with better sanctuaries. By shifting base to the northern districts now, Kashmiri militants will be able to avail of these advantages again. The militants’ shift to North Kashmir could also be a part of Pakistan’s strategy. It is possible that the ISI has accelerated infiltration of militants and weapons across the LoC into India; hence the larger number of attacks and encounters in North Kashmir. It is imperative, therefore, that India steps up vigil along the LoC in Baramulla and Kupwara. However, it must not lower its guard in South Kashmir as the underlying causes for young Kashmiris here joining the militancy have not gone away. Anger and frustration with the Indian State persists, and with the Narendra Modi government dragging its feet on initiating a political process, militant groups will continue to find a stream of willing recruits in the southern districts of the Valley, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/militancy-isn-t-ending-it-s-just-shifting-base-884724.html
09-09-2020||Second Edit||Literacy: Southern states are faltering||While Kerala can draw satisfaction over its continuing robust performance with regard to literacy – the state remains at the top in the country with 96.2% of its population literate -- several other states, including Karnataka, need to urgently up their grades. There is a lot for India to worry about. According to the latest report of the National Statistical Office (NSO) – the report draws on data collected in 2017-18 – the national average literacy rate is 77.7%, way below the global average of 82%. Of particular concern are the low levels of literacy recorded in the southern states, which have generally been regarded as more developed and literate. With a literacy rate of just 66.4%, Andhra Pradesh is the least literate state in the country. Karnataka, which often prides itself on being economically better off than most other states, has a 77.2% literacy rate. Three South Indian states – Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra – have literacy rates lower than the national average. The NSO report reveals large gaps in the literacy rate among men and women. The all-India male literacy rate is 84.7%, compared to the female rate of 70.3%. In general, states which have a higher literacy rate show a narrower gender gap in literacy. The gap between male and female literacy rates is just 2.2% in Kerala. Rajasthan, which is notorious for its patriarchal culture, has a male literacy rate of 80.8%, compared to 57.6% for females. A similar trend is evident with regard to the urban-rural gap in literacy. Urban literacy is just 1.9 percentage points higher than the rural rate in Kerala. This is in contrast with states like Telangana and Andhra where rural literacy lags behind urban literacy by 23.4% and 19.2% respectively. Successive governments at the Centre have put in place an array of programmes to improve school infrastructure, increase literacy and arrest dropouts. Are the state governments implementing these programmes diligently? Improving literacy, education and skills is vital not just to increase employability but also to step up awareness on health and social issues and to make people more receptive to better ways of tackling problems. Kerala has admirable socio-economic indicators. While much of its achievements can be attributed to progressive and people-friendly policies of its governments, its high literacy rate has provided it with a solid foundation on which to build achievements in other areas. Its literate women and men have played a major role in keeping down hunger, malnutrition, infant mortality, etc. The rest of India must draw lessons from Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/literacy-southern-states-are-faltering-885116.html
09-09-2020||South||Telangana records 2,479 new Covid-19 cases, 10 more deaths||Telangana continued to witness a surge in coronavirus caseload with 2,479 fresh infections and 10 more deaths, taking the aggregate in the state to1.47 lakh. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 322, followed by Rangareddy 188, Medchal Malkajgiri 183 and Warangal Urban 124 districts, a government bulletin said on Wednesday, providing data as of 8 PM on September 9. The toll rises to 916 in the state with 10 related fatalities. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1.15 lakh while 31,644 are under treatment. As many as 62,469 samples were tested on September 8. Cumulatively,18.90 lakh samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 50,922, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.62 per cent, while it was 1.69 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 77.9 per cent, while it was 77.76 per cent in the country. The number of individuals in home or institutional isolation was24,741.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-records-2479-new-covid-19-cases-10-more-deaths-884755.html
09-09-2020||South||Kerala CPM leader's son, Bineesh Kodiyeri, being quizzed by ED over alleged links with gold smuggling, Bengaluru drugs cases||Kerala CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son Bineesh Kodiyeri, who was found to have links with Bengaluru drug peddling accused, is being quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate in Kochi on Wednesday. It is learnt that the ED summoned Bineesh to enquire about his association with a couple of firms that were found to have links with Kerala gold smuggling case accused.Bineesh reached the ED office in Kochi by around 9.30 am. He refused to reply to queries by reporters. Bineesh recently admitted his association with Anoop Mohammed held by NCB in Bengaluru drug peddling case. He said that Anoop borrowed Rs 6 lakh from him but he was not aware of Anoop's drug peddling. Later, there were allegations that Bineesh was running a couple of firms in Bengaluru, including a foreign exchange firm. Bineesh, who is a small time actor and cricketer, was also allegedly having association with Thiruvananthapuram based UAFX Solutions that allegedly paid commission to UAE consulate former employee and gold smuggling accused Swapna Nair. The ED had already launched a probe into the financial deals of the gold smuggling accused. A series of allegations, especially nexus with dubious people, had surfaced against Bineesh earlier also. There were allegations that many such persons were associating themselves with him to make use of his father's political clout. Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had recently said that if his son was involved in anything illegal, he would not get any sort of support and would have to face the punishment, even if it was hanging.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cpm-leaders-son-bineesh-kodiyeri-being-quizzed-by-ed-over-alleged-links-with-gold-smuggling-bengaluru-drugs-cases-884761.html
09-09-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: NIA raids goldsmith's house in TN||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday carried out searches at the residence of a goldsmith in the city in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case, police said. A four-member NIA team raided the house of Nandakumar on Cross Cut road early this morning, they said. He has been detained for interrogation. The matter pertains to smuggling of gold in the neighbouring state through diplomatic channels, which came to light after 30 kg yellow metal worth Rs 14.82 crores, smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage, was busted by Customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. NIA is probing into the terror funding angle in the case in which a number of people including the alleged mastermind Swapna Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, have been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-nia-raids-goldsmiths-house-in-tn-884783.html
09-09-2020||South||TV actress kills self, family alleges harassment||A Telugu TV serial actress allegedly died by suicide at her house here, police said on Wednesday. Sravani (26), a native of Andhra Pradesh, was found hanging from a ceiling fan on Tuesday. Her family shifted her to a hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead. The actor's parents are alleging that one person from Kakinada had been harassing her and that forced to take the extreme step, a police official told PTI. "On Tuesday night, Sravani went into a room after a discussion with her parents. When she did not come out, the family members knocked at the door and there was no response. Following this, they broke into the room and found her hanging," the official said. Sravani had acted in several television serials and was currently working in some of them. Her parents lodged a complaint accusing the person from Kakinada, known to the actress, of being responsible for the death. Based on the complaint, a case under IPC section 306 (abetment to suicide) has been registered against the person and further investigations have begun, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tv-actress-kills-self-family-alleges-harassment-884880.html
09-09-2020||South||Congress leader apologises for sexual abuse remark||Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has tendered an apology for his controversial remark on sexual abuse of women. Chennithala's remark during a press conference on Tuesday whether only workers of DYFI can sexually abuse women had triggered strong criticism. The Congress leader said in a social media post on Wednesday that it was a slip of the tongue and it should not have happened from him. Hence the remarks were being withdrawn and an apology tendered as he did not want his words to hurt women even in the slightest manner. He also said that he never intended to make any such remark that insulted womanhood. Portions of his remarks were being spread with misleading interpretation, he alleged. It was while replying to a query at a press conference on Tuesday on the allegations that the health official accused of raping a woman who approached for Covid-19 negative certificate in Thiruvananthapuram was a Congress activist that Chennithala made the controversial remark. "Is it written anywhere that only DYFI activists can harass women," the Congress leader asked, adding that to his knowledge the accused health official was a member of the pro-CPM service organisation. Chennithala's statement invited widespread criticism and Kerala Health and Social Justice Minister K K Shailaja demanded him to tender an apology for the remark as it caused insult to womanhood. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan demanded Chennithala to withdraw the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-leader-apologises-for-sexual-abuse-remark-884887.html
09-09-2020||South||Another wild elephant dies from mouth injuries in Kerala||A wild elephant, found with injuries in its mouth, died at Attapadi in Palakkad on Wednesday morning, forest officials said. The tuskless male elephant (Makna), believed to be between 25-30 years, had been treated by forest officials last month after tranquilizing it on finding it weak, unable to eat or drink due to the injuries. Efforts had been made to put a tracking collar on the jumbo, but it left the area before that, the officials said. The elephant had injuries in its mouth, its tongue was split.But there were no injuries on its jaw, they told PTI. Forest officials said it was not clear how the animal, nicknamed 'bulldozer' by local people as it had destroyed 17 houses in the state and eight in the Coimbatore division of Tamil Nadu, suffered the wounds. "It used to destroy houses and break windows to get rice and other food articles. We got information that the animal was getting weak and had crossed to Kerala two days ago," they said. The animal was found dead in the Attapadi forests this morning. It was in May this year that a pregnant wild elephant had died after she consumed a cracker-filled fruit in Silent valley forests. The incident had sparked widespread outrage. In Agali forests, a five-year-old elephant had died in July following injuries due to fractured jaw.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-wild-elephant-dies-from-mouth-injuries-in-kerala-884900.html
09-09-2020||South||DMK vows to dislodge AIADMK from power, make Stalin CM||The DMK's general council here on Wednesday dubbed the AIADMK government as "anti-people" and vowed to dislodge it from power and make party president M K Stalin as Chief Minister by winning the Assembly elections next year. The party unanimously elected veteran Duraimurugan as general secretary and senior leader T R Baalu as treasurer. Former Telecom Minister A Raja and seasoned party leader K Ponmudi were elected as deputy general secretaries. Alleging that the AIADMK regime was tainted by corruption, the party, in its meet presided by Stalin, condemned the Centre for 'guarding' such a regime for the past about four years. The AIADMK is in power in Tamil Nadu since 2011 and following the death of late J Jayalalithaa on December 5, 2016, K Palaniswami became Chief Minister on February 16, 2017. Accusing the state government of failure in tackling the coronavirus pandemic, the DMK, in a resolution alleged irregularities in issuance of e-pass, tenders, and in several areas, including procurement of test kits. "This general council condemns the AIADMK government for causing an overall setback to the socio-economic and industrial growth in Tamil Nadu... for corruption in tenders of all departments," a resolution said, adding that those behind the "coronavirus pandemic corruption" would be made to answer. Another resolution alleged that the AIADMK government was an embodiment of corruption and extravagance that pushed the people into an unending cycle of hassles. The government is "anti-people," marked by administrative failure and functioned for only "commission, corruption and collection" the party alleged. The DMK also targeted its arch-rival on a slew of other issues, including the state government's "inability" to get an exemption for Tamil Nadu from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, and for trying to implement the Chennai-Salem expressway, which is against the "interests of farmers." Hence, "this general council vows to slog to make party president M K Stalin as Chief Minister to take Tamil Nadu on the pathway of growth again by trouncing the anti-people and anti-democratic AIADMK in the 2021 Assembly elections," a resolution said. Duraimurugan has held several posts in the DMK, including that of principal secretary and deputy general secretary and he is a former State Minister and nine-time MLA. The 82-year-old Duraimurugan, an advocate by profession, resigned from the post of treasurer in March to enable him contest for the post of general secretary. The post had fallen vacant following the demise of top leader K Anbazhagan in March, who held that post for over four decades. DMK's Parliamentary Party leader T R Baalu and the party's Villupuram district strongman K Ponmudi have held several positions in the party organisation. A Raja has also held positions, including that of district secretary and has been the DMK's propaganda secretary since 2009. The party general council was originally slated to be held on March 29 but it was postponed indefinitely due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-vows-to-dislodge-aiadmk-from-power-make-stalin-cm-884947.html
09-09-2020||South||DMK elects senior party leaders to key positions||Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), on Wednesday elected senior leaders Durai Murugan and T R Baalu as General Secretary and Treasurer, the no. 2 and 3 in the pecking order of the 70-year-old party. In a surprise move, the party also elevated former Union Telecom Minister A Raja and another senior leader K Ponmudi as deputy general secretaries of the party. Raja’s appointment assumes significance as it comes in the wake of criticism that the DMK was not acknowledging Dalit leaders and giving them prominence in the party. Raja, who was exonerated by a trial court in the 2G spectrum case in 2017, has emerged as one of the key spokespersons of the party in the recent past. His recent interviews to Tamil television channels in which he tore into the BJP for using Lord Murugan for political purposes and the alleged Hindi imposition went viral. At the General Council which went virtual for the first time, DMK President M K Stalin announced that Durai Murugan, who resigned as Treasurer, and Baalu have been elected unopposed as General Secretary and Treasurer. Durai Murugan replaces K Anbazhagan, a fellow traveller of DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi, who passed away on March 7, 2020, and is the fourth person in the DMK to hold the post. Anbazhagan, who was elected to the post in 1977, was the no.2 in the DMK till his last breath. With the appointment of Raja and Ponmudi, the number of deputy general secretaries have gone up to five. At the meeting, Durai Murugan exhorted the party’s young wing to help the outfit to mount an offensive against the war that is being mounted on the DMK. In his speech, Stalin exhorted confidence that the party will capture power in the 2021 elections but asked cadres not to be complacent. The meeting also passed resolutions on various issues, including opposing the New Education Policy (NEP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-elects-senior-party-leaders-to-key-positions-884959.html
09-09-2020||South||As bars likely to reopen, Kerala tourism industry too presses for reopening||While the Kerala government is actively considering the option of reopening bars, the tourism industry, one of the key revenue earners for the state, is pressuring the government to reopen the tourism sector also. Over 4,000 hotels, resorts, 1,000 plus houseboats, scores of ayurvedic centres, tour operators, homestay owners, taxi drivers, tourist guides, water theme parks, and adventure tourism sectors are in dire financial constraints, due to the continuous lockdown of the tourist. More than 15 lakh people are directly and 20 lakh people indirectly working in the tourism sector, industry bodies point out. Owing to the lockdown, the state tourism industry was estimated to have suffered a loss of Rs. 25,000 crore, while the annual revenue from the sector is around Rs. 45,000 crore. The state government recently announced support scheme of Rs. 455 crore. Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry urged the state government to allow the hospitality, Ayurveda and wellness sectors to be allowed to operate by adhering to Covid-19 protocols and mandatory Covid-19 test. CKTI president E M Najeeb said that it was a welcome move from the government to consider reopening bars. A similar initiative was essential for the tourism sector also as the industry is in deep crisis. Many other states like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Goa and Maharashtra opened the tourism sector with and without Covid-19 protocols, he said. Recently there were reports of some luxury resorts and houseboats even carrying out fish farming in swimming pools in order to sustain. Meanwhile, industry sources are expecting a boom once the Covid-19 restrictions were lifted. The people are now quite frustrated over the restricted life. Hence once the restriction is lifted there could be a surge of people to the tourist destinations, said Toby Pulickattil, managing director of Pulickattil houseboats at Alappuzha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-bars-likely-to-reopen-kerala-tourism-industry-too-presses-for-reopening-885009.html
09-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh town tense after temple chariot burns; BJP intensifies agitation||A tense situation is prevailing in the famous temple town of Antarvedi in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh, as the BJP, JanaSena Party, the VHP and the state's Hindu organisations have intensified agitation against the gutting of the temple’s wooden chariot. The 40-feet tall wooden chariot, made over six decades ago, is the main attraction during the annual procession of the presiding deity Lord Lakshmi Narasimha, held in February. The Ratham (chariot) parked in an unmanned hangar near the temple went up in flames under mysterious circumstances in the wee hours of Sunday. Though the initial blame was put on a mentally unsound person by the local police, following the growing protests, the state DGP Gautam Sawang and Endowments Minister Vellamapalli Srinivas Rao said a thorough probe is on to reveal who the culprits are. On Wednesday, the police foiled the BJP and JanaSena attempts to rally to Antarvedi, by fortifying the town with heavy deployment of personnel and alleged house detainments of several leaders. On Tuesday, local Hindu bodies, VHP and Bajrang Dal activists obstructed a team of YSRCP ministers — Vellampalli, Pinipe Vishwaroop and Chelluboina VK — who came to examine the gutted chariot. They raised slogans against Jaganmohan Reddy’s government. “A comprehensive probe is on with forensic support,” said Vellampalli, while assuring that a new chariot would be built by February. The government has suspended the temple’s executive officer Chakradhara Rao. Chariot charred In a similar incident, in February, the chariot of the Prasanna Venkateshwara Swamy temple was charred in Bitragunta in Nellore district. TDP and JanaSena chiefs Chandrababu Naidu and Pawan Kalyan are seeking a CBI probe pointing to a pattern in such incidents at the Hindu religious places. “From charring of sacred chariots at Antarvedi and Bitragunta to idols being demolished at Pithapuram, from attacks on priests like Devarampadu incident to propagation of other religions under TTD management and illegal takeover of Simhachalam temple board – there seems to be a pattern,” Naidu tweeted. From charring of sacred chariots at Antarvedi & Bitragunta to idols being demolished at Pithapuram, from attacks on priests like Devarampadu incident to propagation of other religions under TTD mgmt & illegal takeover of Simhachalam temple board – there seems to be a pattern. “These incidents have repeatedly hurt the sentiments of the devotees while an egoistic YSRCP govt, driven by its lack of regard for the sanctity of temples, looked the other way. We condemn, in the strongest possible terms, and demand a CBI inquiry into all these incidents,” the former CM further stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-town-tense-after-temple-chariot-burns-bjp-intensifies-agitation-885010.html
09-09-2020||South||Tata's hospital ready at Kasargod, but doctors' appointments lag||Even as a 551-bedded Covid-19 hospital building set up by the Tata group at Kasargod district in Kerala in four months time was handed over to the state government on Wednesday, it will take more time for the hospital to start functioning as the appointment of staff and installation of equipment for the hospital is still pending. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has dedicated the Rs. 60 crore project to the government at a function held online. The hospital is set up at 5.5-acre land allotted by the state government at Thekkil, about 10 kilometres from Kasargod town. Tata group offered the hospital as part of their corporate social responsibility scheme considering the backwardness of Kasargod district in the health sector, which got exposed when the district witnessed a surge in Covid-19 patients during March-April. Udma MLA K Kunhiraman said that it would take some more time for the hospital to start functioning as posting of doctors and other staff as well as medical equipment are pending. At present only the building has been handed over by Tata to the state government. Now the government will have to create the required posts and set up the medical infrastructure which may take some time, he said. Meanwhile, the district administration is planning to make use of the facility as Covid-19 First-Line Treatment Centre for the time being.  The hospital has been set up using 128 containers in three zones with 81,000 square feet. While two-zone are earmarked for those in quarantine, one block is earmarked for Covid-19 positive patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tatas-hospital-ready-at-kasargod-but-doctors-appointments-lag-885016.html
09-09-2020||South||Kerala youths accused in UAPA case granted bail with hopes of reformation||Two Kerala youths held by the NIA on charges of Maoist links were released after ten months in custody, considering their young age and the chances of reformation. The NIA special court in Kochi granted bail to Allan Shuaib and Thwaha Fasal, who were CPM activists hailing from Kasargod district. The arrest of the two by Kerala police and invoking UAPA charges triggered a political row in Kerala with even CPM leaders including general secretary Sitaram Yechuri condemning the charges, while Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan defended it. The case was later transferred to NIA. According to the bail order, the accused aged 19 and 23 respectively could have been attracted to extremist ideologies and came in contact with banned outfits owing to their pro-active nature. "The two are young men with a possibility of reforming themselves. Let up hope that the parents of the petitioners would play a constructive role in the betterment of the mental and psychological qualities of the petitioners," said the bail order. The two were granted bail on stringent conditions, including a near relative as one of the two solvent surety for both the accused. The two were held in November last year and pro-Maoist materials were seized from them. Delay in getting scientific analysis reports collected as evidence by the investigation agencies slowed the trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-youths-accused-in-uapa-case-granted-bail-with-hopes-of-reformation-885025.html
09-09-2020||South||Chennithala expresses regret over insensitive remark in rape case||After his remark in a rape case in the State kicked up a row, Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Assembly Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday expressed regret and retracted the statement. In a Facebook post, Chennithala said, "even though my words were misinterpreted out of context, I would like to make sure that it should not cause even the slightest difficulty in the minds of women." "After listening again to my answer to the question posed in yesterday's press conference, it has occurred to me that I uttered a statement without the slightest intention to do so. I have worked all these years with the political conviction that such a statement should not come from me. Nevertheless, I withdraw my words and express my sincerest regret," Chennithala said. Chennithala on Tuesday found himself at the centre of a row after he allegedly made a disparaging remark in connection with a rape case in the state. Chennithala's statement came during a press conference after the Congress-led UDF meeting when a scribe asked him about a junior health inspector who was arrested yesterday on charges of raping a woman who sought a Covid-19 certificate and if he was affiliated to the Congress party. "Is it written somewhere that only DYFI (CPI-M youth wing) workers can sexually abuse women? It's all lies that the accused belongs to the Congress party or anything," Chennithala had said denying that he belongs to any service organisation affiliated to the Congress. The statement drew a flurry of criticism with state Health Minister K K Shailaja and the state women's commission asking Chennithala to withdraw his remarks and demanding an apology from him. However, Chennithala, later issued a clarification, saying his words were cherry-picked and used against him. "What I said was that it is not just DYFI workers, but workers from the Left-affiliated service organisation NGO Union too are involved in sexual abuse. The health inspector was arrested following a complaint from a woman who said he had invited her home to give her a Covid-19 certificate and raped her, police said. The woman in her complaint stated that she went to his house on September 3 and was sexually attacked after beingtied up and was allowed to leave only the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennithala-expresses-regret-over-insensitive-remark-in-rape-case-885061.html
09-09-2020||South||Kerala CPI (M) state secretary's son quizzed by ED||The ED on Wednesday questioned Kerala CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri, who was found to have links with Bengaluru drug-peddling accused. It is learnt that the ED summoned Bineesh to inquire about his association with a couple of firms linked with an accused in the gold smuggling case. Bineesh reached the ED office in Kochi by around 9:30 am.  He refused to reply to queries by reporters. The days quizzing ended by around 10 pm and he is likely to be quizzed again. Bineesh recently admitted to his association with Anoop Mohammed held by the NCB in Bengaluru drug peddling case. He said Anoop borrowed Rs 6 lakh from him, but he was not aware of Anoop’s drug peddling. Later there were allegations that Bineesh was running a couple of firms in Bengaluru, including a foreign exchange firm. Bineesh was also allegedly having an association with Thiruvananthapuram-based UAFX Solutions that allegedly paid commission to UAE consulate former employee and gold smuggling accused Swapna Nair. The ED had already launched a probe into the financial deals of gold smuggling accused.A series of allegations, especially nexus with shady characters, had surfaced against Bineesh earlier also. There were allegations that many shady characters were associating with him to make use of his father's political clout. Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had recently said that if his son did anything illegal, he would not get any sorts of support and he would have to face the punishment, even if it is hanging. However, the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front was demanding the government to order a probe against Bineesh. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala had also sent a letter to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan demanding a comprehensive probe in the wake of alleged links of those held in Bengaluru for drug peddling with Bineesh and some other known persons in Malayalam film industry. BJP state president K Surendran had alleged that drug peddling accused Anoop was a Benami of Bineesh. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan turned down the demand for probe against Bineesh maintaining that central agencies were already probing into the drug peddling and gold smuggling rackets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cpi-m-state-secretarys-son-quizzed-by-ed-885066.html
09-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 5,584 new Covid-19 cases, 78 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded 5,584 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 4,80,524, while 78 fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,090. Recoveries continued to outnumber new infections with 6,516 people getting discharged, taking the total number of those cured to 4,23,231, the health department said in a bulletin. Active cases stood at 49,203. Chennai continued to report less than 1,000 cases for the seventh consecutive day with 993 new infections, while neighbouring Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts together accounted for 681 cases. Ranipet, Tirupattur, Vellore, Thiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi recorded a total of 725 cases today. Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Kanyakumari, Salem, Madurai, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Sivaganga, Tuticorin and Tirunelveli saw a jump of 1,750 fresh Covid-19 cases. The state capital accounted for 2,910 of the total of 8,090 deaths and 1,44,595 cases in the overall tally of 4.80 lakh plus infections, the bulletin said. As many as 62 of the deceased were aged above 60 years. Two of the deceased did not have comorbidities. This included a 46-year-old man from Madurai, who was admitted to a private hospital on September 8 with complaints of breathlessness and cough and died the same day. A 95-year-old man from neighbouring Thiruvallur district with a history of coronary artery disease died due to respiratory failure, the bulletin said. As many as 82,573 samples were tested today, taking the tally to 53,66,224 till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-5584-new-covid-19-cases-78-fatalities-885076.html
09-09-2020||South||NEET: Teenager commits suicide in Tamil Nadu, parties demand scrapping test||A 19-year-old teenager, who could not join medical college despite having cleared the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test earlier and trying to improve his score this time around, allegedly killed himself on Wednesday, police said. Preliminary enquiries revealed that the boy was anxious for quite some time over the NEET exam slated to be held on September 13, a police officer said, adding "he was anxious about the score he could get this time round though he has passed the exam earlier." Latching on to the incident, Tamil Nadu parties reiterated their demand for scrapping the test. The body of the boy, identified later as Vignesh, was found floating in a well at a village near here, police said. "He had gone to sleep last night as usual. His family members found him missing from the home early this morning and his body was later found floating in a well in his village," an officer in the district police office said. Asked if any suicide note was found, he told PTI "no note has been found yet, however, enquiries indicate that this is a suicide." The body was sent to a government hospital for autopsy, he said. DMK President M K Stalin, expressing grief over the NEET aspirant's suicide, said one more life has been lost over the national test. "When the merciless Central government would stop the NEET. How many more lives should we lose ?" he asked and appealed to the student community to face life boldly and give up suicidal tendencies. Tamil Nadu parties, including the ruling AIADMK,has been opposed to NEET on grounds that it went against social justice, the backward classes and interests of rural students who could not afford coaching classes. PMK founder leader S Ramadoss, expressing shock, said Vignesh was studious and his NEET score last year was 370. Though the youth got admission in a private medical college, his family, belonging to the Most Backward Classes, could not afford it, he said, adding hence, the boy was preparing to sit for the test this year too. "The Central government has been saying that NEET is to upgrade the standard of medical education and prevent commercialisation of medical education. If it is true that the quality of medical education has been rising, many who scored much less than Vignesh in NEET must not have been allowed to join private medical colleges by pumping in loads of money," Ramadoss said in a statement. Had admission been given based on Class 12 marks, the boy would have for sure got a placement in a medical college, he said. "..the opportunity to join medical college must not have been denied to Vignesh just because he did not have money to join a medical college though he cleared the NEET," Ramadoss said. The PMK top leader, an ally of the ruling AIADMK-led alliance in which the BJP is also a constituent, alleged NEET was being held only for private coaching institutions to indulge in profiteering. "If this situation continues, there is a threat of many students resorting to suicide every year due to fear and frustration over the NEET.To prevent this, the Centre should come forward to permanently scrap the NEET. Also, the Tamil Nadu government must provide a solatium of Rs 50 lakh to Vignesh's family and a government job to one ofhis family members, the PMK leader appealed. Vignesh passed 12th standard two years ago and he was from Elanthankuzhi village in Ariyalur district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neet-teenager-commits-suicide-in-tamil-nadu-parties-demand-scrapping-test-885111.html
09-09-2020||State||Covid-19: Tumakuru DC seeks death audit report of doctor who died in home isolation||Death of a young doctor on Covid-19 duty from Kunigal taluk Government Hospital after ten days of home isolation has stumped doctors. The deceased doctor had contracted the virus but presented with no symptoms and hence sent to home isolation. Despite being monitored for ten days when he showed no signs of worsening, his oxygen saturation levels suddenly dropped and he passed away on Monday midnight. While doctors are raising questions on the manifestation of the disease, which presents itself so differently in different people, experts are talking about the risks associated with home isolation and doing it right. Dr Devaraj was working in the non-communicable diseases wing in the health department and was a resident of Channathimmanapalya near Yeliyuru. His parents had passed away and he was unmarried. Dr Jagadish KN, Taluk Health Officer, Kunigal Taluk, told DH, "He passed away on Monday midnight and we cremated him on Tuesday. His condition deteriorated on the 11th day after testing positive. During these ten days he was being monitored by an ASHA worker, ANM, health inspector, the local doctor and our physician Dr Naveen. He was asymptomatic all the time." "I suspect he died because of 'happy hypoxia'. It never shows any symptoms. He experienced fatigue and breathlessness on Monday morning. His oxygen saturation had dropped to 54%," Dr Jagadish further explained.    Dr Trilok Chandra, head of the Critical Care Support Unit said that he had spoken with the Tumakuru DC and that the death audit should be completed by Wednesday. Chandra also termed the case as one of 'silent hypoxia' where the patient is relatively comfortable despite oxygen levels dipping. Dr CN Manjunath, state nodal officer for Covid testing said home isolated patients should check their oxygen saturation levels every three hours and a chest X ray should be taken before home isolation is started. He also recommended a blood test indicating inflammatory markers before starting home isolation. "Oxygen saturation cannot dip from above 90 to below 60 in a small period of time. There seems to be some lackadaisical attitude in his monitoring," he said. Rakesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Tumakuru, told DH, "He was given regular medicines given to Covid patients during home isolation. He was shifted to Surya hospital, a private Covid hospital. "We don't know the reason for his sudden demise, I am yet to receive the death audit committee report. Tumakuru district surgeon, the district surveillance officer, and private specialists will be looking at his case files," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-tumakuru-dc-seeks-death-audit-report-of-doctor-who-died-in-home-isolation-884834.html
09-09-2020||State||Cab driver killed in accident in Chamarajanagar||A cab driver from Mysuru was killed in a road mishap, at Garaganahalli gate, near Chamarajanagar on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Inayat Pasha (35), a resident of Mysuru. A goods vehicle rammed into the car he was driving, killing him on the spot. The body has been shifted to the hospital. Begur police visited the spot. Both the vehicles were damaged in the mishap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cab-driver-killed-in-accident-in-chamarajanagar-884891.html
09-09-2020||State||Film City project to start soon: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday assured a Kannada film industry delegation led by actor Shivarajkumar that the long-pending Film City project would be expedited. The government has earmarked Rs 500 crore for the project in the 2020-21 Budget. That the Film City (Chitranagari) should be set up soon was one of the demands made by the delegation, which held talks with Yediyurappa on the film industry’s crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “I told the delegation that the government would look into whatever problems that can be solved. The Chitranagari was to be set up in either Mysuru or Bengaluru. It has been decided to set it up in Bengaluru and we’ve earmarked Rs 500 crore in the Budget for this. We’re looking for land and it will be finalized soon. Work will start soon,” Yediyurappa told reporters. As things stand now, the government plans to set up a Film City on 150 acres of land at Hesaraghatta near Bengaluru. Actor Yash said he raised the need for “the right platform” for youngsters during the meeting with the CM. “There are youngsters who aspire to be directors and writers, but they end up struggling without the right platform. We need a good institute, subsidy, education and hands-on experience to ensure the industry develops in an integrated way,” he said. The delegation also made a case for single-screen theatres while seeking other relief measures in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In its memorandum, the delegation sought a waiver of electricity fee, water fee and the property tax for single-screen theatres and film studios. The government was also asked to consider bringing single-screen theatre employees under the labour department’s purview. With theatres shut since March, there were at least 35 films set to release, which include 10 big-ticket productions. “We discussed the opening of theatres. More than that, it’s a question of preparedness on the part of exhibitors, producers and distributors. As artists, we’re doing our job by starting shoots,” Shivarajkumar said. The delegation also sought reimbursement of GST to producers, a single-window clearance system, action against online piracy, considering filming as an industrial activity, recommending GST reduction on movie tickets at single-screen theatres among other things. “We've expressed our problems. The CM has assured us that he'll give us a positive reply. We don't know what will happen and what not,” Shivarajkumar said. “The industry has suffered losses for six months.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/film-city-project-to-start-soon-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-884978.html
09-09-2020||State||Another spell of heavy rainfall threatens Karnataka||Several districts in South Interior Karnataka, including parts of Bengaluru Urban district, will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall till Sunday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for South Interior Karnataka districts for the period. Forecasts indicate that thundershowers are likely to continue till Saturday, after which the intensity of rainfall is expected to subside in the region. Coastal Karnataka too will receive heavy rainfall starting from Thursday, and a red alert has been issued im the districts for Friday. IMD forecast said that heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places "very likely over coastal Karnataka during 10th-13th, South Interior Karnataka during 9th-12th", owing to an offshore trough which will cause widespread rainfall in Peninsular India. Daily report by IMD, Bengaluru said that "Southwest monsoon was 'vigorous over South Interior Karnataka and active over North Interior Karnataka. "According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell, parts of Davanagere had received up to 205 mm between 8.30 am of September 8 and 9. Very heavy rainfall (115.6 mm to 204.4 mm) was reported in 31 stations, primarily in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Chitradurga and Davangere. Heavy rainfall (64.5 mm to 115.5 mm) was reported in 198 stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/another-spell-of-heavy-rainfall-threatens-karnataka-885054.html
09-09-2020||State||Govt planning community radio stations in varsities to signal change for marginalised||The government is mulling over setting up community radio stations at higher education centres such as universities. The initiative will help reach out to the unreachables, especially in rural and hinterland areas of the state, with awareness messages and advisories during emergencies. The idea, mooted by the planning department, has also been endorsed by the Higher Education department which has written to the vice chancellors of the state-run universities to take necessary steps to set up community radio stations. Sources in the department told DH that already there are 20 such radio stations functioning in Dharwad, Bengaluru Rural and Urban, Belagavi, Chikkaballapur, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Kalaburagi, Kolar, Mysuru, Udupi and Yadgir. “Directions have been issued to rest of the districts to initiate steps to begin community radio stations,” a senior official from the department said. “Convergence of various governance nodes through community radio stations would benefit the local communities as this would be an effective medium of reaching out to the unreached. The first series evoked tremendous response for the stations. Listeners from other states too were appreciative of this initiative,” the official explained. The government’s plan is to start at least one community radio station per district soon. “Community radio stations have the trust of the local communities and often looked up to by the locals for genuine information on day-to-day issues,” another official said. Shalini Rajneesh, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Planning, Programme Monitoring and Statistics, told DH, “Sustainable development can only be achieved through sustained community involvement and cooperation. We hope to partner successfully with community radios to attain this objective.” The idea was also discussed recently with the chief minister and the chief secretary. The initiative follows a communication from the ministry for information and broadcasting, asking states to send a list of operational community radio stations. The stations, low power FM radio channels, can broadcast up to a radius of 15 km, and can be accessed even on an ordinary mobile phone without internet connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-planning-community-radio-stations-in-varsities-to-signal-change-for-marginalised-885068.html
09-09-2020||State||Karnataka seeks more Central aid for flood relief||Karnataka, which is eligible for a compensation of Rs 628 crore under National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) guidelines, urged the Inter Ministerial Central Team on Wednesday to release more funds as the state was hit by floods for three consecutive years. The government has estimated losses to the tune of Rs 8,071 crore due to the floods in August. Revenue Minister R Ashoka, following a meeting with the Central team, told reporters that the state has also petitioned the Centre to set up Integrated Flood Forecasting and Response System in the Krishna river basin. "We have also sought a Landslide Hazard Mapping and Early Warning System to mitigate landslides and prevent loss of life," he said. The System, he said, will help understand the reasons for landslides and to initiate precautionary measures. The government was also contemplating to shift residents in areas susceptible to landslides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-seeks-more-central-aid-for-flood-relief-885069.html
09-09-2020||State||Film City work will start soon, CM B S Yediyurappa assures industry delegation||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday assured a Kannada film industry delegation, led by actor Shivarajkumar, that the long-pending Film City project would be expedited.  The government has earmarked Rs 500 crore for the project in the 2020-21 budget.  That the Film City (Chitranagari) should be set up soon was one of the demands made by the delegation, which held talks with Yediyurappa on the film industry’s crisis due to the Covid-19pandemic.  “I told the delegation that the government would look into whatever problems that can be solved. The Chitranagari was to be set up in either Mysuru or Bengaluru. It has been decided to set it up in Bengaluru and we’ve earmarked Rs 500 crore in the budget for this. We’re looking for land and it will be finalised soon. Work will start soon,” Yediyurappa told reporters.  As things stand now, the government plans to set up a Film City on 150 acres of land at Hesaraghatta near Bengaluru.  Actor Yash said he raised the need for “the right platform” for youngsters during the meeting with the CM. “There are youngsters who aspire to be directors and writers, but they end up struggling without the right platform. We need a good institute, subsidy, education and hands-on experience to ensure the industry develops in an integrated way,” he said. The delegation also made a case for single-screen theatres while seeking other relief measures in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In its memorandum, the delegation sought a waiver of electricity fee, water fee and property tax for single-screen theatres and film studios. The government was also asked to consider bringing single-screen theatre employees under the labour department’s purview.  With theatres shut since March, there were at least 35 films set to release, which include 10 big-ticket productions.  “We discussed the opening of theatres. More than that, it’s a question of preparedness on the part of exhibitors, producers and distributors. As artists, we’re doing our job by starting shoots,” Shivarajkumar said.  The delegation also sought reimbursement of GST to producers, a single-window clearance system, action against online piracy, considering filming as an industrial activity, recommending GST reduction on movie tickets at single-screen theatres among other things.  “We’ve expressed our problems. The CM has assured us that he’ll give us a positive reply. We don’t know what will happen and what not,” Shivarajkumar said adding “The industry has suffered losses for six months.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/film-city-work-will-start-soon-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-assures-industry-delegation-885098.html
09-09-2020||State||HC seeks details on treatment for Covid-19 patients||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the member secretary of the state-level committee appointed by the government to monitor hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, to file an affidavit on the work done. The state-level expert committee was appointed on the directions of the Supreme Court to monitor the facilities at hospitals. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar asked the state-level committee to file the affidavit through the government advocate. After the state government set up the committee, it was reconstituted as per the directions of the high court. The committee is entrusted with the responsibility of monitoring the availability of transportation by ambulances, hygiene, quality of food served in the hospitals and Covid Care Centres (CCC).  The bench observed that with the number of positive cases increasing, the committee will have to place on record its findings. “Now the question is whether the state-level committee has done its duty. We therefore direct the member secretary of the state-level committee to file written submission to the court about the action taken by the committee so far with special reference to monitoring of availability of adequate equipment and hygiene quality food etc. The steps taken by the state-level committee shall be placed on record by the member secretary within a period of one week from today through the government advocate,’’ the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-seeks-details-on-treatment-for-covid-19-patients-885099.html
09-09-2020||State||Karnataka: Ayush doctors barred from practising allopathy in emergencies||The state government, in a government order (GO) dated September 7, has barred the AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Sidda and Homeopathy) doctors from prescribing allopathic drugs in emergencies.  Earlier they were authorised to do so. The order states, “...there is no scope for a person enrolled on the State Register of Indian medicine or Central Register of Indian Medicine to practice modern scientific medicine in any of its branches unless that person is also enrolled on a State Medical Register within the meaning of 1956 Act.  The right to practice modern scientific medicine or Indian system of medicine cannot be based on the provisions of the Drug Rules and  declaration made thereon by state governments.” Hence, holders of degree in integrated courses of Indian medicine can no longer prescribe allopathic drugs.  Previously, Ayush doctors working in the government sector were allowed to prescribe allopathic medicine for primary care. Dr Anant Desai, Project Director, National AYUSH Mission, Karnataka, said that the GO that came yesterday (Monday) deems the practice of prescribing allopathic drugs illegal. Dr Meenakshi Negi, Director, AYUSH, Karnataka, disconnected the call when DH asked her about the GO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-ayush-doctors-barred-from-practising-allopathy-in-emergencies-885101.html
09-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Interim stay on NLSIU domicile reservation||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday granted an interim stay on the 25% horizontal domicile reservation in the National Law School India University (NLSIU). The bench had reserved orders on a batch of petitions challenging the domicile reservation, which provides for horizontal reservation to those who have studied in Karnataka for 10 years preceding CLAT 2020.  However, in view of National Law Aptitude Test 2020 (NLAT) scheduled on September 12, the bench passed the interim order. A division bench comprising Justice B V Nagarathna and Justice Ravi Hosmani directed the NLSIU to prepare the list, which will be subject to the final orders of the court. Since one of the petitioners is an aspirant, the bench passed the interim order to protect his interest. The bench stated that interim order is not pertaining to the seat matrix and directed the NLSIU to publish only the merit list without the reservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-interim-stay-on-nlsiu-domicile-reservation-884570.html
09-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||11 wetlands in Karnataka to get Centre's push||Eleven wetlands in the state, including Bellandur, Varthur Ranganthittu and Aghanashini, have been selected by the Ministry of Forests, Environment and Climate Change as focal points for wetland conservation in Karnataka, the only state in the south that doesn’t have a Ramsar site. The move, officials in the Forest Department said, was to bring comprehensive restoration and conservation of the lakes. “The Centre has selected wetlands for comprehensive development. The department is preparing documentation for the 11 wetlands,” said Subhash Malkhede, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, adding that the work has been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Manju Pandey, MOEFCC Joint Secretary, said under the National Conservation Programme for Aquatic Ecosystem, the Centre has been supporting the state governments in lake preservation. “We had sought proposals from the state wetland authorities on potential Ramsar sites. We have selected the wetlands considering the aspirations and other available details of the wetland. Some of these places were already under the focus of various programmes,” she said. Apart from Bellandur and Varthur lakes, Aghnashini (Uttar Kannada), Bonal (Yadgir), Gudavi (Shivamogga), Ranganthittu, Kokkare Bellur (Mandya), Magadhi (Gadag), Hidkal (Belagavi), Heggeri (Haveri) and K G Koppa have been selected for the task. Noting that Karnataka has no Ramsar site that meets the standards of the international convention, she said the selection of lakes is to get at the true potential of the waterbodies. “Once we receive proposals from the state government, they will be vetted and based on merit, the Centre will fund projects to develop them,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/11-wetlands-in-karnataka-to-get-centres-push-884573.html
09-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dasara: Karnataka govt nixes many events over coronavirus||The state government has decided to do away with the majority of Dasara events in view of the pandemic. Festivities and cultural events will be restricted to the famous Amba Vilas Palace and Chamundeshwari Temple alone, and the renowned Jamboo Savari will also take place inside the palace premises. Only prominent locations of the city will be illuminated for Dasara. Crowd-pullers such as Yuva Dasara, torchlight parade, Dasara film festival, wrestling contest, Food Mela, exhibition and others will not be held. The decision was based on the recommendations of the High Level Committee chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa that met on Tuesday.  It was resolved to celebrate Dasara, the Nada Habba, in a simple manner, Kannada & Culture Minister C T Ravi announced after the meeting. The state government has set aside Rs 10 crore for the celebrations along with a contribution of Rs 5 crore from the Mysuru Urban Development Authority.  Five Corona Warriors will inaugurate the celebrations, Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dasara-karnataka-govt-nixes-many-events-over-coronavirus-884580.html
09-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Flood relief: Karnataka asks for funds beyond NDRF norms||Karnataka, which is eligible for a compensation of Rs 682 crore under National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) guidelines, has urged the Inter-Ministerial Central Team to release more funds as the state has been hit by floods for three consecutive years. The government has estimated losses to the tune of Rs 8,071 crore due to the August floods. Addressing the reporters following a meeting with the central team, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the state also petitioned the Centre to set up Integrated Flood Forecasting and Response System in the River Krishna Basin. “We have also sought a Landslide Hazard Mapping and Early Warning System to mitigate such natural disasters,” he said, adding that it would help understand reasons for landslides and to initiate precautionary measures. The government was also contemplating to shift those in areas vulnerable to landslides. While the relief amount sanctioned by the Centre would provide only Rs 95,000 for completely damaged houses, Karnataka has announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each. “We have also written to the government to revise the NDRF guidelines and increase the relief amount by three to four times the current amount. The proposal is being discussed by the Finance Ministry,” he said. Providing details on the losses suffered due to the floods, he said that 3.31 lakh hectare of agricultural crop, 32,976-hectare horticulture crops and 38,620 hectare of plantation crops were damaged. Apart from that, 10,978 houses, 14,182 km roads, 1,268 bridges and 3,168 government buildings suffered damages, Ashoka added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/flood-relief-karnataka-asks-for-funds-beyond-ndrf-norms-884850.html
09-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees one suicide in every 46 minutes||More than 56,038 persons died by suicide in Karnataka between 2015 and 2019. That is nearly 31 suicides per day and one suicide in every 46 minutes. A comparative study of the National Crime Records Bureau report: ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India’ over five years (2015-19) shows that on an average 1.33 lakh people die by suicide in India. In 2019 alone as many as 1.39 lakh died by suicide in the country and Maharashtra reported the highest number of cases with 18, 916 (13.6% of the total suicides in India) followed by Tamil Nadu (13,493; 9.7%), West Bengal (12,665; 9.1%), Madhya Pradesh (12,457; 9.1%) and Karnataka (11,288 or 8.1% of the total suicides in India). The top five states contributed 49.5% of suicide cases, while the remaining 24 states and seven union territories contributed the remaining cases. There has been a decline in the number of suicides being reported in Karnataka. In 2017 the state had recorded 9% of the total cases in India, while in 2018 it was 8.6%. However, what has been worrying the state is that Bengaluru continues to be among the top three cities with the highest number of cases. In 2019, Bengaluru reported 2,081 cases (2,082 in 2018). Chennai continues to report the most with 2,461 cases in 2019 and 2,369 cases in 2018. Delhi was ranked second in 2019 with 2,423 cases and 2,102 cases in 2018. Mumbai, on the other hand, has reported 1,229 cases in 2019 and 1,174 cases in 2018. The scenario in Karnataka Of the total 56,038 persons who died by suicide in the state, 40,481 (75%) were male and 15, 551 (24.96) female. Illness is said to be one of the major reasons for people ending their lives. Nearly 13,990 died due to this reason during the said period. The other reasons are family problems (10,727), bankruptcy/ indebtedness (5,987), marriage related issues (2,338), failure in exams (1,298), love affairs (1,791), unemployment (1,782) and career problems (1,106). The state has also reported 4,106 cases behind which causes were not known and 6,494 cases where people died by suicide for other reasons. In the professional field, agriculture sector has witnessed the highest number of suicide cases in the state between 2015-19, as nearly 10,205 died by suicide. This was followed by self-employed people (9,323), housewives (7,748), daily wage earners (7,705), salaried persons (4,670), unemployed (4,843) and students (3267). Majority of the people ended their lives by hanging self (30,223), followed by poisoning (14,387) and 1,471 people came under a moving vehicle, while in 2,798 cases, people found other means of ending life. According to economist Sangeeta Kattimani, along with tremendous emotional toll on the families of those who died, suicides also have economic costs both in the short and long periods. One of the main goals of World Suicide Prevention Day is to increase awareness about suicidal behaviours and how to effectively prevent them. It should everyone's business to prevent suicide, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-one-suicide-in-every-46-minutes-884940.html
09-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah demands extension of Karnataka Assembly session till Oct 15||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has asked Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to extend the monsoon session of the legislature till October 15 as “eight days will not be enough to discuss important issues.” The session is slated to start on September 21 and would go on till September 30. It will have business for eight days. “There is information that over 20 Ordinances and over 35 Bills are being laid,” Siddaramaiah said in a letter to Kageri. “The people of the state are caught in an unprecedented situation with recurring floods and the Covid-19 pandemic due to which more than 6,500 people have died. The state is also shrouded under the dangerous drug activities,” he explained. “The duration of the session will not be enough. It looks like the session is being held just for namesake without any concern towards people,” he said, citing the Karnataka Conduct of Government Business in the State Legislature Act, 2005, that stipulates that the House should be in session for not less than 60 days in a year. “15 days in January, 20 in March, 15 in July and 15 in November...it should be of minimum 60 days every year with each session lasting ten days,” he said, accusing the BJP government of vitiating the Parliamentary system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-demands-extension-of-karnataka-assembly-session-till-oct-15-884946.html
09-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister orders probe into death during tubectomy||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday ordered an inquiry into the death of women during tubectomy at a hospital in Karwar in Uttara Kannada district of Karnataka. Speaking to reporters at Chikkaballapur, over 50 kms from here, he said it was unfortunate that recently a 30- year-old woman died during the surgery. In a statement, Dr Sudhakar said, "The deaths during the tubectomy operations usually occur due to an increase in the dosage of anaesthesia." However, he maintained that only an investigation can bring out truth. He said he received information that an FIR has been registered against the surgeon who conducted the tubectomy and added that FIR cannot be lodged in cases of medical negligence. "An investigation into this case will bring out the truth about the cause of death," the Minister said adding that he has instructed the secretary of the Health Department in this direction. He said strict action would be taken against the doctor if the investigation reveals negligence. At the same time, he said no one should be held responsible until the postmortem is over. Condoling the woman's death, he said he would discuss with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on financial aid to her family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-orders-probe-into-death-during-tubectomy-884950.html
09-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||9,540 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 128 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported a spike of 9,540 Covid-19 cases and 128 fatalities, taking the total infection count to 4,21,730 and the toll to 6,808. The day also saw 6,860 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of new cases reported on Wednesday, 3,419 were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of September 9 evening, cumulatively 4,21,730 cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 6,808 deaths and 3,15,433 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said that out of 99,470 active cases, 98,694 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 776 are in Intensive Care Units. Forty one out of total 128 deaths reported were from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru (13), Ballari (8), Dakshina Kannada, Koppal and Shivamogga (6), Belagavi and Tumakuru (5), Hassan (4), Mandya and Raichur (3). Bagalkote, Bengaluru Rural, Bidar, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Gadag, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Uttara Kannada and Vijayapura each accounted for two deaths, while Chamarajanagara, Dharwad, Kodagu, Kolar, Ramanagara and Udupi had one each. Most of the deceased either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 3,419, Ballari 559, Shivamogga 555 (cumulative of of Sep 8 and 9), Mysuru 500, Belagavi 390, Dakshina Kannada 310, Hassan 270, Uttara Kannada 260, Udupi 258, Davangere 255, Tumakuru 242, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of cases with a total of 1,57,044 infections, followed by Ballari 25,029 and Mysuru 23,138 . Among discharges too Bengaluru urban was on top with 1,12,536 discharges, followed by Ballari 20,201 and Mysuru 15,909. A total of 35,31,441 samples were tested so far, out of which 70,322 were tested on Wednesday alone. Among the samples tested today 34,264 were Rapid Antigen Tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/9540-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-128-deaths-885108.html
09-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: 2 Thane Shiv Sena men approach cops against Kangana||Thane Shiv Sena functionaries Eknath Bhoir and Sailesh Kadam on Tuesday approached police claiming actor Kangana Ranaut's comments likening Mumbai to PoK had hurt the sentiments of the people of Maharashtra. Senior Inspector VA Shinde of Shree Nagar police station said the complaint had been forwarded to superior officials for instructions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-2-thane-shiv-sena-men-approach-cops-against-kangana-884608.html
09-09-2020||West||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh gets threat calls again||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has again received threat calls over his stance in connection with the controversy involving actress Kangana Ranaut, sources close to him said on Wednesday. Deshmukh received these calls from different persons from Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday and at around 6 am on Wednesday and the matter is being probed, the sources said. Earlier also, an anonymous caller phoned Deshmukh's Nagpur office, threatening him and NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a minister said on Monday. Deshmukh on Monday expressed surprise over the Centre's decision to provide 'Y-plus' security to Ranaut, who he said, had "insulted" Mumbai and Maharashtra with her remarks. Ranaut is in the eye of the storm over her recent remarks in which she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. On Saturday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's personal residence 'Matoshree' in Bandra here received calls in which the caller allegedly threatened to blow it up, the Chief Minister's Office said. The caller had claimed to be aide of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-gets-threat-calls-again-884691.html
09-09-2020||West||Adequate security deployed at airport ahead of Kangana's arrival say cops||Mumbai Police have made adequate security arrangements near the airport here ahead of actress Kangana Ranaut's arrival, an official said on Wednesday. Ranaut, who is locked in a bitter war of words with the ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra over her comments on the Mumbai Police after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, is expected to reach here in the afternoon. "We have made adequate security arrangements near the airport to avoid any untoward incident," a police official said. Ranaut recently compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied- Kashmir (PoK). She also said that she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia", and would prefer security either from her home state Himachal Pradesh or the Centre. The actress had also tweeted that she will be returning to Mumbai from Himachal Pradesh on September 9 and dared anyone to stop her. The Centre earlier this week decided to give her Y-plus security. Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Tuesday said workers of his Republican Party of India (A) will provide protection to Ranaut when she reaches Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/adequate-security-deployed-at-airport-ahead-of-kanganas-arrival-say-cops-884747.html
09-09-2020||West||Kangana Ranaut moves High Court, seeks stay on demolition of her Mumbai home||Actor Kangana Ranaut approached the Bombay High Court on Wednesday challenging the notice issued by the Mumbai civic body for 'illegal construction' at her bungalow here, and sought a stay on the demolition process. "We filed a petition this morning seeking urgent hearing. We have sought a stay on the demolition process by way of interim relief," Ranaut's advocate Rizwan Siddiqui told PTI. He said the high court is likely to take up the plea for hearing during the course of the day. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday demolished "illegal alterations" at the Bandra bungalow of Ranaut, a civic official said. Ranaut's recent remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan- occupied-Kashmir (PoK) has drawn the ire of the ruling Shiv Sena which also controls the BMC. The 33-year-old actor, who is scheduled to reach here later in the day, has alleged that the Maharashtra government is targeting her because of her fight with the Shiv Sena. The BMC on Tuesday pasted a stop-work notice at the actor's bungalow at Pali Hill in suburban Bandra. The civic body claimed that during regular inspection it found several illegal constructions and modifications have been carried out without taking necessary approvals from the civic body. The BMC on Tuesday also filed a 'caveat' in a local court, saying it should be heard first if Ranaut challenges the stop-work notice issued to her. A caveat is a request to a court that no order should be passed without hearing the person/party which files it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-ranaut-moves-high-court-seeks-stay-on-demolition-of-her-mumbai-home-884778.html
09-09-2020||West||With over 2 lakh cases, Pune's Covid-19 cases surpass tallies of Delhi, Mumbai||Maharashtra’s cultural capital, Pune, has become the first district to cross the two-lakh mark of progressive Covid-19 cases, leaving behind cities such as Delhi and Mumbai. The first two cases of Covid-19 infection were detected in Pune when a couple with travel history to Dubai had tested positive on March 9, The population of Pune is much lesser than Delhi and Mumbai – and the spike has rattled the Maharashtra government. Pune has emerged as the worst-hotspot of Covid-19 with 2,07,435 progressive cases and 4,358 deaths – as of Tuesday night. According to projections, Pune is likely to cross the 2.50-lakh mark by the end of September. The Pune district comprises areas within jurisdiction of Pune Municipal Corporation (BMC), Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the rural areas – spread over 15,642 sq km with a population of around 94 lakh. “Pune is a matter of concern, not only has it surpassed Mumbai and Delhi, its tally is more than many states,” said a senior doctor associated with the Maharashtra government. Like Mumbai and elsewhere, the jump in cases in Pune is because of the scaling up of testing facilities.  “Pune is recording the highest number of tests,” state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. Pune’s district collector Rajesh Deshmukh also said that the district and civic administration is pursuing an aggressive testing policy.  “Effective contact-tracing, tracking of co-morbid people and isolation of patients have been possible due to the large number of tests…this will further bring down the fatality rate,” Deshmukh said. Last month, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who is the guardian minister of Pune, held a review meeting.  NCP president Sharad Pawar visited Pune last week. Pawar Junior also toured Pune city with union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javdekar. "In view of the increasing number of patients, segregation facilities should be made available in new buildings. Ambulances equipped with various facilities, including oxygen, should be made available on time and immediately if required," Sharad Pawar said. As the condition remains a concern, there is no dearth of volunteers. The Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh, a body of mountaineers, trekkers and adventurers, has decided to provide its services at the Pune Jumbo Covid Centre.  “Forty volunteers will work in batches from 8 am to 8 pm and will help the administration. The primary responsibility of the volunteers is to set up a coordination between admitted patients and their relatives who often visit the Jumbo Covid Center to know the status of the health of their respective relatives,”  according to Suyash Mokashi of AMGM||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-over-2-lakh-cases-punes-covid-19-cases-surpass-tallies-of-delhi-mumbai-884788.html
09-09-2020||West||Gujarat: CBI files FIR against jewellery firm for duping Bank of Baroda||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has lodged an FIR against a Vadodara-based jewellery firm and its director for allegedly cheating the Bank of Baroda to the tune of Rs 173.63 crore. The First Information Report (FIR) was lodged on Tuesday by the CBI at its ACB-Gandhinagar office against Shree Mukt Jewellers Baroda Private Limited, its promoter-cum- director Harsh Soni and unknown persons. As per the bank's complaint, Soni is absconding. In its complaint to the CBI, the Bank of Baroda accused the company, its director and others of "criminal conspiracy, criminal misconduct, cheating, forgery and diversion of public funds". The company was into traditional gold and jewellery business in Vadodara and was sanctioned a Letter of Credit, cash credit and term loan facilities by the bank in 2013. "But, it failed to repay the dues and the account became NPA (non-performing asset) in February 2016 and was declared as a wilful defaulter by the bank in 2018. The outstanding balance as on March, 31, 2019 is Ra 173.63 crore," the FIR said. Suspecting a fraud, the bank conducted a forensic audit and learnt that "all the three suppliers with whom the company entered into transactions of buying gold and ornaments are related to each other", it said. An internal investigation by the bank revealed that two of these suppliers were having common directors while two were registered on same address. One of the suppliers, M/s P Gold Pvt Ltd, was into real estate business and not gold, according to the FIR. "The borrower company transferred Rs 38.02 crore and got back Rs 9.11 crore and diverted Rs 28.91 crore through P Gold Pvt Ltd. It is suspected that the borrower company has misused the Letter of Credit facility for routing funds and diverting funds of business," the FIR mentioned citing the forensic audit report. It further said the company allegedly indulged in round tripping transactions to show inflated turnover and funds were also transfered to accounts of other firms having common directors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cbi-files-fir-against-jewellery-firm-for-duping-bank-of-baroda-884822.html
09-09-2020||West||Mild tremor of 3.2 magnitude hits Palghar||A tremor of 3.2 magnitude hit Palghar district in Maharashtra early Wednesday morning, officials said. No loss of life or damage to property was reported, they said. The tremor was recorded at 4.17 am near Dundalwadi village in Dahanu taluka, district disaster management cell chied Vivekanand Kadam said. "As per initial reports, there was no casualty or damage to property," Dahanu tehsildar Rahul Sarang said. The district has been experiencing such tremors since last Friday, including one of 4.0 magnitude on Saturday. Palghar's Dahanu area has been experiencing such tremors since November 2018, with most of them centered around Dundalwadi village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mild-tremor-of-32-magnitude-hits-palghar-884823.html
09-09-2020||West||Sena-ruled BMC faces flak over demolition at Kangana bungalow||The Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday came in for flak after demolishing portions of the Bandra bungalow of Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, with some critics saying she was targeted while other defaulters were spared. The 33-year-old actor, who is scheduled to reach here later in the day, has alleged that the Maharashtra government is targeting her because of her fight with the Shiv Sena. The Bombay High Court on Wednesday stayed the demolition process initiated by the BMC for illegal construction at Ranaut's bungalow and sought to know why did the city civic body enter the property when the owner was not present. BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in Maharashtra is playing vendetta politics. Kangana said the civic body should focus on the shoddy state of roads instead of targeting her bungalow. "BMC, these are Mumbai road and all you are concerned about is DEMOLITION of an actress house who is exposing mafia. KUDOS to you..!! #DeathOfDemocracy," Kangana tweeted. She also posted a photo of a Mumbai road riddled with several potholes. "Tell Kangana to keep the faith. We are with her in this struggle," tweeted BJP MP Subramanian Swamy. Senior journalist Nauzer Bharucha said, "If a forensic audit is done of most new buildings that have come up in Bandra-Khar area, it would reveal massive FSI manipulation, illegal floors, unauthorised balconies and construction areas much more than what is permissible." "The demolition of the unauthorised portion of Kangana Ranaut's bungalow on Pali Hill is nothing but a muscular show of state power when much bigger construction crimes have been condoned," said Bharucha, who has been covering real estate for over two decades for a leading English newspaper here. "A few years ago, when comedian Kapil Sharma publicly accused BMC officials of seeking a Rs five lakh bribe from him, the civic administration promptly issued him a demolition notice for his Goregaon apartment," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sena-ruled-bmc-faces-flak-over-demolition-at-kangana-bungalow-884852.html
09-09-2020||West||Supreme Court stays implementation of 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed reservation for Marathas in jobs and education in Maharashtra and referred the question of its validity to the Constitution bench. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao, however, clarified admission already made to PG courses under the 2018 state law of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act would not be altered. With the court referring the matter to the CJI for setting up a Constitution bench of the appropriate bench, there would not be any reservations until the issue is finally adjudicated. The case arose out of the law which allowed 16% quota for Marathas. The Bombay High Court in 2019 upheld the validity of the law but allowed 12 to 13% reservation for the dominant Maratha community. A batch of petitions contended it was violative of the SC's nine-judge bench decision (Mandal Commission case), putting a ceiling of 50% reservation. Jaishri Patil and others challenged the validity of the HC's June 27, 2019 order for applying 12 to 13% quota since 2014. The petitioners claimed that the decision had breached the 50% ceiling on reservation fixed by the apex court in its landmark judgment by the nine-judge bench in the 'Indra Sahwney' case (1992), also known as the "Mandal verdict".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/supreme-court-stays-implementation-of-2018-maharashtra-law-granting-reservation-to-marathas-in-education-and-jobs-884861.html
09-09-2020||West||Jail or bail for Rhea and Showik? Court to decide||The fate of Chakraborty siblings, Rhea and Showik, who have been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) will be decided on Thursday. The bail pleas of Rhea (28) and Showik (24) will come up for hearing in the Mumbai Sessions Court on Thursday, their lawyer Satish Maneshinde said. The sister-brother duo faces similar charges of sourcing and procuring drugs for actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances on 14 June at his rented duplex flat in Mount Blanc at Carter Road in Bandra. Rhea, who was arrested on Tuesday, has been sent to judicial custody and the Magistrate’s court has rejected her bail application. On Wednesday morning, she was sent Byculla women’s jail till the expiry of her remand on 22 September. Meanwhile, Showik, Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda and two alleged drug peddlers Abdel Bashit Parihar and Zaid Vilatra were produced before a Magistrate’s court, which remanded them to judicial custody till 23 September. They are expected to be lodged in the Arthur Road prison. Maneshinde has moved the bail applications for Rhea and Showik and said that they have cooperated with the investigatiors. “The allegations against the applicants would at the most make out a case of purchasing of drugs which is a bailable offence. There is no shred of evidence to connect the applicants with the financing of any illicit traffic or harbouring any offenders,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jail-or-bail-for-rhea-and-showik-court-to-decide-884907.html
09-09-2020||West||Your arrogance will crumble tomorrow: Kangana Ranaut attacks Uddhav Thackeray||After the Mumbai civic body razed the 'illegal' part of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow at the posh Pali Hill area of Mumbai on Wednesday, the 33-year-old actor, referring to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as “tujhe”, declared an all out war against the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “Uddhav Thackeray, tujhe kya lagta hai? (what do you think?)… colluded along with the film mafia, demolished my home and took revenge on me? My home was demolished today, your arrogance will crumble tomorrow," Ranaut said in a 1.8 minute video message after reaching Mumbai from her home state of Himachal Pradesh. Armed with big drill machines, hammers, sledgehammers and crowbars and backed up by a JCB machine, the demolition squad of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) landed at Bungalow No 5, Chetak Row House located at Nargis Dutt Road at Pali Hill. The bungalow houses her company, Manikarnika Films Pvt Ltd, where the alterations have been carried out. However, Kangana’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui moved the Bombay High Court and got a 24-hour stay on the demolition. The court has sought a reply from the BMC, which it would hear on Thursday. “The action of the BMC is illegal, arbitrary, mala fide and without application of mind, in violation of principles of natural justice, unreasonable and improper,” Kangana's lawyer told the division bench comprising justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla. During the day, Kangana sent out over a dozen tweets – describing Mumbai as Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir – provoking the Shiv Sena led MVA government and the BMC that the saffron party has been controlling for more than quarter of a century. Even as the BMC was demolishing the 'illegal' structures, Kangana, who was en route to Mumbai, compared her office to Ram mandir and said that Babar is demolishing it. Comparing the BMC officials to “Babur army”, she said that history will repeat itself and she will reconstruct her 'mandir'. "This is the wheel of time, remember, it never stays the same,” she said, adding that she feels what had happened with Kashmiri pundits. “Today, I promise that I will make a film on Kashmir like Ayodhya,” she said, adding: “Uddhav Thackeray….I feel good that it has happened to me…it has a meaning,” she said. As she landed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, there was a huge crowd of Shiv Sainiks on one side raising slogans and RPI and a faction of Karni Sena to support her. Kangana, who has been accorded Y-plus category security, was whisked away from the VIP gate so that she does not come face to face with the crowd. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said that Kangana’s comments regularly attacking Mumbai, Shiv Sena leaders and Mumbai police have not gone down well. “The demolition is as per law,” she said. According to the BMC, renovation and finishing work was underway at the 'unauthorised' portion of the premises which is beyond the approved plan which includes — toilet 'unauthorisedly' converted into office cabin on ground floor, 'unauthorised' kitchen constructed in store room on ground floor, 'unauthorised' pantry, new toilets were 'unauthorisedly' constructed, beside staircase inside store and another in parking area on ground floor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/your-arrogance-will-crumble-tomorrow-kangana-ranaut-attacks-uddhav-thackeray-884912.html
09-09-2020||West||'Black day' for Marathas: Maha BJP after SC stays quota law||It is a "black day" for Marathas, the Maharashtra BJP said on Wednesday as it attacked the state MVA government after the Supreme Court stayed implementation of 2018 law granting quota to the community in education and jobs. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil claimed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, was "not serious" in ensuring that the quota held its ground before the apex court. He also charged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar with not paying attention to the matter. The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the implementation of the law, but made it clear that the status of those who have availed of the benefits will not be disturbed. A three-judge bench headed by Justice L N Rao referred to a larger constitution bench, to be set up by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, the batch of pleas questioning the validity of the law granting the reservation to Marathas. "The MVA could not ensure the reservation held ground before the Supreme Court," Patil told reporters here. Noting that the apex court referred the batch of pleas challenging the validity of the law to a larger bench, Patil said now nobody knows when the ruling in the matter will come. Patil contended that matters referred to larger bench in the past have remained pending for years. "This means the stay will continue till the bench gives an order. Now there is no point in the community protesting either, because nobody knows when the ruling will come. Therefore, it is a black day for the community," the BJP leader said. He said his party had repeatedly told the MVA government to take the issue seriously and prepare well legally for the same. "The MVA did not want the reservation. Which senior leader of theirs paid attention to the matter? Did Uddhav ji or Sharad Pawar pay attention?" he asked. "There is a scope to say now that their mindset was such that they were fine if the quota was stayed as they were not serious to ensure it holds ground," Patil added. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018 was enacted to grant reservation to people of the Maratha community in Maharashtra in jobs and education. The Bombay High Court, while upholding the law in June last year, had held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable and said the quota should not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admissions. The politically dominant Maratha community, which constitutes over 30 per cent of the state's population, held several protests in the past demanding reservation in jobs and education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/black-day-for-marathas-maha-bjp-after-sc-stays-quota-law-884958.html
09-09-2020||West||Differences within MVA over demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s office||Differences seem to have cropped up within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance over the issue of demolition of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's office. Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray was constantly attacked by Kangana through her Twitter posts vis-a-vis the lynching of sadhus in Palghar and the investigations into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Meanwhile, the BJP lashed out at the MVA—which comprises of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress—for attacking those who have been speaking against the government. Since the Shiv Sena controls the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the NCP and the Congress could not interfere into the issue. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, the chief architect of the MVA, openly expressed his displeasure over the subject. “We are giving undue importance to those making such statements. We will have to see what influence such statements have at people at large. In my opinion, people do not take (such statements) seriously,” the 79-year-old ex-chief minister, said. He said that BMC acted "as per rules", but the timing of the demolition drive sends out a wrong message to the public. Late in the evening, Pawar met Thackeray over the issue of Maratha reservation and the ongoing hearings in the Supreme Court. According to reports, Kangana issue was also discussed but there is no official confirmation. Asked about Pawar’s statement, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and close Thackeray's aide Sanjay Raut preferred not to comment. “I have nothing to say… I was in my office,” he said. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam said: “What was illegal… the office of Kangana or the way demolition was carried out? The Bombay High Court stopped the demolition. The action was out of revenge… politics of revenge does not last long… hope because of one office, demolition of Shiv Sena does not start.” BJP stalwart and leader of opposition Devendra Fadanavis termed the sequence of events unprecedented. “This has never happened in the history of Maharashtra… if you take an action if someone speaks against you, it is out of vengeance… it does not portray Maharashtra in good light,” the former chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/differences-within-mva-over-demolition-of-kangana-ranaut-s-office-885002.html
09-09-2020||West||15 detained for protesting BMC action against Kangana Ranaut||Around 15 persons, including some women, were detained on Wednesday for allegedly holding a protest against Mumbai civic body's act of demolishing a part of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's bungalow at Bandra here, a police official said. The protesters gathered outside Ranaut's bungalow in Pali Hill area in the afternoon to show solidarity with the actor after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished alleged illegal alterations at her property. "The protesters raised slogans against the BMC and in support of Ranaut," senior inspector of Khar police station, Gajanan Kabdule, said. "We detained around 15 people, including women, and brought them to the police station for illegally holding the protest. We are collecting information about them, including where they are from," he said. None of them have been arrested so far, the official said. Dismissing reports that the police lathicharged the protesters, Kabdule said, "All these are just rumours." Ranaut's recent remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan- occupied-Kashmir (PoK) has drawn the ire of the ruling Shiv Sena, which also controls the BMC. The BMC on Wednesday started demolishing "illegal alterations" at her Bandra bungalow. However, the Bombay High Court later stayed the demolition process and sought to know how the civic body entered the property when the owner was not present. The 33-year-old actor arrived in the city later in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/15-detained-for-protesting-bmc-action-against-kangana-ranaut-885044.html
09-09-2020||West||Gujarat BJP leaders test Covid-19 positive, govt announces Monsoon Session||Gujarat BJP president C R Patil became the latest politician to have tested positive for coronavirus. He was admitted to Apollo hospital after developing symptoms like fatigue on Tuesday. The report was confirmed on Wednesday. Since his appointment as party's state unit president, Patil has been on tours to connect with party workers and supporters. Before Patil, party's state spokesperson Bharat Pandya and member of parliament from Ahmedabad East Hasmukh Patel were found to be infected. Earlier, over half-a-dozen party members who had been attending meetings at the party's headquarters at Kamalam, Gandhinagar had tested positive. Patil, who was appointed party's state president in July, took out various public meetings and rallies in Saurashtra and north Gujarat where a large number of supporters and workers had congregated leading to criticism from the opposition for throwing social distancing norms out of the window. Patil also opened the party headquarters for workers to address issues by appointing two ministers who would listen to their problem twice a week and address them. Following the reports of infection among the party leaders the headquarters has been sealed. Following the rise in cases, the BJP also cancelled its two-day convention scheduled for September 11 and 12. Meanwhile, a five-day Monsoon Session of the Gujarat Legislative Assembly is going to be held from September 21. The state government said in a statement that 24 bills are likely to be tabled during the session. When asked if sessions will have Question Hour, Gujarat Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pradeepsinh Jadeja said that "Assembly speaker has been requested to not include Question Hour. If the need arises, the speak can allow short notice questions after discussions with concerned ministers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-leaders-test-covid-19-positive-govt-announces-monsoon-session-885055.html
09-09-2020||West||Kangana Ranaut issue: Why Hindi? Jayant Patil's poser to Devendra Fadnavis||Maharashtra NCP chief Jayant Patil on Wednesday took a dig at BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis after the latter targeted the state government in Hindi on the partial razing of actress Kangana Ranaut's bungalow by the Mumbai civic body. Tagging Fadnavis on Twitter, Patil sought to know why the former chose to speak in Hindi when this issue was related to Maharashtra. Patil, who holds Water Resources portfolio in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, wondered whether Fadnavis reacted as the Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly or as the BJP's incharge for Bihar Assembly polls. Reacting to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) action of demolishing "illegal alterations" in Ranaut's bungalow, Fadnavis reacted both in Marathi and Hindi in separate video messages. He shared his video message in Hindi on Twitter. "The issue concerns Maharashtra, but reaction in Hindi? The people of Maharashtra should know whether it is Maharashtra's Leader of Opposition or BJP's Bihar poll in-charge speaking," Patil tweeted with "JustAsking" hashtag. Reacting to the BMC's action, Fadnavis said it showed in a way there is a "government-sponsored terror" in the state. He also said Maharashtra of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj had not seen such a "timid and anti-democracy" government till now, and accused it of stifling voices of those holding a different view.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-ranaut-issue-why-hindi-jayant-patils-poser-to-devendra-fadnavis-885084.html
09-09-2020||West||Outlandish to compare Mumbai with Pakistan: NCP on Kangana Ranaut's remark||The comparison between Mumbai and its police force with Pakistan is "outlandish", Maharashtra NCP chief Jayant Patil said on Wednesday in a veiled attack on actress Kangana Ranaut over her tweets that have riled the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation. Patil said it was "painful" to come across people who are "not grateful" to what Mumbai and Maharashtra has to offer in terms of opportunities, women safety, and tolerance. "People comparing this great city and our police force to that of Pakistan is outlandish. At best, it is a baseless remark to gain publicity and limelight. #UddhavThackeray #BMCMumbai @DGPMaharashtra @MumbaiPolice," Patil tweeted. The water resources minister said Mumbai is the mother which does not discriminate. He also called for being "respectful" to the spirit of Mumbai and the dignity of the elected offices of the state. "Don't bite the hands which feed you," Patil added. Earlier in the day, the Mumbai civic body demolished "illegal alterations" at the bungalow of Ranaut at Pali Hill in Bandra. After arriving in Mumbai from her home state Himachal Pradesh, Ranaut once again equated Mumbai with Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). "I am never wrong and my enemies prove again and again this is why my Mumbai is POK now #deathofdemocracy," she tweeted. Ranaut also shared few photographs of BMC officials at her house, with the captions "Pakistan...#deathofdemocracy" and "Babur and his army #deathofdemocracy".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/outlandish-to-compare-mumbai-with-pakistan-ncp-on-kangana-ranauts-remark-885121.html
