10-09-2020||Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district becomes den for illegal activities, claims Priyank Kharge||The recovery of about 1,350 kg ganja worth approximately Rs 6 crore by Bengaluru's police in Kalagi of Kalaburagi district indicated that the district has become a den for illegal activities, regretted Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge. Taking to twitter, he praised Bengaluru police for busting a huge ganja racket in the state's history. He had curbed all illegal activities when he was the district in charge minister. Illegal gambling dens have mushroomed in the district after 2019 and have converted the district into the den of illegal activities, Priyank charged. How a huge posse of ganja said to be supplied from Odisha crossed the check-post of three states? Easy supply of ganja shows the political handiwork. Was the district administration unaware of it? the ex-minister asked. Going by the way in which the Bengaluru police raided a sheep farm without sharing an information with the local people, the MLA suspected the political pressure on the local police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/kalaburagi-district-becomes-den-for-illegal-activities-claims-priyank-kharge-885598.html
10-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Minister Prabhu Chauhan tests positive for Covid-19||Chauhan was in home quarantine after his car driver, gun man and personal assistant contracted the virus on September 8.  On Wednesday, the minister underwent Covid-19 test and the results came back positive. Minister's special officer Shivakumar Katte appealed to those who came in contact with the minister to undergo Covid-19 test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-minister-prabhu-chauhan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-885228.html
10-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Marijuana worth Rs 15 lakh seized in Hassan||Excise Department officials conducted a raid and seized 70 kg marijuana, worth Rs 15 lakh, at Hodenuru village in Konanuru hobli, in the taluk. Three people have been arrested in this regard. According to police, cannabis was cultivated amidst ginger and jowar crops at the farms of Somesh and Prakash of the village. In all, 70 kg of cannabis has been seized. "Acting on a tip-off that ganja is being sold, the officials raided the house of one Devaraju and seized 550 grams of marijuana," said Excise Deputy Commissioner Gopala Krishnegowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/marijuana-worth-rs-15-lakh-seized-in-hassan-885278.html
10-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||KSOU adopts open book exam in interest of students||City-based Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), which has the jurisdiction to offer Open and Distance Learning (ODL) courses across the state, has planned to conduct open book exams (OBE) in the interest of its students. This is the first of its kind experiment in any Indian university. Around 12,000 students of 31 courses, admitted in July 2019, would be benefitted by the OBE. Vice-Chancellor S Vidyashankar said, “The students of ODL are already discriminated by employers, in comparison with students from conventional universities. We did not want our students to be further discriminated, as a ‘Covid batch’.” “Under prevailing circumstances, conducting conventional exams for this huge number of students is difficult. Final year students, of both undergraduate and post graduate courses, have to attend regular exams. But, we were given a choice to promote other students. Thus, to make sure that deserving students get their due, we wanted to devise a proper evaluation system, to promote them to their respective next year of the course,” he said. The VC said, “A committee was formed with Dean (Academics) Thejasvi Naviloor as chairman to explore the modalities of OBE. The University Grants Commission (UGC) had given an option to promote students on the basis of internal assessment marks. In some universities, students are evaluated for 50 marks in theory and the remaining 50 marks is for internal assessment.” “In KSOU, 80 marks is for theory and only 20 marks is for internal assessment, on the basis of assignments. It would not have been proper to multiply the internal assessment marks by five, to promote the students. Besides, it would have reflected in the marks card, which is not good for students,” professor Naviloor pointed out. The professor said, “The question paper for OBE will be similar to the ones in conventional exams. However, the evaluation yardsticks will be different. Ten days will be given for the students, two days for each paper, to download the question paper and the first sheet of the answer-script.” “The students should fill the first sheet, with their details, and add A4 sheets to write the answers, by referring books. The students should send the answer sheets to KSOU, for evaluation within the stipulated time. The students will be briefed about the guidelines for appearing for OBE. The OBE actually tests the analytical skills of the students. Besides, the professors, the evaluators, have been trained to apply the new yardsticks,” the prof added. “The students need not wait for the results, for admission to the next academic year, in the OBE system. They can start studying for the next year, after appearing for the OBE. We have already got good response for our OBE model. Tamil Nadu Open University (TNOU) and Dr B R Ambedkar Open University of Telangana have approached us for consultation,” professor Naviloor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksou-adopts-open-book-exam-in-interest-of-students-885588.html
10-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Important to control Covid death rate, says Sriramulu||Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu directed the officials to take measures to check Covid death ratio and to take systematic steps in this regard. Participating in a video interaction, with officials, Sriramulu told the offcials to make a list of existing problems in hospitals and to ensure that there is oxygen supply, cleanliness, sufficient medicines in stock and to increase counselling. The primary and secondary contacts of Covid patients and senior citizens should be subject to tests, he said. An expert team of doctors and paramedical staff should inspect every government and private hospital and provide complete information to the state-level committee. Drug regulators should visit hospitals and ensure there is supply of medicines and oxygen, he stressed. Complete statistics of those in home isolation should be provided. A survey should be conducted to identify pregnant women and HIV patients. If they have any symptom, they should be provided treatment. Booth-level officials and Asha workers should be provided with oximeters, he said. Deputy Commissioner R Girish directed the district surgeon to fill vacant posts in the district hospital, to ensure proper treatment. The hospitals should not face shortage of medical equipment. Ventilators provided for the district should be utilised properly, he said. ZP CEO B A Paramesh, Assistant Commisisoner Naveen Bhat, District Health Officer Dr K M Sathish Kumar, District Surgeon Dr Krishnamurthy and Dr Hirannaiah were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/important-to-control-covid-death-rate-says-sriramulu-885589.html
10-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Compensation for horticulture crop damage sought||MLA H D Revanna alleged that the government has failed to release a compensation of Rs 104 crore for horticulture crop damage, the district suffered during the Covid lockdown. Revanna said that vegetables were grown on 8,245 acres of land, fruits on 1,480 acres and flowers on 342 acres in the district. As the transport system came to a halt, during lockdown, and there was no market to sell the produce, the farmers of the district incurred a loss of Rs 104 crore. But, according to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) guidelines, the loss is estimated at Rs 19.23 crore. “How can people survive in such conditions?” Revanna asked. Around 30 farmers have got a total of Rs 7.59 lakh as compensation. When eligible farmers approach the office, they are told that the Aadhaar number is not linked to their bank accounts. “How many more days they will give the same excuse?” he asked. The MLA explained that the demand for direct purchase of maize, for the benefit of farmers, is not considered. The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) too should be directed to purchase maize from farmers at Rs 1,750 per quintal, he stressed. The Covid crisis has affected the sales of milk byproducts. Hassan Milk Federation has byproducts worth Rs 150 crore in stock. Around 4,200 quintal of milk powder is in the stores. Every day, 11.3 lakh litres of milk is produced and the demand has decreased, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/compensation-for-horticulture-crop-damage-sought-885591.html
10-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ganja grown extensively in Ch’nagar dist: SP||As the CCB police have been cracking the whip against those involved in consuming and peddling narcotic substances in Bengaluru, the police at the border district Chamarajanagar too are on their toes, strengthening the vigil. The CCB police had taken four people from Hanur taluk into custody and took them to Bengaluru for enquiry. Superintendent of Police Divya Sara Thomas confirmed this. According to the SP, one person among them was involved in a similar case in the district, earlier. Three persons have been released after enquiry, according to sources. The drug network is active in the district and incidents of police seizing ganja plants have been reported from the villages adjoining the forest. Hanur, Kollegal rural, Punajanur in Chamarajanagar taluk and BRT range in Yalandur taluk have reported such cases. When compared the details of the last few years, most of the cases related to narcotic substances was reported in 2018. The police had registered 46 cases and seized 500 kg of ganja in the year. In 2019, 120 kg ganja was seized and 11 cases filed. This year, already eight cases have been registered and 150 kg ganja seized. However, the number of cases were 12 and 20 in 2016 and 2017 respectively. Speaking to DH, Divya Sara Thomas said, “Ganja is cultivated in Hanur, Ramapura, Mahadeshwara Hill and in Kollegal. The police have been conducting raids regularly and the year 2018 reported most cases with 500 kg ganja seized.” According to the police, miscreants cultivate ganja among the paddy crop in the interior of the forest. But, it is grown in small patches only. As Hanur, Ramapura and Male Mahadeshwara Hills are dense with trees and there is no movement of people, they grow ganja here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ganja-grown-extensively-in-ch-nagar-dist-sp-885593.html
10-09-2020||National||Metro Railway issues set of dos & don'ts for passengers||The Metro Railway on Wednesday issued a set of dos and don'ts for passengers when they travel while maintaining the Covid-19 safety norms after the services resume. The passengers will have to wear masks covering their face and nose and sanitise their hands from sanitiser dispensers placed at each platform before boarding a train, a Metro Railway official said here. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi, who inspected several stations of the city's rapid transit system on Tuesday, had earlier said that the final date for resumption of the services will be fixed soon. The passengers can use only smart cards for travel and will have to download the Aarogya Setu App on their phones. It said no tokens will be used. Passengers will have to get their body temperature checked through thermal screening at the time of entering a Metro station. They can use specified gates for entry and exit, the official said. The Metro authorities said that passengers having symptoms of fever, cough or cold should not travel on its trains. It also advised elders and children against travelling by a Metro train. The official said those found spitting at stations will be penaised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metro-railway-issues-set-of-dos-donts-for-passengers-885144.html
10-09-2020||National||Serum Institute gets DCGI notice over Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trial suspension by AstraZeneca abroad||The central drug regulator has issued a show-cause notice to the Serum Institute of India (SII) for not informing it about pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing the clinical trials of the Oxford vaccine candidate for Covid-19 in other countries and also for not submitting casualty analysis of the "reported serious adverse events". The show-cause notice was issued following reports that human trials of the most promising Covid-19 vaccine candidate, being developed by the University of Oxford, have been put on hold after a UK participant had an adverse reaction to it. The Drugs Controller General of India, Dr V G Somani, in his show-cause notice has asked SII as to why the permission granted for conducting phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country be not suspended till patient safety is established. "Whereas, Serum Institute of India Pvt Ltd, Pune, till now has not informed the central licensing authority regarding pausing the clinical trial carried out by AstraZeneca in other countries and also not submitted casualty analysis of the reported serious adverse event with the investigational vaccine for the continuation of phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the subject vaccine in the country in light of the safety concerns," said the show-cause notice accessed by PTI. "In view of the above, I Dr V G Somani, Drugs Controller General of India and Central Licensing Authority hereby give you an opportunity to show cause as provided under rule 30 of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, why the permission granted to you August 2 shall not be suspended till patient safety is established," the notice further said. The DGCI sought an immediate reply, saying else "it shall be construed that you have no explanation to offer and action deemed fit will be taken against you". In the show-cause notice, the drug regulator also mentioned that the clinical trials have been put on hold across countries where they were conducted i.e. USA, UK, Brazil and South Africa. Regarding the show cause notice issued by DCGI, Serum Institute of India (SII) said in a statement, "We are going by DCGI's direction and so far were not told to pause the trials. If DCGI has any safety concerns, we will follow their instructions and abide by the standard protocol." Last month, the DCGI had granted permission to the Pune-based SII to conduct Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the coronavirus vaccine candidate. AstraZeneca, a British-Swedish biopharmaceutical giant in a tie-up with the Oxford University to produce the vaccine, described the pause of trials as a "routine" one following what was "an unexplained illness".   Earlier in the day, SII which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine candidate for Covid-19, said it is continuing with the trials in India. Commenting on the recent reports on AstraZeneca halting the trials in the UK, SII said in a statement, "We can't comment much on the UK trials, but they have been paused for further review and they hope to restart soon." It further said, "As far as Indian trials are concerned, it is continuing and we have faced no issues at all."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-gets-dcgi-notice-over-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-trial-suspension-by-astrazeneca-abroad-885150.html
10-09-2020||National||1 held for transferring funds to man spying for Pakistan||Intelligence officials on Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly transferring funds to a spy who was passing confidential information to his Pakistani handler. The officials arrested Aditya Singh of Agra who had transferred funds to one Mushtaq Ali through a mobile payment app. Ali was earlier arrested under espionage charges. Singh had deposited Rs 10,000 in e-wallet of Ali in February 2019, the intelligence officials said. Another accused in the case, Mira Khan, was produced before a local court on Wednesday from where he was sent to one-day police remand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-held-for-transferring-funds-to-man-spying-for-pakistan-885168.html
10-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 10||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 44 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  45,52,884 as of September 10 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  76,218 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 34,71,783  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-10-885172.html
10-09-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: Transgender icons and their stories||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Miss Transqueen India 2019, Nithu R S and Radio Jockey Priyanka talk about their challenges, the pandemic, and more.  Nithu:  In fact, life has become more challenging for me after winning the competition. Every day I got new takas and challenges in my life but I got many opportunities as a jury and showstopper. I have walked in Bangalore times fashion week, Mumbai times fashion week and runways in Delhi. In so many places I have been as a jury and as a performer. I got a very good platform after winning this pageant. I got respect from society and many awards. It's like a dream come true for me. Each and every day, every minute I celebrate this journey. Am happy the way I am. Be proud to be the way you are... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast. Ahmed: Hi, Priyanka. Welcome to DH Radio. Priyanka: Hi. Ahmed: What are the challenges that you face as a trans person? Priyanka: The society's view towards the transgenders is changing. The community needs jobs and reservation. We need to see how many from the community are educated and can speak English. Many from the community dropout in Class  7 or 8. It will be great that based on their skills they get jobs. Ahmed:  Tell us about your journey. How you became a Radio jockey? Priyanka: I never knew I would become a radio jockey. I was working in an NGO and  I had been to a radio station for an interview. Then they decided to give me the opportunity to host programmes related to our community. Ahmed: How was your journey? Priyanka: It's a miracle. I learnt so many things, understood things improved the way I present myself. And I received praises and awards. Ahmed: What about your motivation? Priyanka: There was a thought in the society that Trangenders can also beg or take up sex work. Many transgenders are waiting for an opportunity. I received one and used it. I received good support and environment and that made me happy to work there. Ahmed: How was your family's and friends' reaction when you told them that you are going to be a radio jockey? Priyanka: They were happy. They have supported and encouraged me in my every step. Ahmed: It's been 2 years since Article 377 was struck down, how has your life changed? Priyanka: I am happy that we also have got freedom after years of struggle. It's been two years and yes, things are changing. People from our community are getting recognized and are getting opportunities. Ahmed: How did you spend time during the pandemic? Priyanka: Many from our community were affected since most are engaged in begging and sex work.  At that time, we made many online programmes to create awareness about the community and helped many with ration kits. Ahmed: What is your message to community members and people in general? Priyanka: To my community members do come into the mainstream and for the society: Do give an opportunity to our community members.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-transgender-icons-and-their-stories-885174.html
10-09-2020||National||Indian Air Force formally inducts Rafale fighter jets at Ambala Air Force Station||Five Rafale fighter jets were formally inducted into the Indian Air Force on Thursday at a glittering ceremony in the Ambala air base, in a major boost to India's air power capability at a time the country is engaged in a tense border row with China in eastern Ladakh. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, his French counterpart Florence Parly, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria were among the dignitaries who attended the ceremony. A traditional ‘sarva dharma puja’, a ceremonial 'water cannon salute' to the Rafale jets and an aerial display featuring various breathtaking manoeuvres by the aircraft marked their induction into the 17 Squadron of the IAF. "India has acquired a world class capability that will give it an edge in the entire region," said French Minister Florence Parly at Rafale induction ceremony at Ambala Air Force Station. "There are security challenges on the northern border and we have to be better prepared," said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said at Rafale Induction. In a tweet, the IAF welcomed the "new bird" into its arsenal. The multi-role Rafale jets, built by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are known for air-superiority and precision strikes. A fleet of indigenously-developed combat jet Tejas and Sarang helicopter aerobatic team of the IAF too displayed a range of aerial manoeuvres demonstrating their agility at the ceremony which was attended by India's top military brass and executives of several French defence firms involved in the Rafale programme. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. Ten Rafale jets have been delivered to India so far and five of them stayed back in France for imparting training to IAF pilots. The delivery of all 36 aircraft is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021. A second batch of four to five Rafale jets are likely to arrive in India by November. The Rafale jets are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The Rafale jets are capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. Meteor is a next generation beyond visual range air-to-air missile (BVRAAM) designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden. Out of 36 Rafale jets, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. The trainer jets will be twin-seater and they will have almost all the features of the fighter jets. While the first squadron of the Rafale jets will be stationed at Ambala air base, the second one will be based at the Hasimara base in West Bengal. The 17 Squadron of the IAF was resurrected on September 10 last year. The squadron was originally raised at Air Force Station, Ambala on Oct 1 1951. The 17 Squadron has many firsts to its credit; in 1955 it was equipped with the first jet fighter, the legendary De Havilland Vampire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-air-force-formally-inducts-rafale-fighter-jets-at-ambala-air-force-station-885252.html
10-09-2020||National||Record 95,735 new cases take India's Covid-19 tally past 44 lakh||The country saw a record single-day spike of 95,735 infections and 1,172 fatalities taking India's Covid-19 caseload past 44 lakh and death toll to 75,062, while recoveries surged to 34,71,783 on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The total cases mounted to 44,65,863, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 fatality rate has further dropped to 1.68 per cent while the recovery rate was recorded at 77.74 per cent. There are 9,19,018 active cases in the country which comprise 20.58 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, it went past 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. According to ICMR, a total of 5,29,34,433 samples have been tested up to September 9 with 11,29,756 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-95735-new-cases-take-indias-covid-19-tally-past-44-lakh-885262.html
10-09-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Coerced to make self-incriminating confessions, Rhea Chakraborty says in plea||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, held in a drugs case linked to her boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, has alleged in her bail application filed in a Mumbai court that during her interrogation by the NCB, she was "coerced" into making "self-incriminating confessions". In the plea filed in a sessions court on Wednesday, Rhea also claimed that she has not committed any crime whatsoever and has been falsely implicated in the case. Her bail application is scheduled to come up for hearing on Thursday. The actor, who was arrested in Mumbai by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday, filed this plea after a magistrate court rejected her bail application. The plea, filed by her lawyer Satish Maneshinde said, "During her (NCB) custody, the applicant (Rhea) was coerced into making self-incriminating confessions. The actor has formally retracted all such incriminating confessions." In the plea, she also said that her arrest is "unwarranted and without any justification". "The actor's liberty has arbitrarily been curtailed," it added. The plea also said that no female officer was present during her interrogation. Rhea was arrested after three days of questioning by the NCB. She is currently in judicial custody. Besides Rhea's, the bail pleas of other accused, including that of her brother Showik, who was arrested by the NCB last week, will also be heard on Thursday. Besides Rhea and Showik, the NCB has also arrested Sushant's house manager Samuel Miranda and others on drug supply charges. The NCB had earlier said that Rhea, in her statement revealed about her involvement in the procurement of drugs and financial transactions and also her instructions to other accused, Samuel Miranda, Sushant's domestic help Dipesh Sawant and Showik in this regard. "Therefore, it is clear from her statement that Rhea is an active member of the drug syndicate connected with drug supplies," the agency said. The NCB had said that the actress has revealed that she used to procure drugs for Sushant for consumption purpose. She also used to manage finances for drug procurement along with the late actor, it added. The NCB is probing the drug angle in this case under criminal sections of the NDPS Act after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) shared with it a report following the cloning of two mobile phones of Rhea. Various angles surrounding the death of the Sushant Singh Rajput are being probed by three federal agencies- the NCB, the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Rajput was found dead at his Bandra flat on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-coerced-to-make-self-incriminating-confessions-rhea-chakraborty-says-in-plea-885273.html
10-09-2020||National||Even though popular, private coaching comes at a cost: NSO report||The report further showed that at least one in five students take up private coaching as an add-on to their school education, while almost one in three students opt for it at the secondary school level. As private coaching classes and the education sector as a whole took a hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic, several coaching classes have shifted online. Students have been attending these classes from the comfort of their homes, using a smartphone or a laptop. The 75th round of the National Sample Survey, conducted between June 2017 and July 2018, further highlighted that 19.8 per cent of students from pre-primary to graduate levels take at least some form of private coaching, with the percentage going up to 30 per cent in class 9 and 10 students, who are preparing for board exams and other competitive admission tests. The report also showed that these private coaching classes can be pretty costly with over 18 per cent of a student’s total education expenditure going towards private coaching. On an average, higher secondary school students spend more than Rs 2,500 on private coaching. Average annual expenditure on education per student pursuing a general secondary course was estimated at Rs 9,013. The survey also found that the eastern states tend to spend more on private coaching than the western states in India. It was also found that students in West Bengal spend an average of Rs 3,769 on private coaching. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/even-though-popular-private-coaching-comes-at-a-cost-nso-report-885298.html
10-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Kangana vs Maharashtra, a recipe for war?||Sending out a strong message, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has commenced demolition of illegal structure at Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's bungalow at Pali Hill at Bandra. Responding to the demolition, Kangana tweeted images of the Mumbai police with captions referring to them as Babur and his army and calling Mumbai Pakistan and POK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-kangana-vs-maharashtra-a-recipe-for-war-885303.html
10-09-2020||National||Govt raises FDI limit in defence sector to 74% through automatic route with 'national security' clause||The Centre has relaxed foreign direct investment (FDI) norms in the defence sector by allowing 74% FDI under the automatic route but it reserves the right to scrutinise any investment proposal, which it thinks may impact India’s national security. The “national security” clause is now a part of the proposal of relaxed FDI rules, which the Union Cabinet had approved on Tuesday, an official said. “In the sensitive areas such as defence, the government always reserves such rights. That is understood. But to make it more explicit, we have added the clause in black and white,” according to the official. Sources in the government, however, said that the clause was inserted on the insistence of commerce ministry, for which reasons were not given. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced his government’s decision last month that 74% FDI in defence production will be through automatic route. The move was aimed at giving a push to ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ in defence manufacturing. Subsequent to that, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the import of some weapons and platforms will be restricted in the defence sector. She had said the government will notify a list of weapons and platforms which will not be allowed for importation. Additions will be made to the list on an annual basis as the country builds capacity. The RSS-affiliated Swadeshi Jagaran Manch, however, had red flagged the raising of FDI limit in defence production to 74%, saying it might lead to undermining of Indian vendors and domestic players. In value terms, India imports around 70% of its high-tech defence hardware such as aircraft, ships, submarines and missiles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-raises-fdi-limit-in-defence-sector-to-74-through-automatic-route-with-national-security-clause-885309.html
10-09-2020||National||SC seeks Attorney General's assistance in 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought assistance of Attorney General K K Venugopal in deciding a 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan for his Tehelka magazine interview accusing half of 16 retired Chief Justices of India as corrupt. A fresh bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna issued notice to the A-G and fixed the matter for consideration on October 12. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, submitted as per Rule 10 of the Supreme Court Rules, the Attorney General has to be invited.  The court had on last date said that it would add more questions of law on top of the 10 submitted by us, he said. Earlier, the case was heard by a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra (since retired). The court had then said it will consider larger questions pertaining to contempt of court and allegations against judges.  On August 31, the top court imposed nominal fine of Re one on  Bhushan as sentence after having held him guilty of Suo Motu criminal contempt on August 14 for his tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-attorney-generals-assistance-in-2009-contempt-case-against-prashant-bhushan-885319.html
10-09-2020||National||Lloyd's of London posts H1 loss due to Covid-19 insurance claims||Insurers around the world have paid out on event cancellation, travel, trade credit and business interruption policies due to the virus, with Lloyd's expecting the global bill for non-life insurers to reach more than $100 billion. Lloyd's, whose results are an aggregate of its more than 90 syndicate members, said it would pay out 2.4 billion pounds in Covid-19-related claims in the first half, net of reinsurance. Its first-half loss compared with a 2.3 billion pound profit in the first half of 2019. Chief Executive John Neal said the first half had been "an exceptionally challenging period". Gross written premiums rose 1.7 per cent to 20 billion pounds. Combined ratio, a key measure of underwriting profitability, deteriorated to 110.4 per cent from 98.8 per cent a year earlier. A level above 100 per cent indicates an underwriting loss. Excluding Covid-19 claims, however, combined ratio strengthened to 91.7 per cent, which Neal said represented the positive impact of the market's "robust approach to performance management". Lloyd's has required its members to ditch their worst-performing lines of business in recent years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lloyds-of-london-posts-h1-loss-due-to-covid-19-insurance-claims-885338.html
10-09-2020||National||S Jaishankar, Uzbek counterpart agree to coordinate closely on regional concerns||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday held a cordial meeting with his Uzbek counterpart Abdulaziz Kamilov here during which the two leaders agreed to coordinate closely on regional concerns and take forward their growing development partnership. Jaishankar is here on a four-day visit to Russia to attend a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). "Began the day with a cordial meeting with Uzbek FM @a_h_kamilov," Jaishankar tweeted. "Agreed to coordinate closely on regional concerns. Will take forward our growing development partnership. Appreciate Uzbekistan's vital role in our Central Asian engagement," he said. On Wednesday, Jaishankar had separate meetings with his Tajik and Kyrgyz counterparts and agreed to bolster India's strategic ties with the two Central Asian countries. Relations between Uzbekistan and India have their roots deep in history. There are frequent references to Kamboja in Sanskrit and Pali literature, which is stated to include parts of present-day Uzbekistan, according to the Indian Embassy in Tashkent. Sakas participated in Mahabharata on the side of Kauravas. Ancient trade route Uttarpath passed through Uzbekistan. India had close interaction with Uzbekistan during Soviet times. Indian leaders often visited Tashkent and other places. Prime Minister, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri passed away in Tashkent on January 11, 1966, after signing the Tashkent declaration with Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-uzbek-counterpart-agree-to-coordinate-closely-on-regional-concerns-885343.html
10-09-2020||National||India putting up well-planned fight against Covid-19: Amit Shah||Terming coronavirus as an unprecedented challenge, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said India is putting up a well-planned fight against the pandemic under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership. The BJP leader asked people to take necessary precautions until a vaccine is found. "Coronavirus is an unprecedented challenge for us. But we are fighting against it in a well-planned manner under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the entire world has recognised our efforts," he said. Shah, a Lok Sabha member from Gandhinagar inaugurated or performed ground-breaking ceremony for various projects worth Rs 134 crore in the constituency via video-conferencing. Though coronavirus has slowed down the pace of ongoing developmental works in Gandhinagar, the pandemic won't be able to hold back Gujarat or India for long, said Shah, who recently recovered from coronavirus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-putting-up-well-planned-fight-against-covid-19-amit-shah-885344.html
10-09-2020||National||CBSE won't be able to help 87,000 students taking compartment exam, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Thursday said the CBSE would not be able to help the students taking compartment exams for class XII this month as it would be the colleges and universities which will take their admissions for higher studies. The apex court said this while hearing a plea which has challenged the decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to hold compartment exams on the ground that it would be detrimental to the health of the examinees. “It is the colleges, universities and deemed universities which will be taking admissions of those students and the CBSE will not be able to help much the students taking compartment exams,” a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar told senior advocate Vivek Tankha, who was representing the petitioners. The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, said this after Tankha argued that the CBSE may ask the colleges to give provisional admissions or wait till results are declared for compartment exams. Tankha said that compartment exams are scheduled from September 22 to 29 and by that time, admissions for various undergraduate courses would be over. He said students taking compartment exams would not get admissions in colleges and their whole year would be wasted. “In the interest of students, who are almost five lakhs, taking compartment exams, something must be done,” he said. The bench observed that compartment exams are being conducted “perhaps three times in a year”. The top court said around 87,000 students have failed and the solution does not lie with the CBSE. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Tankha said the Centre and states could be served with the copy of petition through standing counsel and attempts could be made to find an acceptable solution for such students. “Don't complicate it otherwise it will not come up for hearing,” the bench said. The apex court later asked the petitioners to serve the copy of the plea to the Centre and posted the matter for hearing on September 14. On September 4, the CBSE had opposed in the top court a plea and said all "necessary" safety measures for students are being taken in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The CBSE’s counsel had said that the board has increased the number of examination centres for compartment tests from 575 to 1,278. "We have taken a decision that in a class where 40 students could sit, now only 12 will sit and we are taking all precautions," the counsel for CBSE had said, adding that all necessary measures are being taken. The apex court had asked the CBSE to file a short affidavit in response to the plea of Anika Samvedi and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-wont-be-able-to-help-87000-students-taking-compartment-exam-says-supreme-court-885349.html
10-09-2020||National||PM Modi launches Rs 20,050 crore Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana for fisheries sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) that seeks to boost production and double exports in the fisheries sector in the next five years. The scheme aims at enhancing fish production by an additional 70 lakh tonne and increasing fisheries export earnings to Rs 1,00,000 crore by 2024-25. India is the second-largest fish producer in the world with a total production of 137 lakh tonnes in 2018-19 of which 65% was from the inland fisheries sector. Modi said the target of 'Blue Revolution' was to double the export of fish products and the Ganga rejuvenation plan will help the people involved in the profession. “The project has been started in 21 states and Rs 20,000 crore will be spent in the next four-five years. An amount of Rs 1,700 crore has been initiated to start the project,” the prime minister said unveiling several schemes for inland fisheries in Bihar, where Assembly elections are due later this year. The scheme also aims at doubling the income of fisheries and fish farmers, reducing post-harvest losses from 20-25% to about 10% and generation of additional 55 lakh direct and indirect gainful employment opportunities in the fisheries sector and allied activities. “People engaged in pisciculture will benefit largely from this scheme. It is our aim that in the next 3-4 years we double our production and give the fisheries sector a boost,” Modi said. Modi also launched the e-Gopala App, a comprehensive breed improvement marketplace and information portal for the direct use of farmers, which will do away with the role of middlemen in procurement and purchase. After inaugurating the projects in Bihar virtually the prime minister interacted with farmers involved in dairy and other animal rearing work. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and Union Minister for Animal Husbandry Giriraj Singh were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-launches-rs-20050-crore-pradhan-mantri-matsya-sampada-yojana-for-fisheries-sector-885366.html
10-09-2020||National||Induction of Rafale jets into IAF would send a strong message to world: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that the induction of Rafale fighter aircraft would send a strong message to the world, especially to those who challenge India’s sovereignty. “There are security challenges on the northern border, but the intentions of the military are as strong as it can be,” Singh said at the Rafale induction ceremony at Ambala Air Station, without naming China. Since May, Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a tense stand-off in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh. Several attempts to normalise the situation have failed with the situation turning worse as both nations amassed thousands of troops and intense firepower including tanks and artillery guns on two sides of the disputed boundary. Asserting that India's sovereignty and territorial integrity would not be compromised under any circumstances, the minister said, “Strengthening our defence is aimed at achieving international peace and stability and we do not want to take any step that will endanger international peace. We have the same expectation of our neighbours and other countries of the world.” The eastern Ladakh still remains tense three days after the firing-across-the-LAC incident as Chinese People’s Liberation Army continued to be in an aggressive stand-off with the Indian troops. Sources said that the Brigade commanders from the two armies met once again on Thursday, but its outcome, like the previous meetings, remained inconclusive. At Ambala – the oldest IAF station that would now house the newest aircraft - Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria said the induction of Rafale could not have happened at a more opportune time considering the current security scenario. After the first five Rafale aircraft landed on July 29, the IAF’s 17 Golden Arrows Squadron flew them extensively in the northern skies, including areas close to the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. “They (the aircraft) have already flown and familiarised in our operational environment and have undergone intense integrated training with other combat fleets including firing of advanced weapons.” the Indian Air Force Chief said. French Defence Minister Florence Parly said India acquired a world class capability that would give it an edge in the entire region. After the induction, she had a bilateral meeting with Singh at Ambala. Subsequently, she met National Security Advisor Ajit Doval in Delhi. “Undoubtedly, this aircraft induction would give IAF immense operational capability,” Bhadauria said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/induction-of-rafale-jets-into-iaf-would-send-a-strong-message-to-world-rajnath-singh-885368.html
10-09-2020||National||69% Covid-19 deaths from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh||More than 74 per cent of the total active cases of Covid-19 are in nine most affected states, while 69 per cent of the total deaths reported so far are concentrated in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh, the Centre said on Thursday. The ministry said that 60 per cent of the cumulative cases of Covid-19  have been reported from only five states -- Maharashtra (9,67,349),  Andhra Pradesh (5,27,512), Tamil Nadu (4,80,524), Karnataka  (4,21,730), and Uttar Pradesh (2,85,041).   There are 9,19,018 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.58 per cent of the total caseload, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. More than 74 per cent of the total active cases are in nine most affected states --Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Assam, Odisha and Chhattisgarh.   Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh presently contribute 49 per cent of total active cases of coronavirus infection. Maharashtra is leading this tally with more than 2,50,000 whereas Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh follow with more than 97,000 each, the ministry said. Of the total 95,735 new coronavirus infections reported in a span of 24 hours in the country, Maharashtra has alone contributed more than 23,000 and Andhra Pradesh has contributed more than 10,000.  A total of 1,172 deaths have been registered in a span of 24 hours of which 32 per cent of deaths were reported from Maharashtra with 380 deaths followed by Karnataka with 128 deaths, and Tamil Nadu with 78 deaths. Of the total deaths, 69 per cent are concentrated in five states and UT of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh, the ministry said.  The country saw a record single-day spike of  95,735 infections and 1,172 fatalities pushing India's Covid-19 caseload to 44,65,863 and death toll to 75,062, while recoveries surged to 34,71,783 on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/69-covid-19-deaths-from-maharashtra-tamil-nadu-karnataka-delhi-andhra-pradesh-885369.html
10-09-2020||National||Chemical levels in cigarette, beedi butts 'not toxic to humans, environment', says CSIR-IITR study||Chemical levels in cigarette and beedi butts are lower than the government-prescribed limits and “not toxic to humans and environment”, according to a recent study by Lucknow-based Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR).   Cigarette butts are the most common type of litter on earth, with an estimated 4.5 trillion of them discarded annually around the globe. Most of the cigarette butts are discarded in dustbins, roadside, beaches or other public places, posing a major threat to living organisms and ecosystem health. Some studies suggest cigarette butts are toxic to microbes, insects, and fish etc.   In April last year, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to get a study conducted as to whether cigarette and beedi butts fall within the category of “toxic waste”.   A Memorandum of Understanding was signed in October last year between the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research to analyse chemical and elemental composition of various brands of cigarettes and beedi butts (both burnt and unburnt) and to see if they meet the required parameters. Burnt and unburnt butts of 10 cigarette brands and beedi brands were used in the study, according to CSIR-IITR. Except endosulfan (in one brand), the levels of chemicals listed in class 'A' of schedule II 2016, including arsenic, cadmium, lead, mercury, chromium, and cobalt, “were either below the level of detection or many fold lower than the threshold value”, the IITR report said. The levels of chemicals listed in class 'C' of Schedule-II 2016, including anthracene, phenanthrene and amines, were also lower than the prescribed limits under experimental conditions with limited sample size, it said.   “The analysis reflects that the concentrations detected will not be toxic to human and the environment,” the study said.   It, however, said that “data is not available” on cellulose acetate mediated human health risk assessment and toxic responses, and response on microflora in the soil.   Cellulose acetate is a major component (95 per cent) of cigarette butts along with the wrapping paper and rayon. The degradation studies carried out on cigarette butts have shown only 37.8 per cent degradation in two years in the soil under ambient conditions; hence it will persist in soil for a longer duration, the IITR said. “The degradation studies under natural environmental conditions and laboratory simulating conditions will be required to conclude the safety/toxicity of cigarette butts to further correlate with human and environmental health risk assessment,” it said.   The research institute suggested recycling of cellulose acetate after recovery from cigarette butts as an immediate solution to the problem until the degradation and safety data are generated. The NGT had earlier issued notices to the MoEF, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and CPCB on a plea filed by a doctors' body seeking prohibition on consumption of tobacco in all public places and proper disposal of related waste. Doctors for You, an NGO working towards cancer care, had moved the tribunal, asking that the Centre be directed to declare cigarette and beedi butts "toxic waste". It had claimed that tobacco was causing major health problems and its "cultivation processing, production and disposal was harming the ecology badly".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chemical-levels-in-cigarette-beedi-butts-not-toxic-to-humans-environment-says-csir-iitr-study-885376.html
10-09-2020||National||Experts recommend early breastfeeding initiation, awareness at panchayat level to fight malnutrition||As the country celebrates the national nutrition month, experts have recommended early initiation of breastfeeding, spreading awareness on importance of nutrition at the panchayat level and promoting use of locally available, affordable and safe nutrient-rich foods as some of the measures to fight malnutrition. Every year September is celebrated as 'Poshan Maah' to mark the country's fight against malnutrition. Identification of severely acute malnourished children and their management and plantation of nutri gardens, are being undertaken as focus activities during the Poshan Maah, the Women and Child Development Ministry has said. Experts say in addition to these measures the focus must also be on early initiation of breastfeeding, spreading awareness on importance of nutrition at the panchayat level and promoting use of locally available, affordable and safe nutrient rich foods. Rachna Sujay, senior technical advisor at NGO Alive and Thrive, said to improve the health and nutrition status of a gram panchayat, the sarpanch or mukhiya is the first responder to a large grassroots population. "By adopting following four steps, they can improve the situation of the gram panchayat and make them 'suposhit' (well-nourished). The first is to review the health and nutrition services being provided by all departments especially to pregnant women and infants and young children and provide necessary support and corrective action," she said. "The second is community awareness campaign by panchayat leaders on right messages on health and nutrition practices," Sujay said. Third, according to Sujay, is on-site visits to community-based service delivery points by the leader of the panchayat to ensure everything is in place, and to boost community's faith into these services and fourth is how to prioritize, plan and budget health and nutrition activities in the annual Gram Panchayat Development Plans. Apollo Purty, the state project manager at Health Nutrition and Sanitation, Jeevika Bihar, recommended 'Poshan ke paanch sutra'. The first is breastfeeding, early initiation of breastfeeding and exclusive breastfeeding up to six months, second is complementary feeding after six months, third is dietary diversity for pregnant woman and lactating mother to reinforce that she has to consume, fourth is promoting kitchen garden with green leafy vegetables, Vitamin A-rich vegetables and fruits and fifth is handwashing practices and now during Covid practicing social distancing. Surabhi Jain, the chief nutritionist and lactation consultant, Nutriwell India, said breast milk can be a boon for infants which protect them from infections and other diseases. "Mother's optimum Nutrition status and exclusive breastfeeding for initial six months followed by nutritious complementary feeding helps in decreasing infant mortality and ensuring the infant's optimal growth and development. Educated and aware mothers and elderly women of the family can play pivotal role in a child's overall development," Jain said. With regard to complementary feeding, she said apart from providing nutrient-dense foods under the supplementary nutrition program through Anganwadi centres it is essential that Anganwadi workers promote use of locally available affordable and safe nutrient rich foods to prepare complementary food at home and feeding the child the same in adequate quantity the right number of times. "Poshan Mah" is celebrated under the national nutrition mission or Poshan Abhiyan which aims to tackle malnutrition in the country. According to the National Family Health Survey-4 (NFHS-4), 38.4 per cent children under five years of age are stunted or low height-for-age and 21 per cent wasted or low weight-for-height in India. As many as 48.3 per cent of children in Bihar under five are stunted, the survey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-recommend-early-breastfeeding-initiation-awareness-at-panchayat-level-to-fight-malnutrition-885381.html
10-09-2020||National||Nirbhaya case first instance of Indian men being vocal on women's safety: Smriti Irani||"Nirbhaya case" is the first instance in India wherein men came out openly and raised their voice for women's safety, Union Minister Smriti Irani said on Thursday. "I think one of the turning points in our country where men were very expressive about how they felt about the issues with regards to women's safety." "If you remember when the Nirbhaya gangrape took place men were out at the India Gate lawns with their daughters, wives, with their sisters or their colleagues equally angry about the situation with regards to law and order," she said. She was speaking at an interactive session of CII-Indian Women Network's (IWN) conclave, titled "Power Women 2020." On December 16, 2012, a 23-year-old Delhi woman was raped by six men in a moving bus and died in a Singapore hospital a fortnight later. More than seven years later, four of the six men were executed in what came to be known as the Nirbhaya case. "That was the first-ever public demonstration of how an Indian man feels about the issues of safety for women. There was never before a public expression like this on the streets of India like in the Nirbhaya case," the union minister for women and child welfare said. Replying to a query, Irani said there is no specific recipe or a template for one to achieve success in life. According to the minister, there are people with the best of infrastructure foundation for success, yet they failed and there have been people who were not in the race at all but emerged successfully. "So we should not in any way advocate that there is a template within which if you fit in you will succeed and you'll become a leader. That never happens," she explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirbhaya-case-first-instance-of-indian-men-being-vocal-on-womens-safety-smriti-irani-885383.html
10-09-2020||National||SC gives Centre, RBI 2 weeks to decide on interest on loan during moratorium||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave the Union government and the RBI two weeks to decide upon the issue of charging interest on interest accrued on loan during moratorium, introduced due to Covid-19 pandemic. The government, for its part, assured to take a holistic view of the matter, considering the plight of every sector. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked the government to consider the relief sought by not only the individual borrowers but by different sectors. "Take concrete decision with clarity so that the case is not adjourned now. All accounts can't be treated as adversarial," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The law officer submitted that the government at the highest level was considering all issues in this batch of cases and appropriate decision will be taken within a period of two weeks with regard to issues which have arisen and the manner and benefits of different sectors.  During the hearing, senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Rajeev Dutta and others pointed out that the banks were debiting interest on interest and credit rating was being downgraded which may be adverse effect on various account holders. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Indian Banks Association, said the industry was going through downturn due to Covid-19. "All banking structure works in compound interest. Banks give and receive compound interest. Business has been brought to standstill, and cash flow was zero in lockdown," he said. Sibal contended this is not a normal situation. The finance minister herself said that this is a force majeure situation. The court said it would continue its interim order, passed on September 3, restraining banks from declaring those accounts as non performing assets which were not declared so till August 31. It decided to consider the PIL filed by Gajendra Sharma and others on September 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-centre-rbi-2-weeks-to-decide-on-interest-on-loan-during-moratorium-885389.html
10-09-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Sessions Court order on Rhea's bail plea on Friday||The Mumbai sessions court reserved till Friday the order on the bail application of actor-model Rhea Chakraborty, who is currently in Byculla jail. Rhea (28), the live-in partner of Sushant Singh Rajput, was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), for sourcing and procuring drugs for the late actor. While advocate Satish Maneshinde appeared for Rhea, the NCB was represented by special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande.   NCB’s intelligence officer Kiran Babu was also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-sessions-court-order-on-rheas-bail-plea-on-friday-885392.html
10-09-2020||National||Coronavirus cannot be taken lightly, wear masks: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged people not to take coronavirus lightly and follow the rule of wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing till scientists develop a vaccine. "I have certain expectations from you. That is to follow the rule of wearing a mask and Do Gaj ki Doori (a distance of two yards). "Be safe and remain healthy. Take care of senior citizens in the family. These things are important. Do not take coronavirus lightly," Modi said. Modi also said, till scientists develop a vaccine for Covid-19, "this social vaccine is the best way to save ourselves from coronavirus. This is the only solution." He was addressing the national launch of Rs 20,050 crore-Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) and several other initiatives in Bihar via video conference. The Prime Minister also asked people not to spit in public places. The country saw a record single-day spike of 95,735 infections and 1,172 fatalities taking India's Covid-19 caseload past 44 lakh and death toll to 75,062, while recoveries surged to 34,71,783 on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cannot-be-taken-lightly-wear-masks-pm-narendra-modi-885394.html
10-09-2020||National||Wearing mask mandatory for candidates taking civil services preliminary exam on October 4: UPSC||Wearing masks or face covers is mandatory for candidates appearing for the civil services (preliminary) examination scheduled for October 4, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has said. Candidates can also bring their own hand sanitizers in transparent bottles, it said. The civil services examination is held annually in three stages — preliminary, main and interview — by the UPSC to select officers for the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and the Indian Police Service (IPS), among others. “Wearing of mask/face cover is mandatory for all candidates. Candidates without mask/face cover will not be allowed entry into the venue. Further, candidates are allowed to bring their own hand sanitizer in transparent bottles,” the Commission said in a statement issued on Wednesday. Candidates have to follow Covid-19 norms of ‘social distancing’ as well as ‘personal hygiene’ inside the examination halls/rooms as well as in the premises of the venue, it said. This year’s preliminary test was earlier scheduled to be held on May 31, but was deferred due to the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. The Commission will be conducting the civil services (preliminary) examination-2020 on Sunday, October 4 all over India, the statement said. The Commission has uploaded the e-admit cards for the convenience of the admitted candidates on its website. “The candidates are advised to download their e-admit cards and take a printout thereof. e-admit card must be preserved till the declaration of the final results of the civil services examination, 2020. No paper admit card will be issued for this examination,” it said. The candidates will have to produce the printout of their e-admit card at the allotted venue to appear for the examination, the Commission said. The candidates are also required to bring along their photo ID card, whose number is mentioned on the e-admit card, for appearing at each session of the examination, it said. “It may also be noted that entry into the examination venue shall be closed 10 minutes before the scheduled commencement of the examination i.e. 09:20 am for the forenoon session and 02:20 PM for the afternoon session. No candidate shall be allowed the entry into the examination venue after closure of the entry,” the UPSC said. Candidates are also advised to bring “black ballpoint pen” as they shall be required to fill the OMR answer sheets and attendance list with black ballpoint pen only, it said. “Use of normal or simple wristwatches by candidates is allowed inside the examination rooms/ halls. However, use of watches fitted with any special accessory that might be used as a communication device or smartwatches is strictly prohibited and candidates are not allowed to take such watches into the examination rooms/ halls,” the Commission said. Mobile phone (even in switched off mode), pager or any electronic equipment, programmable device, storage media like pen drive, smartwatches etc, camera or Bluetooth devices, any other equipment or related accessories either in working or switched off mode capable of being used as a communication device and calculator are banned inside the examination hall, it said. “Any infringement of these instructions shall entail disciplinary action against the concerned candidates including debarment from future examination/selection. Valuable/ costly items and bags are also not allowed inside the examination venue,” the UPSC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wearing-mask-mandatory-for-candidates-taking-civil-services-preliminary-exam-on-october-4-upsc-885397.html
10-09-2020||National||India to launch 11th city gas licensing round soon: Pradhan||India will soon launch a bid round to give out licences for retailing gas in cities to help extend the coverage of environment-friendly fuel to about 500 cities, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday. During 2018 and 2019, sector regulator PNGRB gave out licences to retail CNG to automobiles and piped cooking gas to household kitchens in 136 geographical areas or GAs. This extended coverage of the city gas network to 406 districts and around 70 per cent of the country's population. "The 11th city gas distribution (CGD) authorisation round will be launched very soon. PNGRB is preparing for it," he said at a virtual event organised to commission 56 CNG stations in 13 states and one UT. "50-100 districts, particularly in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, and Vidharba, will join the city gas network after the 11th round." The push for city gas expansion is part of the government plan for raising the share of natural gas in the country's energy basket to 15 per cent by 2030 from the current 6.3 per cent. Pradhan said gas is cheaper, convenient, and environment friendly and its greater use will help cut dependence on oil imports. The 11th bid round is being planned around a new pipeline being constructed from Angul in Odisha to Mumbai in Maharashtra to ferry natural gas between the east and west coast. State-owned gas utility GAIL has started work on the Angul-Mumbai pipeline, he said adding 17,000-km of gas pipelines particularly in the eastern part of the country are being built to connect gas sources with consumption centres. Also, the capacity of liquefied natural gas (LNG) import terminals is being raised to meet rising domestic demand, he said. Pradhan said retail outlets dispensing CNG have risen from 938 in 2014 to 2,307. "This number will rise to 10,000 in 4-5 years" after companies roll out operations in all the areas for which licences have already been given. Similarly, the number of households getting piped cooking gas is targeted to rise to 5 crore in coming years from the current 62.5 lakh, he said. The government, he said, has liberalised norms for petrol and diesel retailing by removing the condition of Rs 2,000 crore investment in the hydrocarbon sector. Any entity with a turnover of Rs 250 crore can now set up petrol pumps and retail auto fuels, he said asking city gas entities to look beyond CNG and set up outlets that can retail not just gas but also petrol and diesel as well as charge electric vehicles (EVs). "Don't get stuck at CNG station. Go for big retailing," he said. The government is also pushing for use of LNG as a fuel in trucks and buses and 100 LNG pumps are planned to be set up on the Golden Quadrilateral connecting the four metros as well as on the North-South, East-West highway corridors and in mining blocks, he said. In August 2019, Pradhan had stated that an investment of about Rs 1.2 lakh crore was to be made by 2030 in the rollout of city gas network in almost 300 districts for which licences have been given for the 9th and 10th bid rounds. During 2018 and 2019, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) awarded licences for setting up city gas distribution networks in 136 GAs. While Rs 70,000 crore investment was committed in 86 GAs awarded in the 9th city gas bid round in August 2018, another Rs 50,000 crore was committed in the 50 GAs awarded in the 10th round in March 2019. Less than 20 per cent of the population was covered by city gas distribution network in 2014 and after the award of the 10th bid round, this reached 70 per cent. While 86 GAs, made up of 174 districts, were offered for bidding in the 9th round that concluded in August 2018, 50 GAs, comprising 124 districts, were offered in the 10th round. With the completion of the 10th bidding round, CGD would be available in 228 GAs comprising 406 districts spread over 27 states and Union Territories covering approximately 70 per cent of India's population and 53 per cent of its geographical area. The 56 CNG stations commissioned on Thursday were set up mostly by Adani Gas and Indian Oil Corp (IOC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-launch-11th-city-gas-licensing-round-soon-pradhan-885400.html
10-09-2020||National||PM Modi to address conclave on school education under NEP 2020 on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a conclave on "School Education in 21st Century" under the National Education Policy-2020 (NEP-2020) on Friday through video-conference. The Ministry of Education is organising the two-day conclave, which started on Thursday, as a part of the "Shiksha Parv", the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. The "Shiksha Parv" (education festival) is being celebrated from September 8-25 to felicitate teachers and take the New Education Policy forward.  Various webinars, virtual conferences and conclaves on several aspects of the NEP are being organised across the country, the PMO said. Modi had also delivered the inaugural address at the "Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under NEP-2020" on August 7 and addressed the "Governors' Conference" on the policy on September 7. The prime minister has been championing the NEP and speaking to the stakeholders, highlighting its features and backing wide consultations to address everyone's concerns as it is implemented. The NEP-2020 is the first education policy of the 21st century, which was announced 34 years after the previous National Policy on Education in 1986. The NEP-2020 is directed towards major reforms at both the school and higher education level, the government has said. The new National Education Policy aims at making the country an equitable and vibrant knowledge society. It envisions an India-centred education system that will contribute directly to transforming the country into a global superpower, the government has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-conclave-on-school-education-under-nep-2020-on-friday-885405.html
10-09-2020||National||Serum Institute stops Covid-19 vaccine trials after reports of 'unexplained illness' in participant||The world’s largest vaccine maker, Serum Institute of India, has decided to pause the trials of the Covid-19 vaccine in the country in the wake of AstraZeneca stopping it after an unexplained illness to a participant. The SII has partnered with biopharmaceutical company AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by University of Oxford. After an unexplained illness to a participant, AstraZeneca on Tuesday had paused trials to allow an independent committee to review safety data, and it was working to minimise any potential impact on the timeline. On Wednesday, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) slapped a show cause notice for continuing the trials even as it was stopped internationally. "We (SII) are reviewing the situation and pausing India trials till AstraZeneca restarts the trials. We are following DCGI's instructions and will not be able to comment further on trials. You can connect with DCGI for more updates on this front,” the SII said in a statement on Thursday. DGCI Dr VG Somani, in his show-cause notice has asked SII as to why the permission granted for conducting phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country be not suspended till patient safety is established. The DCGI has pointed out that the clinical trials have been put on hold across the USA, UK, Brazil and South Africa. The SII has registered for Phase II/III clinical trials on the Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covishield, being developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca, with the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI). The trials will be conducted on 1,600 healthy participants across India.m The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi and Bharti Vidyapeeth’s Bharti Hospital & Medical College in Pune are among the 17 places where the trials are being conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-stops-covid-19-vaccine-trials-after-reports-of-unexplained-illness-in-participant-885409.html
10-09-2020||National||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar attends SCO Foreign Ministers' meeting in Russia||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday attended the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the eight-member Shanghai Cooperation Organisation here in the Russian capital. “At the formal opening of the meeting in Moscow of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization,” Jaishankar tweeted along with a group photo of the foreign ministers of the SCO member states including China and Pakistan. It was the third SCO foreign ministers meeting that India attended as a full member of the eight-nation bloc. The SCO-CFM is the highest forum of SCO after the Council of Heads of State (CHS) and the Council of Heads of Government (CHG). It deliberates on important regional and international issues and considers documents for approval and adoption by the Council of Heads of State. "India has been taking active part in various SCO dialogue mechanisms under the Chairmanship of the Russian Federation in this year. The SCO Summit will be held in the near future," the MEA said in a statement in New Delhi earlier this week. The CFM meeting in Moscow will review the preparations for the forthcoming SCO summit and also exchange views on international and regional issues. On the sidelines of the SCO meet, Jaishankar is expected to hold a bilateral meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. Both India and China are members of the influential regional bloc that primarily focuses on security related issues. The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the Presidents of Russia, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India and Pakistan were admitted as observers of the grouping in 2005. Both the countries were admitted as full members of the bloc in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-attends-sco-foreign-ministers-meeting-in-russia-885412.html
10-09-2020||National||India, Japan ink agreement for deeper defence cooperation||India and Japan have inked an agreement on reciprocal provision of supplies and services between armed forces of the two countries. The pact was signed on Wednesday by Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and Japanese Ambassador Suzuki Satoshi, a defence ministry spokesperson said. The agreement provides for creation of an enabling framework for closer cooperation, interoperability and use of each other's military facilities by the armed forces of the two countries, the official said. "The agreement establishes the enabling framework for closer cooperation between the armed forces of India and Japan in reciprocal provision of supplies and services while engaged in bilateral training activities," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-japan-ink-agreement-for-deeper-defence-cooperation-885414.html
10-09-2020||National||JEE-Mains: 74% registered candidates appeared for September exam||At least 74 per cent candidates who had registered for JEE-Mains appeared for the exam last week amid strict precautions in view of Covid-19 even as the attendance figures dipped from 94.32 per cent in the January session. The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main for admission to engineering colleges across the country, is conducted twice a year. According to statistics available with the Ministry of Education, out of 8.58 lakh applicants, 6.35 lakh appeared for the engineering test from September 1 to 6. The exam was conducted after being deferred twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. "JEE-Main is held twice a year. The previous one was held in January this year. Several students who did not appear for the exam in September may have done well in the January exam and hence did not feel the need to sit for the exam this time. We are ascertaining those numbers," said Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' in a tweet. Last year, the attendance in the January and April edition of the exam was 94.11 per cent and 94.15 per cent respectively. The crucial exam has been mired in controversy due to demand from a section of students and opposition parties to postpone the exam in view of rising coronavirus cases. "Any further delay of the exams would not have been in the interest of our hardworking students and their plans for college admissions. Our government has always been unwavering regarding student welfare & student safety. We will always work for the interests of our youth," Pokhriyal said. However, BJP leader Subramanian Swamy raised concerns that the attendance is lower than the figure given by the Ministry of Education. "The Ministry of Education stated to Supreme Court that candidates registered are 9.53 lakh at over 660 centres in India and abroad. Now the Minister states 'facts' as 8.58 lakhs. Now whose is official?," Swamy tweeted. The Supreme Court had earlier dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams amid a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, saying a "precious year" of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on. Based on the results of the JEE-Mains Paper 1 and Paper 2, the top 2.45 lakh candidates will be eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam, which is a one-stop exam to get admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). JEE-Advanced is scheduled to take place on September 27. Several opposition leaders including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik, DMK President MK Stalin and Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia have also demanded that the exams be postponed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-mains-74-registered-candidates-appeared-for-september-exam-885418.html
10-09-2020||National||Time for industry to embrace new tech for quality, cost-efficiency in infra projects: Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said industry players should adopt innovative methods and new technologies to improve cost efficiency and construction quality of infrastructure projects. The road transport minister also warned cement players against cartelisation, black-marketing and profiteering. "You need to reduce construction cost and improve quality. Cost reduction should be made without any compromise on quality," he said while addressing an event on 'BITU-CON 2020: BITUmen and Road CONstruction Industry', organised by FICCI. Gadkari, who also holds the MSME portfolio, said the industry can play a significant role in boosting India's infrastructure through the aid of innovation and technology. Industry players should look towards innovative methods of using waste like iron slag besides other material for use in infrastructure projects, the minister said. Plans are afoot to reduce bridge construction cost through innovative technologies like promoting steel fibre in construction on the pattern of Malaysia and if successful that alone could save Rs 25,000 crore annually in the bridge, Gadkari said. Similarly, Niti Aayog has given green signal to Buldhana pattern of projects that have changed the face of some parts of Maharashtra, which entail excavation or dredging of ponds in drought-prone areas to ensure rainwater harvesting and recharge of groundwater, the minister said. The dredging is done by the highways ministry free of cost in lieu of sand, deposits and aggregates to be used for highways construction, thereby reducing cost. Gadkari said likewise technical parameters were being reduced to promote domestic players in infrastructure creation and cited example of Zojila tunnel, saying the government through change specifications has been able to reduce the cost of the project significantly at a time when it was demanded to enhance the original cost by about Rs 7,500 crore to Rs 11,000 crore. "A meeting was convened to deliberate on the specifications which was attended by about 150 developers, consultants and other stakeholders. I had asked officials to reduce the technical qualification criteria besides financial qualifications without any compromise on quality," he said adding that over Rs 4,000 crore was saved due to it and the tender has been awarded. Gadkari said the project for which tenders were floated for three times earlier was ultimately won by Megha Engineering & Infrastructure Ltd (MEIL). Among the three bidders in the race including Larsen & Toubro and Ircon International JV, the Hyderabad-headquartered company had quoted the lowest Rs 4,509.5 crore for the tunnel project, stuck for over six years now. The project holds strategic significance as Zojila Pass is situated at an altitude of 11,578 feet on the Srinagar-Kargil-Leh National Highway and remains closed during winters due to heavy snowfall. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in May 2018 laid the foundation stone for the Rs 6,800 crore project, billed as the Asia's longest bi-directional tunnel, in Jammu and Kashmir. Speaking about bitumen, Gadkari said it was found that such roads got damaged soon and urged the industry to come forward with technical innovations and a 10-year defect liability. At the same time, he warned cement makers to refrain from "black-marketing, profiteering and cartelisation" saying the highways ministry alone has a potential to buy cement worth Rs 1 lakh crore but cement makers despite repeated warnings were being indulged in wrongdoings. He said given the quality of concrete highways his ministry was in favour of making it mandatory, but wrong practices by cement manufacturers prevented any such step. The minister said that his ministry plans to take road building to more than 30 km a day and innovations and newer technologies were welcomed. He also stressed the need for newer technologies for highways building in difficult terrains like Chardham where a Rs 12,000 crore project is underway to link Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-for-industry-to-embrace-new-tech-for-quality-cost-efficiency-in-infra-projects-nitin-gadkari-885422.html
10-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Chouhan talks to Uddhav, urges him to maintain supply of oxygen cylinders to MP||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday spoke to his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray about the supply of oxygen, which he said has been halted from the western state amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to reporters here, Chouhan said shortage of oxygen cylinders was a cause for concern and Thackeray has assured him of maintaining the supply to the state. "The shortage of oxygen was worrying me a lot. I spoke to Uddhav Thackeray and requested him not to stop the supply at this difficult time," the chief minister said. Chouhan said his Maharashtra counterpart had said that he too was facing difficulties due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in his state, but has assured of working towards maintaining the supply. "We have also made alternate arrangements. Earlier, Madhya Pradesh had oxygen production installed capacity of 50 tonnes, which has now been increased to 120 tonnes. We will take it to 150 tonnes by September 30," Chouhan added. A company called INOX used to supply oxygen from its Nagpur-based plant in Maharashtra, Chouhan said, adding that the firm would now continue the supply from its plants in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. The state government has also asked small oxygen plants in Madhya Pradesh to increase their production from the present 50 to 60 per cent, the chief minister said. Short-term arrangements have been made to ensure that Covid-19 patients are not affected, he said. "As part of our long-term planning, we have given a green light to INOX to set up an oxygen plant with an installed capacity of 200 tonnes in Mohasa near Babai in Hoshangabad in the next six months," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-chouhan-talks-to-uddhav-urges-him-to-maintain-supply-of-oxygen-cylinders-to-mp-885423.html
10-09-2020||National||NGT seeks Centre's reply on high-ash content coal plea||The National Green Tribunal Thursday directed the Centre to file its response on a plea challenging a government notification permitting the use of coal with ash content higher than permitted earlier in thermal power plants. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel asked the Ministry of Environment and Forests, the Ministries of Coal and Power and the Central Pollution Control Board to clarify its stand within two months by e-mail. “The applicant may furnish a set of papers to MoEF, CPCB and Ministries of Coal and Power and file an affidavit of service within a week,” the bench said, while posting the matter for hearing on January 8 next year. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by a trust, Say Earth, against Notification dated May 21, 2020 issued by the MoEF under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, permitting the use of coal with ash content higher than permitted earlier. The environment ministry in May decided that it will no longer regulate the ash-content of coal used by thermal power plants and issued a notification that overturned its January 2014 regulation that made it mandatory for all coal-based power plants located 500 kilometres or more from the pit-head or coal mine to use raw or blended or beneficiated coal with no more than 34 per cent ash content. Under the new notification, thermal power plants will be able to use coal irrespective of ash content and will be liable for proper disposal of coal ash and meeting emission standards set by the apex pollution monitoring body. The plea stated that the Thermal Power Plants (TPPs) are the largest fresh water withdrawing industry and also account for 60 per cent of the total industrial emissions of particulate matter.  “Such emissions are more by the TPPs using coal with high ash content and to remedy the situation, MoEF has issued notifications from time to time restricting use of coal with ash content beyond specified extent, laying down standards of emissions of Sulphur Dioxide (SO2), Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx), Mercury (HG) emission and 100 per cent fly ash utilisation by December 31, 2017,” the plea said. The petition claimed that the impugned notification has been issued without following the due procedure and without any expert study of impact on the environment.  This will result in additional ash generation when already generated ash is not being utilised and environmental degradation will increase manifold, it said.  “The main reason, according to the impugned notification, is the need for utilization of domestic coal on account of unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic. Such reason, even if valid and compelling, should not override all the environmental considerations,” the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-seeks-centres-reply-on-high-ash-content-coal-plea-885425.html
10-09-2020||National||Nitish Kumar speaks to Naveen Patnaik, seeks support for Harivansh Singh for Rajya Sabha deputy chairman post||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday dialed Odisha's Naveen Patnaik, seeking his party's support for NDA nominee Harivansh Narayan Singh for the post of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman, sources said. Harivansh, a Janata Dal (United) MP, filed the nomination for the post on Wednesday. JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar requested Patnaik to extend the BJD's support to Harivansh Narayan Singh for the post, a source at the Chief Minister's residence, 'Naveen Niwas', said. Patnaik's BJD had supported Harivansh in the last election as well, he said. Further word from the BJD president has not been received so far, the source said. The monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled from September 14 to October 1. The election for the deputy chairman is likely to be held on the first day of the session. The nomination filing process began on September 7 and will conclude on September 11. The election for the post was necessitated as the incumbent Harivansh completed his term as a member of the Rajya Sabha earlier this year. He was sent to the Upper House of Parliament again from BIhar. In 2018, he had defeated Congress's BK Hariprasad and was elected the deputy chairman. Harivansh is likely to be elected to the post again as BJP floor managers are confident of securing the support of about 140 MPs, including the fence-sitters YSR Congress, TRS and BJD. The strength of the BJP-led NDA has also gradually increased to more than 114 in the house with an effective strength of 244 members as there is one vacancy. Floor managers of NDA are trying to build a consensus among all parties so that Harivansh could be elected unanimously. The Congress has decided that the opposition will put up a joint candidate for the post and it will reach out to various parties in this regard. BJD has nine members in Rajya Sabha of the 10 seats from Odisha, while the other one is held by the BJP. BJP's Ashiwini Baishnab was elected to Rajya Sabha with the support of BJD in June last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-kumar-speaks-to-naveen-patnaik-seeks-support-for-harivansh-singh-for-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-post-885426.html
10-09-2020||National||Principal seat of High Court need not be in state's capital city: Centre||The notification of the President's Order on the constitution of a separate High Court for Andhra Pradesh, with the principal seat at Amaravati, could not be construed as the Central government's decision to declare Amaravati as the capital of the state. The principal seat of the High Court need not necessarily be in the capital city of the state, the Centre maintained. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs made this assertion in an additional affidavit filed in the state High Court in the ongoing litigation against the state government's move to have three capitals for AP. The HC is currently hearing a batch of writ petitions filed by various stakeholders seeking that the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, 2020, be declared as ultra vires to the Constitution of India. The HC, while ordering status quo on the implementation of the Act and also the AP Capital Region Development Authority (Repeal) Act, 2020, posted the case for further hearing to September 21. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had already filed a counter-affidavit last month stating that the AP government vide an order on April 23, 2015, notified that the capital city be named Amaravati. "It may be further mentioned that the capital city of the state is decided by the respective state government. The Central government has no role in it," the Centre said in its counter-affidavit. "Section 94 (3) and (4) of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, only provides for financial assistance by the Central government to the state of Andhra Pradesh for creation of essential facilities in their new capital and to further facilitate de-notification of degraded forest land, if necessary, for the same. The provision only talks about providing financial assistance by the Central Government for the new capital as chosen by the state and not for deciding a capital by the Central government," the MHA averred. "The Government of Andhra Pradesh had earlier chosen Amaravati as the capital of the state and had notified the same vide their Government Order dated April 23, 2015. Based on the said notification, Survey of India incorporated Amaravati as capital of Andhra Pradesh in the latest political map of India (English 9th Edition 2019 and Hindi 6th Edition 2020)," the MHA added. The Centre said, "In pursuance of Article 214 of the Constitution and in exercise of powers conferred under provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, the President, vide an order dated December 26, 2018, constituted a separate High Court for the state of Andhra Pradesh from January 1, 2019 with the principal seat at Amaravati." "Notification of the President's Order on the constitution of a separate High Court cannot be construed as the Central government's decision to declare Amaravati as the Capital of Andhra Pradesh," the MHA asserted in the additional affidavit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/principal-seat-of-high-court-need-not-be-in-states-capital-city-centre-885436.html
10-09-2020||National||Health Ministry asks states, UTs to mandatorily retest all Covid-19 symptomatic RAT negative cases||With India just about 4,000 short of adding 100,000 fresh Covid-19 cases daily, the Union Health Ministry on Thursday once again asked the states to ensure that those who tested negative in rapid antigen tests, must be rechecked with gold standard RT-PCR test for a confirmation. While such a protocol was suggested by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the ministry couple of months back, a section of the public health officials suspected that there might be a slip in the states in following the practice. Also some of the states may not be having enough resources for the task. Since the rapid antigen test can pick up only about 50% of the cases, absence of follow up screening would mean that a sizable number of Covid-19 positive patients would escape detection and infect more. A follow up screening could further shrink the net.   Without identifying, the ministry blamed some large states for not following the ICMR protocol of retesting the individuals who test negative in the rapid antigen test. On Thursday, as many as 95,735 fresh cases were registered, setting up a new record. The total number of active cases stands at 9,19,018 as on date, out of which 49% are in three states – Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Maharashtra leads the pack with more than 250,000 active cases followed by the two southern states, each having 97,000 plus such patients. The total Covid-19 positive cases stand at 44.65 lakh. Six other states – Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telengana, Assam, Odisha and Chhattishgarh – contribute another 25% of the active cases. The remaining cases come from the rest of India. “Two-third of India’s population lives in rural areas, where the spread is still less. We need to protect this rural population as the spread from the urban to rural areas is still limited,” K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India and a former professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi told DH. India’s Covid-19 death count has crossed the 75,000 mark as the toll stands at 75,062, out of which 1172 were added in the last 24 hours. The daily toll never dropped below 1000 in the last 10 days. In past 24 hours, Maharashtra registered 380 deaths (32% of the daily count) followed by Karnataka with 128 deaths, and Tamil Nadu with 78 deaths. Of the total deaths, 69% are concentrated in five States -  Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-asks-states-uts-to-mandatorily-retest-all-covid-19-symptomatic-rat-negative-cases-885443.html
10-09-2020||National||After Kangana, Manish Malhotra on BMC radar over construction||After Kangana Ranaut, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued a notice to Manish Malhotra for 'unauthorised construction' at the leading fashion designer's house here, an official said. Malhotra has been asked to revert in seven days and give sufficient cause as to why the work should not be pulled down, a civic official said here on Thursday. The notice points out unauthorised change of user from residential to the commercial office on the first floor of Malhotra's bungalow on Nargis Dutt Road in Pali Hill area of suburban Bandra. In the notice, issued on September 9, BMCs H-word office has listed four alterations and asked Malhotra to submit the proof in seven days "to show that the said building or work or change of user" is not unauthorised, the official said. The BMC has also asked him to show "sufficient cause" as to why the said building or work should not be pulled down. It said the illegal modifications include "addition and alteration by way of erecting partitions/cabins on the first floor, unauthorised construction of two structures with a brick masonry wall and AC sheet roof on the second-floor terrace." On Wednesday, the BMC demolished "most of the 14 illegal alterations" made at the Bandra bungalow of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut. That bungalow is also located on the same road in Pali Hill area, the official said. The Bombay High Court on Wednesday stayed the demolition process at Kangana's bungalow and sought to know why did the civic body team enter the property when the owner was not present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-kangana-manish-malhotra-on-bmc-radar-over-construction-885446.html
10-09-2020||National||Kangana carried out illegal construction, now obfuscating issue: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Thursday denied in the Bombay High Court that it undertook the demolition of `illegal' alterations at actor Kangana Ranaut's bungalow here with ulterior motives. The civic body filed an affidavit in the court a day after Ranaut challenged the demolition at her bungalow in Pali Hill in suburban Bandra. "The petitioner (Ranaut) is seeking to obfuscate and cover up her flagrantly illegal acts of unlawfully making substantial additions and alterations contrary to the sanctioned building plan, without any permission by making baseless and wild allegations of malafide," the BMC said. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla had on Wednesday stayed the demolition, noting that the action smacked of "malafide" (dubious intentions). On Thursday, BMC counsel Aspi Chinoy contended that Ranaut had carried out modifications in her bungalow in blatant violation of the sanctioned building plan. "All demolition work has been stopped as soon as the court directed so. But we request the court to direct the petitioner to also maintain status quo and not commence any other work in the said premises," Chinoy said. Ranaut's lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui claimed that the BMC had damaged the property, leading to water and electricity connections getting disrupted. "The same should be restored," he said. The bench, however, refused to pass any order and posted the petition for further hearing on September 22. In its affidavit, the BMC said, "Even in the present petition, the petitioner has not disputed the fact that she has carried out unlawful alterations and additions. "The petitioner has only made false, baseless and unwarranted allegations of harassment and malafide by the corporation," it said. Even in her response to a stop-work notice earlier, Ranaut did not dispute the allegation of illegal alterations but only made baseless counter-allegations and sought seven days to respond to the notice further, the BMC said. The civic body also said that none of its officials entered the premises by threatening or roughing up the security guard or anyone else. The "Queen" actor's recent remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) has drawn the ire of the Shiv Sena which controls the BMC besides leading the ruling coalition in Maharashtra. The action by the BMC followed Ranaut's public tiff with the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-carried-out-illegal-construction-now-obfuscating-issue-bmc-885447.html
10-09-2020||National||Nearly 50% of India's working women feeling increased stress due to pandemic: Survey||Nearly 50 per cent of India's working women are feeling increased stress due to the Covid-19 pandemic, claimed a survey conducted by online professional network LinkedIn. It revealed that the pandemic is taking a toll on the emotional well-being of India's working women as 47 per cent report they are experiencing more stress or anxiety due to the pandemic, LinkedIn said. For men, this number stood at 38 per cent, pointing towards a disproportionate impact on women in these testing times, it said. LinkedIn on Thursday announced the findings of the tenth edition of the LinkedIn Workforce Confidence Index, a fortnightly pulse on the confidence of India's workforce. Based on the survey responses of 2,254 professionals in India, findings from the weeks of July 27 - August 23 reveal the pandemic's impact on India's working mothers and working women, and the cautious optimism of freelancers towards personal finances and career prospects, it said. The survey also underscored the challenges of childcare during the pandemic, according to a LinkedIn statement. The survey showed that India's overall confidence is growing steadily. Remote working has laid out a tougher road for India's working mothers as the survey showed that around one in three (31 per cent) working mothers are currently providing childcare full-time, when compared to nearly one in five (17 per cent) working fathers, the statement said. "Worryingly, more than two in five (44 per cent) working moms are working outside their business hours to provide childcare, nearly twice as many men (25 per cent)", it said. The survey showed that only one in five (20 per cent) working mothers rely on a family member or friend to take care of their children, when compared to 32 per cent men. More than 46 per cent working mothers reported working till late to make up for work, and 42 per cent are unable to focus on work with their children at home, it said. Findings show that about one in four freelancers anticipate an increase in their earned income (25 per cent) and personal savings (27 per cent), while close to one in three (31 per cent) expect their number of investments to increase in the next six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-50-of-indias-working-women-feeling-increased-stress-due-to-pandemic-survey-885449.html
10-09-2020||National||Education system should meet formidable challenges of 21st century: Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday said he sees an imminent need to reimagine, reinvent and re-engineer the entire education system to effectively meet the many formidable challenges of the 21st century. He said the New Education Policy-2020 would facilitate India to fully realise the demographic dividend and make the country a knowledge and innovation hub in the 21st century. Addressing the 21st foundation day celebrations of Vivekananda Institute of Human Excellence via video, he underscored that the cultivation of excellence takes discipline, single-minded focus and determined effort. At this critical juncture in our journey as a nation, excellence is imperative and mediocrity is no longer an option, he stressed. He said Swami Vivekananda told the world about the importance of the ancient Indian philosophy of Vedanta and the spirit of universality, tolerance and acceptance that underpins ancient Indian thought. Vivekananda understood the soul of the nation and the ethos of its culture and endeavoured to rebuild it on the noblest ideals that were enshrined in its spiritual foundations of Sanatana Dharma, Naidu said. “He (Vivekananda) worked tirelessly for national transformation through religious purification, spiritual emancipation and social regeneration,” he said. Observing that Swamiji's teachings remain eternal edicts to the whole world to this day, he urged youngsters to study the life and words of Vivekananda and follow his message with heart and soul.   He also opined that we need many more educational institutions that will take the universal teachings of giants like Vivekananda and  Ramakrishna Pramahamsa and their interpretations closer to the common man. The vice president said that he saw an imminent need to reimagine, reinvent and re-engineer the entire education system, if we are to effectively meet the many formidable challenges of the 21st century, an official statement said. Reminding of the demographic dividend that lay before India, he asserted that the nation must not fail to leverage this great competitive advantage. He emphasised that education is meant not only to make a living and live a comfortable life. “What is more important is education must enable an individual to become a well-rounded person with grit, moral courage, equanimity, empathy and spiritual strength. Education is meant to enlighten and empower an individual,” he said. The vice president highlighted the need to foster innovation, encourage entrepreneurial ability and a deepening awareness of our country's rich heritage. He said that education must result in the creation of an integrated person, a person who is empathetic, active, competent, humble and hardworking, a person who is open to new ideas, tolerant to different viewpoints and committed to world peace and collaborative, collective human progress. He opined that education must help the youth develop critical thinking faculties, clearly identify the problems that plague humanity and come up with definitive solutions. Naidu said that the new education policy reflects the ideals of Vivekananda. He expressed confidence that the policy would facilitate India to fully realise the demographic dividend and make the country a knowledge and innovation hub in the 21st century.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/education-system-should-meet-formidable-challenges-of-21st-century-vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-885466.html
10-09-2020||National||Induction of Rafale jets big and stern message to those eyeing India's sovereignty: Rajnath Singh||In a clear reference to China over the tense border row in eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the induction of five French-made multirole Rafale jets into the Indian Air Force is a "big and stern" message to those eyeing India's sovereignty. The first fleet of Rafale jets was formally inducted into the 'Golden Arrows' squadron of the IAF at the Ambala Air Force station in presence of a galaxy of dignitaries including French Defence Minister Florence Parly, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. "The induction of Rafale jets is a big and stern message for the entire world, especially to those eyeing our sovereignty. This kind of induction is very important for the kind of atmosphere that has been created on our borders," Singh said at the ceremony. He said Rafale is considered one of the best combat aircraft globally and the deal to procure the jets was a "game changer" for India's national security. The defence minister said the government is determined to do "everything possible" to protect India's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Singh's stern message to the neighbouring country came hours ahead of an expected meeting between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave in Moscow. The much-anticipated talks are taking place against the backdrop of a massive spike in tension in eastern Ladakh triggered by fresh face-offs between the two armies along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). "In my recent foreign trip, I put the point of view of India in front of the whole world. I also made everyone aware of the resolve to not compromise India's sovereignty and territorial integrity under any circumstances and we are determined to do everything possible for this purpose," he said referring to his visit to Moscow. The defence minister said India's responsibility is not limited to its territorial boundary only and that it is committed to contribute towards peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region as well as in the Indian Ocean. There has been mounting global concerns over China's growing military assertiveness in both regions. In his address, Singh also complimented the IAF for its "swift deployment" of assets at forwarding bases, saying it created confidence that the country's Air Force is fully prepared to fulfil its operational obligations. "I would like to congratulate the IAF for its swift and deliberate action near the LAC during a recent unfortunate incident on the border. It shows your commitment," Singh said without elaborating. In the last three months, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. "The IAF plays an important role in maintaining military deterrence and your action will be decisive in any future war. While the prevailing situation on our geographical borders has caught our attention, we should not ignore the threat of sponsored terrorism," Singh said. Speaking on the occasion, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the induction of Rafale jets could not have happened at a more opportune time considering the current security scenario. "Induction of Rafale in Ambala is important as the fleet can rapidly access all areas of interest from the airbase,” he said. The defence minister said India is enhancing its military power in its quest for peace. "Our motive behind strengthening our defence has always been driven by our desire for peace. Our country is committed to not take any step which can disturb the peace anywhere. We expect the same from our neighbours, and the rest of the world," he said. Calling induction of Rafale into IAF a historic moment, Singh said it also reflected "deep ties" between India and France. "We have been successful in creating future-oriented ties...India and France have common views in fighting against terrorism and expansion of UN Security Council," Singh said while talking about growing convergence in ties between the two countries. "The induction of Rafale into the IAF fleet shows the close ties between India and France. India and France have long been economic, cultural and strategic partners. Our faith in a strong democracy and the desire for peace in the whole world are the basis of our mutual relations," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/induction-of-rafale-jets-big-and-stern-message-to-those-eyeing-indias-sovereignty-rajnath-singh-885469.html
10-09-2020||National||House, govt to take call on Deputy Speaker election: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla||Amid the Opposition's demand for the election of the Deputy Speaker, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said Thursday the house and the government have to take a call on it. Talking about the monsoon session from September 14, Birla said holding the monsoon session this year was a challenge because of the Covid-19 pandemic but it will be "historic". "Holding the monsoon session was a challenge during the pandemic but we have to fulfill our constitutional responsibilities. We want Parliament to become more accountable and answerable to people," Birla said at a press conference. "This session will be a historic session as it being held in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Our effort is to conduct the session as per the guidelines issued in the wake of the pandemic," he added. Birla said the Zero Hour will be of half-an-hour duration and there will no Question Hour but written questions could be asked and they will have to be answered. When asked about opposition leaders asking about the Deputy Speaker election, Birla said he doesn't have to elect and it is for the house and the government to decide. The monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled from September 14 to October 1. Hectic preparations are underway for the session with several first-time measures being taken because of the pandemic, such as testing of MPs, staggered seating arrangements in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and use of both chambers and galleries to accommodate the members. Birla said 257 members will be seated in the Lok Sabha hall, 172 in Lok Sabha gallery, 60 in Rajya Sabha and 51 in Rajya Sabha gallery. He said attempts are being made to minimise the use of paper and MPs will mark their attendance digitally. Screen LEDs will be put up to conduct the proceedings smoothly. Chambers will be sanitised and the MPS will have to undergo RT-PCR test for Covid-19 before the session begins, the Lok Sabha Speaker said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/house-govt-to-take-call-on-deputy-speaker-election-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-885475.html
10-09-2020||National||Govt's skill agenda is to create workforce to match global demands: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the government's skill agenda is to create a workforce that matches the global demands and several efforts have been undertaken to enable a strong skill development ecosystem.  He also observed that the whole nation has come together under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' mission and it is the need of the hour for every Indian to be self-reliant in these changing times, an official statement said. In his address read out at a digital conclave, the Prime Minister stated that it is "the government's skill agenda to create a workforce that matches the global demands and with this vision, several efforts have been undertaken to enable a strong skill development ecosystem."  "There are many sectors witnessing the growing demand for skilled youth. This is an opportunity for our young workforce to convert the present challenges into opportunities and become the strong pillars of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'," he added.  Stating that it is integral to lay emphasis on skilling, reskilling and upskilling, the Prime Minister said the role of trainers and experts is the most essential in this endeavour.  The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship organised the digital conclave for the second edition of 'Kaushalacharya Samadar 2020'.  Trainers across different sectors were felicitated for their contribution in building the country's skilling ecosystem and preparing a future-ready workforce.  The Prime Minister further said, "it is my belief that the trainers who are awarded today will inspire many others and will continue to contribute immensely in the lives of our youth and the country's development." Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Mahendra Nath Pandey said, "As the times are transforming, the role of trainers and assessors is becoming more crucial as they pave the roadmap for our young generation in meeting the industry demands of near future." A total of 92 trainers from diverse backgrounds and different categories such as entrepreneurship training, National Apprenticeship Promotional Scheme, Jan Shikshan Sansthan, Short Term Training under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, among others, were felicitated at the digital conclave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-skill-agenda-is-to-create-workforce-to-match-global-demands-pm-modi-885478.html
10-09-2020||National||India opens its army, navy and air bases for Japan; adds military heft to Quad amid stand-off with China||India and Japan have opened up their military bases for each other’s army, navy and air force – elevating bilateral defence cooperation amid China's growing belligerence. With New Delhi and Tokyo signing the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA), India now has military logistics sharing agreement with all its partners – the United States, Australia and Japan – in the ‘Quad’, a four-nation coalition re-launched in November 2017 to build a bulwark against China’s expansionist moves in the Indo-Pacific region.   Modi and Abe were expected to hold a virtual summit on Thursday but since Abe recently announced his resignation from the office of the Prime Minister of Japan, a full-fledged summit was not held. The new pact will set up a framework for the militaries of India and Japan to share logistics and help each other by providing food, water, billeting, transport, petroleum, oils, lubricants, clothing and communications as well as medical services to each other’s personnel. It also allows sharing of military bases, storage and other facilities, training services, spare parts and components as well as providing repair and maintenance services at the airports and seaports to each other.  New Delhi signed the military logistics sharing agreement with Tokyo amid China’s growing belligerence, not only along its disputed boundary with India, but also elsewhere in Indo-Pacific, including in the contested waters of the South China Sea and the East China Sea as well as in Taiwan Strait. The Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) between India and the United States was signed in August 2016. India and Australia signed a similar Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) on June 4 this year – just about a month after the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) started in eastern Ladakh. China’s aggressive moves to alter the status quo along its disputed boundary with India prompted New Delhi to focus on adding military heft to the ‘Quad’. The warships of the Indian Navy and Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force had an exercise in the Indian Ocean on June 27. The Indian Navy’s warships on July 20 also participated in a drill with the USS Nimitz Carrier Strike Group, which was on its way to West Asia after conducting a drill with USS Ronald Reagan in the South China Sea. The navies of India, Japan and the US are likely to hold the Malabar 2020 exercise later this year near the Malacca Strait in the Indian Ocean in order to send out the message to China that the sea lane, which is vital for the communist country, could be choked in case of a conflict in the region. The annual trilateral drill may even be elevated to the first-ever naval exercise of the Quad with the participation of the Australian Navy – a move, which could raise China's hackles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-opens-its-army-navy-and-air-bases-for-japan-adds-military-heft-to-quad-amid-stand-off-with-china-885480.html
10-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Complaint filed against Kangana Ranaut, Serum Institute stops Covid-19 vaccine trial||Kangana Ranaut crossed swords with the Shiv Sena and a complaint has been filed against her today for allegedly using foul language against the CM of Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray; Reliance Industries Ltd. is offering to sell a roughly $20 billion stake in its retail business to Amazon; The world’s largest vaccine maker, Serum Institute of India, has decided to pause trials of the Covid-19 vaccine in the country.  Here are the top news of today, Wednesday: September 10, 2020: Kangana Ranaut crossed swords with the Shiv Sena and a complaint has been filed against her today. The  Bollywood actor was found to have allegedly used foul language against the CM of Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray, in a video that was uploaded to Facebook. Advocate Nithin Mane said that the police have refused to file an FIR against the actress and he plans to move a court to lodge a defamation case against the actor for "insulting" the CM. Reliance Industries Ltd. is offering to sell a roughly $20 billion stake in its retail business to Amazon, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The business conglomerate is willing to sell as much as 40 per cent stake in the subsidiary to Amazon, the source added. If the deal turns out to be successful, it will create a retail behemoth in India but will also turn Jeff Bezos and Asia’s richest man from rivals into allies. Currently jailed at Byculla, Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea has been reserved till Friday by the Mumbai sessions court. Rhea, the live-in partner of Sushant Singh Rajput, was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), for sourcing and procuring drugs for the late actor. The world’s largest vaccine maker, Serum Institute of India, has decided to pause trials of the Covid-19 vaccine in the country in the wake of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine trials being stopped after an unexplained illness that struck a participant in the UK. Serum Institute of India has partnered with biopharmaceutical company AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by University of Oxford. On Wednesday, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) slapped a show cause notice for continuing the trials even as it was stopped internationally. The Centre has relaxed foreign direct investment norms in the defence sector by allowing 74% FDI under the automatic route but it reserves the right to scrutinise any investment proposal, which it thinks may impact India’s national security. Sources in the government, however, said that the clause was inserted on the insistence of the commerce ministry, for which reasons were not given. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar attended the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the eight-member Shanghai Cooperation Organisation in the Russian capital, Moscow. It was the third SCO foreign ministers meeting that India attended as a full member of the eight-nation bloc. The SCO-Council of Foreign Ministers is the highest forum of SCO after the Council of Heads of State and the Council of Heads of Government. It deliberates on important regional and international issues and considers documents for approval and adoption by the Council of Heads of State. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-complaint-filed-against-kangana-ranaut-serum-institute-stops-covid-19-vaccine-trial-885482.html
10-09-2020||National||PM Modi to inaugurate 1.75 lakh houses for poor in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate 1.75 lakh houses built under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana - Gramin (PMAY-G) in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, his office said on Thursday.  The Prime Minister's Office said all these houses have been built or completed during the challenging Covid-19 period. He will also participate in "Grih Pravesham", a ceremony considered auspicious for a family's entry into its new house, the statement said.  The event will be done through video conference, and state's Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will also attend the ceremony.  As part of the Modi government's "Housing for All by 2022", for which a flagship programme of PMAY-G was launched in November, 2016, 1.14 crore houses have been built across the country so far.  In Madhya Pradesh, 17 lakh poor households have benefited from this scheme till now, the statement said.  Under PMAY-G, each beneficiary is given 100 per cent grant of Rs 1.20 lakh with a sharing ratio of 60:40 between the Centre and the state concerned.  The scheme envisages construction of 2.95 crore houses by the year 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-175-lakh-houses-for-poor-in-madhya-pradesh-on-saturday-885485.html
10-09-2020||National||SC expresses shock on pending cases against politicians||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed its shock over a criminal case pending against a politician for 36 years in Punjab's Tarn Taran district. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy asked the Punjab and Haryana High Court to inquire into the matter. The court also sought details of pending cases against former and sitting MPs and MLAs across the country. The Punjab case related to the murder of Dr Sudarshan Kumar Trehan in 1983. Former Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Virsa Singh Voltoha was named as accused in a confession of a co-accused but Punjab Police delayed presenting a supplementary charge sheet. Charges were framed only early this year. As amicus curiae senior advocate Vijay Hansaria informed the court about the pendency of over 4,000 cases against the politicians, the court sought to know details of the oldest case. The counsel said a case of the year, 1983 is pending in Punjab. He said only charges have been framed in the matter this year. On this, the court asked the Punjab and Haryana High Court to look into the matter. It asked the state government if it was not responsible for prosecution. "Why is it that a case of life imprisonment is pending for 36 years," the bench asked the counsel who assured the court to give details on Wednesday (September 16), the next date of hearing. Meanwhile, the court sought a response from the Centre on a plea by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for providing adequate infrastructure to special courts set up to exclusively try MPs and MLAs and debar the convicted persons from contesting elections for life. It gave six weeks time to the Union government to respond to the amended petition by Upadhyay. The court, however, said it would focus on expediting the pending trial. On September 8, the court was informed that a total of 4,442 cases were pending against MPs and MLAs in special courts across the country. Out of which, sitting legislators are accused persons in 2,556 cases. Trial in 352 cases are held up due to stay granted by higher courts. Of all the states, Uttar Pradesh topped the list with 1,217 cases. As many as 413 cases related to offences punishable with life imprisonment were pending. Out of which 174 cases involved sitting legislators as accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-expresses-shock-on-pending-cases-against-politicians-885511.html
10-09-2020||National||India, Japan ink mutual military logistics agreement||After years of negotiations, India and Japan have inked a landmark agreement that will allow their militaries to access each other's bases for logistics support, a key development that comes in the backdrop of growing concerns over China's military muscle flexing in the region. The acquisition and cross-servicing pact was signed by Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and Japanese Ambassador Suzuki Satoshi, a defence ministry spokesperson said on Thursday. The agreement provides for creation of an enabling framework for closer cooperation and interoperability, besides allowing militaries of the two countries to use each other's bases and facilities for repair and replenishment of supplies, the official said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe, who held a telephonic conversation earlier in the day, welcomed the signing of the "Agreement on Reciprocal Provision of Supplies and Services" between the Indian Armed Forces and the Self-Defense Forces of Japan. The two leaders concurred that the pact will further enhance the depth of defence cooperation between the two countries and contribute to peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region, according to a release from the external affairs ministry here. The signing of the agreement comes at a time India is locked in a bitter border row with China, and rising concerns among countries in the region over increasing Chinese assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region. A statement by Japanese foreign ministry said the agreement will promote closer cooperation between the militaries of the two countries, and enable them to actively contribute to international peace and security. "It is expected that the agreement will facilitate the smooth and prompt provision of supplies and services between the Self-Defense Forces of Japan and the Indian Armed Forces," it said. The defence ministry said the pact will enhance the interoperability between the armed forces, resulting in further expansion of bilateral defence engagement under the Indo-Japan special strategic and global partnership. "The agreement establishes the enabling framework for closer cooperation between the armed forces of India and Japan in reciprocal provision of supplies and services," it said. In June, India and Australia sealed a similar Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) while resolving to scale up their overall defence cooperation. India has already signed similar agreements with the US, France and Singapore. India has been signing MLSAs with countries primarily eyeing deeper maritime cooperation which is important considering China's rapid military expansionism in the Indo-Pacific, Indian Ocean and South China Sea. The pacts signed with the US and France provide for accessing various crucial bases by Indian military in Djibouti, Guam and the Reunion Islands among others. India is also expanding overall strategic cooperation with Japan in the Indo-Pacific region under the framework of four nation coalition 'Quad'. In November 2017, India, the US, Australia and Japan gave shape to the long-pending "Quad" to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. The US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China's growing clout in the region. In June, the Indian Navy carried out a maritime exercise with the Japanese navy as part of efforts to bolster military cooperation. The Indian Navy has significantly expanded its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region, deploying a plethora of warships and submarines following the border row with China in eastern Ladakh. The maritime space around the Malacca Strait, one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, is very critical for China's supply chain through sea routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-japan-ink-mutual-military-logistics-agreement-885521.html
10-09-2020||National||Delhi govt revokes fee-hike permission granted to top private school||The Delhi government has revoked the fee-hike permission granted to a top private school in Chanakyapuri, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. "The fee hike permitted to the school is being revoked. It was found that certain facts were ignored while granting permission. The school increased its fees by almost 75 per cent, which is unacceptable. Therefore, we are revoking the order," Sisodia told a press conference. Earlier in the day, a group of parents of the students of the school met Sisodia, who is also the education minister of Delhi. There was no immediate response from the school authorities. "Under the system called GAAP, it is necessary to follow a special process of accounting and audit, but the school did not do it. Also, there was no need to increase the fees as the school already had a surplus amount, which they gained during 2017-18, due to which its proposal to increase the fees was rejected by the Delhi government. "During the same year, we directed the school to pay the teachers in accordance with the 7th Pay Commission recommendations from the surplus amount and not to put the burden on the students. But the school did not comply with the order. A school gets permission for establishment only if it has a three-month salary fixed deposit for the staff. Therefore, now the demand to increase the fees is unreasonable because that amount has already been deposited as a fixed deposit since the inception of the school," Sisodia said. He said the Anil Dev Singh Committee constituted by the Delhi government had recommended that the fees arbitrarily increased by private schools from 2010 to 2012 should be refunded. "Now the school wants to recover this amount from the students by showing it under the school expenses. Whereas, the previously overcharged amount cannot be allowed to be shown as an expense. "The school has not followed the Supreme Court order regarding depositing the development fund in a separate account. For all of these reasons, it cannot be allowed to increase the fees. Also, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no school is allowed to collect any amount other than the tuition fee," Sisodia said. He reiterated that no school is allowed to hike fees during the Covid-19 pandemic and that action will be taken against the defaulters. "We have already made it clear that no school is allowed to hike fees during the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools are only allowed to charge tuition fees and no extra fees will be allowed to be levied till the schools reopen completely. Strict action will be taken against the defaulters," the deputy chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-revokes-fee-hike-permission-granted-to-top-private-school-885533.html
10-09-2020||National||Delhi records 4,308 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike so far||Delhi recorded 4,308 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far, while a record 58,340 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, authorities said. According to the Delhi government's health bulletin, the tally of cases touched 2,05,482 while the death toll rose to 4,666 with 28 fresh fatalities. The positivity rate in the last 24 hours stands at 7.38 per cent. The number of containment zones stands at 1,272, it said. Thursday's tally breached Wednesday's spike. Delhi reported 4,039 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, as the tally breached the two lakh-mark in the city, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-records-4308-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-so-far-885535.html
10-09-2020||National||Modi govt gives highest priority to northeastern states: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Thursday said the Narendra Modi government gives the highest priority to the northeastern region and Meghalaya is also being given its due share of funds and sanction of new projects. This was conveyed to Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma, Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong and a team of senior state ministers, who called on Singh here and discussed with him the progress of various centrally funded projects in the state, an official statement said. Singh, Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), told Sangma and his team that the Modi government gives the highest priority to the northeastern region and Meghalaya is also being given its due share of funds and sanction of new projects. Singh recalled that just before the Coronavirus induced country-wide lockdown was announced, the northeastern state visited by him was incidentally Meghalaya. The union minister pointed out to the chief minister that on his request, the projects proposed by the state government are also being determined as per the priority. The DoNER ministry, he said, is also coordinating closely with the Jal Shakti Ministry to achieve the targets of providing clean tap water to every household under 'Jal Abhiyan'.   Sangma thanked Singh for always being supportive about the proposals sent by the state government, the statement said. Sangma sought the minister's intervention for the sanction of additional funds for ongoing projects.    Sangma also submitted a memorandum to Singh seeking additional funds for the construction of the Shillong international centre for performing art and culture. Singh assured Sangma that he would get the proposal evaluated. However, he said, most of the funds in the ministry of DoNER and the North Eastern Council allocated for Meghalaya for the current financial year have already been made available to the state.   The union minister also discussed with the chief minister the issue of up-gradation of the Shillong airport. He said it is very important to utilise the tourist potential of scenic destinations to its maximum extent||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-gives-highest-priority-to-northeastern-states-jitendra-singh-885554.html
10-09-2020||National||Delhi riots: Court sends suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain to 14-days judicial custody||A Delhi court Thursday sent suspended AAP councillor, Tahir Hussain, to judicial custody for 14 days in a money laundering case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) was probing the allegation that Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs 1.10 crore funds, by using purported shell or dummy companies, to fuel the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the riots. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat sent Hussain to judicial custody after the probe agency did not seek his further custodial interrogation. The court had earlier sent him to ED custody for three days in the case. ED's Special Public Prosecutor N K Matta had earlier told the court that Hussain was allegedly involved in money laundering and various other fraudulent acts of cheating, falsification and forgery of documents, and criminal conspiracy.     Matta had said the ED has seized several incriminating documents and digital devices after conducting searches at various premises.     "Statements of several persons have been recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and WhatsApp chats, bogus invoices and other incriminating documents have been recovered," the public prosecutor had said.     ED further alleged that Hussain had entered into a criminal conspiracy by fraudulently transferring money from the accounts of many companies.     The money so obtained are allegedly proceeds of crime which were then used for committing various other scheduled offences, the agency had claimed.     Senior advocate K K Manan, appearing for Hussain, had claimed that the accused was a victim of circumstances and was not required for custodial interrogation as he faced the threat of torture.     Hussain was arrested in connection with the riots in northeast Delhi in February. He has also been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a conspiracy case related to the riots.     He was also arrested in connection with the alleged murder of IB official Ankit Sharma during the riots.     Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-court-sends-suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-to-14-days-judicial-custody-885570.html
10-09-2020||National||Have given very good, balanced offer to US for proposed limited trade deal: Piyush Goyal||Indicating that the India-US limited trade deal is likely to be signed after elections there, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday said New Delhi has given America "a very good, very balanced offer" for the agreement. The minister said India is ready to sign the deal "tomorrow", but he has left it to the US to decide on the timing. "We have almost finalised everything but because of coronavirus everything moved from work-from-home in the US. While India did everything as usual in terms of government functioning, I think the US was not really as much focused as on government functioning and on settling all the balance issues of the trade deal. "So probably, we will have to wait for after the elections (in the US) before we can sign that deal. But I have left it to the US. I am ready to sign tomorrow. We have given them a very good, very balanced offer," Goyal said. He was replying to questions from students of Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT). The minister assured that India will gain significantly from the trade agreement, and the US will also get its corresponding share of benefits. Goyal also assured that India will always protect its agriculture, dairy, MSMEs and domestic local industries and "do a balanced (trade) deal". India's exports to the US are growing rapidly and withdrawal of export incentives by the US under GSP (Generalised System of Preferences) has not impacted the country's outbound shipments to America. India is seeking exemption from high duties imposed by the US on some steel and aluminium products, resumption of export benefits to certain domestic products under the GSP, and greater market access for its products from sectors such as agriculture, automobile, automobile components and engineering. On the other hand, the US wants greater market access for its farm and manufacturing products, dairy items and medical devices, apart from cut in import duties on some information and communication technology products. Goyal also said that India is talking to countries including the US, European Union, Russia and the UK for a free trade agreement (FTA). "Now they are in election mode in the US, so probably after elections, we will have aggressive dialogue. We are very keen to have FTAs with these countries, with the EU, with the UK...We are giving a renewed focus for FTAs with the developed world," he said. Talking further about FTAs, he said the ministry is "now looking at reviewing and renewing" all old trade agreements to bring symmetry and more balanced trade. "We believe that India has competitive strengths and we can truly get the benefit of a fair and equitable expansion of trade if we do FTAs with proper stakeholder consultations and considering India's capabilities to be able to meet the requirements, particularly of quality, of these countries and making sure that these FTAs are not done at the cost of Indian industry and businesses," Goyal said. He added that in earlier FTA negotiations, "we always got a raw deal". Citing examples of such agreements, he said that as part of the FTA with 10-member ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) bloc, India eliminated customs duties on about 74 per cent of goods for Indonesia, but it eliminated duties on only around 54 per cent items for India. Even in the India-Korea CEPA (Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement) signed in 2009, "we found that our exports to Korea was USD 3.4 billion at the time of signing of this FTA" and it has increased to "only USD 4.6 billion in ten years", but imports into India have increased "exponentially and our trade deficit has kept on expanding and increasing". He suggested the students of IIFT to carry out research on these FTAs and look at the way they were negotiated and finalised, and whether India did proper due diligence. "....Why is it that post these FTAs, by and large, with almost all countries, India actually could not gain greater export business, but imports started flowing in...Large imports started enjoying benefits of these FTAs, whereas Indian businesses could not enjoy these benefits and finally we landed up with unequal trade and greater and greater trade deficits," he said. The minister added that trade should be reciprocal and now countries are moving towards balanced trade, and India will also have to engage with countries to expand trading relationships on its strengths and competitiveness. Talking about promoting toy manufacturing in India, he said the ministry is working on steps such as looking for anchor investors and clusters. On India's exports growth, he said things are improving as exports in the first week of September recorded over 12 per cent growth as compared to the same week last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-given-very-good-balanced-offer-to-us-for-proposed-limited-trade-deal-piyush-goyal-885571.html
10-09-2020||National||Indian Railways sees huge demand for special trains' tickets||The Indian Railways was hit with massive demand on Thursday when it started taking bookings for tickets for 40 pairs of special trains scheduled to operate from September 12. According to the railways, for the past four days, ticket booking had increased. Till Thursday evening, more than 4.5 lakh tickets were booked against 2.4 lakh booked on Wednesday. "This shows there is a huge demand for tickets in the newly operating trains," said an official in the railways. The 40 pairs (80 trains) of special trains, which will run in addition to the existing 230 special trains, will connect smaller cities. The railways announced to operate 80 special trains mainly to help migrant workers to return to the cities from their native places Earlier, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said the railways will closely monitor the ticket booking patters. If there is huge demand, the railways will run clone trains to accommodate waitlisted passengers, he said. As several national-level examinations are going on, the railways is also planning to run more special trains within the states as and when the demand rises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-sees-huge-demand-for-special-trains-tickets-885577.html
10-09-2020||National||Indian Army further strengthens dominance in strategic heights in eastern Ladakh||The Indian Army has further bolstered its dominance over a number of strategic heights overlooking key Chinese-held positions around Pangong lake area in eastern Ladakh even as brigade commanders and commanding officers of the two militaries held separate talks to cool tensions in the region, government sources said. They said additional reinforcements have been made in hill tops and strategic locations around Pangong lake to keep a hawk-eye vigil on Chinese-held position of Finger 4. The mountainous spurs in the area are referred to as Finger. China has been holding onto Finger 4 to 8 on the north bank of Pangong lake, the sources said. The Indian Army has occupied several key heights in the strategically located Rezang-La and Reqin-La areas on the southern bank of the lake since the end of August. The sources said the two armies held separate talks at brigade commander-level as well as between commanding officers in the general area of Chushul. "The focus was to bring down the temperatures," said a source. Tension escalated manifold in eastern Ladakh following fresh face-offs between Indian and Chinese troops in Mukhpari area of Rezang-La ridgeline on Monday evening. The Indian Army on Tuesday said Chinese troops attempted to close in on an Indian position near the southern bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh the previous evening and fired shots in the air, a first such instance of bullets being used along the LAC after a gap of 45 years. The Army said this in a statement after the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) late on Monday night alleged that Indian troops crossed the LAC and "outrageously fired" warning shots near the Pangong lake. The incident of Monday evening was considered serious as the previous instance of shots being fired at the de-facto border was in 1975. Provisions of an agreement of 1996 and another signed in 2005 mandate the two sides not to use firearms during any confrontation. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava at a media briefing on Thursday reiterated India's position that it is committed to resolve the current situation through peaceful negotiation. "Both India and China are in regular touch through diplomatic and military channels to resolve the situation. This was the consensus when the two defence ministers met," he said. The border situation deteriorated again after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India's move. However, India has maintained that the heights are on its side of the LAC. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following China's transgression attempts. Following China's fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake, India has further bolstered its military presence in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-further-strengthens-dominance-in-strategic-heights-in-eastern-ladakh-885596.html
10-09-2020||National||India operates 5th Vande Bharat flight to China||Air India on Thursday operated its fifth Vande Bharat flight to China from Delhi, carrying over 200 passengers, mostly Indian professionals stranded in India due to the coronavirus pandemic. Fifty-five passengers, mostly Indians wanting to return homes, boarded the flight back to Delhi, officials of the Indian embassy here, who coordinated the flight, told PTI. The flight from Delhi with 212 passengers, mostly Indian professionals and their families stranded in India due to Covid-19, landed in the east Chinese city of Ningbo in the evening, they said. The flight had a technical halt in Kolkata. All the passengers travelling to China have to serve a 14-day mandatory quarantine in designated hotels. India has so far operated five Vande Bharat flights. The previous four flights flew to the eastern Chinese city of Shanghai and the southern city of Guangzhou besides three earlier to the central city of Wuhan to airlift Indians stranded in the city when the virus was at its peak in February. The flights helped Indians held up in China and those wanting to return to work to Chinese cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-operates-5th-vande-bharat-flight-to-china-885605.html
10-09-2020||National||Bengalis soft target of BJP, Rhea Chakraborty's arrest proof of it: Political parties||Parties cutting across the political divide in West Bengal on Thursday evoked Bengali sub-nationalism, asserting that the "vilification campaign" against actor Rhea Chakraborty "proved" Bengalis are a soft target of the BJP, which is looking to cash in on this narrative ahead of the Bihar Assembly polls. Bengali sub-nationalism is also slowly emerging as a rallying cry ahead of the West Bengal Assembly elections due next year. The ruling TMC and opposition Congress and the CPI(M), despite their sharp political differences, have equivocally slammed the saffron party for "using" a Bengali woman as a "soft target" to score brownie points in the run up to the Bihar polls later this year. The BJP leadership, however, has declined to comment on the accusation. "If someone has committed a crime, the person should be punished as per law. But even before being proven guilty, the kind of vilification campaign that was noticed on social media against Bengali women stems from the hatred for the Bengali community. "The BJP and its frontal organisation have been spearheading this campaign," Chakraborty said. The TMC said BJP's inherent dislike for Bengalis has again come out in the open due to the Rhea Chakraborty episode. "I feel that as Rhea is a Bengali, she was victimised even before she was proven guilty in court. The vilification campaign once again proves the sheer hatred of the BJP towards the Bengalis. We had witnessed something similar in the Assam NRC, too," senior TMC leader and national spokesperson Saugata Roy said. On Wednesday, Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha and newly-appointed West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had described her arrest over drug charges as "ludicrous". "Rhea's father is a former military officer who served the nation. Rhea is a Bengali Brahmin lady; justice to actor Sushant Singh Rajput should not be interpreted as justice to a Bihari. "The father of Rhea is also entitled to demand justice for his kids, trial by media is an ominous portent for our judicial system. Justice for all is one of the basic tenets of our Constitution," he had said in a series of tweets. Chowdhury said Rajput was an Indian actor, but the "BJP turned him into a Bihari actor" only to score electoral brownie points. "Rhea Chakroborty has been indicted not for abetment of suicide or murder or any economic offences; she has been arrested under NDPS, ludicrous," he said. Narratives themed around 'Bengali pride' and 'natives versus outsiders' are slowly gaining momentum, with various outfits raising the pitch for reservation for domicile Bengalis in jobs and education in the state, where, until a few years ago, cultural sub-nationalism was an alien concept. The latest to add fuel to the fire was the alleged online vilification of Bengali women in the aftermath of Rajput's death, with many fans of the deceased actor calling his rumoured girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others from the community "gold diggers" and "witches". After the electoral reverses in the Lok Sabha polls last year and the rise of the BJP as a prime contender for power, TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has often invoked Bengali sub-nationalism, and called the BJP a party of "outsiders". "The way BJP had attacked Bengali women reflects its hatred for our sisters and daughters. The BJP, which is dreaming of capturing power in Bengal, doesn't have an iota of respect for Bengal or Bengalis," Kaushik Maiti, a senior leader of 'Bangla Pokkho', an organisation fighting for the rights of Bengalis, said. When contacted, BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha declined to comment on the matter. After three days of interrogation, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested Chakraborty, 28, in a drugs case linked to Rajput's death, following which she was sent to judicial custody till September 22 by a local court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengalis-soft-target-of-bjp-rhea-chakrabortys-arrest-proof-of-it-political-parties-885617.html
10-09-2020||National||Kerala health minister cautions on increase in Covid-19 deaths||As Kerala is witnessing a further surge in Covid-19 cases, as expected, state Health Minister K K Shailaja on Thursday cautioned about the chances of increase in Covid-19 deaths as well. On Thursday 3,349 fresh cases were reported in the state, while 1,657 recovered, taking the number of active cases to 26,229. With 12 more Covid-19 deaths, the total deaths reached 396. This apart, 62 people who died after Covid-19 infection were not included in the Covid-19 death tally by the government citing that the cause of those deaths was not the infection. The present Covid-19 death is only 0.4 per cent. The minister said during an online function on Thursday that the state was heading towards the worst Covid-19 scenario and the number of deaths may go up. She also cautioned that the state may face a shortage of ventilators as the number of patients increase. People residing in congested areas like settlements need to be more cautious, the minister said. Since experts had already projected that the daily fresh cases in Kerala could go up to 10,000 per day after the Onam holidays, Covid-19 first-line treatment centres with 50,000 beds were already set up and 1,000 ICU facility was earmarked for the patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-health-minister-cautions-on-increase-in-covid-19-deaths-885618.html
10-09-2020||National||Legendary statistician C R Rao turns 100||Eminent statistician and mathematician C R Rao, known for his path-breaking contributions to the field of statistics, turned 100 on Thursday. The Department of Science and Technology felicitated him on Wednesday and the event was virtually attended by top scientists, mathematicians and statisticians. Describing him as an institution builder, DST Secretary Ashutosh Sharma said Rao trained generations of scientists, mathematicians and statisticians.   "While there are different verticals (fields) in science, statistics is a horizontal that cuts through all these lines," he said. Sharma said data is the "new water" and the future is going to revolve around it. Industry 4.0 and beyond is all about creating data, analysing data, building on data and making great discoveries with it, he said. "Professor C R Rao was working on the science of data 70 years ago and was much ahead of his times. He is not only a scientist but also an institution builder. The country and the world will always be indebted to Professor Rao for his pioneering contributions to the field of statistics," Sharma said. Born on September 10, 1920 in Huvinahadagali, Karnataka, Rao received his MA degree in mathematics from the Andhra University and another in statistics from the Calcutta University. He worked at the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) for 40 years. Later, he moved to the US and worked for 25 years at the University of Pittsburgh and the Pennsylvania State University. Rao is known for concepts like "Cramer Rao inequality", "Rao Blackwellisation" and "Rao metric". He has authored around 475 research papers, which have been published in prestigious journals, and 11 books. He was instrumental in establishing the C R Rao Advanced Institute of Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science (AIMSCS) in Hyderabad. Rajeeva Karandikar, Director of the Chennai Mathematical Institute, said Rao was also instrumental in research and training programmes at the ISI. For his contribution, he was also awarded the Padma Vibhushan. Principal Scientific Adviser K Vijay Raghavan said Rao's work has immensely benefitted the country. "Some of Professor CR Rao's work has had a deep impact on genetics and that has great influence on the work we do now," he said.  Bimal Roy, Chairman, National Statistical Commission, recalled that Rao's understanding of statistics as a subject was not limited to that field alone, but he looked at it to find solutions in other disciplines as well. Pravin Srivastava, who retired as the Chief Statistician of India and Secretary in the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, said Rao tried to bring logical reasoning to areas of uncertainty like quantum physics. He laid the foundation of big data, Srivastava added. Recalling his interaction with Rao in early 2000, Shekhar Mande, Director General of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), said when the legendary statistician came to Hyderabad, the scientific community in the city organised a number of conferences. "The scientific community in Hyderabad was pretty excited. He sat through all the conferences, including one in which I presented a paper, taking keen interest in them," Mande said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legendary-statistician-c-r-rao-turns-100-885621.html
10-09-2020||National||India slips 26 spots on economic freedom index: Report||India has fallen 26 spots to the 105th position on the Global Economic Freedom Index 2020, according to a report released on Thursday. The country was at the 79th spot in last year's rankings. The Economic Freedom of the World: 2020 Annual Report by Canada's Fraser Institute has been released in India in conjunction with New Delhi-based think tank Centre For Civil Society. The report said prospects for increasing economic freedom in India depend on next generation reforms in factor markets and in greater openness to international trade. India reported marginal decrease in size of government (from 8.22 to 7.16), legal system and property rights (from 5.17 to 5.06), freedom to trade internationally (6.08 to 5.71) and regulation of credit, labour and business (6.63 to 6.53). A score closer to 10 indicates a higher level of economic freedom. According to the report, based on 2018 data, Hong Kong and Singapore once again topped the index, continuing their streak as first and second ranked, respectively. India has been ranked higher than China, which stands at the 124th position. New Zealand, Switzerland, US, Australia, Mauritius, Georgia, Canada and Ireland round out the top-10. The report measures economic freedom (levels of personal choice, ability to enter markets, security of privately owned property, rule of law, among others) by analysing the policies and institutions of 162 countries and territories.            The 10 lowest-rated countries are African Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Zimbabwe, Republic of Congo, Algeria, Iran, Angola, Libya, Sudan and Venezuela.                  Other notable rankings include Japan (20th), Germany (21st), Italy (51st), France (58th), Mexico (68th), Russia (89th) and Brazil (105th).         Centre for Civil Society President Partha J Shah said since the ranking is based on 2018 data, many new restrictions on international trade, tightening of the credit market due to NPAs and COVID-19's impact on debt and deficits are not reflected in India's score.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slips-26-spots-on-economic-freedom-index-report-885622.html
10-09-2020||National||Ambassadors of the ten ASEAN countries met Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla||Ambassadors of the ten ASEAN countries met Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and discussed new initiatives to further their close cooperation with India, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday. The ambassadors also met MEA Secretary East Vijay Thakur Singh, Srivastava said. "Acting East with ASEAN! Ambassadors of the 10 ASEAN countries met Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla and Secretary East Vijay Thakur Singh and discussed new initiatives to further the close cooperation between India and ASEAN," Srivastava tweeted. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is a regional intergovernmental organisation comprising 10 Southeast Asian countries, which promotes intergovernmental cooperation and facilitates economic, political, security, military, educational, and socio-cultural integration among its members and other Asian states. The ASEAN members are Indonesia, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, The Philippines, Vietnam, Myanmar, Cambodia, Brunei and Laos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambassadors-of-the-ten-asean-countries-met-foreign-secretary-harsh-shringla-885636.html
10-09-2020||National||MPs to mark attendance through mobile app in Parliament||Parliamentarians attending the monsoon session of Parliament beginning Monday will have to mark their attendance through a special mobile application developed for the purpose, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said here. The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha are being convened in separate four-hour shifts so that members can be spread across the chambers of both the Houses to ensure physical distancing required in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Birla said 257 members will be seated in the Lok Sabha hall, 172 in the Lok Sabha gallery, 60 in the Rajya Sabha and 51 in the Rajya Sabha gallery.  He said attempts were being made to minimise the use of paper and MPs will mark their attendance digitally. Screen LEDs will be put up to conduct the proceedings smoothly. "A mobile attendance application 'Attendance Register' has been developed for marking attendance by members in Parliament House Complex," the Speaker said. "Holding the monsoon session was a challenge during the pandemic but we have to fulfill our constitutional responsibilities," Birla said at a press conference.  Chambers will be sanitised during the two-hour break between the two shifts and the MPs will have to undergo an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 before the session begins, the Lok Sabha Speaker said. "To ensure social distancing, transparent polycarbonate sheets have been placed between the benches," he said. The Speaker said only members will be allowed access to the Central Hall of Parliament, while the entry of ex-MPs, MLAs, MLCs, personal staff, family members and visitors has been restricted in Parliament House in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mps-to-mark-attendance-through-mobile-app-in-parliament-885639.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||Numbers prove money given was 'niggardly', 'insufficient': Chidambaram on govt assistance||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday attacked the government over its assistance to the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, alleging that money given was "niggardly and totally insufficient". The Finance Ministry on Tuesday said more than 42 crore people have received Rs 68,820-crore financial assistance under the government's Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to protect the poor and vulnerable from the impact of the COVID-19 crisis. As part of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore PMGKP, announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26, the government announced free foodgrains and cash payment to women, poor senior citizens and farmers. Attacking the government, Chidambaram asked, "How much did each beneficiary get under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana? Was it 'relief' in any real sense or tokenism?" Under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP), 2.81 crore people got Rs 2,814 crore or Rs 1,000 per person, the former finance minister said and asked, "Could that sum have kept body and soul together". "Jan Dhan account holding women (20.6 crore) got Rs 30,925 crore or Rs 1,500 each over three months. Could a homemaker have run a family on Rs 500 a month?" he said in a series of tweets. "Migrants (2.66 crore) got 2.67 lakh MT of food grains over 2 months. That is 5 kg per month. Could it have sustained a migrant and his family? The numbers prove that the money given was niggardly and totally insufficient," Chidambaram said. "And certainly, the money could not have acted as a 'stimulus' to boost demand and revive the economy," he added. Under the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan', the government announced supply of free food grains and chana to migrants for two months, and the estimate of number of migrants provided by the states was about 2.8 crore. "During the distribution period up to August, total 2.67 LMT of food grains was distributed to 5.32 crore migrants. This works out to an average of about 2.66 crore beneficiaries per month, which is nearly 95 per cent of the estimated number of migrants," the ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/numbers-prove-money-given-was-niggardly-insufficient-chidambaram-on-govt-assistance-885159.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||Modi's policies have caused loss of crores of jobs, historic fall in GDP: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that the policies of the Centre have caused loss of crores of jobs and appealed to people to make the Modi government "listen to their voice". He urged people to be a part of the Congress's 'Speak Up for Jobs' campaign being run on Thursday from 10 AM for 10 hours. "The policies of Modi Govt have caused the loss of crores of jobs and a historic fall in GDP," Gandhi alleged in a tweet. "It has crushed the future of India's youth. Let's make the Govt listen to their voice," the former Congress chief said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the promise was of providing two crore jobs every year and claimed that instead of providing 12 crore jobs in six years, 14 crore jobs were "snatched away". The youth has now woken up and demands an answer, he said. The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, said, "One devastating policy after another, BJP has snatched away the livelihoods of crores of Indians & pushed our youth into a bleak future." "Join our #SpeakUpForJobs campaign & raise your voices against BJP’s misadventures," the party tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modis-policies-have-caused-loss-of-crores-of-jobs-historic-fall-in-gdp-rahul-gandhi-885285.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena targets Fadnavis over CAG report on Jalyukt Shivar||Latching onto the CAG's adverse remarks about the 'Jalyukt Shivar' scheme rolled out by the previous Devendra Fadnavis government, the ruling Shiv Sena on Thursday asked whether he will introspect now. The 'Jalyukt Shivar' scheme had little impact in achieving water neutrality and increasing groundwater level, and its execution was characterised by lack of transparency, the CAG said in its report tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. A sum of Rs 9,633.75 crore was spent on the scheme, a flagship programme of the Fadnavis government (2014-19) that sought to make Maharashtra a drought-free state, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) said. The now-scrapped project involved deepening and widening of streams, construction of cement and earthen stop dams, undertaking work on nullahs and digging of farm ponds. Referring to the findings, the Shiv Sena said any scheme is good on paper, but the real question is about its transparent and effective implementation. "When there is a problem (with such implementation of a scheme), then the rant about it (the scheme) turns out to be hollow and expenses superfluous," the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. "Precisely this is what happened in the case of Jalyukt Shivar scheme," the Shiv Sena, which was part of the Fadnavis government, said. Had the implementation of the scheme been effective, water sufficiency would have been achieved in parts of the state in the real sense. But it did not happen, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. "The real question is whether those who released high the balloon of the 'Jalyukt (Shivar)' will introspect now as to why its burst," the party said, without naming Fadnavis. Experts had criticised the scheme during the previous regime. But Fadnavis and others dismissed the criticism terming it as political and wrong, it added. "Now the CAG itself has put a question mark on the scheme's success. What do those who tom-tommed about the scheme have to say about it now?" the Sena asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-targets-fadnavis-over-cag-report-on-jalyukt-shivar-885296.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||BJP asks members to not use party's name in US Presidential polls:||The BJP has asked its members in the US to not use the party's name in the presidential polls there, asserting that the India-US ties enjoy bipartisan support in that country. The unambiguous directive to the Overseas Friends of BJP-USA from the party's Foreign Affairs Department head Vijay Chauthaiwale is apparently aimed at allaying any impression that the India's ruling party favours any candidate in the US polls in which President Donald Trump of the Republican Party is pitted against Democratic Party's Joe Biden. Chauthaiwale told PTI, "The OFBJP-USA members can participate in the US election campaign and support any candidate or a party in their personal capacity but they have been instructed not to use BJP or OFBJP name during the campaign." He said India and the US have "deep strategic relations" which has bipartisan support in the US and enjoys "overwhelming public support" in India. "We are confident that this partnership will grow from strength to strength in future too," he added. It may be noted that the Republican campaign has used visuals of Trump's participation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in huge public meetings like 'Howdy Modi', which happened in September 2019 in Houston, and 'Namaste Trump', which was held in February this year, to woo the Indian diaspora. Chauthaiwale had mailed the directive to the US chapter of the party on July 24, as both parties began to intensify their campaign for the presidential election in November. With Biden naming Indian-origin Kamala Harris as his party's vice presidential nominee, the BJP leader said, "We are naturally happy that someone with Indian ancestry is contesting 2nd topmost post in the USA." He, however, added, "At the same time, we believe that any election is solely a domestic process of that country and BJP has no role whatsoever in the process." He also noted that the OFBJP-USA has voluntarily registered itself as official representative of the BJP under FARA and wondered if the US chapter of the Congress too will register itself under the US law. Its registration under the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) means that the OFBJP-USA can officially represent the BJP in that country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-asks-members-to-not-use-partys-name-in-us-presidential-polls-885312.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||Prime Minister Modi to attend housewarming of PMAY houses in Madhya Pradesh on September 12||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on September 12 take part in a virtual house-warming ceremony for two lakh houses constructed in the rural parts of Madhya Pradesh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY). Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said this on Wednesday while taking a review of the preparations ahead of the event. The programme will begin at 11 am, he said. "The prime minister will facilitate the entry of two lakh beneficiaries in their newly-constructed houses under the PMAY," Chouhan said. According to him, the PM will also interact with some of the beneficiaries of the scheme. "It will be a day of joy and happiness for these families. It will also bring a sense of security in them," he added. The chief minister said that these houses were constructed during the coronavirus crisis and the activity generated employment for local and migrant labourers in a big way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prime-minister-modi-to-attend-housewarming-of-pmay-houses-in-madhya-pradesh-on-september-12-885324.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav accuses BJP government of selling country’s assets||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday accused the BJP government of selling the country’s assets as well “job opportunities for youths” with privatisation. He also hit out at the ruling dispensation over lathi-charge on party protesters during ‘9baje9min’ campaign on Wednesday night. "It is not understood whether BJP is running the government or selling the country's sources and resources. In the country and the state, they have sold toll, mandi (markets), government malls, ITI, polytechnic, airports, railways and insurance companies, and with privatisation, they have also sold job opportunities for youths,” Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi with hashtag #nahi_chahiye_bechu_sarkar. "The days of BJP government which resorted to lathicharge on peaceful Samajwadi 'sipahi' are over. This is a cowardice act against those who are raising genuine demands of the unemployed. This violent act shows that a demoralised BJP has failed on all fronts," he said in another tweet with hashtag #NoMoreBJP. The SP president also tagged pictures showing the police dragging a woman party worker during the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samajwadi-party-chief-akhilesh-yadav-accuses-bjp-government-of-selling-country-s-assets-885334.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||RJD Vice President Raghuvansh Prasad Singh quits party||In a setback to Bihar's main opposition RJD ahead of the state assembly polls, its national vice president and former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh resigned from the party on Thursday, sources close to him said, but party supremo Lalu Prasad rejected it, insisting he was not going "anywhere". In a letter to jailed RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, the veteran leader wrote he was quitting the party. "Since the death of Jannayak Karpoori Thakur, I stood behind you for 32 years, but not now," he said in his brief one-line resignation letter, written from his hospital bed on a ruled noteboook page, to Prasad, who is serving sentences in four fodder scam cases in Ranchi. In the footnote, the once staunch lalu loyalist, added," I got the affection of party leaders and workers, besides common people. Please forgive me." Thakur was a prominent socialist leader and former state chief minister. Hours later, Prasad sought rapprochement. "I don't believe....a letter purportedly written by you is on social media. I, my family, and the RJD family that have nursed the party want you to get well soon and be amongst us," Prasad wrote back. The RJD supremo's letter to Singh was posted on the party's media accounts. "For four decades, we have together discussed political, social and even family matters. You get well soon and we will discuss again. You are not going anywhere, you understand," Prasad wrote in a handwritten letter that had the stamp of the prison authority. Singh, admitted to AIIMS, New Delhi, because of post- Covid complications, had earlier announced his resignation as the party vice president on June 23 but was persuaded by Prasad to stay back. Singh, a five-time former MP from Vaishali who held several portfolios in the Manmohan Singh government, including that of rural development, was reportedly unhappy over the proposed induction of alleged mafia don and former Lok Janshakti Party MP from Vaishali Rama Singh into the RJD. Rama Singh had defeated the RJD leader in the 2014 Lok Sabha election, breaking his winning streak since he was first elected from there in 1996. He was also not happy with the style of functioning of Prasad's heir apparent and leader of the opposition in the Bihar assembly Tejashwi Yadav, party sources said. There was no official word from the RJD over Singh's resignation, but NDA parties hailed his move. "Raghuvansh babu commands respect of all. Why was he forced to quit the party he nursed with his blood and sweat?" Bihar BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said. Anand said Singh was "humiliated" by RJD supremo's elder son Tej Pratap Yadav after he announced his resignation from the post of party vice president. "What difference will it make if a pot of water is taken out of the sea?" Tej Pratap had said, belittling Singh over his resignation and the impact it could have on the RJD. "Singhs resignation will prove to be the last nail in RJDs coffin. This was the natural consequence of the suffocating atmosphere in which he had been living for quite a long time. Finally, he decided to come out of daldal (morass) which is worth welcoming, JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. The JD(U) had said last week it will welcome Singh into the party if he so decides. Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi's Hindustani Awam Morcha said Singh's resignation showed even important people have to face insult in the RJD. "I will request Raghuvansh babu to join Nitish Kumar (Bihar chief minister and JD(U) president) and strengthen his hands for the development of the state. Nitish Kumar is the only option. Come, join us, we welcome you," said Danish Rizwan, the spokesman for HAM(S).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rjd-vice-president-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-quits-party-885419.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||West Bengal government anti-Hindu, driven by minority appeasement says BJP's JP Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Thursday said that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government’s decision of imposing lockdown in West Bengal on the day of bhumi pujan on August 5 for Ram Mandir showed that anti-Hindu mindset and appeasement were the hallmarks of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s politics. Addressing a virtual rally for Bengal the BJP president also pointed out that the TMC government withdrew lockdown in the state on July 31 for Bakri Eid. “Such politics of vote bank, appeasement and creation of anti-Hindu mindset is the hallmark of Mamata Didi’s politics. We are happy that the lockdown was lifted on July 31. But what was the reason behind imposing lockdown on August 5? This is nothing but appeasement politics,” said Nadda. Indicating that his party will make this a poll issue in the 2021 Assembly election in Bengal Nadda urged BJP workers in the state to “expose such politics” in front of the people. He also asked party workers to convince people that Mamata was least bothered about them and is only concerned about gaining political mileage. Nadda urged BJP workers to uproot the TMC government in Bengal and said that the TMC supremo is well aware that the ground is sliding beneath her feet .“We have to uproot the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the next Assembly elections. Mamata Ji knows that the ground is sliding beneath her feet and the people of West Bengal are ready to make lotus bloom in the state,” said Nadda. The BJP president further alleged that the Chief Minister was depriving the people of Bengal of the benefits of social welfare scheme of the Centre by not implementing them in the state.“I am sorry to say that Mamata didi is creating hurdles in the path of people of West Bengal joining the mainstream,” said Nadda. Nadda said that even on issues such the Covid-19 pandemic Mamata is not cooperating with the Centre and is opposing it for petty politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-government-anti-hindu-driven-by-minority-appeasement-says-bjps-jp-nadda-885430.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||States need hard cash, Centre's letter of comfort has no value: P Chidambaram on GST compensation||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday said the Centre's reported proposal of giving "letter of comfort" to states to borrow money to bridge the GST compensation gap were "just words of comfort" on a piece of paper that has "no value". He asserted that the states need "hard cash" and if they are forced to borrow, the axe will inevitably fall on capital expenditure by the states. "Government says it will give a ‘Letter of Comfort’ to the states to borrow money to bridge the GST Compensation gap. These are just words of comfort on a piece of paper that has no value," Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. "What states need is hard cash. Only the central government has multiple options and the flexibility to raise the resources and pay the shortfall in GST compensation to the states," the former finance minister said. If the states are forced to borrow, the axe will inevitably fall on capital expenditure by the states which have already suffered a cut, he said. Chidambaram has been urging the government to take concrete measures to revive the economy and has called upon it to provide GST compensation to states, as promised to them at the time of GST implementation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/states-need-hard-cash-centres-letter-of-comfort-has-no-value-p-chidambaram-on-gst-compensation-885444.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||Manoj Jha to be joint opposition candidate for Rajya Sabha deputy chairman poll||Various opposition parties on Thursday decided to field RJD leader Manoj Jha as their joint candidate for the September 14 election of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman, sources said. He will file his nomination papers Friday in presence of leaders of various opposition parties. Jha will contest against NDA's nominee Harivansh of the JD-U. Harivansh was the RS deputy chairman till his previous term was over. He has since been re-elected from Bihar. RJD and JDU are arch-rivals in Bihar where assembly elections will be held very soon. Sources said a number of opposition leaders, including Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma, Congress's chief whip in RS Jairam Ramesh and others from TMC, left parties, DMK, AAP and some other parties, will accompany Jha while filing his nomination papers for the post on Friday. The Congress had said it will not let the post of deputy chairman go uncontested and decided to put up a joint candidate. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/manoj-jha-to-be-joint-opposition-candidate-for-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-poll-885451.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||Book will expose 'conspiracy' behind my cabinet ouster: Eknath Khadse||Disgruntled Maharashtra BJP leader Eknath Khadse on Thursday said he will come out with a book to highlight the "conspiracy" that eventually saw his ouster as a minister from the Devendra Fadnavis government four years ago. Khadse said the book will be titled Nanasaheb Fadnavisanch Shadyantra (conspiracy). Nanasaheb Fadnavis was a minister during the Peshwa administration and was often referred to as Maratha Machiavelli. The senior BJP leader also charged former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis with having direct or indirect hand behind the series of allegations levelled against him in the past. Khadse, once seen as No. 2 in the Fadnavis cabinet, resigned as revenue minister in 2016 over land grab allegations and since then he has been largely sidelined in the party. Speaking to reporters in Jalgaon, his home district, after a book on him was launched, Khadse maintained he was "clean", but then Chief Minister Fadnavis avoided declaring so. As if (part of) some conspiracy, allegations were levelled against me one after the other. I was impelled to resign, Khadse added. The 68-year-old former minister said such an atmosphere was created in the eyes of the party's senior leaders that he was made to look like a corrupt person. Khadse said he had met Fadnavis several times and told the latter that he was clean. He (Fadnavis) said it (graft charges) will be probed and all.... Lokayukta, ACB did not find any wrongdoing on my part. "There was a need to give me justice. But unfortunately, only I was not given a clean chit. All others who, too, had faced charges, were given a clean chit, said the veteran politician who was denied assembly poll ticket in 2019. Khadse said he had urged the then CM to keep the truth that he was clean before the House when the previous Assembly met the last time ahead ofelections last year. But Fadnavis unfortunately refrained from doing so, he added. It is my understanding, it is my view that there is Devendra jis direct, indirect hand in this. The documents I have with me now point towards it, Khadse alleged. Khadse said he is studying the documents in detail and will share the same with senior leaders of the party. I am going to write a book on this entire episode. I have already started writing the book. The name of the book will be 'Nanasaheb Fadnavisanch Shadyantra' (conspiracy), he said. Khadse said he will narrate in the book along with evidence how the conspiracy was hatched and he was sidelined "with a motive".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/book-will-expose-conspiracy-behind-my-cabinet-ouster-eknath-khadse-885523.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||Asian Games gold medalist Pinki Pramanik joins BJP||Asian Games gold medalist Pinki Pramanik on Thursday joined BJP, party president in Bengal Dilip Ghosh said. "From today onwards Pinki is part of the BJP family," Ghosh said after handing her the BJP flag. Pinki was a member of the Asian Games gold medal and Commonwealth Games silver medal-winning quartet in the 400m relay event in 2006. In 2012, Pinki was embroiled in a gender controversy when her woman friend accused her of rape and gender misrepresentation. She was kept in custody for 25 days and was made to undergo sex verification tests to confirm her gender. She was cleared of rape charges by Calcutta High Court in 2014 and had resumed her work in Eastern Railway. Arjuna awardee Jyotirmoyee Sikdar, who had represented the CPI-M in the 14th Lok Sabha, had joined the saffron party earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/asian-games-gold-medalist-pinki-pramanik-joins-bjp-885569.html
10-09-2020||National Politics||JD(U)-RJD face-off in Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman poll||Ahead of the Bihar assembly polls, arch-rivals JD(U) and RJD are set for a face-off in the election for the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman seat. Opposition parties have decided to field RJD leader Manoj Jha as its joint candidate to take on JD(U) leader Harivansh, who is the nominee of the ruling NDA for the post of Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman, the election for which is scheduled on Monday. Jha, a former professor at the Delhi University, was chosen as the candidate by 12 political parties. He is scheduled to file the nomination papers on Friday. The RJD leader's name was finalised after veteran DMK member Tiruchi Siva failed to get the approval from his party leadership to contest the poll. Congress-led opposition had decided to put up a symbolic fight for the post which is set to be won easily by the NDA nominee. The post of the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman fell vacant in April after Harivansh’s tenure in the Upper House came to an end. He has since been re-elected to the Rajya Sabha. Harivansh was elected as Deputy Chairman in August 2018 when he had defeated the then joint opposition candidate B K Hariprasad. In the Upper House of 244 members, the BJP has 87 members and its allies AIADMK(9), JDU (5), Akali Dal (3), LJP (1), RPI-A(1), MDMK(1), Nominated (4) and Independent (2). Besides the support of 113 members, the BJP is also hoping to get parties such as YSRCP (6), BJD(9), and TRS (7) to support the NDA candidate. BJP has issued a whip to its members to be present in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, when the election is scheduled to take place at 3:00 p.m. In the upcoming Bihar assembly elections, RJD is hoping to unseat the JDU-BJP alliance government headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jdu-rjd-face-off-in-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-poll-885632.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Bars in hotels, restaurants reopen in Delhi; owners hopeful business will soon get back on track||Bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants reopened in Delhi on Wednesday after being closed for over 170 days and some of them received a good number of customers on the first day despite the Covid-19 scare. The excise department, however, said violation of Covid-19 guidelines could lead to sealing of the premises or cancellation of licence. Priyank Sukhija, the owner of restaurant chains such as Plum By Bent Chair, Lord of the Drinks and Tamasha in Delhi and Mumbai, said there has been a "substantial increase" in bookings for both lunch and dinner. "We will do much better than what we used to do without alcohol being served. We only have 50 per cent seating. We are keeping sanitiser on every table," Sukhija said. He said they are ensuring that guests remove their masks only when they get seated at their tables. "Our servers are wearing masks all the time. The business is a lot better. In the restaurant where we did 10 covers for lunch, we did 30 covers today and the billing was four-five times due to the liquor orders. We were doing eight to 10 per cent of pre-COVID sales earlier but now we hope that we will touch 40 to 50 per cent of pre-COVID sales soon," he added. Suveet Kalra, Owner of Ardor, said they have put up acrylic glass portions between all tables to maintain minimum six feet distancing and have placed hand and feet sanitizers at the restaurant entrance. "We have introduced antibody cocktails with immunity boosting ingredients etc. Customers in large groups are being discouraged, rather small gatherings are being welcomed so as to maintain minimum crowd," he said. The organic cocktails contain no preservatives and only syrups etc, he said, adding that guests are being explained their benefits. "There are UV filters in the air-conditioning ducts so as to kill all germs and we are using UV sanitised cutlery and conducting Aarogya Setu App Check on all Employees / Vendors," he said. Sumit Goyal, owner of Gastronomica, said, "The business has been slow for now. Maybe the weekend will get better as it was the first day and people are less aware." He said they got Covid-19 tests conducted for all the staffers and common areas and tables are sanitised frequently. "We conduct daily temperature checks of all staff members and anyone with fever is refused entry and needs a minimum 14 day quarantine to rejoin. We are ensuring contactless ordering using QR codes and contactless payments have been enabled, Guests are given a choice to use disposable crockery," Goyal said. An official said entry will be allowed only to those wearing masks and to asymptomatic customers and staff as part of the preventive measures against Covid-19. The official said no customer who is standing will be served liquor by such establishments which will also have to ensure provisions for sanitiser dispenser and thermal scanning at the entrance. The excise department said its enforcement teams would keep a strict vigil to ensure strict compliance of COVID-19 guidelines by these establishments. Rahul Singh, owner and CEO of The Beer Cafe, said, "We are opening our outlets one by one. Today, we opened the one at Aerocity and tomorrow we will open the ones at Connaught Place, Nehru Place, Promenade and Pacific Mall." He further said, "Of course, we cannot get back to the pre-COVID era but I am happy with the response on the first day." In a recent order, the department directed its assistant commissioner (enforcement) to deploy teams to check compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) while serving liquor at bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants. Strict compliance of SOPs on Covid-19 precaution is the foremost condition for opening of bars for an allowed period from September 9 to September 30, it said. "The enforcement teams will keep a close watch as liquor is served at hotels, restaurants and clubs to ensure there is no violation of Covid-19 safety precautions prescribed under the SOPs. If needed extra manpower will be deployed for the purpose," a senior government officer said. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), in its order on September 3, had directed that such bars will be permitted to open in Delhi, except in containment zones, from September 9 to 30. The activities related to bars in hotels, clubs, restaurants for on-premises consumption of liquor under different licence categories are allowed from September 9 to September 30, subject to compliance of SOPs, the excise department said in its order. "The onus is completely on the licensee to comply with the SOPs issued by the DDMA and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," said the order. The owners of these establishments and licensee of hotels, clubs and restaurants will ensure compliance of SOPs failing which action will be taken against them, officials said. "In case of violation, prompt action will be taken including sealing of premises and cancellation of licence," they said. The DDMA's SOPs allow reopening of such establishments with only 50 per cent of the approved seating capacity, use of face masks and gloves by staff and social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bars-in-hotels-restaurants-reopen-in-delhi-owners-hopeful-business-will-soon-get-back-on-track-885141.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro's Red, Violet, Green lines to resume services||Services on the Delhi Metro's Red, Violet and Green lines are set to resume on Thursday, officials said, after remaining suspended for over five months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Delhi Metro opened its doors to commuters on Monday with curtailed operation of the Yellow Line. Metro services in Delhi-NCR were closed since March 22. The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. As part of stage one, the Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours. Trains are operating in two batches -- from 7-11 AM and 4-8 PM -- in the first stage. On Wednesday, the Blue and Pink lines were made operational with the same schedule. The Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda (Ghaziabad); Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brig. Hosihar Singh); and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh) will resume services from September 10 with the same time schedule, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Wednesday. With services available on multiple lines (Yellow, Blue and Pink Lines), the total ridership on Wednesday was nearly 53,400 till 8 PM, the DMRC said in a statement. The Yellow Line saw an approximate ridership of 26,900, the Blue Line 22,600 and the Pink Line 3,900, it said. The DMRC said it "will be running 35 trains on the Red Line performing around 413 train trips during morning and evening hours on 10th September, 2020". "Similarly, 40 trains with approximately 344 trips will be put into service on the Violet Line," it said. On the Green Line, 20 trains with 268 trips will be put into service, it added. "The trips will be subsequently increased as the operational timing of services get extended on September 11-12 with the opening of other lines in a graded manner," the DMRC said. The list of gates which will remain open for entry of passengers at each station along with all necessary updates are available on the home page of the Delhi Metro's official website, www.delhimetrorail.com. The entire metro network will be made operational throughout the day from September 12 onwards. Passengers will be required to follow all social distancing norms and guidelines during travel. Wearing masks is mandatory inside train coaches and on station premises. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the rapid transport only if urgently needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metros-red-violet-green-lines-to-resume-services-885151.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||UP: Congress lights candles in solidarity with unemployed youths||Members of the Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit on Wednesday lit candles here to express solidarity with youths facing the consequences of unemployment. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had appealed to people to switch off lights for nine minutes at 9 pm on Wednesday to protest problems faced by the youth, including unemployment. Congress secretary Dheeraj Gurjar, party Lucknow unit chief Mukesh Chauhan and other leaders took part in the protest. "Our country is the youngest country in the world. The youth is the backbone of the future. But this government is continuously deceiving the youth. The Modi government came to power promising jobs, but this anti-youth government has turned out to be the murderer of the dreams of the youth," Gurjar said in a statement. Party leaders in the state took part in the campaign, he said, adding that protests were also held in Allahabad. Youth wing workers of the party, Shivam Tripathi and Gyanesh Shukla, among others, were arrested, the Congress claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-congress-lights-candles-in-solidarity-with-unemployed-youths-885158.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||DMRC ridership triples to 53,400 as Pink, Blue lines reopen||The total ridership for the day touched 53,400, the DMRC said in a statement. As of now, metro services in Delhi are available on multiple lines including the Yellow, Blue, and Pink lines.  The Blue line of the Delhi metro connects Dwarka to Ghaziabad and Noida while the Pink line of the metro connects Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri to Shiv Vihar.  Until Tuesday, services only the Yellow line of the Delhi metro, which connects Samaypur Badli to Huda City Center, and the Gurgaon Rapid metro were functional. Ridership during this time was a modest 19,878 . The approximate figures for the three corridors were -- Yellow Line (26,900), Blue Line (22,600) and Pink Line (3,900), DMRC said in a statement.  However, the utilisation of a metro system is calculated by the number of journeys performed by a passenger using one or more lines (line utilisation) and not just by ridership.  Therefore, ridership figures are a temporary feature until all lines reopen and the DMRC network is fully operational.  The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the metros across the country to resume operations in a graded manner. Following the directive, the DMRC resumed services in three stages from September 7. Metro services on three more lines --- Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda (Ghaziabad); Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brig. Hosihar Singh (Bahadurgarh); and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh (Ballabhgarh)) -- will also resume from September 10 with the same time schedule. The entire Delhi Metro network would be operational from September 12. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dmrc-ridership-triples-to-53400-as-pink-blue-lines-reopen-885259.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Burdened with debt, farmer ends life in Uttar Pradesh village||A debt-ridden farmer allegedly ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance in Pindaran village here, police said on Thursday. Ram Narain (38) consumed a poisonous substance on Tuesday and died during treatment at the district hospital on Wednesday, they said. The farmer's brother Vidyasagar told police that "Ram Narain had taken a loan of Rs 2.5 lakh from a bank four years ago and it had increased to Rs 4 lakh. He also took a loan of Rs 2 lakh from relatives this year for installing a tubewell in his field and was upset that he was not able to repay due to which he committed suicide". When asked about the matter, Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Mahendra Pratap Singh, said he did not have any information of suicide of a farmer due to loan issues. "I will send my team to the spot for probe," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/burdened-with-debt-farmer-ends-life-in-uttar-pradesh-village-885313.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi Metro's Red, Violet, Green Lines resume after nearly 6 months||Delhi Metro's Red Line, Violet Line and Green Line resumed services on Thursday after being closed for 172 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. Yellow Line and Rapid Metro were the first to reopen on Monday, followed by Blue Line and Pink Line on Wednesday. "Seven lines of the Delhi Metro network are now open! Thank you dear commuters for following the safety guidelines and helping us maintain good service. #MetroBackOnTrack," the DMRC tweeted after the three new lines resumed services. Services on Red Line, Violet Line and Green Line resumed at 7 AM, officials said. On Monday, the Delhi Metro resumed partial services on the Yellow Line. The Delhi Metro services were suspended on March 22. The Ministry of Home Affairs recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours. Trains are operating in batches of four hours each from 7-11 AM and 4-8 PM. On Wednesday, Blue Line and Pink Line were made operational with the same schedule. Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda, Ghaziabad); Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brig. Hosihar Singh, Bahadurgarh); and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh, Ballabhgarh), resumed services on September 10 with the same time schedule, the DMRC said. With the services available on multiple lines now -- Yellow, Blue and Pink Lines -- the total ridership on Wednesday was nearly 53,400 till 8 PM, the DMRC said in a statement. The approximate figures for the three corridors were -- Yellow Line (26,900), Blue Line (22,600) and Pink Line (3,900), it said. “DMRC will be running 35 trains on Red Line (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda) performing around 413 train trips during morning and evening hours on 10th September 2020. Similarly,  40 trains with approx. 344 trips will be put into service on the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Raja Nahar Singh)," the DMRC said on Wednesday. On the Green Line (Kirtinagar/Inderlok - Brig. Hoshiar Singh), 20 trains with 268 train trips will be put into service, the statement said. "The trips will be subsequently increased as the operational timing of services get extended on September 11-12 with the opening of other lines in a graded manner," it added. The list of gates which will remain open for entry of passengers at each station along with all necessary updates are available on the home page of Delhi Metro's official website www.delhimetrorail.com for easy access of the passenger information. The entire metro network is planned to be made operational for passenger services throughout the day from September 12 onwards as it was before March 22 with all social distancing norms and guidelines to be followed by the passengers during the travel due to the ongoing pandemic. Wearing masks is mandatory inside train coaches and at station premises. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the rapid transport only if urgently needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-metros-red-violet-green-lines-resume-after-nearly-6-months-885317.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||2 Covid-19 positive undertrials flee from hospital in Uttar Pradesh||Two undertrials undergoing treatment at a Covid hospital here on Thursday managed to flee breaking the bathroom window, police said. Rape accused, Rajju and Brijlal, escaped at about 4 am from the hospital, Superintendent of Police Ankit Mittal said. Both of them were admitted in the hospital on September 7 after they were found Covid-19 positive, he said. The officer said attempts are on to arrest them, adding that separate police teams have been constituted for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-covid-19-positive-undertrials-flee-from-hospital-in-uttar-pradesh-885336.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Ahead of festival season, Arvind Kejriwal urges people to take precautions||With the festival season kicking in next month, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged people to take precautions against Covid-19 infection. "Many festivals are approaching in the coming months. While the Covid-19 pandemic is under control in Delhi, it is important to have preventive measures in place to contain the spread of Covid-19 at religious places of worship," he said. The Navratri festival that involves temple visits and fasts for nine days will begin from October 17. It will culminate with Vijaya Dashmi or Dussehra on October 25. The festival of Diwali will be celebrated in the month of November. "I would like to appeal to the general public as well as the organisations managing religious places to adhere to all the preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the religious places during the upcoming festival season," the chief minister said in his appeal. Delhi has witnessed a spurt in number of Covid-19 cases in the last few days with daily testing of virus doubled from 15000-20,000 to now over 40,000 by the city government.  Delhi government's health bulletin on Wednesday recorded 4,039 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far, as the tally breached the 2 lakh mark. Also, the highest ever number of tests at 54,517 were conducted on the day. Kejriwal said that it is important that everyone visiting religious places follows preventive measures like maintaining a minimum distance of six feet, using face masks and washing hands frequently with soap or alcohol-based hand sanitisers. "Visitors and workers at all religious places must observe respiratory safety etiquette to reduce the risk of Covid-19 at all times. All religious places will also be required to comply with the preventive measures inside their premises," he said.  The religious places in the city were closed with the announcement of lockdown as the coronavirus cases spread in March.  Under the unlockdown process, the religious places opened in August and various festivals like Janmashtami, Eid and Bakrid were celebrated with temples and mosques putting in places various preventive measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-festival-season-arvind-kejriwal-urges-people-to-take-precautions-885356.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Farmers block national highway in Haryana, hold rally against farm ordinances||The Bhartiya Kisan Union and other farmer organisations on Thursday blocked the national highway at Pipli in Kurukshetra district of Haryana to protest the Centre's three farm ordinances, which they claimed were “anti-farmers”. The Pipli Chowk on National Highway 22 remained tense and a centre for a 'battle' between the police and protesters for about four hours. The police had raised a number of barriers to stop the farmers from reaching Pipli Mandi to hold 'Kissan Bachao, Mandi Bachao' rally organised by the farmer organisations and supported by the Congress and AAP. The protesters, however, managed to break many of these barriers. The agitating farmers also blocked traffic on the national highway for over four hours, causing hardship to thousands of commuters who used village link roads to bypass Pipli. Police resorted to lathicharge when farmers coming from Shahbad area pushed their way into the rally site. The agitating farmers also broke window panes of a fire brigade vehicle and pelted stones on the police. Superintendent of Police Astha Modi said agitators blocked the national highway. The district administration relented and lifted the barriers outside the rally site to allow thousands of protesters reach their destination. Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni described the rally as its first success against the “repressive government”. He said farmers would continue to hold rallies and demonstrations throughout the country till the “anti-farmer” ordinances are not withdrawn. Charuni alleged that the BJP government through these ordinances was trying to get out of the well tested Minimum Support Price and Mandi system, and was throwing the farmers before “big sharks” to exploit them. He also condemned the police action on protesters. He claimed many farmers were injured and several of them were taken into custody to prevent them from reaching the rally spot from across the state. Opposition leaders like Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and AICC spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala strongly condemned the use of police force on farmers and charged the BJP-JJP combine government with suppressing the voice of peasantry through oppressive measures. Farmer leader Akshay Hathira, who led one of the protester groups, told media that the state government was trying to curb the voice of farmers by banning the rally and imposing prohibitory orders under CrPC section 144 (prevents assembly of five or more people at one spot) at Pipli. The BJP-led state government had asked the BKU not to go ahead with the rally in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Notably, farmers in Haryana and Punjab have been protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-block-national-highway-in-haryana-hold-rally-against-farm-ordinances-885410.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain's plea against custody infructuous, ED tells HC||The Enforcement Directorate told the Delhi High Court on Thursday that the plea by suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain challenging his 3-day remand in a money laundering case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February has become infructuous as he has been sent to judicial custody now. Hussain has sought setting aside the remand order of September 7, passed by a trial court and a direction to the ED to immediately send him to Tihar jail. The ED submitted before Justice Yogesh Khanna that an infructuous matter need not be taken up as Hussain's has been handed over to the Tihar Jail authorities on expiry of his three days ED custody. Additional Solicitor General S V Raju and advocate Amit Mahajan, representing the ED, said the trial court's September 7 order clearly says that the accused be handed over to Tihar jail authorities on September 10, and the agency has complied with the direction. “The trial court order is implemented and it is over. So nothing survives even if the trial court order is set aside..,” the counsel submitted. However, senior advocate K K Manan, appearing for Hussain, opposed the submission of ED and said he is on the point of law and his prayer is to set aside the trial court's order. He said if the trial court order is set aside, Hussain's custody will be illegal. The court listed the matter for November 24 to hear arguments on the point of law. The ED was probing the allegation that Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs 1.10 crore funds, by using purported shell or dummy companies, to fuel the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the riots. In his plea before the high court, Hussain said he was formally arrested by ED on August 20 from Tihar jail and on August 28, he was remanded to the six days in the agency's custody. The ED again sought extension of Hussain's custody by nine days and the court on September 7 granted them three days to quiz him with the direction that he be handed over to Tihar jail authorities on September 10. Hussain's counsel challenged the trial court's extension of remand order on the ground that the 15 days period for grant of police custody has to begin from the date of formal arrest, that is, August 20 and thus, further extension of police remand is not permissible in law. ED had earlier told the trial court that Hussain was allegedly involved in money laundering and various other fraudulent acts of cheating, falsification and forgery of documents, and criminal conspiracy. ED had alleged that Hussain had entered into a criminal conspiracy by fraudulently transferring money from the accounts of many companies. The money so obtained are allegedly proceeds of crime which were then used for committing various other scheduled offences, the agency had claimed. Hussain's counsel had claimed that he was a victim of circumstances and was not required for custodial interrogation as he faced the threat of torture. Hussain was arrested in connection with the riots in northeast Delhi in February. He has also been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a conspiracy case related to the riots. He was also arrested in connection with the alleged murder of IB official Ankit Sharma during the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussains-plea-against-custody-infructuous-ed-tells-hc-885413.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Pakistan Army shells forward areas in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||The Pakistan Army opened fire and shelled forward areas along the LoC in three sectors of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Thursday, officials said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly, a defence spokesman said. "At about 0530, 1145 and 1215 hours today, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Mankote, Degwar and Mendhar sectors", the spokesman said. On September 2, a JCO was killed in ceasefire violation by the Pakistan Army along the LoC in Keri sector of Rajouri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-885437.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Rare orchid found for first time in western Himalayas||Liparis Pygmaea, a rare variety of orchid, has been found for the first time in the western Himalayan region in Uttarakhand. The flower was spotted by a team of the research wing of the Uttarakhand forest department at an altitude of 3,800 metres during a trek to Saptakund in Chamoli district in June this year, Chief Conservator of Forest (Research) Sanjiv Chaturvedi told PTI. Samples sent by the forest department to Botanical Survey of India were confirmed as Liparis Pygmaea and the Pune-based body preserved them in its herbarium, Chaturvedi said. The discovery made by a two-member team consisting of Range Officer Harish Negi and JRF Manoj Singh has been recognised by French scientific research journal 'Richardiana', which published a paper on the discovery. Liparis Pygmaea is a small terrestrial orchid with beautiful flowers springing on it in the month of June-July. As it has been found for the first time in the western Himalayas, botanists consider it a very significant discovery, the official said adding it widens the range of distribution of the species in the Himalayas. Terming it a very important development in the study of rare orchid species whose distribution is restricted to the alpine zone of the Himlayas, Chaturvedi said appropriate measures should be taken to preserve the species which appears in the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) red list. Apart from one location in Uttarakhand the species has been found in the past at three locations in Sikkim and at one in West Bengal in India. It has also been sighted at one location each in Nepal and China, the paper published in the French journal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rare-orchid-found-for-first-time-in-western-himalayas-885440.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Alert along LoC after ISI uses drones to drop weapons for terrorists||A quadcopter used by Pakistani spy agency ISI in Jammu and Kashmir has necessitated alert along the Line of Control (LoC) in the valley as the Army believes it could be used for dropping weapons for terrorists. Talking to PTI, General-Officer-in-Command of strategically located XV corps in Kashmir Lt Gen B S Raju said after an incident "across Peer Panjal", a reference to Jammu region in army parlance, "we have alerted all formations to keep a check on any flying object seen along the LoC". He said the terrorists holed up in the Kashmir valley have been facing acute shortage of arms and ammunition and they are desperately looking for some help from across the border for the same. In June, BSF had shot down a Pakistani drone, loaded with a sophisticated rifle and seven grenades, along the International Border in Kathua district of Jammu region. The Chinese-made drone weighed about 17.5 kgs and had a payload of 5.5 kg including a sophisticated US-made M4 semi-automatic carbine and seven Chinese grenades. Four batteries, a radio signal receiver and two Global Positioning Systems (GPS) were also recovered. This, according to Gen Raju, is a "new dimension" in decades of Pakistan-sponsored terrorism. "Instructions have been passed on to the forward formations to keep an eye on any flying object coming from across the border (LoC) and hit it hard to bring it down," he said. As small drones are tough to detect, an extra vigil using all high-tech gadgets along with human scrutiny is being maintained. A strict watch is also being maintained for movement of civilians along the Line of Control as terrorists may disguise themselves as nomads or shepherds to pick up an arms consignment. "We have discovered some dumps of arms and ammunition in recent past along the LoC. This is a clear indication that people across the border are making shallow infiltration, dumping the weapons and returning to their launch pads across the border. This may be because of robust anti-infiltration grid being in place." On whether Pakistan is gathering its troops along the LoC in the view of increased tension in Ladakh sector between India and China, Gen Raju said, "We have not noticed any such attempts so far but let me assure that we are prepared for any eventuality and ready to give a befitting reply".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/alert-along-loc-after-isi-uses-drones-to-drop-weapons-for-terrorists-885454.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||After facing ire, BJP removes alleged liquor smuggler as office bearer in Aligarh||The BJP's Aligarh district committee has drawn flak after it appointed a man, who was jailed last month for alleged smuggling of illicit liquor, as the vice-president of one of its mandal committees. After media reports about his alleged wrongdoing, senior party members here admitted that this was a "mistake". On September 6, the district BJP committee announced various office bearers with Jitender named as vice-president of Iglas mandal BJP committee. The saffron party's district president Choudary Rishipal Singh on Wednesday night said Jitender Singh was "removed from the post of vice-president." Jitender, a resident of Iglas town of the district, was arrested from neighbouring Mainpuri district on August 28 in a police raid. The police had been searching for him after eluding for several days in connection with a spurious liquor racket. After video clips of Jitender showing him brandishing a firearm went viral in the past few days and local media reported the matter, the district BJP officials admitted that the lapse was due to "communication gap".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-facing-ire-bjp-removes-alleged-liquor-smuggler-as-office-bearer-in-aligarh-885458.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||21-year-old youth lynched to death in Uttar Pradesh over love affair||A youth was allegedly lynched to death in Uttar Pradesh's Azamgarh district, about 300 kilometres from here, over a love affair. According to the police sources here, the youth, identified as Manish Kumar Ram, a resident of Chewta village in the district, was beaten to death allegedly by the family members of his lover on Wednesday night after they caught him with the woman in a room. Police said that 21-year-old Manish had been having an affair with a woman of the same village for the past few months. Though the lovers hailed from the same caste, the family of the woman did not approve of their relationship. Manish had sneaked into the house of his lover to meet her as her family had fixed her marriage somewhere else, sources said. He was, however, caught by the woman's family members and was thrashed mercilessly with sticks, rods and belts. He was later tied to a tree and the police was informed. Manish was rushed to the district hospital but was declared brought dead. Five persons were arrested in connection with the case, police said. This incident also became the fourth incident of lynching in the state in the past one week. A man was beaten to death by a group of youths in the state's Mainpuri district after he shifted her minor daughter to a relative's house to protect her from eve-teasers. In another incident, a murder accused was lynched to death in the presence of cops by a frenzied mob in UP's Kushinagar district a couple of days back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/21-year-old-youth-lynched-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh-over-love-affair-885470.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Unlock 4: J&K govt mulls to reopen schools for class 9-12 from Sept 21||The Jammu and Kashmir government is mulling to restart schools for classes 9th to 12th amid the new standard operating procedures (SOPs) and guidelines issued by the Government of India (GoI). The Union Ministry of Health has allowed schools, colleges, and higher education institutes to reopen from September 21. The ministry has issued a set of guidelines for holding these classes. These SOPs follow the Centre’s Unlock-4 guidelines to allow schools to reopen in areas outside containment zones. An official privy to the development told DH that the J&K School Education department is working out on the strategies to be followed on the reopening of the schools as per the SOPs and guidelines issued by the Center. “The department is frequently holding meetings in this regard to chart out as to how they will reopen the schools. With the announcement of resuming the academics, the students of 9th 10th, 11th and 12th classes will be allowed to visit their respective schools on a voluntary basis with the consent of their parents followed by the prescribed SOPs,” he said In this regard, the Department of Disaster Management, Relief Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (DMRRR) of Jammu and Kashmir in its guidelines has said that 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff shall be permitted to be called to schools for online teaching, telecounseling and related work, in areas outside containment zones from September-21. In an order, the DMRRR said, “Students of classes 9th to 12th are permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers September-21.” Schools in Kashmir had reopened on February 24 after remaining shut for nearly seven months following the abrogation of Article 370 last August. However, just two weeks later, on March 7, the schools were shut again following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unlock-4-jk-govt-mulls-to-reopen-schools-for-class-9-12-from-sept-21-885490.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court questions Arnab Goswami for running parallel investigation in Pushkar death case, asks to show restraint||The Delhi High Court Thursday questioned Arnab Goswami for running a parallel investigation and trial in the Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s wife Sunanda Pushkar’s death case and directed the journalist to be bound by his undertaking on showing restraint and bringing down the rhetoric while covering the matter. Justice Mukta Gupta said the court was not saying that anyone will gag the media but at the same time, sanctity of investigation must be maintained. “Please show restraint. Once the police investigation is going on in the criminal case, there cannot be a parallel investigation by the media,” the judge said and remarked that people must take a course in criminal trial and then get into journalism. The high court referred to December 1, 2017 order in which it was stated that “Press cannot ‘convict anyone’ or insinuate that he/she is guilty or make any other unsubstantiated claims. Press has to exercise care and caution while reporting about matters under investigation or pending trial.” It has been noted in the 2017 order that the counsel for the journalist and channel has assured the court that in future they would exercise restraint as well as bring down the ‘rhetoric’. On Thursday, the judge said, “Defendants (Goswami and his channel) are thus directed to be bound by the statement made on their behalf by their counsel till the next date of hearing.” On the channel’s claim that they have evidence with them, the judge questioned them saying “were you at the spot? Are you an eye witness? There is some sanctity attached to the investigation.” To this, advocate Malvika Trivedi, representing Goswami, said there was evidence from AIIMS, based on which certain broadcast was aired. The judge said it was for a court of law to decide what was evidence in a criminal trial and there are statements from here and there which are not evidence. “Can the media sit in appeal against the charge sheet filed by an investigating agency?,” the judge asked. “It is not a reflection on the Plaintiff (Tharoor) but the investigating agency. Can there be a parallel investigation or trial?.. Would you not like the courts to take their own course?,” the judge said.   The high court was hearing an application by Congress MP Tharoor seeking interim injunction against Goswami, Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, from making defamatory remarks against the leader. Tharoor’s grievance relates to broadcast of the programmes naming him on the TV channel in July and August and in the telecast, the journalist has claimed that they have investigated Sunanda Pushkar case better than the police and that he still has no doubt that Pushkar was murdered. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Vikas Pahwa, representing Tharoor, said charge sheet has been filed by the police in the case and he has been summoned for the alleged offence of abetment to suicide then how can the journalist abuse him and allege that there was a murder. The application, filed through advocates Gaurav Gupta and Muhammad A Khan, sought that the journalist should be directed to report only on matters which are factually correct or established. The high court noted that the Delhi Police has filed a charge sheet in the trial court which has taken cognisance of it and he has been summoned under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 498A (cruelty to married woman) IPC in the light of the investigation done by the agency. The high court sought response of the journalist on Tharoor’s application and listed the matter for further hearing on November 20. In the December 1, 2017 order, the high court had said Goswami and his channel have the right to air their stories and the same cannot be curbed, but it has to be tempered and balanced. The court’s 2017 order had come on three different applications filed by Tharoor in his Rs two crore defamation suit against Goswami and the channel for allegedly making defamatory remarks against him while airing news relating to the mysterious death of his wife. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a five-star hotel in south Delhi on the night of January 17, 2014 under mysterious circumstances. Tharoor has alleged that they continued to engage in “defaming and maligning” him despite an assurance given by their counsel in the court on May 29, 2017. The court had on May 29, 2017 said the journalist and his news channel could put out stories stating the facts related to the investigation of Pushkar’s death but could not call the Lok Sabha MP from Thiruvananthapuram “a criminal”. The Congress leader has sought a direction to them that they should not mention the expression “murder of Sunanda Pushkar” anywhere, since it is yet to established by a competent court whether her death was a “murder”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-questions-arnab-goswami-for-running-parallel-investigation-in-pushkar-death-case-asks-to-show-restraint-885515.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Man sentenced to 10 years for acid attack on Dalit boy in 1996||A special SC/ST court on Thursday sentenced a man to 10 years in jail for an acid attack on a teenage Dalit boy in Shamli district dating back to 1996. The court, set up to try Scheduled Tribe/Scheduled Caste cases, held the convict Rampal guilty in the case under Sections 326, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act. Judge Himanshu Bhatnagar also imposed a fine of Rs 57,000 on the convict. According to special counsel Yashpal Singh, police registered a case against two men - Rampal and Farukh - for throwing acid on the then 15-year-old Bittu, near Kandhla town in Shamli district on April 11, 1996. The co-accused Farukh has been absconding since the trial began.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-sentenced-to-10-years-for-acid-attack-on-dalit-boy-in-1996-885525.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Nurse, friend caught selling infant girl in Indore; held||A government hospital nurse and her friend were arrested on Thursday for allegedly trying to sell a newborn girl to a woman for Rs 1 lakh in Indore city of Madhya Pradesh, police said. Based on the woman's complaint, the police nabbed Shilpa Telang (29), a contractual nurse, and Tejkaran Thakkar alias Bablu (30) after laying a trap, deputy inspector general of police (Indore Range) H C Mishra said. A manhunt has been launched for others who may have been involved in the crime, he said. According to the police, the complainant had initiated the process of adopting a child through various social organisations in keeping with the law. When the accused found out about this, they contacted her and offered her a 10-day-old baby girl for Rs 1 lakh, the official said. "The child has been recovered from the accused and is currently place in a hospital," he said. The accused are being questioned about how and from where they had got the infant, the DIG said. While Telang works as contractual nurse with a private hospital, Thakkar is unemployed, sub-inspector Rupali Badhoriya said. The duo has been charged under relevant sections of the IPC and has been sent in police remand till September 14, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-nurse-friend-caught-selling-infant-girl-in-indore-held-885544.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||IMA writes to Amit Shah demanding strengthening of anti-violence act||In view of the increasing violence against healthcare workers, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking to strengthen the anti-violence act until the central law is enacted. Despite the selfless sacrifice of the doctor community amid the coronavirus outbreak, the continuing physical, verbal and social media violence still remains a complex issue, the IMA said in a statement. "Violence in our hospitals is a matter of great concern. Equating violence in common parlance with doctors and nurses getting beaten up in a gruesome manner is injustice," Dr Rajan Sharma, the national president of IMA, said. "The medical fraternity expects our national government to begin this process by enacting a central law against violence on doctors and hospitals. We kindly request you to initiate action in this regard," he said. The IMA, in the letter, said the rectification can only start with deterrence. A central guidance to states to incorporate the amendments to the Epidemic Diseases Act into their Hospital Protection/ anti-violence Acts will also strengthen these Acts, till the central law is enacted. Behavioural aberrations of a consumerist society, inappropriate expectations, ignorance of limitations, infrastructural and Human Resources constraints, inadequate support systems to defray the cost of treatment, absence of structured communication and counselling logistics, etc. contribute to the civilisational degeneration called violence on doctors and hospitals, the doctors' body said. "A comprehensive solution to the violence on doctors and hospitals needs to address the security level in our hospitals. These arrangements should be on par with our airports. It will not be out of place to point out that a central deterrent law is in place for prevention of violence against airline personnel," it said. "A much larger perspective will include sufficient investment in Public Health infrastructure and Human Resources. A state sponsored mechanism to purchase care from private hospitals for all citizens is also in order," Dr RV Asokan, secretary general, the IMA said. The doctors' body also expressed relief and happiness for Shah resuming his routine work and wished him good health. It also thanked him for the expeditious enactment of amendments to the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 to prevent violence against doctors, hospitals and healthcare workers, and also acknowledged his efforts to obtain parliamentary approval for the same in the monsoon session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ima-writes-to-amit-shah-demanding-strengthening-of-anti-violence-act-885557.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Will not allow any slum demolition in Delhi; if needed will move Supreme Court against it: AAP||The Centre is issuing notices across the national capital and threatening slum dwellers that their houses will be demolished within this month, the AAP alleged on Thursday and said it will move the Supreme Court against it. The Delhi BJP, however, rubbished the allegations, saying nothing can be more false and condemnable than Aam Aadmi Party's diatribe on demolition of jhuggi's around railway land as ordered by the Supreme Court. AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha, in a press briefing said "till Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is alive, no slum dweller in Delhi will be displaced" and asserted that he is making a full proof plan of action for them which will ensure that none of their houses are demolished. The Supreme Court in a recent order had directed the removal of about 48,000 'jhuggies' along railway tracks in Delhi within three months. Chadha said the AAP will not allow any slum demolition in Delhi and if needed it will move to the Supreme Court and fight the battle on the streets against such moves. "Arvind Kejriwal is making a full proof plan of action for the slum dwellers. This action plan and policy will ensure that no slum dwellers' houses is demolished and the BJP's plan to make people homeless will not become successful. "If there is a need then we will move the Supreme Court and also fight this battle on the streets. Without giving alternative house and rehabilitation, no slum dwellers' house will be demolished in Delhi," he said Chadha further claimed that the BJP is issuing notices which are threatening the slum dwellers that their houses will be demolished within this month. "These notices are against humanity and also illegal. These notices are against the basic principle of the Constitution which allows every citizen to have a life with dignity," he said. A statement later quoted him saying," till Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is alive, no slum dweller in Delhi will be displaced". Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor hit back at Chadha and said nothing can be more false and condemnable than Chadha's diatribe on demolition of 'jhuggis' around railway land as ordered by the Supreme Court of India. "Delhi government never fought for the 48,000 'jhuggi' dwellers in court and even now when they can help them by giving alternative accommodation in the form of over 50,000 Rajiv Ratan Housing Scheme lying vacant, we find AAP leaders like Raghav Chadha instead of getting accommodation allotted to them are trying to mislead them on legal procedure," he said. Kapoor further said the AAP leaders should stop playing dirty politics on this issue related to the Supreme Court's order. A couple of days back, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta wrote to Kejriwal, demanding allotment of flats lying vacant with it to 'jhuggi' dwellers and we reiterate the demand, he said. New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-not-allow-any-slum-demolition-in-delhi-if-needed-will-move-supreme-court-against-it-aap-885575.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Four killed, as many injured in lightning strike in Madhya Pradesh||Four persons, including a minor boy, were killed, and four others injured when lightning struck their makeshift house on a field in Madhya Pardesh's Barwani district on Thursday, an official said. The incident took place in the area under Varla police station limits, where the victims took shelter in the makeshift house during the rains, sub-divisional magistrate of Sendhwa Tapasya Parihar said. Four persons were killed and as many were injured when lightning struck the house, she said. The deceased have been identified as Shantabai (35), Leelabai (25) Neerabai (23) and Azad (5), all residents of Khapada village, the official said, adding that the injured were referred to a hospital in Sendhwa. The kin of the deceased will be given compensation as per the rules, the SDM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-killed-as-many-injured-in-lightning-strike-in-madhya-pradesh-885579.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Rs 6 lakh fraudulently transferred from Ram Temple Trust bank account||A youth from Maharashtra allegedly defrauded Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust by withdrawing Rs 6 lakh through cloned cheques from its bank account in Ayodhya. According to sources, police have rushed separate teams to Maharashtra and Lucknow to nab the alleged culprit. Ayodhya DIG Deepak Kumar said that a case has been registered in this regard. Sources said that two cloned cheques carrying forged signatures of Trust general secretary Champat Rai and another office-bearer were used to withdraw Rs 6 lakh from its accounts. The forgery came to light when the bank called the Trust office to verify another cloned cheque of Rs 9.86 lakh, presented for clearance, sources said. By the time the forgery came to light, the accused had already spent Rs 4 lakh, they added. Police said that they were trying to ascertain if any official of the bank was also involved in the forgery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-6-lakh-fraudulently-transferred-from-ram-temple-trust-bank-account-885585.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records highest single-day spike of 7,042 Covid cases; 94 more die||Uttar Pradesh on Thursday recorded the highest single-day spike of 7,042 coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 2,92,029, while 94 more Covid-19 fatalities pushed the state's death toll to 4,206, according to an official bulletin. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 66,317, it said. Earlier, the Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said till now 2,21,506 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. The recovery rate in the state was 75.85 per cent, Prasad said, adding that with a total of over 70.67 lakh Covid tests done so far, UP has become the first state to conduct over 70 lakh tests. On Wednesday, over 1.49 lakh tests were performed. Prasad said the state has revised the rates of Covid tests by private labs and now it will cost Rs 1,600 per test. Earlier the charge for a Covid test was Rs 2,500, he said. The new coronavirus cases include 917 infections reported in Lucknow, 496 in Prayagraj, 427 in Kanpur Nagar and 381 in Gorakhpur, according to the bulletin. Ninety-four more people died of the infection in UP, which is the second-highest single-day spike in Covid-19 deaths in the state. It said the latest fatalities reported in the state include 11 Covid-19 deaths in Lucknow, eight in Kanpur Nagar, six in Gorakhpur, five each in Meerut and Pilibhit, four each from Prayagraj, Varanasi, Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-7042-covid-cases-94-more-die-885628.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt discontinues system of re-employment of teachers, principals in its schools||The Delhi government on Thursday said the system of re-employment of principals, vice principal and teachers in its schools will be discontinued with immediate effect. Udit Prakash Raj, Director, Directorate of Education (DoE) said the system for re-employment of teachers was notified and later extended to vice principals and principals in view of the large number of vacancies which existed earlier. "However, the department has recently been able to fill a large number of vacant posts through direct recruitment, therefore the system of re-employment is no longer required," Prakash said. "All types of re-employment granted for the session 2020-21 in government and government-aided schools shall cease to be in force with immediate effect and no re-employment shall be granted to the teachers, vice principals and principals," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-discontinues-system-of-re-employment-of-teachers-principals-in-its-schools-885635.html
10-09-2020||North and Central||9-yr-old deaf girl sexually assaulted by 3 juveniles in Delhi||A nine-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by three juveniles who live near her house in Mangolpuri area here, police said on Thursday. All three have been apprehended but are yet to be questioned, they said. The incident took place last week. The victim is deaf and wasn't able to share the details of the incident with her parents earlier, a senior police officer said. A complaint was registered on Monday after the girl shared the details with her mother, who then informed the police, the officer said. The girl's statement has been recorded and a case under the POCSO Act registered against the accused, the police said. The MLC report did not show signs of rape, they said. The girl said in her statement that she was sexually assaulted on multiple occasions, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-yr-old-deaf-girl-sexually-assaulted-by-3-juveniles-in-delhi-885641.html
10-09-2020||Opinion||Does Donald Trump fear Black competence?||Of the many disturbing and scandalous stories about Donald Trump in Michael Cohen’s new book, “Disloyal: A Memoir,” one in particular sticks out to me. It is a continuation of centuries of white supremacist thought that has handicapped Black people and Black leadership. It is when Cohen, Trump’s former personal lawyer, writes: “As a rule, Trump expressed low opinions of all Black folks, from music to culture and politics. Africa was a hellhole, he believed, and Nelson Mandela, to use but one example, was an object of contempt for Trump. ‘Tell me one country run by a Black person that isn’t a shithole,’ he would challenge me as he cursed out the stupidity of Obama.” He continued: “When Mandela passed away, years later, Trump told me he didn’t think the South African founding father and national hero was a real leader — not the kind he respected. ‘South Africa was once a beautiful country twenty, thirty years ago,’ Trump said, endorsing Apartheid-era white rule.” This contempt for Black people and Black governance may be experiencing a fresh bloom with Trump, but it has ancient roots, deep and tangled. During the first of the seven famous debates between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas in 1858, Douglas accused Lincoln of wanting to turn Illinois into a colony for free Black people, arguing: “For one, I am opposed to Negro citizenship in any and every form. I believe this government was made on the white basis. I believe it was made by white men for the benefit of white men and their posterity forever, and I am in favour of confining citizenship to white men, men of European birth and descent, instead of conferring it upon Negroes, Indians, and other inferior races.” Lincoln, defensive, responded: “I have no purpose to introduce political and social equality between the white and the Black races. There is a physical difference between the two, which, in my judgment, will probably forever forbid their living together upon the footing of perfect equality, and inasmuch as it becomes a necessity that there must be a difference, I, as well as Judge Douglas, am in favour of the race to which I belong having the superior position.” Many leaders in the United States would come to use Black struggle — in Africa and America — as proof of Black incompetence. As Adam Serwer has written in The Atlantic, Robert E. Lee, commander of the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War, wrote in his private correspondence that “wherever you find the Negro, everything is going down around him, and wherever you find a white man, you see everything around him improving.” Lee, who fought against granting Black people the right to vote, wrote in 1868 that “the Negroes have neither the intelligence nor the other qualifications which are necessary to make them safe depositories of political power.” In 1890, the former Mississippi newspaper editor and Confederate soldier Solomon Calhoon wrote in a pamphlet titled “Negro Suffrage” that to understand Black people one need only look to Africa, where there was “no advancement, no invention, no progress, no civilisation, no education, no history, no literature, no governmental polity.” He continued, “We see only ignorance, slavery, cannibalism, no respect for women, no respect for anything save the strong hand.” Calhoon would become president of the state’s constitutional convention that year and write white supremacy into law. During the convention, one delegate said: “Let’s tell the truth if it bursts the bottom of the Universe. We came here to exclude the Negro. Nothing short of this will answer.” States across the South would quickly call constitutional conventions of their own to follow the Mississippi example. This view of Black people as irresponsible, erratic and dangerous was not confined to the political sphere, it bled over into the cultural sphere. In the 1915 silent film, “Birth of a Nation,” the country’s first true blockbuster, the film credited for helping revive the Ku Klux Klan, there is a ruckus scene depicting the South Carolina House of Representatives. The screen card says the white delegation is in the minority. In the scene, the Black politicians (white men in blackface) stand, shout and eat chicken, or sit, some with bare feet on desks and others ogling white women in the gallery. All the while, the white delegation sits properly and demur, a civilised contrast to the incivility. President Woodrow Wilson, a racist, would show the film at the White House. In the film, one of the screen cards would credit him with this quote: “The policy of the congressional leaders wrought… a veritable overthrow of civilisation in the South… in their determination to ‘put the white South under the heel of the Black South.’ ” All these views have tracked forward into the current era. They have fueled everything from white flight and gentrification to urban renewal and mass incarceration. Trump’s attacks on what he now calls poorly run, Democratic-controlled cities are often, in fact, an assailing of cities where Black people and other minorities are concentrated and in which they often have control. His relentless, yearslong attack on Chicago makes sense in this context: It has a large Black population and for the last year or so, a Black mayor. One thing that white supremacists have always twisted is this: They ravage lands and oppress people, then ascribe the inevitable disastrous result of the ravaging and oppression to the victim’s character and capacity, rather than to their own callousness and cruelty. They hurt people and then shame their expression of pain. They want to assert that Blackness is broken without acknowledging that they did the breaking. They want to look down on Africa without acknowledging that they drained that continent during the trans-Atlantic slave trade. They also don’t want to acknowledge that the European colonising, mining and plundering of that continent had disastrous and retarding effects on it. They don’t want to acknowledge the effects of redlining, unfair lending, employment discrimination and concentrated poverty on many of America’s cities, even before white flight and massive disinvestment. In a sense, the fact that Black people in this country must struggle to live and to lead is one of white supremacy’s crowning achievements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/does-donald-trump-fear-black-competence-885220.html
10-09-2020||Opinion||Of vultures, views-as-news & the vilification of Rhea Chakraborty||“Yes, I’m a vulture,” a top anchor and senior journalist said on an Indian primetime news show this week.  She prided herself on being compared to a ‘vulture’ (gid in Hindi) because according to her, “..In Hinduism, vultures are representative of the God Shani (Saturn) and also a symbol of getting justice (sic).”  And what was the ‘justice’ she was referring to here? The ‘arrest’ of Rhea Chakraborty – as vindication of the ongoing media-led investigation into the untimely death of Sushant Singh Rajput.  First, sincere apologies to vultures. These birds already face a threatened existence despite their crucial role in keeping our ecosystem safe. Truly, they do not deserve such comparisons.   Picking and pecking at what is left What the news anchor stated, however, is worth examining further. For, ever since Rajput’s death, the bare bones of the incident continue to be sifted through and picked clean. Every day, every hour, every minute, in fact, every second, we, as a society (willingly or not), continue to be consumed by the death of Rajput and the life of Chakraborty.  Her personal chats, messages and screenshots are sifted through, picked out and held up as ‘truths’. They are considered infallible proof of her involvement in Rajput’s death. Never mind there are only allegations and accusations. Everything she has ever done is being used in a systematic campaign against her. She was finally arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, allegedly for organising drugs for Rajput.  Other than the Central agencies that have been probing her without uncovering any clinching proof of her role in Rajput’s death so far, there has been a horde of those metaphorically digging into Chakraborty’s flesh and blood to build a larger narrative about her character. For example, Madhu Kishwar of Manushi magazine tweeted on August 24: "More than this fortune huntress, mafia moll, Rhea Chakraborty, I marvel at her father, an ex-army officer--using his own daughter as sex bait to trap rich men & eliminate them after gobbling up their money! Sadly, the glamour world is full of such sex baits."  The bare bones of our society What drives people like Kishwar to malign a young woman and her family in this manner? For that matter, what makes hundreds of thousands of faceless, nameless men and women, young and old, peck at Chakraborty relentlessly? What makes them send her rape threats and death threats, what leads them to dissect her character based on her clothes, her photos, her texts, her messages? All in the name of #JusticeforSSR? Why do we, as a society, feel so threatened that we circle around and condemn young women who prove themselves capable and successful? Rajput was lauded for rising from a small town in Bihar and making it big in Bollywood. His looks, his energy, his drive, his ambitions led him to move on from a TV soap (and a long-time girlfriend) to bigger screens and other relationships. But these were and are, seen as positives.   Chakraborty, however, gets only negatives. She and Rajput lived together as consenting adults. Yet, she is derogatorily called a ‘live-in’ (in Hindi, a ‘keep’), a gold digger and worst of all, someone who took Rajput away from his family. Rajput is always the hero, pure and blemishless; while Chakraborty is spat at metaphorically, as the one who led him astray. Was Rajput not responsible for his own actions, his choices, as tragic as they may have been?  Today, as a society, we have already pronounced Chakraborty guilty. We continue to consume the never-ending cycle of news-as-views, based around his death and her life. In fact, a report on The News Minute observes that viewership has exponentially risen for those channels that are doing sustained and relentless ‘Sushant coverage’. Meaning, the pecking out and picking out will not stop any time soon. Circling in power play  That’s not all. More than viewership ratings, there is political play in motion. The case has become a battleground between the BJP and the Shiv Sena, erstwhile alliance partners and now political adversaries. The investigations into the case by Central agencies, including the probing of Chakraborty, are believed to be attempts to undermine the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra. Then in Bihar, where Assembly elections are due in October 2020, parties in the ruling National Democratic Alliance are pecking out every aspect that will be of use to them. Through campaigns and by releasing collections of Rajput’s popular songs. And interestingly, parties are also handing out masks and stickers plastered with Rajput’s face and that incorrigible and endearing smile of his. Lest we forget, this is a pandemic after all. Rajput’s undoubtedly tragic passing should have led us to re-examine ourselves and what we view as ‘success’. And perhaps change our thinking around mental health. Unfortunately, it has merely brought out the worst in us, as a society.  And as for the actual vultures going about their business, haven’t those birds been maligned enough, already?  (Divya Sreedharan has over 20 years' experience working across newspapers, magazines and digital media. She writes/blogs on gender, ageing and urban lifestyles and also teaches journalism) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/of-vultures-views-as-news-the-vilification-of-rhea-chakraborty-885499.html
10-09-2020||South||Covid-19 cases in Telangana breach 1.5-lakh mark with 2,534 new infections||Covid-19 cases in Telangana surged past the 1.5 lakh mark with the addition of 2,534 new infections while 11 more deaths pushed the toll to 927, the state government said. The total number of infections in the state now stands at 1, 50,176 with 32,106 active cases, a government bulletin said on Thursday, providing data as of 8 pm on September 9. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 327, followed by Rangareddy (195), Nalgonda (149) and Medchal Malkajgiri (132) districts, the bulletin said. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1, 17,143. As many as 63,107 samples were tested on September 9. Cumulatively, 19,53,571 samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 52,619, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.61 per cent, while it was 1.68 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 78 per cent, while it was 77.83 per cent in the country. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation stood at 25,066.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cases-in-telangana-breach-15-lakh-mark-with-2534-new-infections-885291.html
10-09-2020||South||Puducherry adds 452 new Covid-19 cases, six deaths push toll past 350 ||Puducherry on Thursday logged 452 new coronavirus cases taking the overall tally to 18,536 while six more people including a 68-year old woman succumbed to the infection. The 452 new cases were identified after examination of 2,264 samples while 422 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release. The six fatalities pushed the toll in the union territory to 353. Mohan Kumar said that the fatality and recovery rates were 1.90 per cent and 72.23 per cent respectively. He said that so far 90,643 samples were tested and it was found that 69,541 of these samples were negative. The Health department Director said that of the total 18,536 Covid-19 cases in the union territory, 4,794 were active, 13,389 patients had recovered and were discharged. The Puducherry region accounted for 288 of the 452 fresh infections registered on Thursday while Karaikal had 123 new cases, followed by Yanam (38) and Mahe (three). Of the total 4,794 active cases, 1,689 patients were in hospitals while the number of patients in home isolation was 3,105, he said. All the six patients who died in the last 24 hours had comorbidities and were in the age group ranging between 50 and 86 years, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-adds-452-new-covid-19-cases-six-deaths-push-toll-past-350-885337.html
10-09-2020||South||Kerala village sets up community barbershop to end caste discrimination||In a bid to end caste discrimination prevailing for ages, a village in Idukki district in Kerala is shutting down barbershops that were denying haircut to people from Chakliya community. The local panchayat will instead open a community barbershop. The 700-odd members of the Chakliya Scheduled Caste community at Vattavada, about 40 kilometres from Munnar town in the hilly district, have been facing discrimination at the barbershops for decades. Though the community members earlier faced discrimination at hotels in the locality as they were served tea in coconut shells, it was eliminated by early 2000s. Still there were allegations that some hotels used to serve tea to the community members in separate glasses. Interestingly, the Chakliya community members have been facing discrimination mostly from members of other Scheduled Caste communities only. A section of youths from the community has now raised voice against the discrimination and submitted a petition to the Vattavada gram panchayat. As it gained support from various quarters, the Vattavada gram panchayat authorities issued closure notice to the two barbershops in the locality that were denying haircut to Chakliya community members. Rajya Sabha MP and a member of Parliamentary Standing Committee for welfare of SC/ST, K Somaprasad, who intervened in the issue, told DH that if the barbershops allowed people from the Chakliya community, members of the other communities in the region would not use those barbershops and hence the barbers were denying entry to them. The Chakliya community members used to either cut each other's hair or they would travel for 40 kilometres to Munnar town for a haircut. School students even had to take a day's leave to get a haircut. The CPM-ruled panchayat has now decided to open a community barbershop for all community members. The other two barbershops would be allowed to function only if they are willing to entertain the Chakliya community members, said panchayat president Ramaraj. The new barbershop is being set up by the panchayat in a newly-renovated building with all facilities. Barbers have also come up to join the venture and it would start functioning in a few days time, said panchayat secretary Nandakumar. In the Vattavada district, along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, majority of the people are of Tamil origins. Though the Chakliya community is believed to have its roots in Andhra Pradesh, the Chakliya community members at Vattavada hails from Tamil Nadu. They are mainly involved in agriculture and other daily wage jobs, said Nandakumar. Meanwhile, Somaprasad said that certain allegations of similar discrimination at workplace have also come up now and it would be looked into.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-village-sets-up-community-barbershop-to-end-caste-discrimination-885372.html
10-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM announces solatium, govt job to kin of youth who died by suicide||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Thursday announced a solatium of Rs seven lakh to the family of a 19-year old teenager who killed himself due to stress, days before he was to sit for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test. Also, a government job or employment under state undertakings would be provided to a family member of the boy from Ariyalur district's Elanthankuzhi village, Palaniswami said. Vignesh, who could not join medical college despite having cleared NEET earlier and trying to improve his score this time around, allegedly killed himself on Wednesday. Expressing grief over the youth ending his life due to mental stress, the Chief Minister said such extreme steps by students anguished him a lot and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. Sustained efforts and a determination to face any issue would bring success and there are myriad ways to emerge victorious in life, he told the student community and assured them that the government is always committed to their welfare. Also, he appealed to parents to understand the aspirations of their children and render appropriate guidance so as to prevent suicidal tendencies. Pattali Makkal Katchi, meanwhile, announced financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh to the family of Vignesh and reiterated its demand to do away with the national test. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee President K S Alagiri flagged the stress confronted by students from rural background and those belonging to the backward classes, and scheduled castes in facing the national test. Condoling the boy's death, Alagiri accused the AIADMK government of not taking "intensive measures" to halt NEET in Tamil Nadu and the Congress leader held both the Central and State governments responsible for the suicide of the student and for similar incidents in the past over NEET. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam chief TTV Dhinakaran wanted the DMK which has "more MPs" and Chief Minister K Palaniswami who held the reins of power to make "true efforts" to exempt Tamil Nadu students from the test. He accused the DMK and Palaniswami of playing the blame game over NEET. Dravidar Kazhagam president K Veeramani, condoling the boy's death dubbed NEET as one that 'deprived' the students of their dream of medical education and demanded scrapping the test. PTI VGN ROH ROH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-announces-solatium-govt-job-to-kin-of-youth-who-died-by-suicide-885463.html
10-09-2020||South||IIT-M researchers make advances in developing alternatives to lithium-ion batteries||Researchers at the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) on Thursday claimed to have made significant advances in developing alternatives to the conventional lithium-ion and lead-acid batteries for industrial usage, as the country aims to achieve 40% of its total power generation from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030. Researchers said the study into vanadium redox flow battery stack development opens up possibilities for the indigenous fabrication of flow battery stacks by Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) units for domestic and grid-level energy storage applications. The project is supported by grants from the Ministry of Education and Department of Science and Technology (DST), and involved researchers from the Departments of Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Electrical Engineering, and the Central Electronics Centre of IIT-M. The IIT Madras Researchers have already filed two patents and presented this in numerous national and international conferences besides publishing research papers in reputed peer-reviewed journals, the institute said in a statement. Researchers said a redox flow battery is an electrochemical system like a normal lead-acid or lithium-ion battery and works based on redox electrochemical reactions occurring at the anode and the cathode. “As a secondary battery, it can reverse these reactions so that it is able to do both charge and discharge reactions, thus converting electrical energy into chemical energy and vice versa,” the institute said. Professor Sreenivas Jayanti, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT-M said they have developed operating protocols and design criteria for flow battery stack of power rating up to 10 kW using the prototype of a practical size that can be directly employed in industrial-scale stacks for grid-level storage. Elaborating on the technical aspects, Ravendra Gundlapalli, PhD Scholar, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT-M, said, “Typical life of a solid-state battery is three to five years; vanadium flow batteries are commercially available with a warranty of 15 to 20 years. From a fire safety point of view, vanadium flow batteries are extremely safe as the electrolytes are not combustible and thermal runaway possibilities are practically nil.” The researchers said there are important advantageous characteristics of flow batteries and that the number of times the electrolyte can be charged or discharged is also very high (>10000 cycles).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-researchers-make-advances-in-developing-alternatives-to-lithium-ion-batteries-885522.html
10-09-2020||South||Political interests behind moves to press for postponing polls in Kerala||The ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and principal opposition party Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala are exploring options of dropping the proposed by-polls to two Assembly seats and postponing the upcoming local body polls. While the short duration remaining for the present government and the Covid-19 scenario are being cited as reasons, it seems that the pressing reasons are other political interests. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself sought support of opposition parties to press the election commission to drop the by-polls to two Assembly seats citing that the newly elected members would only get only around five-month term as general election and due in next year. But the UDF made a counter demand to postpone the upcoming local body polls citing the Covid-19 scenario. BJP is favouring dropping the Assembly by-polls, but wants the local body polls. Chief Minister is holding an all-party meeting on Friday to explore a political consensus on the matter. A political reason prompting the left-front to drop the Assembly by-polls could be the current unfavourable political scenario. The government is now facing a series of serious allegations pertaining to gold smuggling, housing scheme with UAE agency's aid and CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son's links with drug-peddlers. Generally, ruling front used to get upper hand in Assembly by-polls and both the seats, Kuttanad in Alappuzha and Chavara in Kollam, to which by-polls are proposed owing to death of MLAs are sitting seats of left-front. Hence losing the polls to these seats would be major setback to left-front and that trend might impact the general polls to follow. The Congress is generally favouring the by-polls as they feel that the present political atmosphere is in their favour and a victory now could have its positive impact in the general elections to follow. When it comes to local-body polls, generally the left-front used to get an upper hand than the UDF. Hence the UDF is playing a bargaining strategy by insisting that the local body polls should be also postponed if they want to agree for dropping the assembly by-polls. The BJP is also of the view that Assembly by-poll was unnecessary as the newly elected member would get only around five months. However, the saffron party wants to hold the local body elections in time as it is in power in many local bodies and witnessed a surge in Thiruvananthapuram corporation as well as many local bodies during the last local body polls. BJP state president K Surendran alleged both LDF and UDF were fearing to face elections and hence attempts to put off Assembly by-polls and postpone local body polls were being made bodies. State Election Commission source said that the local body elections could be postponed only for a maximum of six months taking into account the pandemic. The term of the current local bodies are ending in November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-interests-behind-moves-to-press-for-postponing-polls-in-kerala-885530.html
10-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh: Jaganmohan's 3-capital plan receives Centre's nod||There is no statutory provision disallowing the state government from having more than one capital, the Ministry of Home Affairs has declared before the Andhra Pradesh High Court. The central government has also asserted that it has no role in deciding the location of the capital of a state.   “Under Article 3 of the Constitution of India, there is provision only for creation of new states and other related matters. No provision in respect of capital is laid down.” The submissions come as a shot in the arm for the Jaganmohan Reddy government faced with a legal hurdle in the form of a bunch of petitions challenging the move to have three capitals for Andhra Pradesh. One of the petitioners Done Sambasiva Rao had contended that the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act 2014 (APRA) had mandated a single capital city for the state. The union government was made a respondent in the matter. In an affidavit submitted before the Andhra Pradesh High Court, the MHA officials made it clear that “Section 13 of The General Clauses Act, 1897 states that in all central acts and regulations, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa” “Thus, it is made amply clear that the interpretation of the petitioner on the above issue is shallow.” The central ministry also detailed that the “Notification of President’s order regarding constitution of a separate High Court for AP with principal seat at Amaravati by the central government cannot be construed as the central government’s decision to declare Amaravati as capital of AP, as the principal seat of high court need not necessarily be in the capital city of the state.”    The MHA further said that the APRA provisions, “only talks about providing financial assistance by the central government for the new capital as chosen by the state of Andhra Pradesh and not for deciding a capital for the state by the central government.” While Hyderabad was allotted as the joint capital of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana till 2014, the previous TDP regime under Chandrababu Naidu had chosen Amaravati as the capital, notifying it in April 2015. Survey of India had also incorporated Amaravati, in Guntur district, as the Andhra’s capital in the political maps of India. Since 2017, the Andhra government has been functioning from an interim secretariat complex at Amaravati, where a legislative complex and a high court were also built. However, the YSRCP government had brought in legislations earlier this year stripping the Amaravati region of sole capital status and setting up three capitals– the executive at Visakhapatnam, legislative capital at Amaravati and judiciary at Kurnool. The AP high court hearing about 70 petitions from local farmers, NGOs, and public representatives challenging the implementation of the two legislations has issued status quo orders barring any move on the capital shift till 21 September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-jaganmohans-3-capital-plan-receives-centres-nod-885568.html
10-09-2020||South||Yet another medical aspirant in Tamil Nadu kills self over NEET||In the second such incident in a month, a 19-year-old student who was preparing to appear for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) to get into a medical college has killed himself due to fear of not clearing the exam this year. Vignesh, who was preparing to write the NEET for the second time this year after the marks he scored last year were not enough for him to pursue his dream, took his life by jumping into a well in his village in Ariyalur district on Wednesday. The NEET exam is scheduled to be held on September 13. The incident led to an uproar in Tamil Nadu with political parties demanding that NEET be dispensed with permanently as it was taking the lives of several medical aspirants, especially those from rural areas. People from various places joined the villagers on Thursday to protest against the NEET and raised slogans against the exam that has claimed the second life in just a month— a 19-year-old from Coimbatore had killed herself last month for the fearing of writing the exam. Police said that Vignesh had completed his plus-2 last year and appeared for the NEET but he was eligible only to get a seat in a private medical college. He decided to prepare for a year and appear for the NEET this year but took the extreme step due to fear of writing the exam. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 7 lakh to Vignesh’s family and declared that a family member will be awarded a government job in line with their educational qualification. The PMK, a party that wields much influence in northern Tamil Nadu, has announced Rs 10 lakh as relief to the student’s family. Prince Gajendra Babu, activist and general secretary of State Platform for Common School System (SPCSS –Tamil Nadu), questioned the state government’s silence on the issue. “The Tamil Nadu Assembly passed two Bills seeking exemption for NEET. The Centre rejected the bills but gave no reason. The state government should have moved the court seeking the reason which could have given more clarity. The Chief Minister still stays he is against the NEET, but the reality is the exam stays,” he told DH. The NEET is an emotive issue in Tamil Nadu and two young students— S Anitha and S Prathiba— ended their lives in 2017 and 2018 respectively after they failed to clear the NEET despite scoring distinction in their plus-two exams. Anitha also belonged to Ariyalur district. Vignesh’s suicide comes close on the heels of Tamil Nadu registering a 12.4% dip in the number of students applying for the entrance exam this year when compared to the last academic year. According to details released by the National Testing Agency (NTA), only 1,17,990 students from Tamil Nadu applied to appear for the exams, originally scheduled in May but will now be held on September 13 due to Covid-19 restrictions, as against last year’s number of 1,34,714.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/yet-another-medical-aspirant-in-tamil-nadu-kills-self-over-neet-885603.html
10-09-2020||South||IUML directs Manjeswar MLA to repay investors in six months||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in Kerala has directed Manjeshwar MLA M C Kamaruddin, who is accused of cheating several people who had invested in his jewellery business, to repay all the investors within six months. He has also been removed from United Democratic Front district convenor post. The IUML leadership was under pressure to act against the MLA as the majority of the investors were also party activists and supporters and many had invested their hard-earned money in the legislator's jewellery business. Around 30 cheating cases have been registered against Kamaruddin and the investigation has been handed over to the state crime branch. A search was conducted at the MLA's house. The cheating pertained to the Kasaragod based Fashion Gold Jewellery business. Kamaruddin is the chairman of the shop and IUML local leader T K Pookoya Thangal is the managing director. The firm shut shutters in January citing business loss. The MLA earlier maintained that he could return all the investments and the present case was politically motivated. Around 700 people were said to have invested in the firm. IUML state leadership, which met party chief Panakkad Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal on Thursday, enquired with the leaders from Kasaragod about the allegations. After the meeting, Kamaruddin was directed to return the funds in six months. The MLA was also directed to inform the party leadership of the details of the investors and liabilities in 15 days. The party district treasurer would be coordinating the repayment of the investments. The party need not take responsibility for the liabilities directly, the state leaders maintained. The IUML's intervention assumes political significance as the cheating case involving party leaders would affect the party's prospects in the upcoming local body and Assembly polls. Kamaruddin was elected to the Assembly in the last bypoll in October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iuml-directs-manjeswar-mla-to-repay-investors-in-six-months-885607.html
10-09-2020||South||AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy seeks CBI probe in the Antarvedi temple chariot incident||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has sought for a CBI probe into the Antarvedi temple chariot fire incident that has kept the town tense and the state simmering for the past few days.   The BJP, Jana Sena parties, and the VHP etc., Hindu organisations are agitated over the gutting of the famous Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple’s wooden chariot in East Godavari district. They blamed the YSRCP government’s disdain towards Hindu temples as causing such incidents. The ratham (chariot) parked in an unmanned hangar near the temple went up in flames under mysterious circumstances in the wee hours of Sunday. The 40 feet wooden chariot, made about six decades back, is the main attraction during the annual procession of the presiding deity Lord Lakshmi Narasimha, held in February. The initial blame was put on a mentally unsound person by the local police. However, following the growing protests and an ultimatum from the Hindu bodies, the government said that a thorough probe is on to reveal and punish the culprits. On Thursday evening, a tweet from the CMO stated that Reddy has decided to seek a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation in the incident. “The DGP office wrote to the Ministry of Home Affairs requesting a CBI inquiry,” it said. A government order handing over the case being dealt with by the AP police to the CBI would be issued on Friday. TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu had, on Wednesday, accused the Reddy government as displaying a disregard towards the Hindu temples. The former CM has demanded CBI enquiry into a pattern of incidents at temples in the state over the past few months.   In a similar incident, in February, the chariot of the Prasanna Venkateshwara Swamy temple was charred in Bitragunta in Nellore district. In January, several idols of Hindu gods and goddesses were damaged in Pithapuram town of East Godavari district where Antarvedi is located.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-seeks-cbi-probe-in-the-antarvedi-temple-chariot-incident-885615.html
10-09-2020||State||Changes to RTE rules: SC tells state, NGOs to submit queries||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Karnataka government and NGOs to frame questions for its consideration, arising out of the challenge to validity of the changes made in 2019 to the Karnataka rules under the Right to Education Act. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy gave two days' time to senior advocate Jayna Kothari for NGOs and Additional Advocate General of Karnataka Nikhil Goel to submit the questions which arise for consideration for adjudicating the case. With the changes, the state government exempted unaided and private schools from admitting 25% students from the poor and disadvantaged group to class I, if seats in government and aided schools were available in their neighbourhood. The Karnataka High Court had, on May 31, 2019, upheld the constitutional validity of the amendment to Rule 4 of the Karnataka Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2012. Earlier, the top court admitted two petitions filed by 'Education Rights Trust' and others and 'RTE Students and Parents Association' for consideration. It, however, had declined to stay the HC's judgement. The petitioners claimed the amended rules were detrimental and unfair to the Karnataka students who belonged to the weaker and disadvantaged groups. Their rights have been adversely impacted and has resulted in a 92% decline in RTE applications as per newspaper reports, they claimed. The amendment provided that “no unaided school falling under sub clause (iv) of clause (n) of Section 2 of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2019, shall be identified for the purpose of admission of disadvantaged group or weaker section, where government school and aided schools are available within the neighbourhood," the petitioners said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/changes-to-rte-rules-sc-tells-state-ngos-to-submit-queries-885518.html
10-09-2020||State||Karnataka declares 130 taluks in 23 districts as flood-hit||The Karnataka government on Thursday declared 130 taluks in 23 districts as flood affected in the state,and has ordered the local administrations to take up necessary relief measures there. The government has made a declaration to this effect following the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) report. In the backdrop of large-scale destruction caused to lives, houses, crops and basic infrastructure due to torrential rain and floods in this August monsoon season, 130 taluks in 23 districts of the state have been declared flood affected with immediate effect until further orders, the government order said. The government has ordered the district administration to take necessary relief measures in the taluks that have been declared flood affected in accordance with State disaster relief fund (SDRF)/NDRF norms and by strictly following the orders or circulars issued by the government from time to time, it added. The government noted that due to torrential rain in the state in August and heavy inflow from neighbouring Maharashtra into the Krishna basin there were floods in several parts of north Karnataka, and during the same time there were floods in coastal and Malnad region too causing large-scale destruction. Belagavi district has the highest number of 14 taluks that have been declared flood affected, while the least is in Chamarajanagara and Mandya with one taluk each. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had on Monday told a central team that visited the state to assess the damage that Karnataka has suffered a loss of Rs 8,071 crore due to the recent floods. Heavy rainfall since August 1 has killed at least 20 people, displaced thousands, damaged more than 10,000 homes and crops in about 4.03 lakh hectares, and wrecked 14,182 km of roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-declares-130-taluks-in-23-districts-as-flood-hit-885645.html
10-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to rope in data entry operators to contain Covid-19 in rural areas||Karnataka government has directed Primary Healthcare Centres and Community Healthcare Centres (PHCs and CHCs) to rope in data entry operators of gram panchayats to assist in containing the disease in rural areas. "Due to staff shortage at PHCs and CHCs at various taluks of the state, smooth functioning of these centres was very difficult," a circular by Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said. There isn't adequate staff to take up measures to contain the disease and to register patients under various programmes of the Health and Family Welfare Department. Till the Department made arrangements for the same, data entry operators at gram panchayats will have to work one hour per day at the nearest PHC and CHC. The circular also directed Chief Executive Officers of all Zilla Panchayats to depute data entry operators for such healthcare centres. They should be trained at the taluk level by taluk health officers for the purpose. The circular was following challenges faced by district administrations in documenting the cases, after Karnataka started recording more than 7,000 cases per day, of which around 65 per cent were outside Bengaluru Urban district. The spike in cases in rural areas has been a cause of concern for the government, as several symptomatic patients too avoided approaching healthcare centres, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-rope-in-data-entry-operators-to-contain-covid-19-in-rural-areas-885301.html
10-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 900 doctors to be deputed to districts soon, says Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||In order to address the shortage of doctors in district hospitals, as many as 900 doctors will be appointed to districts in a few days, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said Thursday. He also advised Deputy Commissioners of all districts to ramp up testing and ensure enough beds at hospitals due to the recent surge in cases. In a review meeting held with officials from all districts on Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation in Karnataka, he said doctors will be appointed for districts as required. "Counselling of post graduate medical students was completed recently. 900 expert doctors will be appointed to districts in a few days," he said. According to a statement released by the Chief Ministers Office, districts without enough labs to conduct tests were advised to use the facilities in neighbouring districts for the same. "Deputy Commissioners should take measures to increase testing in their respective districts. The government will take measures to provide enough kits for the purpose," Yediyurappa said.  "Due to some specific reasons, case numbers are increasing rapidly in Bengaluru and few other districts. Karnataka is recording highest number of cases and it should be taken seriously," he said, adding that the priority should be to decrease the mortality rate. Measures should be taken to ensure adequate beds and ventilators for patients. "Overseeing people under home quarantine should also be taken seriously," he said. With tourist numbers expected to surge during Dasara, precautionary measures should be initiated to prevent spread during the festival. Floods District administrations should prioritise rebuilding houses damaged during floods last year. Relief for victims affected by floods this year should be disbursed without any room for complaints, the Chief Minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-900-doctors-to-be-deputed-to-districts-soon-says-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-885373.html
10-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Seshadripuram police conducts raids in Bidar and Kalaburagi; 1,352 kg ganja seized||Taking the fight against drug abuse to a next level the city police have conducted raids in the city, Bidar and Kalaburagi districts, arrested four persons, and have seized around 1352 kg ganja stored in the underground of a sheep farmhouse.  The arrested have been identified as Jnanashekar, 37, a resident of Gayatrinagar, autorickshaw driver by profession, Siddunath Lavate, 22, of Sindagi taluk in Vijayapura district, Naganath, 39, of Aurad of Bidar district, and Chandrakanth, 34, of Kalagi in Kalaburagi.  How the racket was busted:  On August, 30, police inspector of Seshadripuram police station caught Jnanashekar when he was trying to sell the ganja in a ground near Om Shakthi temple in VV Giri colony. They had seized 2.1 kg ganja and autorickshaw bearing registration number KA-02-AC-3989 from him. During interrogation Jnanashekar confessed to police that he was purchasing ganja from a peddler identified as Siddunath Lavate. On September 6, based on credible information police zeroed down on Lavate near Madanayakanahalli in Bengaluru rural. They found 200 gram ganja with Lavate. When subjected to questions, Lavate for interrogation he confessed to purchasing ganja from peddlers Chandrakanth and his associate Naganath. He had stored around 150 kg of ganja in a place near Kamalapur on NH 50, police took him to the spot and seized the ganja. Special team formed to nab the main accused: A special team was formed to nab the main peddlers Naganath and Chandrakanth. After watching the movements of the duo the police zeroed down on them on the same day near toll plaza in Kalaburagi district. The duo confessed to having stored ganja in a sheep farm. The police took the duo to a sheep farm in Lacchu Nayak Tanda in Kalagi of Kalaburagi belonging to Chandrakanth. Police didn't find sheep in the farmhouse, they didn't find the ganja as well. The officials again grilled Chandrakanth, he showed them the spot. Police removed the mud on the floor to find a lid connecting to underground. The underground was around five feet deep and 10 feet wide. The police found ganja packets stored underground. They recovered around 1200 kg of ganja from there.  Source of ganja:  The police in total seized 1352 kg ganja from the four accused persons. When Chandrakanth and Naganath were subjected for more interrogation they confessed to have sourced it from Odisha. The peddlers used to transport the ganja to Telangana's vegetable market. In guise of transporting vegetables the accused persons brought the ganja to Kalaburagi and stored it in a sheep farm, from there they distributed it to the peddlers of Mumbai and various places of Karnataka.  Background of accused:  Jnanashekar, is an autorickshaw driver by profession. Siddunath Lavate, studied till 10th standard and owns around 30 acres of land in his native.  Naganath, studied till 10th standard and is into garments and finance business. Faced loss in the business after lockdown over covid and hence got into drug peddling. Chandrakanth studied till 7th standard and is a farmer in his native. He was also into sheep farming, he was into drug peddling for the last five years and sourced ganja from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/seshadripuram-police-conducts-raids-in-bidar-and-kalaburagi-1352-kg-ganja-seized-885375.html
10-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Drug case: Cops can question children of politicians, no question of sparing anyone, says Narayana Gowda||Minister of Municipal Administration and Horticulture, Sericulture Narayana Gowda on Thursday said that the Karnataka government had given complete liberty to the police to interrogate anyone, including children of politicians, in connection with the drug case. Speaking to the media here, Gowda said no other government has given such freedom to police to probe drugs-related cases. "So, there is no question of sparing anyone. including children of politicians, if they are guilty in the scam," he said. Denying any link between the BJP and actress Ragini Dwivedi who was arrested in the case, Gowda said she had campaigned for candidates of all political parties during the polls and not just the BJP. On rain damage in Bengaluru, he said that it was quite common when heavy rains lash the region. The encroachment of stormwater drains is the reason for rainwater flooding houses in Bengaluru, the minister said.  He also admitted that there were hurdles in clearing the encroachment and asked people to be ready for some sacrifice to clear the encroachment of the drains. Gowda said that the corporators and legislators had visited the residential layouts which were flooded recently and the concerned officials had been directed to take relief measures. However, he added that the loss following rains was less this year as compared to the previous year The minister said the government has prepared many projects for the development of Bengaluru and they would be implemented phase-wise. He also made it clear that the Mysore silk outlet in Davanagere city would not be closed down and such outlets would be opened in various parts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drug-case-cops-can-question-children-of-politicians-no-question-of-sparing-anyone-says-narayana-gowda-885467.html
10-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY cautions about spike in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, asks officials to bring down death rate||Cautioning about high number of Covid-19 cases being reported from the state, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday asked the district administrations to work towards bringing down the death rate. He said providing immediate treatment to those with Covid-19 symptoms and saving the lives of those infected is his government's priority. The Chief Minister also instructed officials to see to it that there are no issues or complaints regarding relief to those affected by the recent floods triggered by heavy rains in the state. "Covid infections in the state are increasing day by day...due to some reasons in Bengaluru and few districts the cases are increasing in a big way. With the state reporting a higher number of cases, it is something that we have to take seriously," Yediyurappa said. Speaking at the virtual meeting with Deputy Commissioners, Zilla Panchayat CEOs, SPs and Health Officers of the all districts, he said following the unlock phase, almost all economic activities have resumed, as it is inevitable for people to live with Covid. "Taking precaution for not getting infected and paying special attention to bring down the death rate is vital," he said, noting that the government was taking all measures to control Covid-19. Further asking officials to ensure that needy patients get treatment from trained doctors and thereby bring down the death rate, Yediyurappa said the government's priority is providing immediate treatment to those with symptoms and saving the lives of those infected. He also issued a series of instructions for increasing tests, making adequate number of testing kits available, appointment of doctors, strengthening booth level task force, ensuring availability of oxygen, beds and ventilators, also conducting door-door surveys, efficiently identifying contacts, among others. "Already counselling of PG medical students has been completed and over 900 doctors will be appointed to districts soon," he added. For some time now, Karnataka has been reporting over 100 deaths daily and among the districts Bengaluru Urban tops the tally. According to Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, the death rate in the state is at 1.62 per cent and the government intends to reduce it to below 1 per cent. As of September 9 evening, cumulatively 4,21,730 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 6,808 deaths and 3,15,433 discharges. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,57,044 infections. Out of 9,540 fresh cases reported in the state on Wednesday, 3,419 cases were from the city alone. Noting that loss to the state due to recent floods is to the tune of Rs 8,071 crore, the Chief Minister said information in this regard has been shared with the central team that visited the state to assess the damage. He hoped that the information shared with the team and the reports that it will submit to the central government will be helpful in getting more relief funds. Yediyurappa instructed officials to take forward the relief and rehabilitation work without giving room for any complaints, adding that to address the situation arising out of floods and Covid-19, Rs 460 crore has been released from State Disaster Relief Fund, and there is no dearth of funds. The Chief Minister has already indicated that he will also be going to New Delhi to seek more relief from the central government. Pointing out that funds have been released to accounts of Deputy Commissioners of districts, he asked them to work in coordination with district in-charge ministers and secretaries to bring the coronavirus and flood situation under control quickly. Asking officials to resolve issues if any, Yediyurappa during the meeting sought information, among others, on measures taken to control Covid-19 in their jurisdiction and about providing relief to those who have lost their houses due to floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-cautions-about-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-asks-officials-to-bring-down-death-rate-885473.html
10-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid drug probe, Karnataka to revisit NDPS Act||Karnataka has reached out to the National Law School of India University and legal experts to strengthen the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday. Not enough people were getting punished under the NDPS Act, Bommai conceded. “I've already talked with NLS heads. In a couple of days, I will meet a few professors who have expertise in NDPS and other laws,” Bommai said. “Experts have pointed out that the law needs to be strengthened,” he added. “I will also discuss with the law minister. I’ve already had one meeting with legal experts." ”The government’s plan to strengthen the law comes even as the police have launched a crackdown on drugs, with the Bengaluru police investigating a racket that allegedly involves several influential people, including celebrities. The NDPS is a central Act, but the state government can frame its own rules on the implementation of this law,” Bommai said. “Rules have been framed here, but they need to be strengthened.”Seeking to insulate the Bengaluru police, Bommai said the Central Crime Branch (CCB) was investigating the case “professionally” and “in an orderly fashion.” “Whatever investigation and operation we do will ultimately be subject to the scrutiny of the court. So, we have to go as per law. We can’t dictate terms or give direction to the investigation. It’s based on evidence that we get,” Bommai further mentioned. Won’t spare anyone: BSY Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa reiterated that no one will be spared in the ongoing police investigation into a drug racket allegedly involving influential people and celebrities. “Previous governments had their eyes shut to this for years together. This time, we’re getting this investigated thoroughly and the true colours of many people are getting revealed,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “There’s no question of sparing anybody. We will take strict action", the Karnataka CM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-drug-probe-karnataka-to-revisit-ndps-act-885510.html
10-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Madiga leaders to meet CM B S Yediyurappa to seek internal quota||Madiga community leaders, across the party lines, on Thursday decided to approach Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and urge him to table the Justice A J Sadashiva Commission report on internal reservation during the upcoming monsoon session of the legislature. A meeting of the community's leaders was organised by BJP's Chitradurga MP A Narayanaswamy and former Congress minister H Anjaneya. Madigas are a Scheduled Caste and belong to the Dalit Left, who identify with former deputy prime minister Jagjivan Ram. They claim that the Dalit Right, despite being small in number, bag most of the reservation benefits. "We will also reach out to Dalit Right leaders such as Mallikarjun Kharge, G Parameshwara, V Srinivasa Prasad and H C Mahadevappa seeking their support in mounting pressure on the government for implementation of the report," Anjaneya told reporters. The Supreme Court's recent stand that states can make sub-categories among Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and backward classes for the purpose of reservation has intensified the demand to implement the Sadashiva Commission report. In 2012, the commission recommended 15% SC quota be divided into 6% for SC (Left), 5% for SC (Right), 3% for 'touchables' and 1% for other SCs. "It was also decided in the meeting that the support of all Dalit leaders, who have fought for internal reservation, should be sought and the pontiffs of all mutts should come when we meet the chief minister," he said. Narayanaswamy said everyone must come together to "fight for our share." According to Anjaneya, the state government should mount pressure on the Centre to amend Schedule 341 of the Constitution. "The Supreme Court has said state governments have the power to provide internal reservation to oppressed castes," he pointed out. Legislators Duryodhan Aihole, Basavaraj Muttimada, Prof Linganna, Dharmasena, former minister M Shivanna, former legislator R Ramakrishna, Ganga Hanumaiah, Anasuyamma and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/madiga-leaders-to-meet-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-seek-internal-quota-885576.html
10-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka declares 130 taluks as flood-hit zones||Karnataka government on Thursday, declared 130 taluks in 23 districts as flood hit zones. An order, issued by Revenue Department (Disaster Management), said that due to very heavy rainfall and floods in the month of August, loss of life, crop loss in large tracts of land, damage to basic facilities and others were reported. All the taluks of Malnad and coastal districts, which recorded very heavy rainfall in August for the third year in a row, have been declared flood-hit. The torrential downpour had triggered flooding and landslides in parts of Western Ghats, resulting in widespread damages. The rainfall in Malnad and coastal districts, which are prime catchment areas for rivers originating in Karnataka, had triggered flooding in downstream districts such as Koppal, Ballari, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar, where several taluks were affected. Similarly, districts in which River Krishna passes through, had also faced severe floods, forcing authorities to shift residents from low-lying areas to relief centres. In North Karnataka region, 14 taluks of Belagavi district, nine taluks each in Kalaburgi and Bagalkot disrtricts, have been declared flood-hit, according to the government order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-declares-130-taluks-as-flood-hit-zones-885630.html
10-09-2020||West||Coronavirus: BMC exempts Kangana Ranaut from home quarantine||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has exemptedBollywood actor Kangana Ranaut from the 14-day home quarantine rule for those arriving from outside the state, an official said. Ranaut, who is currently in news because of the controversy over her remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir and the BMC's demolition of `illegal' structures at her bungalow, arrived here earlier in the day. A senior BMC official said she had made an online application for the exemption from home quarantine as she was on a short visit. "Since she is staying here for less than a week, she was exempted under the `short-term visitor category'," the officer told PTI. According to BMC officials, Ranaut is scheduled to leave Mumbai on September 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-bmc-exempts-kangana-ranaut-from-home-quarantine-885134.html
10-09-2020||West||Congress, NCP target Fadnavis over CAG report on Jalyukt Shivar||Latching onto the CAG's adverse remarks about `Jalyukt Shivar' scheme, the NCP and Congress on Wednesday targeted BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis. Fadnavis, when he was chief minister, had aggressively promoted the scheme which aimed at rain harvesting and water conservation at the village level. But the Comptroller and Auditor General's report, tabled in the state Assembly on Tuesday, said it had little impact on raising the groundwater level and was executed in a non-transparent way. A sum of Rs 9,633.75 crore was spent on the scheme, it said. State NCP chief and minister Jayant Patil said even the CAG report had said that like the BJP's other promises, the Jalyukt Shivar too was "Mungerilal ke haseen sapne" (a pipe dream). "When in opposition, we repeatedly said that the Jalyukt Shivar scheme will not be useful, that there is a big scam in it. A false campaign was on through advertisements about Jalyukt Shivar. Now, the CAG report has burst the bubble of fraud," he said. State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the CAG has endorsed his allegations. "I kept pointing out the massive scam in Jalyukt Shivar...The CAG report has affirmed my claim. Fadnavis must take responsibility and resign as Leader of Opposition," Sawant said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-ncp-target-fadnavis-over-cag-report-on-jalyukt-shivar-885163.html
10-09-2020||West||Sack Sanjay Raut as Rajya Sabha MP: Navneet Rana to Maha CM||Independent MP Navneet Rana on Wednesday demanded resignation of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut for "insulting" actress Kangana Ranaut with his remarks. She also posted a video of the Mumbai civic body demolishing part of Ranaut's bungalow, saying "there was no such emergency to take action amid the coronavirus situation. Rules were not followed over serving a notice to her". "I want to request Shiv Sena president and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to either support Sanjay Raut or if you oppose (what he had said) and have good feelings for women then support women, and take resignation of Raut as an MP," Rana said in a video message. Referring to partial demolition of Ranaut's bungalow, the Amravati MP said, "This is politics. Politics of Mumbai and Maharashtra politics is going on in a very different way". Attacking Raut, she said, "What kind of culture is this to come before the media and insult a woman (Ranaut) with suchwords".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sack-sanjay-raut-as-rajya-sabha-mp-navneet-rana-to-maha-cm-885164.html
10-09-2020||West||Aircraft carrier INS Viraat in the last leg of its journey||Decommissioned aircraft carrier INS Viraat will be towed from Mumbai to Alang in Gujarat by the end of this month where it will be scrapped in a ship-breaking yard.  The plan to convert the majestic ship into a museum failed after which she was auctioned by Metal Scrap Trading Corporation Ltd (MSTC). The Shree Ram Group of Gujarat has purchased it for around Rs 38 crore.  "The firm awarded the scrapping contract is likely to move it this month. They will confirm the exact dates soon," Indian Navy officials told DH on Thursday.  Once in Alang in the Bhavnagar district of Gujarat, it would be broken down in one of the biggest ship-breaking yards of the world. At least, three states - Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Goa - had initially evinced interest in the project. In November 2018, the Maharashtra government cleared an estimate of Rs 852 crore for the ambitious maritime museum project, which was to be located in Sindhudurg district along the coastal Konkan belt of the state. In May 2019, the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) floated Expressions of Interest (EOI) for converting the ship into an integrated tourism facility and for operating it on a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) basis. However, there were no takers for the project. One of the longest-serving warships of the world, INS Viraat had served for 30 years in the Indian Navy and 27 years in the Royal Navy. Under the Indian Flag, the ship was instrumental during Operation Parakram between India and Pakistan, apart from Sri Lankan Peace Keeping operation. Its last operational deployment was for participation in International Fleet Review in February 2016. Viraat is the second aircraft carrier after Vikrant to be sent to the scrapyard. As far as Vikrant was concerned, in 1957, she was sold to India by the United Kingdom and in 1961 she was commissioned as INS Vikrant on March 4, 1961. She was decommissioned on January 31, 1997.  Multiple efforts to convert her into a museum failed. However, in May 2014, Vikrant moved from Naval Dockyard to Darukhana, following the Supreme Court order. In November, 2014, Vikrant was scrapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aircraft-carrier-ins-viraat-in-the-last-leg-of-its-journey-885248.html
10-09-2020||West||Shiv Sena shamelessly made ‘milavat sarkar’, turned into Sonia Sena, says Kangana Ranaut||Continuing her offensive remarks against the Shiv Sena, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Thursday said that the party founded by Balasaheb Thackeray has now become “Sonia Sena”. The 33-year-old actor has been attacking Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress on the issues of mob lynching of two sadhus and their driver in Palghar district and the investigations into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “…one must never succumb to bullies, after losing elections, Shiv Sena shamelessly made ‘milavat sarkar’ and turned into Sonia Sena,” Kangana said tagging BJP stalwart and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Her statement comes a day after the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished illegal alterations in her office Manikarnika Films Pvt Ltd that is located in her private bungalow at Pali Hill in Mumbai. The Bombay High Court on Wednesday temporarily stayed the demolition for a day. It is scheduled to hear the case on Thursday noon. After the demolition, she had targeted the chief minister, saying: “Come Udhhav Thackeray and Karan Johar gang, you broke my workplace.. come now break my house then break my face and body, I want world to see clearly what you anyway do underhand, whether I live or die I will expose you regardless.” In her tweets in Hindi, she also referred to Thackeray as “tu”, “tujhe”. She further said: “Fancy feminists, Bullywood activists, candle march groups and award vapsi gang has no comments on what High Court said about open murder of law and order in Maharashtra. Well done, thank you for proving me right always, you all deserve the treatment you get from me.” Fancy feminists, Bullywood activists, candle march groups and award vapsi gang has no comments on what High Court said about open murder of law and order in Maharashtra. Well done, thank you for proving me right always , you all deserve the treatment you get from me 🙂👌||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-shamelessly-made-milavat-sarkar-turned-into-sonia-sena-says-kangana-ranaut-885261.html
10-09-2020||West||Mumbai cops provide security outside Kangana Ranaut's house||Mumbai police have made security arrangements outside Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's residence in suburban Khar and her bungalow-cum-office in Bandra, an official said on Thursday. The Queen actor has already been given Y-plus category security cover by the Centre in the wake of a row over her remarks in which she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (PoK) and criticised the city police. The Shiv Sena has slammed her for her statements. Ranaut returned to Mumbai from her home state Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, hours after the Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished "illegal alterations" at her Bandra bungalow. "A police van with officials has been deployed outside her residence in Khar to tackle with any untoward incident. Women constables are also a part of the team," the official said. "Besides, outside her Pali Hill bungalow, which was partially demolished by the civic body yesterday, similar security arrangements have been made," he said. According to sources, the actress likely to visit her Pali Hill property on Thursday. On her return to Mumbai, she had criticised Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray, saying his "ego will be destroyed" the way her Bandra home was demolished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-cops-provide-security-outside-kangana-ranauts-house-885325.html
10-09-2020||West||Sportsmen losing jobs, allow sports, says MLA Kshitij Thakur||Even as the Covid-19 cases continue to soar, employment and income generation continues to be in a serious jumble. Bahujan Vikas Aghadi MLA Kshitij Thakur, in a letter to the Youth Welfare and Sports Minister Sunil Kedar, urged the government to allow indoor sports and office cricket tournaments after taking necessary precautionary measures. Local cricketers and sportsmen are suffering job losses owing to the ongoing pandemic outbreak. "For over five months now, the players have been without any on-field action and practice. They are losing their physical and mental strength. Besides, many are left without any income whatsoever. It is important to pull them out of this situation,” said Kshitij in a letter to Kedar. Many local cricketers are living a hand-to-mouth existence due to the absence of sports taking place. Many have lost their jobs owing to the pandemic since there is no office cricket taking place. "I have requested the Mumbai Cricket Association to prioritise office cricket tournaments with all the necessary permissions from the state government and after ensuring all social distancing measures. This will help secure their jobs," said Ajinkya Naik, Apex Council Member, Mumbai Cricket Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sportsmen-losing-jobs-allow-sports-says-mla-kshitij-thakur-885358.html
10-09-2020||West||Mumbai police commissioner holds meeting with Sharad Pawar||Mumbai Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh met NCP chief Sharad Pawar here on Thursday. The meeting, which lasted for 20 minutes, took place at the Y B Chavan Centre here. The details about what transpired at the meeting are yet to be known. The meeting took place in the wake of the veteran leader receiving threat calls recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-commissioner-holds-meeting-with-sharad-pawar-885380.html
10-09-2020||West||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar tests Covid-19 positive||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday said she has tested Covid-19 positive. She shared the information on her Twitter handle. Pednekar said her rapid antigen test came positive, but she is asymptomatic. "As I don't have any symptoms I have home quarantined myself as per the doctors' advice," she said in a tweet. She has also appealed to the people, who had come in her contact, to take necessary precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar-tests-covid-19-positive-885384.html
10-09-2020||West||Complaint filed against Kangana Ranaut for 'foul language' against Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||A complaint has been filed against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for allegedly using foul language against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, an official said on Thursday. Based on the complaint filed by a city-based advocate, a non-cognisable offence has been registered against Ranaut at Vikhroli police station on Wednesday, the official said. "In his complaint to police, advocate Nitin Mane said that the actress used foul languages against the chief minister and uploaded that video on her Facebook account," he added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Zone VII, Prashant Kadam said, "After registering an NC, we asked the complainant to approach court. No FIR was registered." Talking to PTI, Mane said that since the police refused to file an FIR against the actress, he plans to move a court to lodge a defamation case against her for "insulting" the CM. Ranaut has crossed swords with the Shiv Sena, which rules in Maharashtra as well as controls the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), with her remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK). The 33-year-old actor, who returned to Mumbai on Wednesday from her home state Himachal Pradesh, alleged that the Maharashtra government was targeting her because of her clash with the Shiv Sena. The Shiv Sena-ruled BMC on Wednesday pulled down some illegal alterations at the Bandra bungalow of Ranaut. However, the Bombay High Court later ordered a stay on the process. Addressing Uddhav Thackeray, Ranaut later posted a video message saying his "ego will be destroyed" the way her Bandra home was demolished. "Uddhav Thackeray, 'tujhe kya lagta hai' (what do you think)?. You think you have taken a huge revenge by destroying my house in collusion with the movie mafia. Today my house is destroyed, tomorrow it will be your ego. The wheels of time keep changing," she said in a video message in Hindi. "Uddhav Thackeray, this cruelty and terrorism, it is good that it happened to me because there is some meaning to it," she said in the video.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/complaint-filed-against-kangana-ranaut-for-foul-language-against-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-885386.html
10-09-2020||West||Why should TV news not be regulated by govt, asks Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said it was surprised to know that the government had no control over the electronic media and asked why television news should not be regulated by the state. The observation was made by a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni while hearing a bunch of petitions that sought various reliefs related to the case of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, including a direction to restrain the press in its coverage of the case. The bench impleaded the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting as a party in the matters. It also directed the ministry to file a reply in court indicating the extent of state control that is exercised in respect of telecasting news, particularly such news that "may have serious ramifications". The bench also made the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the central agencies that are currently probing issues related to the case, as parties. This, after the one of the petitioners alleged that the agencies were "leaking" probe related information to the press and the public. The bench, however, refused to implead actor Rhea Chakraborty as a respondent in the case. "We do not see any reason to implead the proposed respondent number 12 (Chakroborty), an accused who is presently in judicial custody," it said. The petitions, filed by activists, and eight retired senior police officers, allege, among other things that several TV channels were running a parallel probe into the case,and that they were running a malicious campaign against the Mumbai police through their current reportage in the case. On September 3, another bench had heard the same pleas and had passed an order urging the press to show restraint while covering the developments of Sushant Singh Rajputs death case. On Thursday, senior advocate Milind Sathe, who appeared for the former police officials, told the bench that despite the order, TV channels were continuing with their slander against the Mumbai police. Sathe submitted transcripts from news broadcasts whereby, channels had insinuated that the Mumbai police had been assisting or shielding the accused, and the "drug mafia". CJ Datta told advocate Sathe that he shouldn't be bothered by what a news anchor was saying. He, however, added that the court hoped and trusted that "the spirit of the order dated September 3" would be kept in mind by TV news channels. The Union government, meanwhile, pointed out that the petitioners should have approached the Press Council of India, a statutory body which regulates the print media, and the News Broadcasting standards Authority (NBSA) with its grievances against the TV news channels. At this, the bench noted that the NBSA wasn't a statutory body. "We are surprised that the state has no control over the electronic media. Why should it (TV news) not be regulated in case they may have serious ramifications," the bench said. It directed all parties to file their replies, rejoinders etc within the next two weeks, adding that while the pleas remained pending, the NBSA was free to act upon any complaints received so far against such news.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-should-tv-news-not-be-regulated-by-govt-asks-bombay-high-court-885416.html
10-09-2020||West||Kangana Ranaut episode now over for Shiv Sena, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said that Kangana Ranaut "episode" is now over for his party. He made the remark after meeting Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray here. "The Kangana Ranaut episode is over. We have even forgotten it. We are busy with our daily, government and social work now," Raut told reporters. He said he met the Chief Minister to discuss some party-related programmes. Amid some media reports, which claimed that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar have expressed displeasure over the episode, the Sena MP said it was "wrong information". "Be it Pawar saheb or Sonia ji, nobody has made a statement expressing displeasure," Raut added. The Shiv Sena and the actress were engaged in a war of words after the latter recently likened Mumbai to Pakistan- occupied Kashmir (PoK) and also said she feared Mumbai Police more than "movie mafia". Raut had purportedly said, "We kindly request her not to come to Mumbai. This is nothing but an insult to Mumbai Police." The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is ruled by the Sena, on Wednesday pulled down some "illegal alterations" made at Ranaut's bungalow in Bandra. However, the Bombay High Court later ordered a stay on it. The 33-year-old actor, who returned to Mumbai on Wednesday from her home state Himachal Pradesh, alleged that the Maharashtra government was targeting her because of her clash with the Shiv Sena. Ranaut also posted a video message addressing Uddhav Thackeray, in which she said that his "ego will be destroyed" the way her Bandra home was demolished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-ranaut-episode-now-over-for-shiv-sena-says-sanjay-raut-885433.html
10-09-2020||West||How many mouths will you shut, my voice will echo far: Kangana Ranaut to Thackeray||A day after Mumbai’s civic authorities demolished portions of her office, actor Kangana Ranaut on Thursday again took on the Maharashtra government by castigating Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for “misusing power” and declaring that her voice won’t be suppressed. Ranaut, who found support from a section of the film fraternity and also some opprobrium, posted a series of tweets comparing the Shiv Sena-led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to goons, terming the state government a “milavat sarkar” and recalling Marathi culture and pride. On Wednesday, the day the actor returned to Mumbai from her home state Himachal Pradesh, the BMC demolished illegal alterations of her bungalow. The Bombay High Court stayed the demolition process and sought to know why the BMC entered the property when the owner was not present.   The "Queen" star, whose comment likening Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir triggered a spat with the Shiv Sena, took a jibe at the NCP-Shiv Sena-Congress state government and said the ideology of the Shiv Sena had been compromised. "The ideology on which Shri Bala Saheb Thackeray built Shiv Sena, today they have sold the ideology for power, becoming Sonia Sena from Shiv Sena. The goons who broke my house behind my back, do not call them a civic body. Don't insult the constitution."    Ranaut described Thackeray as a prime example of nepotism who is misusing power to suppress her voice.    "Your father's good deeds can give you wealth, but you have to earn respect, you will shut my mouth, but my voice will echo in a hundred millions after me, how many mouths will you shut?    "How many voices will you suppress? Till when you will run away from the truth, you are nothing but an example of dynasty," the 33-year-old actor wrote on Twitter.   The actor said the Shiv Sena made a “milavat sarkar” (mixed government) after the election and turned it into a “Sonia Sena”, alluding to the party’s alliance with the Congress.   Ranaut said she was touched to receive overwhelming support from her well-wishers from Maharashtra, who "condemned the hooliganism done by the government".   The actor said her fans across the world, including her home state Himachal Pradesh, were pained by the incident. She added that she also wants to assure them that she gets "love and respect" in the state.  "Many of my Marathi friends cried on the phone yesterday, some gave me many contacts for help, some were sending food to the house which I could not accept due to security protocols.    "Marathi culture and pride should not be hurt by Maharashtra government's shameful act," she added.  A complaint has been filed against the actor – who had also posted a video against Thackeray on Wednesday - for allegedly using foul language against the chief minister, an official said on Thursday. Based on the complaint filed by a city-based advocate, a non-cognisable offence was registered at the Vikhroli police station. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Zone VII, Prashant Kadam said, "After registering an NC, we asked the complainant to approach court. No FIR was registered." Many from the fraternity criticised the action of the BMC. Actor Dia Mirza said she condemns the demolition of Ranaut’s office as well as the "harassment and abuse" that actor Rhea Chakraborty has been subjected to over the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.    "This is not about taking sides. This is about calling out what is unjust. Remember this could happen to you," Mirza said.    Chakraborty, who has been accused of abetting Rajput's suicide by his family and subjected to intense media scrutiny, was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 8.   "I condemn the demolition of Kangana’s office and I condemn the hounding and harassment of Rhea. Yes I can be against both these things," filmmaker Reema Kagti tweeted.    Actor Renuka Shahane, too, came out in support of Ranaut. Though she didn't like the "Manikarnika" actor's comment comparing Mumbai to PoK, she was "appalled" by the "revenge demolition" by BMC, she said.    "You do not have to stoop so low. @CMOMaharashtra please intervene. There is a pandemic we are dealing with. Do we need this unnecessary drama?" Shahane wrote.  Filmmaker Ashoke Pandit backed Ranaut for her decision to make a film on Kashmiri Pandits. "She has expressed a desire to make a film on this huge tragedy and we are with her in this. I am sure this film will show the correct picture of our tragedy when it releases. This will be a slap on filmmakers who have mocked our tragedy. Thank you Kangana ji,” he said. The Indian Motion Pictures Producers' Association (IMPPA) condemned the demolition but also reprimanded the actor. IMPPA president T P Aggarwal said the action was neither "good for the government" nor for the "Queen" star.  "The action taken by the Maharashtra government or BMC is absolutely wrong and should be condemned," Aggarwal said in a statement.  He criticised the actor for calling the film industry a place for drug addicts, saying this will stop funds from coming to the industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/how-many-mouths-will-you-shut-my-voice-will-echo-far-kangana-ranaut-to-thackeray-885462.html
10-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man tries to kill self after SC stays Maratha quota law||A day after the Supreme Court stayed implementation of the 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas, a man tried to end his life in Latur district of the state on Thursday, police officials said. The incident took place at the tehsil office in Chakur around 11.15 am, they said. The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the implementation of the law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. A three-judge SC bench referred to a larger constitution bench, to be set up by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, the batch of pleas questioning the validity of the law. "The man, who is around 28 years of age, tried to commit suicide at Chakur tehsil office by consuming poison. He was immediately shifted to a hospital in Latur," a police official said. Talking to PTI, inspector J R Chavan said, "As per our preliminary investigation, the man is preparing for competitive exams and tried to commit suicide after the Supreme Court's stay on the law granting reservation to the Maratha community." The man, a resident of Borgao in Latur, was taken to hospital by government officials, where he is being treated, he said. Before taking the step, the man shot a selfie video in which he said that he will end his life at the tehsil office due to the stay on the Maratha quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-tries-to-kill-self-after-sc-stays-maratha-quota-law-885464.html
10-09-2020||West||Maharashtra Governor expresses displeasure on handling of Kangana Ranaut episode||Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari has expressed displeasure over the handling of the Kangana Ranaut episode and the manner in which the Mumbai civic body razed "illegal alterations" at her bungalow, sources close to him said on Thursday. The governor summoned Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's principal advisor Ajoy Mehta on Wednesday, when the demolition was carried out, and conveyed his displeasure over the entire matter, the sources said. "He (Mehta) was summoned by the governor and the displeasure was conveyed to him," they added. The Thackeray-led Shiv Sena controls the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Using a bulldozer and excavators, a BMC team had demolished the alterations allegedly made without the civic body's approval at Ranaut's bungalow at Pali Hill in suburban Bandra on Wednesday morning. The action came in the wake of a war of words between the Shiv Sena and the actress after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). The "Queen" star had also said that she feared the Mumbai police more than an alleged "movie mafia".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-expresses-displeasure-on-handling-of-kangana-ranaut-episode-885494.html
10-09-2020||West||How many mouths will you shut, my voice will echo far: Kangana Ranaut to Uddhav Thackeray||A day after Mumbai’s civic authorities demolished portions of her office, actor Kangana Ranaut on Thursday again took on the Maharashtra government by castigating Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for “misusing power” and declaring that her voice won’t be suppressed. Ranaut, who found support from a section of the film fraternity and also some opprobrium, posted a series of tweets comparing the Shiv Sena-led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to goons, terming the state government a “milavat sarkar” and recalling Marathi culture and pride. On Wednesday, the day the actor returned to Mumbai from her home state Himachal Pradesh, the BMC demolished illegal alterations of her bungalow. The Bombay High Court stayed the demolition process and sought to know why the BMC entered the property when the owner was not present.   The "Queen" star, whose comment likening Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir triggered a spat with the Shiv Sena, took a jibe at the NCP-Shiv Sena-Congress state government and said the ideology of the Shiv Sena had been compromised. "The ideology on which Shri Bala Saheb Thackeray built Shiv Sena, today they have sold the ideology for power, becoming Sonia Sena from Shiv Sena. The goons who broke my house behind my back, do not call them a civic body. Don't insult the constitution."    Ranaut described Thackeray as a prime example of nepotism who is misusing power to suppress her voice.    "Your father's good deeds can give you wealth, but you have to earn respect, you will shut my mouth, but my voice will echo in a hundred millions after me, how many mouths will you shut?    "How many voices will you suppress? Till when you will run away from the truth, you are nothing but an example of dynasty," the 33-year-old actor wrote on Twitter.   The actor said the Shiv Sena made a “milavat sarkar” (mixed government) after the election and turned it into a “Sonia Sena”, alluding to the party’s alliance with the Congress.   Ranaut said she was touched to receive overwhelming support from her well-wishers from Maharashtra, who "condemned the hooliganism done by the government".   The actor said her fans across the world, including her home state Himachal Pradesh, were pained by the incident. She added that she also wants to assure them that she gets "love and respect" in the state.  "Many of my Marathi friends cried on the phone yesterday, some gave me many contacts for help, some were sending food to the house which I could not accept due to security protocols.    "Marathi culture and pride should not be hurt by Maharashtra government's shameful act," she added.  A complaint has been filed against the actor – who had also posted a video against Thackeray on Wednesday - for allegedly using foul language against the chief minister, an official said on Thursday. Based on the complaint filed by a city-based advocate, a non-cognisable offence was registered at the Vikhroli police station. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Zone VII, Prashant Kadam said, "After registering an NC, we asked the complainant to approach court. No FIR was registered." Many from the fraternity criticised the action of the BMC. Actor Dia Mirza said she condemns the demolition of Ranaut’s office as well as the "harassment and abuse" that actor Rhea Chakraborty has been subjected to over the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.    "This is not about taking sides. This is about calling out what is unjust. Remember this could happen to you," Mirza said.    Chakraborty, who has been accused of abetting Rajput's suicide by his family and subjected to intense media scrutiny, was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 8.   "I condemn the demolition of Kangana’s office and I condemn the hounding and harassment of Rhea. Yes I can be against both these things," filmmaker Reema Kagti tweeted.    Actor Renuka Shahane, too, came out in support of Ranaut. Though she didn't like the "Manikarnika" actor's comment comparing Mumbai to PoK, she was "appalled" by the "revenge demolition" by BMC, she said.    "You do not have to stoop so low. @CMOMaharashtra please intervene. There is a pandemic we are dealing with. Do we need this unnecessary drama?" Shahane wrote.  Filmmaker Ashoke Pandit backed Ranaut for her decision to make a film on Kashmiri Pandits. "She has expressed a desire to make a film on this huge tragedy and we are with her in this. I am sure this film will show the correct picture of our tragedy when it releases. This will be a slap on filmmakers who have mocked our tragedy. Thank you Kangana ji,” he said. The Indian Motion Pictures Producers' Association (IMPPA) condemned the demolition but also reprimanded the actor. IMPPA president T P Aggarwal said the action was neither "good for the government" nor for the "Queen" star.  "The action taken by the Maharashtra government or BMC is absolutely wrong and should be condemned," Aggarwal said in a statement.  He criticised the actor for calling the film industry a place for drug addicts, saying this will stop funds from coming to the industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/how-many-mouths-will-you-shut-my-voice-will-echo-far-kangana-ranaut-to-uddhav-thackeray-885513.html
10-09-2020||West||Marathas must get concessions till quota is restored: BJP||The BJP on Thursday demanded that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra offer other concessions to the Marathas until the reservation for the community in education and jobs is restored. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil also alleged that the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the 2018 law granting quota to the community because of lack of seriousness shown by the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in pursuing the case. "Like the (previous) BJP government, the MVA government should give relief through concessions to the Maratha community until it gets back reservation," he said in a statement. As the completion of the constitutional process of giving the reservation to the Marathas took some time, the BJP government in the state had offered several concessions to the community in education and employment, Patil said. The MVA government has created hurdles in the working of the SARTHI institute, set up by the BJP government, by starving it of funds, he alleged. The Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute (SARTHI) is a non-profit government body for research, policy advocacy and training for socio-economic and educational development of Maratha and Kunbi-Maratha communities. BJP MLA Nitesh Rane accused the state government of betraying the community. "Today, the future of the community is in the dark," he tweeted. The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the implementation of the Maratha quota law and referred the petitions challenging the law to a larger constitution bench.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/marathas-must-get-concessions-till-quota-is-restored-bjp-885519.html
10-09-2020||West||Union minister Ramdas Athawale meets Kangana in Mumbai||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Thursday met Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, who has been at the centre of a controversy over her remarks on Mumbai and its police, and whose bungalow here faced BMC action for "illegal" alterations. Athawale, a BJP ally, met Ranaut at her residence in suburban Khar. Athawale's party RPI (A) had come out in support of the actress and offered her security at the Mumbai airport when she returned to the city on Wednesday amid sloganeering against her by Shiv Sena workers. The Union minister though earlier said his party did not agree with the remarks made by Ranaut, who had engaged in a war of words with the Shiv Sena over the issue. The "Queen" star had likened Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir (POK). The award winning actress had also said she feared the Mumbai police more than an alleged "movie mafia", evoking strong criticism from the Shiv Sena. On Wednesday morning, the Shiv Sena-controlled BMC had razed "illegal" changes made in her bungalow in suburban Bandra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/union-minister-ramdas-athawale-meets-kangana-in-mumbai-885543.html
10-09-2020||West||BMC row: Kangana Ranaut attacks Maharashtra govt, dubs Shiv Sena as 'Sonia Sena'||Echoing the sentiments of the BJP, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut continued her offensive against Shiv Sena saying that the party founded by Balasaheb Thackeray has now become “Sonia Sena”. Towing the BJP line, the 33-year-old actor has launched a diatribe against Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, his son and minister Aaditya Thackeray and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress on the issue of mob lynching of two sadhus and their driver in Palghar district and the investigations into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “….one must never succumb to bullies, after losing elections Shiv Sena shamelessly made ‘milavat sarkar’ and turned into Sonia Sena,” Kangana said tagging BJP stalwart and Maharashtra’s leader of opposition and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. “When injustice becomes law, rebellion becomes duty,” said Amruta, the banker-activist wife of Fadnavis, coming out in support of Kangana. Her statement comes a day after the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished illegal alterations in her office Manikarnika Films Pvt Ltd that is located in her private bungalow at Pali Hill in Mumbai. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut refused to comment. “The BMC is in a better position to comment. There is a legal department there, you can contact them…you can speak to the mayor and municipal commissioner,” he said. Asked about Kangana referred to Thackeray as “tu” and “tujhe”, he said: “The 11 crore people of Maharashtra have heard that.” Kangana garnered support from BJP-ruled states including the hill state of Himachal Pradesh, her home. “The Shiv Sena has shunned the principles for which it was formed. Its existence is over ever since it tied up with the Congress to form the government in Maharashtra,”  Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai RamThakur said. Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment and RPI president Ramdas Athawale, a crucial ally of the BJP in Maharashtra, visited the Pali Hill bungalow and sympathised with the actor. The apex body of monastic orders, Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) too have supported Kangana. “The fearless voice of the actor against nepotism and domination of a particular community in Bollywood besides the nexus existing between the film industry and the drug Mafia has caused ripples. The mafia and state government are both in fear and simply hitting out at her,” said ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri. The Shiv Sena-controlled BMC’s act of undertaking a demolition has put the Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress, who are Sena’s partners in Maha Vikas Aghadi government, in an embarrassing situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-row-kangana-ranaut-attacks-maharashtra-govt-dubs-shiv-sena-as-sonia-sena-885546.html
10-09-2020||West||Marathas can't be compared to marginalised section: SC||The Supreme Court has said the Maratha community which comprises 30% of the population in Maharashtra cannot be compared to marginalised sections of the society living in far-flung and remote areas, requiring reservation in jobs and education beyond the ceiling of 50% as mandated in the Indra Sawhney (Mandal Commission) (1992) case. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat said that the Maharashtra government has failed to show any extraordinary situation for providing reservations to Marathas. "The state has failed to make out a special case for providing reservation in excess of 50%. Neither has any caution been exercised by the state in doing so," the court said. The court further pointed out that the social, educational and economic backwardness of a community, the existence of quantifiable data relating to the inadequacy of representation of the community in public services and deprivation of the benefits flowing from reservations to the community are not exceptional circumstances for providing reservations in excess of 50% as fixed by the nine-judge bench. The court's judgement released on Thursday referred the matter to a larger bench as it involved the validity of the Constitution (102 nd Amendment) Act, 2018 related to granting constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes. The Maharashtra government had in 2018 implemented its law, declaring Marathas as socially and educationally backward class to grant them 16% reservations in job and education. The Bombay HC upheld the constitutionality of the law. However, it reduced the quantum of reservations provided therein from 16% to 12% in respect of the educational institutions and from 16% to 13 % in respect of public employment. The top court said the HC committed an error in granting relaxation of the strict rule of 50%. The court stayed the implementation of the law in employment and admission to educational institutions in 2020-21, as it would cause irreparable loss to open category candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/marathas-cant-be-compared-to-marginalised-section-sc-885552.html
10-09-2020||West||Cop dies of Covid-19 in Kolkata||An assistant sub-inspector of the Kolkata Police succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday after a week-long fight against the disease. ASI Goutam Mahato, who was in his late 40s, died at a city hospital on Thursday morning, a senior officer of the Kolkata Police said. "He had been on the frontline, fighting the pandemic from the very beginning. Mahato complained of uneasiness a week ago and was taken to the hospital, where he tested positive for the infection," the officer added. Over 20 Kolkata Police personnel have succumbed to the viral disease so far, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cop-dies-of-covid-19-in-kolkata-885556.html
10-09-2020||West||BMC row: Kangana Ranaut to claim damages, fight tooth and nail||A day after Mumbai’s civic body hammered the alleged illegal constructions and alterations, Kangana Ranaut on Thursday visited her Pali Hill office to take stock of the damages done. The 33-year-old actor has decided to claim the damages from the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and is ready to fight tooth and nail. Kangana drove from her home in Khar and visited the Pali Hill bungalow amid tight security arrangements amid cheers from her supporters. In a related development, two complaints were filed against her for using the insulting language for Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. RPI president and Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale, who met Kangana, said she is going to fight it out. “She told me ‘I am a Mumbaikar’ and she will fight it out. She will claim damages from the BMC,” Athawale said. The Bombay High Court has ordered a ‘status quo’ and posted the matter for hearing on September 22. Appearing before a division bench comprising Justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla, the BMC team which included two senior counsels pointed out that she had no basis to dispute the illegal works carried out. The BMC affidavit also rejected Kangana's charges saying she is “trying to obfuscate and cover-up” her illegal construction works “by making baseless and wild allegations of malafide, etc”. The civic body outright denied her charges that principles of natural justice have been violated. “She has made false and incorrect statements and has not approached the court with clean hands. The present petition is misconceived and devoid of any merits and liable to be dismissed with costs,” said the BMC. Denying the BMC’s contention, Kangana’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui sought more time from the court to amend the petition to incorporate some additional information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-row-kangana-ranaut-to-claim-damages-fight-tooth-and-nail-885559.html
10-09-2020||West||Overall jobs growth rate slips to 3.5% in FY20: Report||Reflecting the overall stress in the economy, the employment growth rate declined to 3.5 per cent in FY20 from 3.8 per cent in the previous fiscal year, but the total number of jobs increased to 50.02 lakh from 48.32 lakh, says a report. In FY20, 1.70 lakh new jobs were added, while the net addition was 1.76 lakh in FY19, shows a CARE Ratings report. But in FY20, as many as 321 companies reduced their headcounts by 1.13 lakh compared to 272 companies doing so by 1.18 lakh in the previous year. In FY20, top 10 companies added 1.41 lakh to their headcounts of which four each were in IT and banks and two in the NBFC space. Nine companies had headcounts of above 1 lakh each, of which four were in the IT sector, two in banking, and one each in auto, NBFC and miscellaneous sectors, says the report. Seven companies had headcount of each between 50,000 and 1 lakh and 17 had between 25,000 and 50,000, while 33 companies with headcount of each above 25,000 accounted for 57 per cent of total employment. In terms of sectors, four industries accounted for around 61 per cent of jobs, led by IT (23 per cent), banking (22 per cent), auto (9 per cent) and finance (7 per cent). Textiles, which at one time was a leading employer, was fifth in the hierarchy with share of 2.4 per cent. Ten industries saw a decline in headcounts. In terms of growth in employment or headcount, 11 of the 33 industries witnessed growth of above the sample average of 3.5 per cent. This included electricals, finance, banking, IT, FMCG, consumer durables, trading, chemicals, iron & steel, retail and insurance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/overall-jobs-growth-rate-slips-to-35-in-fy20-report-885564.html
10-09-2020||West||Kangana Ranaut says building she lives in belongs to Sharad Pawar||Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut has said the building she lives in here belongs to Sharad Pawar with some reports suggesting she was referring to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief. Pawar, however, on Thursday refuted the claim, saying there is no substance in what the actress said. Ranaut is at the centre of a controversy for likening Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and criticising the city police, and had engaged in a war of words with NCPs ally Shiv Sena on the issue. "This was not just to me but to entire building and this is not my flat issue but a building issue which builder needs to deal with and this building belongs to Sharad Pawar we bought the flat from his partner so he is answerable for this not me...," Ranaut tweeted on Wednesday, while replying to a post. The tweet she replied to claimed a notice was issued to her flat in the building, 'DB Breeze', in 2018 and not for her bungalow in Pali Hill, "illegal" parts of which were razed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday. Asked by media persons about theactress's claim, Pawar dismissed the same. It is my wish somebody names a building after me," Pawar said sarcastically. "...Now it is a question whom we should expect to speak responsibly. But there is no substance in it (the claim made by the actress), Pawar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-ranaut-says-building-she-lives-in-belongs-to-sharad-pawar-885578.html
10-09-2020||West||23,446 new coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, 448 deaths||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its second-highest spike in coronavirus cases at 23,446, which took the case tally to 9,90,795, a health department official said. On Wednesday, the state had witnessed a record increase of 23,816 Covid-19 patients. The death toll on Thursday increased to 28,282 with 448 fresh fatalities. The death toll due to the pandemic in Mumbai increased by 38 to reach 8,023. 14,253 patients were discharged during the day, so the number of recovered cases rose to 7,00,715. The recovery rate in the state is 70.72 per cent. So far over 49.74 lakh tests have been conducted in the state. Currently, 16,30,701 people are in home quarantine and 38,220 in institutional quarantine, the health department official said. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Total cases 9,90,795, New cases 23,446, Death toll 28,282, Recovered 7,00,715.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/23446-new-coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-448-deaths-885611.html
10-09-2020||West||Withdraw circular banning government servants from joining agitations: Goa Opposition||Amid a volley of criticism of the BJP-led coalition government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, a recent circular issued by the state Vigilance Department warning disciplinary action against bureaucrats who participate in anti-government agitations and signature campaigns, has triggered a political tussle.  The Opposition in Goa has demanded the immediate revocation of the circular, which has warned erring government servants of action under the central civil service rules. The Opposition on Thursday demanded the immediate withdrawal of an official circular banning civil servants from joining popular agitations and participating in signature campaigns against state government policies and decisions. “(The) Right to Protest against injustice is (a) democratic right of every Citizen. @GovtofGoa must withdraw (the) ’Ban on Protest’ order & ensure that hardworking Govt. Employees are given full support in these testing times of#CovidPandemic & are not forced to protest,” Goa Leader of the Opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted on Thursday opposing the circular. The circular issued on Wednesday by the Vigilance Department had said: "It is noticed that a number of government servants are getting involved in agitations/campaigns against government policies and signing petitions to that effect and submitting the same directly to the Governor and Chief Minister without established practice of routing through proper channel thereby bypassing the higher authorities". The spokesperson for the Goa Forward party Durgadas Kamat also said that the circular was in contravention of personal civil liberties. “This is an issue of civil liberties. The way the government is issuing an order to shut down voices is the fascism of the highest order. These are workers, not bonded labourers,” Kamat said.   The circular was issued amid a volley of criticism of the decisions taken by the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led dispensation, including its handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Last month, over a hundred bureaucrats had also staged a protest at the State Secretariat after several staffers tested positive, demanding sanitised work conditions in sync with social distancing norms. Protesting bureaucrats had also submitted a written representation to then Governor Satya Pal Malik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/withdraw-circular-banning-government-servants-from-joining-agitations-goa-opposition-885619.html
10-09-2020||West||Patients can not be turned away from hospitals: Bombay High Court||Taking suo moto (on its own) notice of problems faced by patients at hospitals in the district amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday said an ailing person can not be turned away from hospitals because of shortage of beds or staff. A division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said the main issue which required the court's attention is making ventilators and beds available to patients so as to reduce the death rate. "We want all doctors and para-medical staff to rise to the occasion of the severity of the situation and make themselves available 24X7 in this pandemic situation," the court said. "We do not want a situation where the patients are required to travel from one hospital to another to secure a bed in the ICU, ventilated beds or (go to another hospital) due to non-availability of doctors and medical staff," the bench said. If a hospital can not accommodate a patient, the authorities should help the patient reach another hospital, the court said. Patients cannot be denied admission to a hospital on the ground of non-availability of medical and para-medical staff, it said. "Even private doctors are under obligation to provide treatment. The preservation of human life is of paramount importance. Once life is lost, it cannot be restored. "Every doctor, whether they are in government or private hospitals, is under obligation to extend their services," the court said. "Private doctors cannot refuse to render their services during such a pandemic," it said adding it is the obligation of the state government to make available doctors and medical staff from all sources. The bench was assured by the Indian Medical Association and a hospitals association that they would submit a list of all the private doctors who render services at hospitals across the city. Nagpur district Collector informed the court that a task force of 12 doctors has been formed for assigning duties and responsibilities to all the doctors in hospitals. The court posted the matter for further hearing on September 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/patients-can-not-be-turned-away-from-hospitals-bombay-high-court-885633.html
10-09-2020||West||Two journalists arrested for allegedly breaking into Uddhav Thackeray's farmhouse||Two reporters of Republic Media Network have been arrested for allegedly trespassing Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s farmhouse at Khalapur in Raigad district. According to Republic TV, reporter Anuj Kumar, video journalist Yashpaljit Singh and driver Pradeep Dilip Dhanavade were on an assignment. Based on the security guard's statement, police have filed a complaint under sections 452, 448, 323, 504, 506 and 34 of the IPC. “The reporting team was following a journalistic lead in an investigative assignment in Karjat in Raigad. In what is the biggest clampdown on the right to report, the Republic team was apprehended and thrown into jail for 4 days after making an enquiry with a security guard of a certain residence. We are shocked that the Republic team was denied any legal representation before being sent to 4 days of custody,” the channel said in a statement. Meanwhile, RPI (A) president and union minister of state for social justice and empowerment, said: “Arresting the Republic reporter is not a good thing. I appeal to the Maharashtra Police that everyone has a right to speak as per Babasaheb Ambedkar’s constitution. This action is against the spirit of the Constitution.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-journalists-arrested-for-allegedly-breaking-into-uddhav-thackerays-farmhouse-885638.html
10-09-2020||West||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani launches welfare scheme for farmers||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday launched a welfare scheme for farmers with seven components designed for their overall development, an official said. As per a state government release, Rupani launched the scheme vis video conferencing from Gandhinagar. The scheme covers seven welfare components such as cow-based organic farming, economic upliftment of farmers, adoption of new crop varieties and distribution of agri equipment to small and marginalised farmers, the release said. Of the seven components, the chief minister operationalised two major schemes for transportation and storage of produce on Thursday, it was stated. Under the crop storage scheme, farmers will get an assistance of Rs 30,000 to construct godowns to store their produce, it said. In case of the transportation scheme, farmers will get a financial assistance upto Rs 75,000 to buy small vehicles to transport their produce, the release said. On the launch day, the state government disbursed financial assistance of Rs 400 crore to around 1.16 lakh farmers, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-launches-welfare-scheme-for-farmers-885640.html
