11-09-2020||In Perspective||Upgrading IAF’s combat power: Rafale is a game-changer||The induction of the Rafale fighters into the Indian Air Force has added significance given the current India-China border crisis. The Rafale will signal a boost to India's overall combat capability and preparedness. The IAF was not used during the 1962 conflict. Now, it could be a game-changer.    India’s air power has evolved over the decades. The induction of the first five Rafale fighters has added to IAF’s strength, given that these aircraft are among the most advanced combat aircraft in the region and the world. When all 36 on order from France arrive, they will make up two highly potent IAF squadrons. The changing geopolitical environment in Southern Asia and particularly in India’s immediate periphery warrants New Delhi to keep its strike and combat capability at a higher level and in readiness in order to face any eventuality. The acquisition of Rafale is a morale booster in these times.   The Rafale induction was very much needed and long overdue. The reflection on defence preparedness will be pivotal to the maintenance of India’s national security. It will change the technological imbalance in combat aircraft that India was beginning to face in the neighbourhood. Pakistan acquired F-16 fighters from the US and Chengdu JF-17 from China, which are fourth generation combat aircraft. Both are central to Pakistan Air Force’s modernization plans. The effectiveness of the JF-17 and China’s much-hyped J-20 are yet to be witnessed. These have not been tested in any conflict. The modernization of the IAF has been continuing and it has enhanced its operational capabilities over the years. A number of its existing combat squadrons have been upgraded since the early 2000s – the Jaguars, the Mirage-2000 and MiG-21 Bisons, for instance. The IAF now also has the Tejas Mk 1 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA). Air power will remain a decisive factor in shaping the course and outcome of any conflict. Over the years, the IAF’s combat capability and strategic reach have increased significantly with multi-role aircraft. Since the 2000s, India has also inducted a number of force multipliers, including the Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS), mid-air refuellers, and strategic lift capabilities. India has concentrated on acquiring modern technology either through acquisition from elsewhere or by upgradation of existing platforms. The five Rafale fighters comprise three single seaters and two twin-seaters. These are now part of the IAF’s ‘Golden Arrows’ squadron. There is no denying the fact that these fighters will significantly boost combat capabilities. The IAF seems to have deployed its frontline fighter jets in key air bases near and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. The IAF’s authorised strength is 42 squadrons. Unfortunately, though, India has not been successful in building up that many squadrons. A squadron is the basic fighting unit of the air force. The IAF’s fighter squadrons have 18 fully operational planes, including two trainers. Roughly 10 squadrons of the IAF are currently equipped with MiG-21 and MiG-27aircraft and these are scheduled to retire by 2024. Hence, the requirements for the IAF will increase manifold. Right now, the IAF has 28 squadrons which are fully operational. India had reached 39 operational squadrons in the early 1990s. The Rafale is categorised as 4.5+ generation aircraft, with among the most sophisticated modern avionics and weapons complement. The French Air Force replaced seven types of aircraft with the Rafale. While the Rafale can attain a maximum speed of 2,200 km per hour, the J-20, which China claims to be a fifth-generation combat aircraft comparable to the US F-22, is estimated to have a top speed of 2,400 km per hour. The Rafale is certainly far superior to the JF-17, which is derived from older MiG aircraft. But the technical parameters suggest that it is probably also superior to the J-20 in many ways. The Rafale, for instance, can travel a greater distance from its operating base and can cover more enemy area during a conflict. The veracity of the claims made by China with regard to the J-20’s ‘stealth’ capability is yet to be demonstrated and verified. India’s Su-30 MKIs have reportedly spotted their movements in the past because of the effectiveness of the radar mounted on the aircraft. If that is so, the Rafale’s radar is even more advanced.   While the Rafale’s induction will add to the existing capabilities of the IAF, it must be mentioned that both the JF-17, supplied to Pakistan by China, and the J-20 are also multi-role combat aircraft and they, too, can perform day/night roles. The technical parameters suggest that they could be effective during air-to-air attack, air-to-surface attack, aerial reconnaissance, interception and anti-ship strikes. The Rafale’s superiority comes in part from its AESA radar as well as smart weaponry. It can carry almost all existing advanced weapons, and it has superior electronic warfare capabilities.   The Rafale certainly will be a game-changer during any eventuality India has to face as it heightens military preparedness and confidence. The geopolitical environment in Southern Asia warrants that India keep itself alert and send a deterrent message to its adversaries.    (Arvind Kumar is Professor of Geopolitics and International Relations at Manipal Academy of Higher Education, (MAHE), Manipal; Seshadri Chari is a well-known political commentator and strategic analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/upgrading-iaf-s-combat-power-rafale-is-a-game-changer-885671.html
11-09-2020||Kalaburagi||Marijuana peddler Chandrakanth Chauhan is BJP activist, claims Priyank Kharge||Former minister Priyank Kharge claimed that Chandrakanth Chauhan, a ganja peddler, arrested by Sheshadripuram police, Bengaluru, after recovering 1,350 kg ganja from his sheep farm at Lakshman Nayak Tanda in Kalagi taluk, is a BJP activist. On Twitter, the Chittapur MLA said the lotus party has been talking about Congress’ involvement in drug mafia. “Guess who is this? definitely, I don’t see the INC symbol anyplace,” he said posting a picture of the arrested Chandrakanth with the BJP activists. “You are in power and have all the resources at your disposal, please find out how many gambling dens have cropped up in Kalaburagi? Who is giving permission to run recreational clubs? under whose political protection are these peddlers growing, the MLA asked. According to the residents of Lakshman Nayak Tanda in Kalagi taluk, the accused Chandrakanth preferred to stay away from the local people. He was into sheep and poultry farm business on his one acre of land and was said to be living with his wife and children in the shed of the farm. Even though he owned a house in tanda, Chandrakanth was seldom visiting it. Along with sheep rearing, he has also planted coconut and mango trees in his field. In the recent past, he was learnt to be into sand transport and selling trade. However, no cases have been filed against him in the police station. His wife is stated to have gone to her parent’s house after a quarrel with Chandrakanth, they explained. Kalagi Police Station is located just one-and-a-half kilometre away from the location where the police recovered about 1,352 kg ganja. Ganja business near the police patrolling has raised the eyebrows of the residents of the tanda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/marijuana-peddler-chandrakanth-chauhan-is-bjp-activist-claims-priyank-kharge-886156.html
11-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hunsur MLA Manjunath tests positive for Covid-19||Hunsur Congress MLA H P Manjunath, his family members and a staff working at his hospital tested positive for Covid-19, on Friday. According to sources, the MLA and his family members are under home quarantine. He also suggested the people and the officials who came in close contact with the MLA to undergo rest and to be under isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hunsur-mla-manjunath-tests-positive-for-covid-19-885965.html
11-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||H D Kote MLA Anil Kumar tests positive for Covid-19||H D Kote MLA  Anil Kumar has tested positive for Covid-19, and has been admitted to the Gopalagowda Shanthaveri Memorial Hospital, in Mysuru, for treatment. Anil Kumar said that he had visited several villages in the taluk for development works and might have contracted the infection. Those who had come in contact with him should undergo Covid tests, he advised. "I am suffering from cold and fever, but my health is stable. I will recover soon and return. There is no need for any anxiety", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/h-d-kote-mla-anil-kumar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-886030.html
11-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||38 kg marijuana recovered from sugarcane plantation||Konchavaram Police on Friday carried out a raid in a sugarcane plantation at Linganagar Tanda of the taluk and arrested a man on charges of growing ganja illegally. Another accused is absconding. The police gave the name of the arrested as Narasinga Gabru and about 13 kg ganja has been recovered. Kishan Chinna Rathod, a resident of Lingangar Tanda is absconding. About 25 kg wet and dried ganja which was illegally grown in the sugarcane plantation at the tanda has been seized, the police said. A police team led by Circle Inspector Mahantesh Patil raided the location. A complaint has been registered at Konchavaram Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/38-kg-marijuana-recovered-from-sugarcane-plantation-886116.html
11-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Drug scandal probe in initial stage: Somanna||Housing Minister V Somanna said that the government has taken all measures to put an end to the drug mafia that has spread its tentacles in the state, since several years. Speaking to reporters during his visit to Hassan on Friday, Somanna said that there is no question of protecting anybody, as every one is equal before the law. Commenting on the recent developments and arrests in connection with the drug network, the minister said, “The probe is still in the primary stage. The Chief Minister and Home Minister have taken the issue seriously.” Reacting to the accusations of the Congress leaders that the government is trying to divert the people by raising the drug scandal to cover its failures, he said, “Congress leaders have no issue to raise and hence have been complaining about this.” To a query on the change in Chief Ministership, Somanna said, “These are all the speculations of the media. Yediyurappa is an undisputed leader in the party. He will continue as the CM for the next three years. Jagadish Shettar is an influential leader and minister. He has gone to Delhi, to hold discussions on the development of industries in state.” Earlier, during the progress review meeting, Somanna criticised the PanchayatDevelopment Officers (PDO). He warned the taluk executive officers “Do not hold yourself responsible for what the PDOs do and correct your mistakes. I don’t know what you do. But I want results.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/drug-scandal-probe-in-initial-stage-somanna-886141.html
11-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru-Bengaluru expressway to be ready by 2022: MP||The 10-lane Mysuru-Bengaluru highway project will be completed by September 2022. The travel time between Mysuru and Kengeri in Bengaluru on the expressway will be just 90 minutes, said MP Pratap Simha. The MP was speaking to reporters, after inspecting ongoing works of the highway between Mysuru and Srirangapatna in Mandya district. He said, “The works to convert the highway into 10-lane, six-lane main carriage way and two-lane service road on each side, will be completed in two-years.” The works of the highway measuring 118 kilometres was taken up in two phases, first phase was between Bengaluru to Nidaghatta and second was Nidaghatta to Mysuru. According to him, 51% works under first phase and 30% works under second phase have been completed. While the first phase work will be finished by February 2022, the second phase work will be completed by September 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-bengaluru-expressway-to-be-ready-by-2022-mp-886143.html
11-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Taxi services unlikely to return to normalcy in Mysuru||Although the government has eased lockdown and has opened state borders, taxi services in Mysuru, one of the major tourist hubs of the state, are unlikely to return to normal anytime soon, following the Covid crisis. Several taxi drivers, operating from the city, have returned to their respective villages, due to unavailability of work. Some taxi owners have put up their vehicles for sale, as there are no takers for taxi services. The drivers and owners, who are eagerly waiting for the business to pick up, are facing hardships to maintain the vehicles. The vehicles, parked for months together, need to be serviced, which costs a minimum of Rs 5,000 per vehicle. Jagadish, who runs 12 cars as taxis, said that he has surrendered his vehicle permits to the Transport department to get relaxation in tax. "But, I need to invest hefty amounts to re-launch the taxi service. All vehicles need to be serviced. Spare parts, lubricants and service charges are high,” he said.     Jagadish sent all his drivers on leave since the lockdown. "Pre-lockdown, there was great demand for taxi services, as a large number of tourists were visiting Mysuru city. Many tourists used to rent vehicle from Mysuru to the neighbouring Kerala and Tamil Nadu states and also to Kodagu, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and other districts. Now, we get hardly two calls per week, that too for short trips. Thus, we have not opened the office,” he said. Somashekar, who has two vehicles said that he has put up his vehicles for sale. "Hardly anybody is enquiring. Those who enquire, ask for lesser price. I spent Rs 15,000 on both the vehicles for service just three days before the lockdown. I did not get any returns since then. I have parked the vehicles in the workshop,” he said. Raghavendra, a driver from a village near Hunsur, said that he is a driver since 10 years. "Now, I have shifted to my village. I am planning to continue with agriculture,” he said. Raghavendra used to work all days of a week, before lockdown. But, now he has no work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/taxi-services-unlikely-to-return-to-normalcy-in-mysuru-886144.html
11-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Police dept given free hand to take action in drug issue’||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said, “The BJP government is committed to eradicate the drug mafia in the state and the Police department is given a free hand to take action against the guilty, whoever it may be.” Speaking to reporters, after inspecting a drinking water project at Netkal village, Malavalli taluk, Mandya district, on Friday, he said, “The previous government failed to control the drug mafia in the state. But, the BJP government has given total power to the authorities concerned to take action, irrespective of whether they are from film industry, politics or other field.” To a query on the meeting between Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, Ashwath Narayan said, “There is no need to attach political importance to it, as it was to discuss development works.” Commenting on Jagadish Shettar’s visit to Delhi, he said that Shettar has not gone to discuss about the change in leadership, but to meet Union Ministers related to development works. He inspected drinking water works, taken up at a cost of Rs 540 crore to supply water to Ramanagar, Channapatna and Magadi taluks and directed the officials to complete the work at the earliest. The pipelines would be laid to provide drinking water to villages en route. Halagur in Malavalli taluk too would get Cauvery water, he said. However, BJP leaders opposed the project and explained that the project is of no use to the people of the taluk. They asked the government to chalk out plans to supply drinking water to the people of Malavalli taluk. Ashwath Narayan assured that measures would be taken to supply drinking water to all. Magadi MLA A Manjunath, Ramanagar Deputy Commissioner Archana, Assistant Commissioner Suraj and Tahsildar K Chandramouli accompanied him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-dept-given-free-hand-to-take-action-in-drug-issue-886145.html
11-09-2020||Main Article||Land reforms: Unfinished business||Let me begin with an apocryphal story. Several years ago, the new Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture of the Government of India, on his first day at work, was being conducted around his office by a young Deputy Secretary. After walking several floors and winding his way through the labyrinthian corridors of Krishi Bhavan, the Secretary paused and asked: “Tell me, how many people work in this ministry?” “A little over 20,000 people, sir,” the Deputy Secretary replied enthusiastically. With incredulity writ large on his face, “And I thought the farmers in the country do agriculture and produce crops,” was the laconic observation of the Secretary. Reading excerpts from the 14-volume report of the ‘Committee on Doubling Farmers’ Incomes’ reminded me of this anecdote. Yes, the aim of doubling farmers’ incomes by 2022-23 is a laudable declaration of intent and the report of the committee does provides a bird’s-eye view of what could be done -- a wish list, if you will -- and the broad strategy. Since agriculture is a state subject, it is now left to the states to resolve the question of how to do it. Being closer to the ground, the states have a worm’s-eye view of agriculture and ought to know they have to be cautious in applying market economics to households that are essentially not market-oriented. It is also far too important for this to peter out as have other similar announcements after a blaze of media attention -- ‘Skill India Mission’ (August 2014), ‘Make in India’ (September 2014), ‘Start-Up India’ (January 2016), ‘Stand-Up India’ (April 2016) have all but retreated from active praxis. The future hinges on how the states address the unfinished business of land reforms. Policy uncertainty on and the inadequate pace of agriculture reforms across India illustrate the divided state of mind with which state governments address the difficult task of envisioning the future of the Indian farmer. The agrarian problem raises two policy questions: First, the desirability of the transformation of Indian agriculture to a capitalist form of production and whether rescinding land reform legislation is the way to do this; second, how the agriculture sector can or should produce surplus despite the structural constraint of small land holdings. The vast majority of farm households -- an overwhelming 85% -- are marginal and small holdings and rely primarily on own family labour, and consume half or more of what they produce. Economists characterise this as subsistence farming. The predominant economic feature of the farmer household is its limited resources and the narrow range of economic choices before it. Since rain-fed agriculture predominates, soil, water and climate conditions combine to compel the farmer to produce the same crop or set of crops year after year. Farming practices remain unchanged, relying on simple implements and limited mechanisation. From a market perspective, the return the farm household seeks is simple and undifferentiated -- after meeting expenditure and debt obligations -- to have enough produce to feed itself. The farm household is not a link between the ‘products market’ on the one side and the ‘factors market’ on the other. Indeed, it is a micro model of the two rolled into one. A sure and certain way of misunderstanding farm households in India is to view them as a business. The time has clearly come for a systematic, evidence-based analysis of small and marginal farm households in the aggregate as a production sector. Such an analysis must be based on first principles -- of the farmer and his household as a form of social organisation – and agriculture as a capitalist form of business is certainly not one such. Big business has in the past lobbied for free entry into agricultural production, demanding a shift towards corporate farming. Government policy is tending towards those in a position to make substantial investments in land; and those who own capital will benefit most from rescinding land reform legislations. In effect, this will accentuate regional and social inequalities and its implications are far-reaching, for the structure of society and the future shape of politics. In the warm afterglow of the ‘Green Revolution’, for several years, sustained high prices for food grains made investment in the production of high-yielding varieties of paddy, wheat, maize and millets extraordinarily remunerative. Non-agriculturists of various hues rushed to the countryside to invest in agricultural land, gentlemen farmers if you will. Yet, today, the rarest type to come across in rural India is a genuine capitalist producer who invests in dryland farming, and invests in land development or expanding the scale. Government therefore needs to address the specific question of how to achieve economy of scale to transform agriculture into a technology-led, high productivity sector, with marginal land holding as a structural constraint. Innovative land-leasing and/or contract farming arrangements can enable consolidation at scale. They can also work as a new form of organisation that provides the participant farmer a basic minimum income from rent for the land, and a share in the proceeds from the farm produce as wages. This might well serve as a new form of economic organisation by which the farmer retains ownership of the land, and in the aggregate, the agriculture sector produces at scale. The model leasing/contract farming laws drafted by the Government of India must serve as the starting point to seriously explore this option. The prospects for the vast mass of small cultivators of the present day are far from clear. If for no other reason, their very number makes it impossible for any of them to become capitalist farmers. Whether they will continue in the low-level equilibrium trap or whether they will be able to adopt modern methods and perhaps combine farming with non-farm employment, will depend on the sustained policy attention agriculture reforms receives in the future. Else, as in the past, to the extent that the governments ever intended to do more than toy with the idea of introducing agrarian reforms, doubling farmers’ incomes will be no more successful than several of the other fanciful schemes that the mandarins in Delhi dream up. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/land-reforms-unfinished-business-885672.html
11-09-2020||National||Check out the all new DH e-paper!||We're also using the new platform to launch a National Edition, a virtual-only edition of the paper that will have a Front Page showcasing more national stories, an additional Nation page, and a new Region page focused on news and features from the southern states. We believe the e-paper will complement the physical product perfectly and give you another, elegant way of consuming DH content. Happy reading! - Editor||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/check-out-the-all-new-dh-e-paper-885654.html
11-09-2020||National||China must adhere to its border peace pacts with India, Jaishankar tells Wang in Moscow||As External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, met in Moscow on Thursday, New Delhi and Beijing agreed to restart negotiations between the senior military commanders of the two nations to resolve the stand-off along the disputed boundary between them in eastern Ladakh. Lt General Harinder Singh of the Indian Army and Major Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) would soon hold talks again after a hiatus of more than a month since their August 2 meeting, which was the fifth between them after the stand-off started in early May. The senior diplomats of the two sides would also continue to hold video conferences to help end the stalemate and restart the mutually agreed process of withdrawal of the front-line soldiers from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as well as thinning out of troops in the “rear areas” on both sides, sources aware of New Delhi’s engagements with Beijing told DH.  Jaishankar and Wang had a bilateral meeting on the side-line of a conclave of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). The meeting went on till late in the evening. They earlier had a luncheon with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who has been leading Moscow’s back-channel diplomacy with New Delhi and Beijing to help defuse tension along the disputed boundary between India and China. Just ahead of the meeting, the Global Times, a newspaper run by the Communist Party of China, published an article, describing the talks between the two ministers as the “last chance” to peacefully settle the stand-off before the advent of winter. New Delhi, however, reiterated that India remained committed to resolving the stand-off “through peaceful negotiations” with China.   No official statement about the outcome of the meeting was released till midnight. The meeting was the second high-level engagement India and China had within a week to end the more-than-four-month-long stand-off along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. The Defence Ministers of the two governments – Rajnath Singh and Wei Fenghe – had also held a bilateral meeting on the side-line of another SCO meet in the capital of Russia on September 4. Jaishankar is learnt to have conveyed to Wang during the more-than-two-hour-long meeting that New Delhi would expect Beijing to strictly adhere to the pacts the two nations signed inked to avoid flashpoints in the border region till the settlement of the boundary dispute – especially the key 1993 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC. He pointed out that the 1993 agreement, as well as the four other follow-up pacts signed in 1996, 2005, 2012 and 2013, had helped maintain calm along the disputed boundary between India and China and thus allowed the two nations to develop the overall bilateral relations. He stressed that restoration and maintenance of the status quo along the LAC was a pre-requisite for bringing the bilateral relations bac on track, sources in New Delhi said.    Wang is learnt to have reiterated China’s stand that the Indian Army’s move on August 29-30 night on the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake) had violated the consensus reached in negotiations between senior military commanders and diplomats of the two sides. Jaishankar pointed out that Indian Army’s move was intended to pre-empt a fresh incursion bid by the Chinese PLA. He also underlined that it was the PLA that had not adhered to the mutually agreed process of disengagement and had not withdrawn troops from the territory of India on several face-off points, including the north bank of Pangong Tso. Tension along the LAC has escalated over the past few days, particularly on both banks of Pangong Tso, where the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA are currently engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-must-adhere-to-its-border-peace-pacts-with-india-jaishankar-tells-wang-in-moscow-885687.html
11-09-2020||National||Health ministry issues revised SOP for conducting exams during Covid-19||The Union health ministry on Thursday issued a revised SOP for conducting examinations during the Covid-19 pandemic, removing the provision that allowed symptomatic candidates who insist on taking an exam to do so in isolation. According to the revised document, in regular course, a symptomatic candidate should be referred to the nearest health centre and given an opportunity to undertake the examination through other means, or the university or educational institution shall arrange for taking the exam at a later date when the student is declared physically fit. "However, if a student is found to be symptomatic, the permission or denial thereof, in such cases shall be granted as per the policy already enunciated on the issue by the Examination Conducting Authorities," the revised Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) said. The ministry had on September 2 issued guidelines as per which staff and examinees from containment zones shall not be permitted to be physically present at exam centres and there will be alternative arrangements for such students. Such students shall be given an opportunity to undertake the examination through other means, or universities and educational institutions shall arrange for taking the exam at a later date for them. According to the SOP, appropriate arrangements for personal protection gears like face covers or masks, and other logistics like hand sanitisers, soap, sodium hypochlorite solution etc. shall be made available by universities, educational institutions, examination conducting authorities or examination centres to the staff as well as students as per requirements. "Exam functionary and examinees may also submit self-declaration about health status at the time of entrance to the examination centre. Such self-declaration form may be circulated at the time of issue of admit tickets," the guidelines said. If any examination functionary or examinee fails to meet the self-declaration criteria, they shall not be allowed entry, the SOP underlined. Also, only asymptomatic staff and students shall be allowed inside the examination hall, the SOP stated, adding wearing face cover or mask is mandatory. The face cover or mask has to be worn at all times inside the examination centre by all, it underlined. Authorities concerned should plan out the examination schedule in a staggered manner so as to avoid overcrowding at any examination centre on any day, the SOP stated. Examination centres in containment zones shall not be allowed to function, it said. For pen and paper-based tests, the SOP outlines that the invigilator will sanitise his or her hands prior to the distribution of question papers or answer sheets and the examinees will also sanitise their hands before receiving or handing back these materials. The collection and packing of the answer sheets at every stage will involve sanitisation of hands. The answer sheets will preferably be opened up after 72 hours have elapsed post collection of papers, the guidelines recommended. "Use of spit/saliva for counting and distributing sheets shall not be allowed," the SOP stated. The examination centre should have a designated isolation room for isolating any person who is found symptomatic at the time of screening or during examination, till such time medical advice may be sought. A clear policy on allowing or disallowing symptomatic candidates to undertake examinations shall be delineated by the examination conducting authorities in advance, the SOP stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-issues-revised-sop-for-conducting-exams-during-covid-19-885692.html
11-09-2020||National||India had estimated 6.4 million Covid-19 infections by early May: National serosurvey||The much-awaited findings of the first national serosurvey conducted by the ICMR, published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, indicated that 0.73 per cent adults in India were exposed to SARS-CoV-2, amounting to a total of 6.4 million infections by early May. The survey was conducted from May 11 to June 4 and covered 28,000 individuals whose blood samples were tested for IgG antibodies using COVID Kavach ELISA kit. Also, seropositivity was the highest in the age group of 18-45 years (43.3 per cent), followed by those between 46-60 years (39.5 per cent) and it was the lowest among those aged above 60 (17.2 per cent). A total of 64,68,388 adult infections were estimated in India by the early May, the survey report said. "The findings of our survey indicated that the overall seroprevalence in India was low, with less than one per cent of the adult population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 by mid-May 2020. "The low prevalence observed in most districts indicates that India is in early phase of the epidemic and the majority of the Indian population is still susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection," the survey report stressed. It highlighted the need to continue to implement the context-specific containment measures including the testing of all symptomatics, isolating positive cases and tracing high-risk contacts to slow transmission and to prevent the overburdening of the health system. Males, living in urban slums and occupation with high risk of exposure to potentially infected persons were associated with seropositivity. According to the survey report, seroprevalence ranged between 0.62 and 1.03 per cent across the four strata of districts. The stratification of districts as zero cases (15 districts), low (22 districts), medium (16) and high (17) was done on the basis of the reported number of Covid-19 cases as on April 25. Based on the overall adjusted seroprevalence of 0.73 per cent and reported number of Covid-19 cases, it was estimated that for every RT-PCR confirmed case of Covid-19 there were 82-130 infections in India. As part of the survey, a total of 30,283 households were visited from 700 clusters in 70 districts across the four strata. About one-fourth (25.9 per cent) of the surveyed clusters were from urban areas. A total of 28,000 individuals consented to participate, the report stated. Nearly half (48.5 per cent) of the participants were aged between 18 and 45 and 51.5 per cent (14,390) were females. In all, 18.7 per cent of the participants had an occupation with a high risk of exposure to potentially infected persons. The survey noted that there could be under-detection of Covid-19 cases in the zero stratum districts on account of low testing as well as poor access to testing laboratories. In four of the 15 districts in this stratum, Covid-19 testing laboratories were not available in district headquarters and the samples were transported to the state headquarter hospitals for diagnosis. The present findings of seropositivity in the strata of districts with zero to low incidence of Covid-19 cases underscores the need to strengthen surveillance and augment the testing of suspected cases in these areas, the survey report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-had-estimated-64-million-covid-19-infections-by-early-may-national-serosurvey-885694.html
11-09-2020||National||Children worst affected as terror networks spread their tentacles across borders: India at UN||India on Thursday called on the UN member states to demonstrate a greater political will to ensure perpetrators of terrorism, especially those sanctioned by the Security Council, are held accountable for abusing child rights, saying children are worst affected as terror networks “spread their tentacles” across the borders and threaten peace. Terrorist outfits and individuals proscribed by the Council are directly or indirectly responsible for abusing child rights, India said in a statement to the UNSC open debate on Children and Armed Conflict ‘Attacks against Schools as Grave Violation of Children’s Rights’. “In order to advance child protection agenda of the Council, its synergies with counter-terrorism need to be translated into action,” it said. India said that the member states need to demonstrate a “greater political will” to hold the perpetrators of terrorism and their collaborators and sponsors, especially those sanctioned by the Council, to account to fulfill the Council’s child protection obligations. India underscored the importance of a greater recognition and comprehensive action to counter threats to children posed by terrorist groups in different parts of the world. In a thinly-veiled reference to Pakistan, India said that “terror networks spread their tentacles across borders, threatening peace and stability. Children are worst affected as they live with looming sense of fear and uncertainty and are often deprived of their right to education”. In the statement, which will be included as an official UN compilation, India emphasised that the UNSC needs to factor in the stark reality that non-state parties to armed conflicts have little regard for upholding their obligations under the international law. “This creates asymmetric dynamics in the field vis-a-vis the states or the UN peace operations,” the country said, adding that the Council needs to ensure that those who are engaged in the protection of children on its behalf have the necessary resources, pre-deployment and in-mission training to operate and deliver in extremely challenging situations. The country noted with concern that lack of access to schools and treacherous learning environments make children vulnerable to exploitation and recruitment by terrorists and other non-state actors. “Education facilities are often used as vehicles for radicalisation and indoctrination to violent extremist ideologies. Much of these happen in the absence of opportunity for quality formal education for children,” India said. With schools providing a crucial place of learning as well as a social safety net, India said the absence of safe school environments have a multifold impact on protection challenges. These could include young women and girls becoming vulnerable to various forms of subjugation including sexual and gender-based violence, falling victims of forced and child marriages and human trafficking. India also took note of the prevailing situation in the Sahel region of Africa, where attacks on schools are increasing due to the complex regional conflict. India said the challenges in the region call for a greater attention of the Council. "The terrorists and armed groups are increasingly targeting education facilities leading to school closures. Occupation of schools for military purposes in violation of international humanitarian law is also a contributing factor in this crisis. This has set in motion a range of negative impacts on children, especially girls,” India said. Given the complex situation in the Sahel region, India said a military response to the situation can only bear desired results if these are integrated with inclusive regional and national strategies towards security, governance, development, human rights and humanitarian issues and ownership by the governments, especially in upholding the rule of law. “Sahel must continue to remain a clear priority for the peacebuilding commission. The Council on its part also should remain engaged in implementation of the military and political missions as well as promoting dialogue and intercommunal harmony in the region,” India said, adding that the Council must keep up its engagements with the regional bodies and child protection priorities must be integrated to the core of such engagements. The Covid-19 pandemic has also further compounded the already existing child protection challenges, India said, adding that the crisis has demonstrated the power of technology, especially education technology to provide learning opportunities to children affected by armed conflicts. “The international community must cease this momentum to use the full potential of technology to fulfil hitherto unkept promises to the children,” it said, emphasising the need for more objective reporting by the UNSC mandated officials based on complex dynamics of the situations and obligations of different parties to the armed conflict. “The tendency of ‘mandate creep’ must be checked to maintain efficacy and sanctity,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-worst-affected-as-terror-networks-spread-their-tentacles-across-borders-india-at-un-885707.html
11-09-2020||National||BJP medium for bringing social change for poor farmers: Nadda||BJP president JP Nadda on Thursday said the saffron party was a medium for bringing social change along with economic and political development for the poor, farmers and labourers. Interacting with the newly appointed office-bearers of the party's Uttar Pradesh unit through video conference, the BJP chief said that its organisation was very strong in the state as it had the highest number of active and common party members. Congratulating the new team, Nadda said their post was a responsibility and asked them to further strengthen the organisation. He also asked them to take forward party works at the booth level. Lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said that India has gained prestige in the world under his leadership and the country has become stronger, both strategically and economically. During the difficult coronavirus times, the prime minister took the resolve of a self-reliant India which was an opportunity for farmers, workers, tribals to become self reliant, Nadda said. Praising Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, he said the state was at the forefront of implementation of central schemes like Pradhanmantri Aawas Yojana, Saubhagya Yojana and Ujjwala Yojana. On the occasion, Adityanath said that for the common people the BJP was not just a political party but a team of workers dedicated to the motherland. He said that there were several people who did not like that the country was taking major strides forward on the world map and they were making personal comments. He also asked party workers to remain vigilant against efforts to cause damage in the name of caste, language and region. Earlier, state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh gave a presentation on the organisational works and said the BJP was ready for by elections on eight assembly seats besides the Legislative Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-medium-for-bringing-social-change-for-poor-farmers-nadda-885715.html
11-09-2020||National||CPI(M) attacks govt over EPFO's decision to provide 8.5 pc interest rate for FY20||The CPI(M) on Thursday hit out at the government over the EPFO's decision to credit a part of 8.5 per cent interest on employees provident fund (EPF) for 2019-20 into the account of its close to six crore subscribers and alleged that it was part of the Centre's "loot" mantra. "EPF interest rate announced at 8.5% out which only 8.15% will be credited now, remaining 0.35% is equity linked. If the 0.35% doesnt come, then rate will be lowest since 1978. Modi Govt's Mantra loot the common people on behalf of the super rich!," the party said. The decision to provide 8.15 per cent interest now on EPF was taken at the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation’s (EPFO) trustees meet held on Wednesday. "The govt has no business dishonouring a legal entitlement of employees' claims on their own savings! This is a betrayal. Last year the interest rate was 8.65%. Employees cannot be cheated. Give them their due," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-attacks-govt-over-epfos-decision-to-provide-85-pc-interest-rate-for-fy20-885717.html
11-09-2020||National||S Jaishankar, Wang Yi agree on 5 points to resolve stand-off along India-China disputed boundary||Union External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi have agreed that the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of the communist country should quickly pull back troops, stay away from each other’s positions and defuse tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations. The meeting between Jaishankar and Wang on the sidelines of a conclave of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) on Thursday, which resulted in a five-point consensus to resolve the stand-off along LAC between India and China. Both the sides agreed that the immediate task was to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all the face-off points along the LAC, which was necessary to prevent any untoward incident. The final disposition of the troop deployment to their permanent posts and the phasing of the process would be worked out by the military commanders, sources in New Delhi said. The ministers agreed that both sides “should take guidance from the series of consensus” reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Chinese President Xi Jinping “on developing India-China relations, including not allowing differences to become disputes”, according to the joint statement. The leaders concurred that both the nations should abide by all the existing agreements and protocol on China-India boundary affairs, maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas and avoid any action that could escalate matters. India and China will continue to have dialogue and communication through the Special Representatives mandated to represent the two governments in the bilateral negotiations to settle the boundary dispute. They also agreed that the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) should also continue its meetings. A statement released by the Chinese Government quoted Wang telling Jaishankar during the meeting that Beijing was “willing to support enhanced dialogue between the frontier troops” of China and India to “resolve specific issues” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two nations. China would “stay in touch” with India “through diplomatic and military channels” and remain “committed to restoring peace and tranquillity in border areas”. Earlier, on Thursday, DH reported that as Jaishankar and Wang had met in Moscow, New Delhi and Beijing had agreed to restart negotiations between the senior military commanders of the two nations to resolve the stand-off along the disputed boundary between them in eastern Ladakh. The statement circulated by the embassy of the communist country in New Delhi also quoted Jaishankar telling Wang that India did not want “tension to escalate” along its disputed boundary with China. He was also quoted saying that India’s policy toward China had not changed and that New Delhi believed that China’s policy toward India had not changed either. New Delhi has been maintaining over the past few weeks that China must withdraw its troops from the territory of India and restore the status quo ante along the LAC for bringing the relations between the two nations back on track. Jaishankar articulated New Delhi’s position, stating that the future of India-China relations could not be separated from the situation in the border areas. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla too recently stated that business could not be as usual between India and China unless and until the communist country’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) pulled back troops to restore the status quo ante along the LAC. But the statement issued by the Chinese Government after the Jaishankar-Wang meeting claimed that New Delhi did not consider the development of India-China relations “to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question”. It also claimed that India did not want to go backward on its relations with China. The Chinese PLA deployed a large number of troops along the disputed boundary between the two nations and made moves to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC in late April and early May. The Indian Army too deployed additional troops, resulting in the stand-off, which soon spread to other areas in eastern Ladakh. The stand-off brought the relations between the two nations to a new low, particularly after the violent face-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Indian Army lost 21 of its soldiers. The PLA too suffered casualties, but it never made public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the clash. Tension along the LAC has escalated over the past few days, particularly on both banks of Pangong Tso, where the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA are currently engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-wang-yi-agree-on-5-points-to-resolve-stand-off-along-india-china-disputed-boundary-885721.html
11-09-2020||National||India’s health ‘time bomb’ keeps ticking, and it’s not Covid-19||As India’s surging coronavirus caseload becomes an increasing worry for the globe, another health disaster is silently unfolding. The world’s strictest lockdown crippled both routine and critical health services. More than a million children have missed crucial immunizations and hospital births have shown a sharp decline, indicating many women may have gone through unsafe childbirth at home. Outpatient critical care for cancer plunged 80% from February levels, the latest government data show. But the biggest crisis is India’s longstanding battle with tuberculosis. The country has as many as 2.7 million TB patients currently, by far the most in the world, and the disease kills an estimated 421,000 Indians each year. The current gap in care could lead to an additional 6.3 million cases and 1.4 million deaths from tuberculosis by 2025, according to a study by Zarir Udwadia, a pulmonologist at Mumbai’s P D Hinduja Hospital and Medical Research Centre. “Miss a few days of any other treatment and you may not be harmed, but gaps in TB treatment will amplify resistance,” Udwadia said. “Our lack of health infrastructure is the reason we have been floundering amidst the sea of Covid cases. It’s the reason why we have not been able to make progress against traditional and old enemies like malaria, typhoid, dengue.” The failure to control tuberculosis has long plagued successive governments in India, which spends just 1.28% of gross domestic product on public health. That has left the system ill-equipped to control deadly diseases such as coronavirus: The South Asian nation now has the second-highest Covid-19 infection tally in the world, trailing only the US. Healthcare Lockdown More than 65 million people in India live in densely packed and poorly ventilated slums like Dharavi in Mumbai, one of the biggest in Asia, which has long struggled with tuberculosis before it became a coronavirus hotspot. The fact that both TB and Covid-19 have a significant overlap in symptoms -- breathlessness, cough, fever -- make these areas critical to controlling both diseases. The strict stay-at-home orders the country enforced at the end of March shut down India’s giant tuberculosis program for almost three months. In April, one million fewer children received the BCG vaccine that prevents severe tuberculosis, government data shows. “There should’ve been bi-directional screening from the beginning, because in checking for one you may be missing the other,” said Chapal Mehra, a public health specialist and author of “Tuberculosis -- India’s Ticking Time Bomb.” “India has ignored investing in health for three to four decades, and governments across the board have been guilty of this. We lack political will, we lack moral compulsions and we don’t seem to value our citizens’ lives enough it seems.” While Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been quick to laud front-line health workers, calling them “coronawarriors,” the federal government has only allocated an additional $2 billion to the fund the epidemic’s medical needs. That has sapped resources for non-virus related spending. A spokesman for India’s Ministry of Health did not immediate respond to requests for comment. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said the “government will be increasing investments in public health to be absolutely ready for such eventualities in future.” But she mentioned no specific figure or timeline for this.‘Infect, Infect, Infect’ India’s health infrastructure is run down at the best of times, with understaffed public hospitals, chronic shortages of hospital beds, low intensive-care capacity and poorly trained staff. India has 1.7 nurses per 1,000 people, 43% less than the World Health Organization recommends, and a dearth of doctors as well. The pandemic has also exposed the fragility of under-resourced health systems around the region. India’s neighbor Pakistan had 40 million children miss their polio vaccination, while Nepal faced a 50% increase in stillborn babies. When the pandemic broke out in India, understaffed and overcrowded hospitals had patients sleeping on the floor until beds were freed up and multiple patients being serviced by a single oxygen station. Limited transport during and after the lockdown also restricted people’s access to primary health centers and pharmacies, resulting in interrupted treatment and delayed diagnoses. India “takes no crisis seriously” since it deals with so many, and government advisers struggled to mount an effective response to the coronavirus that would also ensure an ability to fight other diseases, according to T Jacob John, one of India’s top virologists and the former head of the Indian Council for Medical Research’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology. “The coronavirus is an enemy with just one trick -- infect, infect, infect,” John said. “Our war didn’t succeed to slow down the enemy, but greater damage was done by friendly fire against immunization, tuberculosis, institutional deliveries and many more.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-health-time-bomb-keeps-ticking-and-it-s-not-covid-19-885722.html
11-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 11||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 45 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 46,49,620 as of September 11 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 77,380 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 35,42,663  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-11-885725.html
11-09-2020||National||Covid-19 cripples world's biggest job programme MGNREGA in India||Omkar Rathod was thankful for the company of hundreds of fellow migrant workers as they trudged home to far-flung villages once lockdown had shut Indian industry. But he didn't realise he would soon be competing with them for jobs. Back in his village in northern India since March, Rathod is vying for work under the world's largest jobs programmes: the only option for the millions of migrant workers who face mass job losses in a struggling economy and a raging pandemic. "If there were 15 people for a job earlier, now there are 200. Work for eight days is getting done in one day," Rathod, 45, said from Nawabganj in Uttar Pradesh. "This scheme is our only hope for work in our village. I got 15 days of work under the job scheme in May but nothing after that," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone. More than 82 million of the 98 million people who applied for jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act since April have secured work, a record that tops the number of new jobs created under the programme each year in India. But the scheme - worth billions of dollars - still falls far short of what is needed in a country with an estimated 100 million migrant workers. Experts say the fund - which has already been topped up - is once more close to spent. "This meets the demand up to September. But it is not enough. States should be asked to redraw labour budgets and be assured that adequate funding will be provided," said Ravi Srivastava, director of the Centre for Employment Studies at research organisation Institute for Human Development. The rural development ministry did not respond to repeated requests for comment, but officials of five states that recorded among the highest number of applicants said they had provided work to almost every job seeker. The scheme was created to provide steady wages and jobs for people, who were in turn creating assets for their villages, be it conserving water or improving roads. It was never envisioned as a bandage in a global pandemic. Vallabhacharya Pandey, a social activist who works with migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh, said the scheme had worked well in the initial weeks of the pandemic, when the only people seeking work were locals. "But the return of migrant workers has overburdened the programme," he said. Where do they go? India's estimated 100 million migrant workers were among the worst hit by India's strict lockdown, which triggered a mass exodus from city jobs at garment factories, building sites and brick kilns. Migrant labourers took to the roads en masse and walked back to the countless villages that dot the map and offer few opportunities to earn. After months back home, they said some employers were now sending buses or buying air tickets to get workers back, but many were still sat idle in their rural outposts awaiting any word on work. "The pandemic has come at a time when sectors of construction and manufacturing were already ailing. So even if they want to migrate to cities again, where do they go?” asked Raghunath Singh, vice-president of the All India Centre of Indian Trade Unions. Besides, jobs in cities have lost their sheen for many as nearly half of urban workers went without work, pay or financial assistance in the first three months of lockdown, studies show, with many reluctant to return. 100 days Launched more than 15 years ago to offer a secure livelihood to rural India, the scheme guarantees applicants at least 100 days of work for average daily wages of 200 rupees. It has been credited with saving families from poverty, and empowering women and the socially-marginalised. The scheme has provided about 800,000 households with an average of 34 work days this year, according to official data, with no data available for individuals. But those figures do not begin to tell the whole story, according to a group of activists, academics and researchers tracking the scheme. "Unmet demand is wider than it appears in the data as even a single day of work gets recorded as job provided," said M.S. Raunaq, secretary of the collective, called Peoples’ Action of Employment Guarantee (PAEG). Local officials said that "satiating the demand" was a challenge and attributed the shortfall to delays in feeding data, and jobs offered at a time when the workers were not available. Skill Officials overseeing the programme in five states contacted by the Thomson Reuters Foundation said they were creating jobs that could absorb more workers despite a backdrop of strikes, floods and tight budgets. Jobs include planting trees, building roads and cleaning canals - useful yet rarely tasks that tap into an applicant's trade. "Migrant workers are mostly skilled and earned 500 rupees a day, so 220 rupees won't keep them in rural areas," said PC Kishan, the scheme's commissioner in Rajasthan, referring to the overarching aim of the programme to slow emergency (distress) migration from India's web of villages. Omkar Rathod, for one, wants to go back to the town where, pre-virus, he earned 7,000 rupees a month at a car factory. He even got himself tested for coronavirus, hoping a certificate would help as the pandemic surges in rural India. But the job contractor told him there was no work yet - so he has no choice but to feed the family cows, stay put and nurse his worries. "Half a year is gone already and there is no work, neither outside nor in the village. What will we do?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cripples-worlds-biggest-job-programme-mgnrega-in-india-885751.html
11-09-2020||National||DH Toon | US President Donald Trump revels in nomination for 2021 Nobel Peace Prize||The nomination of Donald Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize for brokering the landmark Israel-UAE deal is a "hard-earned and well-deserved honour," the White House has said, underlining that the US President has made peace a cornerstone of his foreign policy efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-us-president-donald-trump-revels-in-nomination-for-2021-nobel-peace-prize-885762.html
11-09-2020||National||Being a woman, aren't you anguished? Kangana takes jibe at Sonia Gandhi||Backed by BJP’s support, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Friday trained guns at Congress’ interim president Sonia Gandhi and Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. The demolition at her office, Manikarnika Films Pvt Ltd, at  her bungalow in Pali Hill at Bandra by the Shiv Sena-dominated BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for alleged irregularities have put the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in a embarrassing situation. As Kangana kept switching targets between Congress and Shiv Sena, the Sharad Pawar-led NCP has distanced itself from the entire controversy. While targeting Shiv Sena, Kangana, however, showered praises at the saffron party’s founder late Balasaheb Thackeray and described the charismatic and firebrand leaders as one of her icons. “Great Balasaheb Thackeray one of my most favourite icons, his biggest fear was some day Shiv Sena will do “gutbandhan” and become Conress. I want to know what is his conscious feeling today looking at the condition of his party?” she said in an attack aimed at both Congress and Shiv Sena. In a tweet directed at Gandhi, she said: “Dear respected honourable Congress president Sonia Gandhi ji, being a woman aren’t you anguished by the treatment I am given by your government in Maharashtra? Can you not request your Government to uphold the principles of the Constitution given to us by Dr. Ambedkar?.” “You have grown up in the west and lived here in India. You may be aware of the struggles of women. History will judge your silence and indifference when your own Government is harassing women and ensuring a total mockery of law and order. I hope you will intervene,” she said. On Kangana’s attack on Gandhi, state Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said: “Origin matters! No surprise how BJP leaders can put their words in their mouths and use them for their vicious agenda!” Making his party’s stand clear, Pawar, the chief architect of MVA, said: “The government has nothing to do with this. The BMC has taken action against her office. As per my information, BMC takes such action if rules and regulations are violated. The BMC explained that it is the corporation’s decision. The BMC is fully responsible for this.” To Kangana’s charge the building where she lives in Khar belongs to Pawar and she bought the flat from his partner, the NCP supremo dismissed the charge. “I have no connection with the building,” he said. Joining the issue, Maharashtra’s leader of opposition and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that Shiv Sena blew the issue out of proportion.   “Why was the whole issue given such importance. Kangana was not a national issue. You made it big. You (Shiv Sena) went and razed her office. Kangana's issue was blown out of proportion by you. She is not a political leader. You don't go to demolish Dawood's home but you demolished her place," Fadnavis said, adding: “They are concentrating more on Kangana than Corona.” Supporting Kangana, BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam said: “Whether joining hands with ‘Hindu Hridaysamrat’ late Balasaheb Thackeray's sworn in enemies Congress and NCP or attacking a woman..this new  Sena has done everything that chisels a blot on Balasaheb's glorious legacy.” Kangana also said that she would continue to work from the office that has been ravaged by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. “I had my office opening on 15th Jan, shortly after corona hit us, like most of us I haven’t worked ever since, don’t have money to renovate it, I will work from those ruins keep that office ravaged as a symbol of a woman’s will that dared to rise in this world,” she declared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/being-a-woman-arent-you-anguished-kangana-takes-jibe-at-sonia-gandhi-885783.html
11-09-2020||National||India reports biggest spike of 96,551 Covid-19 cases; tally crosses 45-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload sprinted past 45 lakh and the death toll climbed to 76,271 with a record 96,551 infections and 1,209 fatalities being reported in a day, while the recoveries crossed 35 lakh on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 45,62,414, while the recoveries surged to 35,42,663, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.67 per cent while the recovery rate was recorded at 77.65 per cent. There are  9,43,480 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.68 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 5,40,97,975 samples have been tested up to September 10 with 11,63,542 samples being tested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-biggest-spike-of-96551-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-45-lakh-mark-885797.html
11-09-2020||National||Key takeaways from PM Modi's speech at School Education in 21st Century concalve||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the New Education Policy (NEP) will sow the seeds for starting a new era and it will give new direction to the 21st century India.  While addressing a conclave on School Education in 21st Century, PM Modi stated that the MyGov portal received more than 15 lakh suggestions from teachers on NEP implementation within a week of seeking their views. He assured that these suggestions would be taken into consideration.  Here are the key takeaways from his address: * PM Modi said that holistic development through Nature and learning amidst Nature is necessary. * He stated that the New age learning: engaging, exploring, experiencing and then expressing –  is the key to excellence.  * "NEP is based on integrated, interdisciplinary, fun-based experiences," PM said.  * Praising the new forward-looking curriculum, the prime minister said that with the help of NEP the students will step towards a new future. * The prime minister also listed the key skills that NEP will enhance -- critical thinking, creativity, collaboration, curiosity, communication. "Coding, understanding AI, IoT, cloud, data science, robotics will be key areas of the NEP curriculum," he said.  * "Currently, the education is restricting. This is the main reason for dropouts, hence, the NEP would allow students the independence to choose what they like," PM Modi said.  * NEP also addresses the issue of learning-driven education being replaced by marks and marksheet, he said. "Marksheets ultimately turn out to be pressure sheets for children, prestige sheets for families," he added. Self-assessment, peer-to-peer assessment along with holistic report card will replace marksheets, he said.  * Speaking about teaching primary school students in mother tongue, PM said other PISA countries would also follow this trend. So that children do not use most of their energy in translating it to their mother tongue before understanding and learning their lessons. This creates a gap between their parents and schools too. So, at least till Class 5 the medium of studies will be the regional languages or the students’ mother tongues. NEP will entail teachers learning new things and unlearning too. So he urges everyone along with the teaches to cooperate in this national mission Lastly, he reiterated to the teachers of India, the importance of them instilling social distancing norms, Covid-19 precautionary methods in students to combat these trying times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-pm-modis-speech-at-school-education-in-21st-century-concalve-885810.html
11-09-2020||National||Nirav will not get justice in India: Former Supreme Court judge Katju to tesify in UK court||Former Supreme Court Judge Markandey Katju will testify in favour of Nirav Modi, the absconding offender, in a court in United Kingdom and will inform it that Modi will not get a fair trial in India. Nirav Modi is the main suspect in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud worth Rs 13,000 crore and money-laundering case. Corroborating a statement released by Modi's lawyers on the polictical influence on the Indian judiciary, the former chairman of Press Council of India, said that under political influence, crucial matters were being allotted to "handpicked" benches of judges who favour the ruling party. Questioning how a law minister can declare Nirav Modi "guilty" he said, "Only a court of law can do that. But the law minister is pronouncing judgements." A senior government official replied to Katju's testimony saying that it will not impact Modi's extradition trial. "We have sufficient incriminating evidence to establish a fit case for Nirav Modi's extradition," he said.  "A similar stunt was tried by another fugitive economic offender Vijay Mallya by procuring a so-called expert witness by a retired high court judge but the same was trashed by the London court," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-will-not-get-justice-in-india-former-supreme-court-judge-katju-to-tesify-in-uk-court-885820.html
11-09-2020||National||JEE Main Result 2020: How to check your scores at official website at jeemain.nta.nic.in||The National Testing Agency (NTA) has declared the JEE Main Results 2020 today. The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main for admission to engineering colleges across the country is conducted twice a year. Candidates will be able to download their scorecard from the official website at jeemain.nta.nic.in. JEE Main Result 2020: How to download scorecard online Step 2: Click on “JEE Mains 2020 results”. Step 3: A new page will appear on the display screen. Key in your credentials and login.  Step 4: The JEE Mains 2020 will be displayed on the screen.  Download the results and take its print out for future reference. NTA had conducted the JEE Main 2020 from September 1 to 6 in which over 6.3 lakh candidates appeared. The exam was conducted amid strict protocols and proper precautionary measures were taken at the exam centres to prevent the candidates from the Coronavirus infection. The crucial exam has been mired in controversy due to demand from a section of students and opposition parties to postpone the exam in view of rising coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-main-result-2020-how-to-check-your-scores-at-official-website-at-jeemainntanicin-885822.html
11-09-2020||National||National Education Policy aims to remove marksheet pressure: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that school students should have a new curriculum, which is in sync with the new National Education Policy, by 2022 when the nation celebrates its 75th year of Independence. Noting that marksheet has become “pressure sheet” for students and “prestige sheet” for families, the prime minister said the new policy aims to remove this pressure. The NEP will reduce the syllabus and make learning a fun-based and complete experience, he said. The new curriculum framework will be developed and be ready by 2022 when the nation celebrates its 75th year of Independence, he said addressing the “School Education Conclave” organised by the Ministry of Education. The new curriculum will be a future-ready and scientific. It will have new skills to promote critical thinking, creativity, communication and curiosity, Modi said. The prime minister noted that the Ministry of Education has received over 15 lakh suggestions from teachers on the implementation of NEP within a week through the MyGov portal. Advocating teaching up to class 5 in mother tongue, the prime minister said language is just a mode of study and not a study in itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-education-policy-aims-to-remove-marksheet-pressure-pm-narendra-modi-885832.html
11-09-2020||National||Acharya Vinoba Bhave and Swami Vivekananda have a lot to teach humanity: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday recalled two important events that mark this day for India -- the birth anniversary of Acharya Vinoba Bhave and Swami Vivekananda's famous address in Chicago -- and said both great men have a lot to teach the entire humanity. In his tweets, Modi also noted that the world remembers 9/11 (September 11) for the dastardly terror attack on this day in the USA and said if humans had walked on the path of Bahve's slogan of 'Jai Jagat' and Vivekananda's nineteenth-century message of universal brotherhood, the destruction that followed would not have occurred.  "Today, on 11th September we in India mark two important milestones.  The Jayanti of Acharya Vinoba Bhave. The day Swami Vivekananda delivered his outstanding address in Chicago. These great men have a lot to teach the entire humanity," Modi said. Paying tribute to Bhave on his 125th birth anniversary, the prime minister said, "In 1918 Mahatma Gandhi wrote about Bhave that 'I do not know in what terms to praise you. Your love and your character fascinate me and so also your self-examination. I am not fit to measure your worth'." Modi added that Vivekananda's address in 1893 perfectly demonstrated the spirit of India's ethos and the values that are an integral part of our land, as he urged youngsters to read the text of his address. He also tagged a link to the address.  "The world remembers 9/11 for the dastardly attack on this day in USA. If only humankind had walked on the path of 'Jai Jagat' given by Acharya Vinoba Bhave & Swami Vivekananda's message of Universal Brotherhood given in 1893, the destruction that followed would not have occurred," the prime minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/acharya-vinoba-bhave-and-swami-vivekananda-have-a-lot-to-teach-humanity-pm-narendra-modi-885833.html
11-09-2020||National||Integrate virtual courts into legal ecosystem: Parliamentary panel||A Parliamentary panel on Friday recommended integrating virtual courts into legal eco-system, saying it would result in an improvement over traditional courts as those are more citizen friendly and offer greater access to justice, besides being cost-effective for both individual litigants and court. "Traditional courtrooms may well remain necessary for our future, but they are certainly not sufficient. There is a need to integrate virtual courts into the country’s legal ecosystem," the panel headed by BJP MP Bhupendra Yadav said. In its interim report on functioning of virtual courts, introduced following Covid-19 pandemic, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice, said amendments may be brought in laws to legalise it and its proceedings.  The judiciary may identify categories of cases that can be tried by virtual courts, it said. It noted the Department of Justice in its written replies to the committee submitted that the offences under Motor Vehicles Act (Traffic Challan cases), petty offences, cases registered under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, Motor Accident Claim Petition cases can be tried in virtual courts. "The committee is of the view that all such matters where personal presence may be dispensed with, can be transferred from regular court establishments to virtual courts. The committee believes that virtual adjudication will bring massive benefits across the system," it said. In complex cases such as those involving interpretation of law, facts, examination of a large number of witnesses and so forth, a hybrid model may be adopted wherein manual processes such as filing of plaint, vakalatnama, issuing of summons etc may be automated and digitised and the hearing may be held in a physical courtroom, it said. Virtual courts can be extended permanently to various Appellate Tribunals like TDSAT, IPAB, NCLAT etc located across the country which do not require personal appearances of the parties or advocates, the committee said. The panel noted that the concept of virtual courts has gained immense ground during Covid-19 pandemic times. "It is and will remain the new reality and the new normal. The committee, therefore, recommends that the concept of virtual courts may well be extended to cover arbitration hearings, conciliation and summary trials," it said. For instance, if national and international arbitrations are allowed to be conducted through virtual courts , there will be hardly any requirement for real time travel to distant locations. This move will unlock the courts and also mitigate the inconvenience of attending courts as long distance travels can be dispensed with and proceedings become less expensive as well, it added. Maintaining that digital transformation of the judiciary has important implications for clearing the significant backlog of cases, it said though virtual courts have their own shortcomings, they constituted an advancement over the existing system, and therefore, are worth embracing. It also recommended that the Bar Council of India may introduce a computer course in law courses to enable students to get trained in handling computers and get adapted to the online systems. This will help educate and equip budding lawyers with knowledge and skills required for handling digital platforms. Notably, video conferencing facilities have been operationalised between 3,240 court complexes and corresponding 1,272 prisons for purposes for dealing with remand matters. In the wake of pandemic, the Supreme Court had on April 6 Suo Motu directed all courts to adopt virtual courts system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/integrate-virtual-courts-into-legal-ecosystem-parliamentary-panel-885843.html
11-09-2020||National||India had about 64 lakh Covid-19 infections by early May: National sero-survey||More than 64 lakh Indians were exposed to Covid-19 as against the official count of around 62,000 on May 10 – a jump of 100 times – demonstrating a silent spread of the virus escaping the detection net in the early months of the epidemic. This is the finding of the Indian Council of Medical Research's own serological survey, which was not published so far, even though the government shared a few points from the survey in a press conference in June. “A cumulative 6,468,388 adult infections were estimated in India by the early May,” said the survey whose results have appeared in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. For comparison, there were more than 56,000 laboratory-confirmed cases on May 8, which rose to 62,000 on May 10. While disclosing the survey findings at a press conference in June, neither ICMR director general Balram Bhargava nor the NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul revealed the 64 lakh figure. For every laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 case, there were 82-130 undocumented cases of infection, as per the survey that screened 28,000 people from 70 districts in 21 states. For the country as a whole, the seropositivity was 0.73%, suggesting the vulnerability of a large chunk of the adult population.  "The findings indicated that the overall seroprevalence in India was low, with less than one per cent of the adult population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 by mid-May 2020. The low prevalence observed in most districts indicates that India is in the early phase of the epidemic and the majority of the Indian population is still susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection," the survey report said. However, several serosurveys carried out by the states showed the virus spread much more within the community as antibodies against Covid-19 were found among 29% people in Delhi, 16% in Mumbai, 51% in Pune, 28% in Punjab and 21% in Chennai. In Mumbai slums, the seropositivity rate goes up to 57%. The survey has also estimated that infection fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among the total number of infections — in India ranged from 0.0018% in districts with least prevalence to 0.11% in districts with the highest prevalence on May 24. The numbers changed to 0.0027% to 0.15% on June 1. However, the ICMR scientists admitted that the death figures might be a case of underestimation because of an inaccurate and incomplete system of death reporting. Currently, India’s case fatality rate, the proportion of deaths among laboratory Covid-19 cases, is 1.7%. Earlier this month ICMR carried out a second round of serosurvey in the same districts but expanding the base this time. Every member of a family was sampled unlike the first one in which only one person from each family was selected. The results are likely to be out next month. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases and Covid-19 deaths are on a steady rise. On Friday, 96,551 new cases were reported taking the tally to 45.62 lakh. For the first time, more than 1,200 deaths were recorded as the toll stands at 76271.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-had-about-64-lakh-covid-19-infections-by-early-may-national-sero-survey-885858.html
11-09-2020||National||Former ISRO chief suggests ramping up India's space assets||Amid tension on the border with China, veteran space scientist G Madhavan Nair on Friday said India should ramp up its space assets and enhance coverage of the region to keep pace with the changing times. In an interview to PTI, he said in almost all areas of security-related activities, the space -- earth observation, communication and electronic intelligence, among other things -- plays a very major role. "The Chinese side, as far as I understand, have multiplied the number of radar imaging satellites, earth observation satellites and communication satellites several fold so that they can have continuous coverage of the globe. So, they will get all kinds of information from their constellation (of satellites)", Nair said. "Leave alone the global coverage, at least across the border, India should have a plan to have continuous coverage", the former Chairman of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) said. He noted that India has demonstrated its capability by launching satellites in various fields. "Now, there has to be a deployment plan for providing continuous coverage. That is very much needed by the country. Certainly there is a need for multiplying the number of satellites, earth stations and so on. So this needs to be attended to," the acclaimed scientist said. Speaking in general terms, Nair, who had also served as Secretary in the Department of Space and Chairman of Space Commission, said space would play a significant role in future wars. "Whether it's earth observation, electronic intelligence, communications, and also coordinating with various resources like ships, aircraft, drones and all those things, the space will play a very major role", he observed. Protecting space assets is going to be a big challenge in future. Space technology-wise, India is on par with China, except in the area of human space-flight, he said but noted -- referring to the 'Gaganyaan' venture -- that work on undertaking such manned missions is already on in the country. "But Chinese pump in lot of resources (in the area of space). Their budget is nearly five times more than India's annual space budget", Nair said. "They (China) take an integrated view of civilian and defence requirements," added Nair, during whose tenure of six years (2003-2009) as Chairman, ISRO/Secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-isro-chief-suggests-ramping-up-indias-space-assets-885867.html
11-09-2020||National||India may see 70 lakh Covid-19 cases by October: Study||India may witness over seven million Covid-19 cases by the first week of October, surpassing the US and emerging as the country with the highest number of infections, a team of researchers from BITS Pilani, Hyderabad said on Friday. The Union Health Ministry data on Friday said the number of coronavirus cases in India breached the 45-lakh mark while a data released by a national public health institute in the US said the number of infections in the North American country crossed six million as of September 8. The team has been engaged in forecasting Covid-19 pandemic in India using advanced statistical learning techniques, lead researcher Dr TSL Radhika of the Department of Applied Mathematics, BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus said. The team has recently communicated its findings to the 'International Journal of Infectious Diseases' published by the well-known publisher Elsevier. "Our results, obtained using a model based on statistical learning techniques applied to the existing data, indicate that India is likely to become the top Covid-19 country in the world, surpassing the United States by about the first week of October, that is in about a month's time. The total number of cases is also likely to cross the 70-lakh mark by this time. The figure, however, is contingent on the number of tests being carried out," Dr Radhika said in email communication to PTI. The researchers are now working on refining their model based on advanced machine learning techniques to make predictions for the longer term, the researcher added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-see-70-lakh-covid-19-cases-by-october-study-885872.html
11-09-2020||National||Bihar polls prequel in Rajya Sabha; RJD's Manoj Jha vs JD(U)'s Harivansh||RJD leader Manoj Jha on Friday filed his nomination papers for the election to the post of Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman as the joint opposition candidate. Jha, an academician-turned-politician, will take on Harivansh Narayan Singh, a JD(U) member who is seeking re-election to the post as the candidate of the ruling BJP-led NDA. The face-off between the RJD and the JD(U) leaders comes ahead of the Bihar assembly elections scheduled for later this year. Jha was accompanied by Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Ahmed Patel, Jairam Ramesh, DMK leader Tiruchi Siva, Samajwadi Party member Javed Ali, among others. “This election is not about individuals, but to send out a strong message to the ruling party that please, start listening to the opposition,” Jha said after filing his nomination papers. Jha has the support of 12 opposition parties and can hope to win 95 votes if the AAP and the BSP back him. Harivansh’s election is almost certain as he has the support of 135 members in the 244-member house. One seat in the Rajya Sabha is vacant. The election to the Deputy Chairperson's post will be held at 3 pm on September 14, the day the Monsoon Session of the Parliament begins. The post fell vacant after Harivansh's term in the Upper House expired. He has since been re-elected as a member of the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-polls-prequel-in-rajya-sabha-rjds-manoj-jha-vs-jdus-harivansh-885881.html
11-09-2020||National||Healthcare experts welcome decline in India's child mortality rate||Welcoming the decline in India's child mortality rate between 1990 and 2019, healthcare experts have advised that the number can be further brought down by providing quality essential health and nutrition services to every newborn. India's child mortality rate has declined substantially between 1990 and 2019, according to a new UN report. The country registered a 4.5 per cent annual rate of reduction in under-five mortality between 1990-2019. The number of under-five deaths in India dropped from 3.4 million in 1990 to 8,24,000 in 2019. The infant mortality rate (deaths per 1,000 live births) in India declined from 89 in 1990 to 28 last year, with the country registering 6,79,000 infant deaths last year, a significant decline from 2.4 million infant deaths in 1990. The country also witnessed a decrease in neonatal mortality rate between 1990 and 2019 from 57 to 22 - 1.5 million neonatal deaths in 1990 to 5,22,000 deaths in 2019. Healthcare experts have welcomed the drop, attributing it to political will and commitment and evidence based policy and programming decisions prioritising newborn and child health. Sujeet Ranjan, executive director at Coalition for Food and Nutrition Security (CFNS) said although the global number of newborn deaths declined from 5 million in 1990 to 2.4 million in 2019, children face the greatest risk of death in the first 28 days of life. "Protecting the progress made on nutrition in India will, therefore, require continued leadership, attention, financing and commitment at all levels and across society," Ranjan said. "There is no time to lose because women are pregnant today, babies are being born every single day and many more, including adolescents, are in sensitive periods of physical and mental development," Ranjan said. Noting that Covid-19 is likely to be there for a long time, he said a plan needs to be made keeping that in mind. "Improving the quality of foods, feeding practices, and the nutrition situation of children in the first two years of life, represent a critical window of opportunity to break the inter-generational cycle of malnutrition," he said. If this critical opportunity is missed, child malnutrition will continue to self-perpetuate, malnourished girls will become malnourished women, who give birth to low birth weight infants, who suffer from poor nutrition in the first two years of life, he added. "The best opportunity to break this vicious inter-generational cycle is to concentrate efforts on improving the nutrition of infants and young children from conception through the first two years of life," Ranjan said. Ketan Bharadva, president at Infant Young Child Feeding (IYCF) Chapter of Indian Academy of Paediatrics, said at present, India has the largest population of children (less than 14 years) worldwide which is a factor in large number of mortality figures as proportions of world wide figures comparison. "Focus on child health prior to the eighties was mainly on infectious diseases, particularly the vaccine preventable diseases (like tuberculosis, polio, measles); diarrhea and malnutrition. With improving medical care, vaccine coverage, sanitation, potable water the childhood infections are reducing remarkably in the last two decades," he said. Bharadva said malnutrition in children is a well known risk factor for many diseases such as diarrhea, measles, pneumonia, HIV, tuberculosis, and malaria. "It was a major contributor to mortality in children less than 5 years of age in every state of India in 2017, accounting for 68 per cent deaths. Still it remains a big challenge. Awareness on nutrition, education, supportive programmes to promote breastfeeding and complementary feeding are the key to tackling malnutrition," Bharadva said. Sebanti Ghosh, country programme director at Alive and Thrive said neonatal mortality was a key contributor to the child mortality. India prioritised delivery of quality care at birth in public health facilities, early essential newborn care including home based newborn care through ASHA workers and multi-tiered facility based newborn care including state of the art care at Sick Newborn Care Units in the public health system to address the needs of preterm/low birth weight and sick neonates, Ghosh said. The current progress in decline has to be consolidated while accelerating the coverage of essential newborn and child health and nutrition services at scale with quality and in equitable manner through both home/community based platforms and facility based platforms, Ghosh said. "The interstate and intra-state disparities along with socio-cultural and economic inequities must be addressed in ensuring reach of all the essential health & nutrition services with quality to every newborn," Ghosh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-experts-welcome-decline-in-indias-child-mortality-rate-885884.html
11-09-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries in India surge to 35,42,663||Sixty per cent of the daily new Covid-19 recoveries in India are coming from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, which also account for 57 per cent of the new cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Total Covid-19 recoveries in the country have surged to 35,42,663 as on date with a total 70,880 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours of which Maharashtra alone contributed to more than 14,000 and Andhra Pradesh more than 10,000. Of the total 96,551 new cases being reported in a span 24 hours, Maharashtra alone has more than 23,000 infections and Andhra Pradesh more than 10,000, the ministry said. Sixty per cent of the new recovered cases are being reported from five states -- Maharashtra (20.1 pc), Tamil Nadu (14.2 pc), Andhra Pradesh (9.9 pc), Karnataka (8.7 pc) and Uttar Pradesh (6.5 pc) taking the national recovery rate to 77.65 per cent, it highlighted. "Nearly 57 per cent of the new cases are reported from only five states. These are the same states that are also contributing 60 per cent of the new recovered cases," the ministry underlined. There are 9,43,480 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.68 per cent of the total caseload, the data updated at 8 am stated. Maharashtra is leading this tally with more than 2,60,000 cases followed by Karnataka with more than 1,00,000 cases. Nearly 74 per cent of the total active cases are in nine most affected states  --Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Assam, Odisha and Chhattisgarh.    Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh contribute more than 48 per cent of the total active cases, the ministry said. As many as 1,209 deaths have been registered in a day. Maharashtra has reported 495 deaths followed by Karnataka with 129 deaths, whereas Uttar Pradesh has logged 94 deaths, the ministry stated.   India's COVID-19 caseload mounted to 45,62,414 and the death toll climbed to 76,271 with a record 96,551 infections and 1,209 fatalities being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 35,42,663, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-in-india-surge-to-3542663-885885.html
11-09-2020||National||G-20 should work together for Covid-19 remedies, says Gangwar||Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar has called upon all G-20 members to continue working together for finding solutions to the problems arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. Gangwar was speaking at a virtual meeting of G-20 Labour and Employment Ministers late last evening. "The Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour and Employment Santosh Gangwar has called upon all G-20 members to continue to work together for finding solutions to the common problems resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic," a labour ministry statement said. He pointed out that the pandemic has led to a new normal and changed the way things used to function. Referring to region-specific measures to contain the impact of the pandemic, he said to mitigate the problems of the workers, India encouraged its employers for payment of wages to their workers. Gangwar added that adequate arrangements were made to provide temporary shelters, food and medical facilities to migrant labourers. In order to facilitate distribution of foodgrains to migrant workers, the Indian Government has launched 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme, Gangwar informed the members. Covid-19 and its impact were also discussed in the meeting. Gangwar also lauded the efforts of the Saudi Presidency in developing the G-20 Youth Roadmap 2025. The indicators relating to youth which have been identified for the first time at the G-20 Forum will help assess the outcomes on the progress of youth in the labour market. Gangwar also conveyed India's firm belief that encouraging innovation, entrepreneurship and industry-led skill development are the key drivers of youth development. In India, he said social security coverage in the formal sector is provided through an effective and financially viable contributory system. For providing social security to workers in informal sector, India has launched a unique Voluntary Pension Scheme wherein the government gives an equal matching contribution, he added. Appreciating that the universally relevant issue of gender equality is again the focus of G-20 this year, he said to encourage women labour force participation in India, women are now allowed to work during the night time in all the establishments including mines with adequate safety and their consent. "To promote women entrepreneurs, we are providing collateral-free loans to women to start their own business", Gangwar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/g-20-should-work-together-for-covid-19-remedies-says-gangwar-885895.html
11-09-2020||National||States obligated to implement Centre's procedures on Covid-19, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Friday said states are obligated to implement the Centre's standard operating procedure (SOP) on various aspects of Covid-19 including transporting a suspected or confirmed case.  The top court, hearing a PIL filed by organisation 'Earth' alleging that exorbitant rates are being charged for ambulances from suspected and confirmed coronavirus patients, however, made clear that states should fix this charge. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan took note of the submissions of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has already issued the SOP in this regard and all states "will have to implement it". "It is obligatory for all the states to follow the SOP and take appropriate measures with regard to augmenting the capacity of ambulances," said the bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah, in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing. The petitioner organisation said the SOP does not cover the pricing aspect of ambulances and this should be fixed as hospitals are charging exorbitantly and arbitrarily.  "State government will fix reasonable charge and all ambulances will be provided on that charge," the bench said and disposed of the PIL.   The bench, during the hearing, noted that the some states are not implementing the SOP and the patients are at the mercy of others and are being charged Rs 7,000 and sometimes up to Rs 50,000 for ambulance services. Earlier, the central government on March 29 had laid down the SOP on various issues including for medical staff attending to or transporting a suspected or confirmed case of Covid-19. The SOP was also meant to guide and train ambulance drivers and technicians in transporting Covid-19 patients. "Ideally, there should be ambulances identified specifically for transporting Covid suspect patients or those who have developed complications, to the health facilities," the SOP had said.  "Currently, there are two types of ambulances 'ALS (with ventilators) and BLS (without ventilators). States may empanel other ambulances having basic equipment like that of BLS and use it for Covid patients," the Health Ministry had said. It had warned against use of the ''102 ambulances'' for coronavirus patients and said they should only be used to transport pregnant women and sick infants. The emergency medical technician (EMT), driver of ambulance must wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when handling, managing and transporting identified and suspected cases of Covid-19. The patient and the attendant should be provided with triple-layer mask and gloves, the SOP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-obligated-to-implement-centres-procedures-on-covid-19-says-supreme-court-885898.html
11-09-2020||National||SC allows NLSIU to conduct separate admission test||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru to conduct its separate online admission test for five-year BA-LLB course, as scheduled on Saturday. The court, however, directed that neither the results of the examination would be declared nor any admission would be made on its basis till further orders. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah agreed to consider validity of the notification issued on September 3 for the National Law Aptitude Test, "looking into importance of the issue". The court fixed the next date of hearing on September 16, on a writ petition filed by former NLSIU Vice Chancellor Prof Venkat Rao and another person, Rakesh Kumar Agarwalla. The court said the examination will be subject to the outcome of the petition. It sought a response from the NLSIU within three days. Senior advocate Nidesh Gupta, appearing for the petitioners, contended the NLSIU can't conduct separate examinations as Memorandum of Association of consortium of National Law Universities mandated a common test for National Law Universities across the country. He said due to the Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation in some states, the CLAT was rescheduled several times. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for the NLSIU, submitted that this arrangement is only for this year. Next year, we will go back to CLAT. "If admissions were not completed within time by September then the institute would have lost Rs 16 crores by not admitting the 120 UG students and other PG students," he said. Senior advocates P S Narasimha and Gopal Sankaranarayana contended this was a serious issue and the Consortium would collapse if separate exam was allowed. The CLAT (Common Law Admission Test), for admission to 22 National Law Universities across the country, was first scheduled on May 10. The NLSIU was invariably listed, being a parent University since 2007. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the CLAT was rescheduled a number of times. It is now to be held on September 28. The NLSIU, on the ground to avoid zero academic year, decided to hold National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) on September 12 through online mode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-nlsiu-to-conduct-separate-admission-test-885899.html
11-09-2020||National||RBI lays down guidelines for banks to appoint chief compliance officers||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday laid down guidelines for appointment of the chief compliance officer (CCO) in banks to ensure uniform approach with regard to compliance and risk management culture across the banking industry. According to an RBI circular, the CCO should be appointed for a minimum fixed period of three years in the rank of a general manager or not below two levels of the rank of CEO. "Such an independent compliance function is required to be headed by a designated CCO selected through a suitable process with an appropriate 'fit and proper' evaluation/selection criteria to manage compliance risk effective," the RBI said. Observing that the banks follow diverse practices in this regard, the RBI said guidelines are meant to bring uniformity in approach followed by banks, to align the supervisory expectations on CCOs with best practices. As per the guidelines, a CCO "may be transferred/ removed before completion of the tenure only in exceptional circumstances with the explicit prior approval of the board after following a well-defined and transparent internal administrative procedure". The CCO, it added, should be a senior executive of the bank, preferably in the rank of a general manager or an equivalent position (not below two levels from the CEO). The CCO could also be recruited from the market. Further, there shall not be any "dual hatting", the RBI said. In other words, the CCO "shall not be given any responsibility which brings elements of conflict of interest, especially the role relating to business". Roles which do not attract direct conflict of interest like role of anti-money laundering officer can be performed by the CCO in those banks where principle of proportionality in terms of bank's size, complexity, risk management strategy and structures justifies that. Also, the CCO should not be a member of any committee which brings his/her role in conflict with responsibility as member of the committee, including any committee dealing with purchases/ sanctions, it said. "In case the CCO is member of a committee, he/she may have only advisory role," the guidelines said. As per the circular, no vigilance case or adverse observation from the RBI should be pending against the candidate identified for appointment as the CCO. Selection of the candidate for the post of the CCO should be done on the basis of a well-defined selection process and recommendations made by the senior executive-level selection committee constituted by the board for the purpose, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-lays-down-guidelines-for-banks-to-appoint-chief-compliance-officers-885901.html
11-09-2020||National||DGCA asks IndiGo for report on 'safety violation' by mediapersons on flight with Kangana Ranaut onboard||The IndiGo flight ferrying actor Kangana Ranaut from Chandigarh to Mumbai on Wednesday has come under the glare of civil aviation regulator DGCA for violation of safety and physical distancing protocols. Videos from inside the flight, posted on social media, showed media persons milling around Ranaut’s seat for a comment from the actor, who is at the centre of a political row over her remarks targeting the Shiv Sena. “We have seen some videos wherein media persons are standing too close to each other in the 6E264 flight on Wednesday. It seems to be a violation of safety and social distancing protocols. We have asked IndiGo to submit a report on this incident,” said a DGCA official. In a statement, IndiGo said it had submitted a statement to the DGCA regarding the matter pertaining to flight 6E-264 from Chandigarh to Mumbai on September 9,2020. “We would like to reiterate that our cabin crew, as well as the captain, followed all the requisite protocols, including announcements to restrict photography, follow social distancing and maintain overall safety,” the airline said. IndiGo said it had also followed the requisite protocol of documenting this matter in the post-flight report. In the videos on social media, reporters and camera persons were seen making videos inside the flight where Ranaut was seated in one of the front rows. Most of the reporters were without masks, which are a prerequisite during the entire duration of the flight in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In January, stand-up comic Kunal Kamra was banned from flying by several airlines after he had confronted Republic TV founder Arnab Goswami on a IndiGo flight. In response to Kamra’s actions, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said that “offensive behavior designed to provoke and create disturbance inside an aircraft is absolutely unacceptable and endangers safety of air travellers”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-asks-indigo-for-report-on-safety-violation-by-mediapersons-on-flight-with-kangana-ranaut-onboard-885903.html
11-09-2020||National||Vice President Naidu bats for value-based education||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday stressed on the need to impart value-based education for all-round development of children. He also called for moving beyond academics and making value-based teaching and learning an integral part of the education system. Naidu was speaking at the online launch of the 'Heartfulness All India Essay Writing Event'. The event is held every year to commemorate the United Nations' International Day of the Youth between July and November. The vice-president appreciated the National Education Policy-2020 for focusing on value-based education and said emphasis on values has been an "integral part of all our teachings since ancient times". Value-based education assumes greater importance in the present day and fast-paced IT-driven world where access to an explosion of information, technologies, tools and news can be very overwhelming, and confusing, and misdirecting too at times, Naidu said. Expressing the need to rebuild foundations based on universal values, he called for returning to the roots and draw upon the wisdom of India's traditional methods of teaching, an official statement said. Naidu also called upon governments, parents, teachers, institutions and voluntary organisations to take the lead in imparting critical life lessons to students. He expressed confidence that if the country moves in this direction, India will lead the resurgence of value-based education for the world to follow. Describing education as the key to fully leverage demographic dividend, the vice president asked universities to improve standards to make India a leading hub of knowledge and innovation. Calling for greater thrust on research and collaboration between the academia and the industry, Naidu felt a need for greater investment in research by both public sector and private sector institutions. Drawing attention to the challenging situation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, he observed that nations have shown strong resolve and are working together in emerging out of the challenge. Observing that adversity is the time when one's character is tested, Naidu said that no problem is insurmountable when "we work together with strong values". Naidu also said that the pandemic has caused some stress in people's minds and the best way to release this is to live together with one's family and practice meditation, the statement said. Describing "share and care" as the core of Indian philosophy, the vice president called for inculcating values of compassion, empathy, respect for elders and religious tolerance. He also appealed to provide help to the needy and marginalised people in times like the current pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-bats-for-value-based-education-885918.html
11-09-2020||National||SC notice to Delhi, Telangana, Odisha & West Bengal over non-implementation of Ayushman Bharat scheme||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to the states of Delhi, Telangana, Odisha and West Bengal on a plea questioning non-implementation of the Union government's Ayushman Bharat scheme, meant for free treatment of various diseases, including Covid-19, due to political reasons. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response also from the Centre on a petition filed by advocate Shravan Kumar on behalf of Hyderabad-based BJP leader Perala Shekhar Rao. The petitioner contended that the majority of states have been implementing the Ayushman Bharat scheme in addition to the state-level health insurance schemes for the benefit of the people. "But due to political reasons, the states of Telangana, Delhi, West Bengal and Odisha are not doing it, resulting in great loss to the people," he said. He sought a declaration of actions by four states as illegal, unconstitutional and contrary to Article 14 (equality) and 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. Rao sought a direction to the Centre and the four states to frame a policy for the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Scheme - Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana or provide the people with an option to choose the health schemes of state or central government, which provided treatment for Covid-19 and many other diseases in both government and private hospitals. The National Health Authority has been issuing various directions starting from March 2020 to August with respect to the usage of the Ayushman Bharat Scheme for testing and treatment of Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 16,039 hospitals, including 8,059 private facilities have been empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana across the country. The authority also fixed the rates for about 1,500 treatment procedures considering the expenses required for the treatment, hospitalisation, etc. About Rs 6,400 crore has been allotted in the Union Budget of 2020-21 for the implementation of the scheme across the country, the petition pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-delhi-telangana-odisha-west-bengal-over-non-implementation-of-ayushman-bharat-scheme-885931.html
11-09-2020||National||Government to document data on post-Covid-19 complications||The Centre is planning to carry out a survey to document such instances to help plan appropriate public health responses after patients who recovered from Covid-19 reported complications The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is likely to carry out a telephonic survey of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 using the existing database. According to the health ministry, nearly 36 lakh patients have recovered from Covid-19 and there have been instances of some patients reporting side effects of the treatment of the infectious disease that has claimed 76,271 lives across the country. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is concurrently developing a registry of medical conditions that develop post-Covid-19. Covid-19 recoverees have reported complications such as respiratory, cardiovascular, neurological problems, immunological reactions among children and fibrosis in lungs have come to the fore within the country as well as abroad. A committee of domain knowledge experts set up by the health ministry is also working on a guidance note on possible complications that may afflict recovered patients. The guidance note would be issued to the states so that they can share it with the health facilities in their areas for patients getting discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-document-data-on-post-covid-19-complications-885933.html
11-09-2020||National||Russia welcomes India and China's decision to de-escalate tensions||Russia on Friday welcomed India and China's decision to de-escalate tensions in eastern Ladakh, with foreign minister Sergei Lavrov saying he was "very happy" that he could provide his Indian and Chinese counterparts a platform for a "very well-timed" meeting. India and China agreed on a five-point plan for resolving the prolonged border face-off, including quick disengagement of troops during talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on Thursday on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet. Addressing a joint press conference here with his Chinese counterpart Wang after bilateral talks, Lavrov noted that the foreign ministers of the three countries had a very productive meeting on Thursday under the Russia, India and China (RIC) format. "We are very happy that Moscow has presented a platform to Russia, China and India to have this very productive, fruitful meeting whose goal is to stabilise the situation on the border between India and China," Lavrov said while a reporter sought his comments on the India-China roadmap to deescalate tensions along their borders. "It was a very productive and very well timed meeting and I am very happy that it happened," he said on the bilateral meeting between Jaishankar and Wang. Ahead of the meeting between Jaishankar and Wang, a senior Russian diplomat in New Delhi had expressed confidence that India and China will be able to resolve the border standoff through dialogue. Deputy Chief of the Russian embassy Roman Babushkin said Moscow would like to see "de-escalation and disengagement" through talks in eastern Ladakh. "We hope that India and China will find a solution to the border issues through dialogue," he said at an online interaction with journalists in New Delhi on Tuesday. His comments came a day after tension escalated in eastern Ladakh following a fresh confrontation between Indian and Chinese troops in the region. "We are not participating in the resolution of disputes between the two countries. We are focusing on the creation of a positive atmosphere for it," Babushkin said, ruling out the possibility of Russia playing the role of a mediator unless it is asked to do so by both India and China. The Russian diplomat said though the SCO Charter doesn't allow any bilateral dispute to be taken up, the bloc provides a platform to create mutual trust and finding common ground between member countries. Jaishankar's trip to Moscow happened days after Defence Minister Singh visited the Russian capital to attend a meeting of SCO defence ministers. Last Friday, Singh held an over two-hour meeting with Chinese Defence Minister Gen Wei Fenghe on the escalating border row between the two countries in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-welcomes-india-and-chinas-decision-to-de-escalate-tensions-885934.html
11-09-2020||National||AAI building new terminal at Leh airport to handle 20 lakh passengers annually||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) on Friday said it is constructing a new terminal building at Leh airport that will be able to handle 20 lakh passengers annually. The existing terminal capacity lets the airport handle more than nine lakh passengers per annum, the AAI said in a press release. "To meet out the traffic growth and growing demand, construction of a state-of-the-art new terminal building with modern facilities is underway at a cost of Rs 480 crore," it stated. The new terminal's construction work will be finished by December 2022 and it will be able to handle 20 lakh passengers annually, the AAI noted. The Kushok Bakula Rinpoche Airport in Leh is situated at a height of 3,256 metre above average sea level. "The design of the building will reflect the philosophy of ancient Buddhist wisdom intertwined with a modern ethos and closely incorporate Buddhist design elements in the overall look and feel of the building," the AAI stated. Leh attracts a large inflow of tourists both from home and abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aai-building-new-terminal-at-leh-airport-to-handle-20-lakh-passengers-annually-885935.html
11-09-2020||National||Fire on IOC charter vessel doused, major environmental disaster averted||In a massive effort, Indian and Sri Lankan agencies have put out a fire on an oil tanker off Sri Lanka's coast without spilling any of the two million barrels of cargo it was carrying, averting a major environmental disaster. "This is a story of great coordination and superb multi-disciplinary efforts. Indian Coast Guard and Indian Navy alongside Sri Lankan Navy have successfully put out the fire on New Diamond vessel," said Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, Chairman of Indian Oil Corp (IOC). The very large crude carrier (VLCC), which was chartered by IOC to ferry oil from Kuwait to its Paradip refinery in Odisha, caught fire on September 3, about 65 kilometers off the east coast of Sri Lanka. Vaidya said the fire was extinguished two days back, without any impact on the oil that the ship was carrying. "The entire cargo was saved," he said. "Imagine the environmental disaster that would have happened if the two million barrels of crude oil on the ship would have caught fire or spilled into the sea". The coordinated fire-fighting and rescue effort helped avert a Mauritius-like disaster where a Japanese bulk carrier MV Wakashio struck a coral reef off the Indian Ocean Island on July 25, and began spilling oil August 6. "Thankfully, the cargo of crude oil is intact. We have averted an environmental disaster," he said. Vaidya said a salvage team is now inspecting the ship for the damage and would decide on the future course of action including towing the vessel to a location for the transfer of crude oil to another ship for onward movement to Paradip. Panama-flagged vessel MT New Diamond was loaded with 270,000 tonnes (2 million barrels) of Kuwaiti crude at Mina-Al-Ahmadi in Kuwait and was headed to Paradip. The vessel is owned by Proto Emporios Shipping Inc, Liberia while the technical and commercial operator is New Shipping Ltd of Greece. The vessel caught fire when it was at a distance of 38 nautical miles off the Sangamankanda Point. He said in a well-coordinated effort of the Sri Lankan Air Force and Navy, 19 crew members of the ship were first rescued. Later the master and two officers onboard were safely rescued. The assistance of the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) was sought by the Sri Lankan Navy for fire-fighting. ICG, in a swift sea and air-coordinated operation, immediately deployed ships Shaurya, Sarang and Sujoy and a Dorner aircraft for fire-fighting. On September 4, the mission was also joined by Indian Navy ships, Sahyadri and Shakti, and two Sri Lankan naval vessels. New Diamond was first towed away from the Lankan shore and the fire was doused using a combination of foam and fire-extinguisher powder. "Once the salvage team gives a go-ahead, a ship-to-ship transfer of crude oil will happen and the cargo will then head for Paradip for final discharge," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-on-ioc-charter-vessel-doused-major-environmental-disaster-averted-885941.html
11-09-2020||National||Govt plans to construct over 50,000 km roads: Highways secy to investors during meet on InvIT||Terming InvIT as an attractive vehicle for mobilising funds for road infrastructure, the government on Friday said it is planning to construct over 50,000 km of highways. "Addressing a meeting of leading and large investor groups in New Delhi last evening, Secretary - Road Transport and Highways Giridhar Aramane said the ministry has plans for the construction of over 50,000 kilometres of highways, a majority of those will be 4 and 6 lanes wide," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. The secretary called upon the investors to consider that InvIT has scope for broad basing the investor groups. While addressing an investors' meet on Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT), Aramane said it promises to be an attractive vehicle for mobilising funds for road development and assured investors that the asset base of InvIT will be selected carefully to yield attractive returns and mitigate inherent risks. He said the proposed roads have a long history of tolling and thus the price discovery is likely to be handsome. The secretary also assured that efforts will be made to facilitate the realisation of value for investment, the statement said. Aramane added that the functioning of the investment manager will be democratised by bringing investing partners into the board of directors to manage the company in a professional manner. He said the project managers will also be selected on professional and efficiency basis. InvITs are instruments on the pattern of mutual funds and are designed to pool small sums of money from a number of investors to invest in assets that give cash flow over a period of time. The Union Cabinet has already approved setting up of InvIT. "This will enable National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) under the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to monetise completed national highways that have a toll collection track record of at least one year and NHAI reserves the right to levy toll on the identified highway," the statement said. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has been making concerted efforts for attracting potential investors to participate in this ambitious effort. The statement added: "The government has embarked upon a transformational programme of implementing National Infrastructure Pipeline to realise the potential of Indian Economy. Road development is one of the most important components of this programme, contributing over a quarter of the planned expenditure." Expansion of roads will give a boost to the economy by reducing logistic costs, connect, hinter-land to hubs, and cater to rapid growth in vehicle ownership, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-plans-to-construct-over-50000-km-roads-highways-secy-to-investors-during-meet-on-invit-885945.html
11-09-2020||National||Government lists 23 new Bills for the Monsoon session||The government has listed 23 new Bills, including 11 which seek to replace ordinances, for introduction in Parliament's Monsoon session beginning Monday. One of the ordinances the government plans to pass as a Bill during the 18-day-long session relates to providing preventive measures against violence on healthcare personnel. The ordinance makes acts of violence and harassment against healthcare personnel deployed in combating Covid-19 a non-bailable offence with a maximum punishment of seven years imprisonment and Rs 5 lakh fine. It also protects the healthcare fraternity, including doctors, nurses and ASHA workers. Another ordinance to be replaced by a Bill relates to a reduction in the salary of MPs by 30 per cent for a period of one year beginning April 1, 2020. The amount will be utilised in the fight against coronavirus. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 seeks to replace an ordinance issued recently to provide for the creation of an ecosystem where the farmers and traders enjoy the freedom of choice relating to sale and purchase of farmers’ produce which facilitates remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels. The ordinance also promotes an efficient, transparent and barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade and commerce of farmers’ produce outside the physical premises of markets or deemed markets. Among the Bills which the government has listed for introduction is The Jammu and Kashmir Official Language Bill, 2020. As per the bill, Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, apart from the existing Urdu and English, will be the official languages in the union territory. it provides for the languages to be used for the official purposes in the union territory. According to a Lok Sabha bulletin, the lower house will also take up discussion and voting on the First Batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants for the year 2020-21. It will also take up discussion and voting on the Excess Demands for Grants for the year 2016-17. According to the document, The Multi-State Cooperative Societies (Amendment) Bill, 2020 has also been listed for introduction. The proposed bill seeks to rationalise government role and increase the members’ participation in the working of the multi-state cooperative societies, to increase public faith in these societies and create a conducive environment for their growth and development. The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to permit non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) other than NBFC Factors (whose principal business is factoring) to undertake factoring business as well. It also seeks to permit Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS) entities to act as agents for financiers for filing of registration of charge with the central registry as this will lead to operational efficiency. Another bill listed for introduction is The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The proposed bill aims at complete mechanisation of sewer cleaning and to provide better protection in work, and compensation in case of accidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-lists-23-new-bills-for-the-monsoon-session-885978.html
11-09-2020||National||Govt to implement intelligent transport system through PPP model||The government will implement a public-private partnership model in the transport system, particularly in the intelligent transport system (ITS), to reduce road accidents, Union Road Transport and Highways  Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Friday. A consultant will be appointed to suggest ways to implement the PPP model at the state, municipal corporation and national highway level, the minister said while addressing a webinar on road safety. He added that a tender would be released soon in this regard. An ITS comprises centralised control centres, closed tolling systems which also include components like CCTV, weather monitoring, variable message signs, advanced communication system, traffic management, simulation, digital services driven by AI, among others to streamline traffic. India, on an average, witnesses about 5 lakh road accidents per annum which kill 1.5 lakh people and cripple about 3 lakh.  The government has been taking a number of steps to reduce the number of accidents, he said. Gadkari also expressed confidence that road accidents and related deaths would be reduced by 50% by 2025. The minister said that the Road Transport and Highways Ministry had taken a lot of initiatives to reduce road accidents, including correcting black spots or spots witnessing a high number of accidents due to bad road designing or other road engineering or related flaws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-implement-intelligent-transport-system-through-ppp-model-885980.html
11-09-2020||National||Never let geography or geometry define our approach to assisting developing countries: India||India has never let geography or geometry define its approach to assisting developing countries and it views South-South Cooperation as a development partnership and not a donor-donee relationship, India’s deputy envoy to the UN has said. He said that India remains committed to the principles of South-South cooperation both at regional and global level for mutual learning, capacity building and progress of all developing countries. “India has acted with a deep and abiding commitment to South-South Cooperation which it views as a development partnership rather than a donor-donee relationship. We have never let geography or geometry define our approach to assisting countries across the developing world,” Naidu said. Naidu said this year’s South-South Cooperation Day comes at a time when the world continues to grapple with the challenge of Covid-19 pandemic. However, challenging times demand extraordinary responses and the global south should work even more closer during this pandemic and find appropriate solutions in the collective journey to build back better, Naidu said. Even though India has been hit by the pandemic, the country is at the forefront in the call for joint global action to address Covid-19 with the aim of assisting fellow developing countries, he said. Highlighting efforts by India to help other nations amid the pandemic, Naidu said the country has extended medical-related assistance to more than 120 developed and developing countries and pledged USD 15 million to Gavi, the global vaccine alliance created in 2000 to improve access to new and underused vaccines for children living in the world's poorest countries. India has also utilised its strength in the digital and information technology space to develop a learning platform to deliver courses for training healthcare personnel of partnering developing countries. Naidu voiced India’s commitment to continue sharing its developmental experiences and technical expertise with other developing countries in the spirit of ‘the World is One Family’. “Our approach to development partnership will be human-centric, based on principles of mutual respect and national ownership with a commitment to sustainable development for all,” he said. India has become a leading player in South-South cooperation and its engagement with developing nations has intensified over the last few years. The India-CARICOM Leaders Meeting, India-Pacific Islands Heads of State Summit and the India-Africa Forum Summits have further strengthened the special bonding between India and fellow developing countries. India’s development cooperation ranges from capacity building by providing training to nearly 15,000 students annually from more than 160 countries under the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) programme to providing developmental financing to 64 countries totaling USD 30.66 billion. The International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient infrastructure co-founded by India, are other examples of Southern efforts to champion the cause of affordable solutions for a greener future, Naidu said. Another inspiring example of India’s contribution in South-South cooperation is the USD 150 million India-UN Development Partnership Fund, operated from the UN Office for South-South Cooperation, Naidu said. The fund supports Southern-owned and led demand-driven, and transformational sustainable development projects across the developing world with a focus on LDCs, LLDCs and SIDS. In three years, the fund has accumulated a portfolio of 39 projects in 41 countries and through the initiative, India is directly impacting the lives of communities across the developing world, Naidu added. Projects under the fund include getting ready a convention centre in Palau to host next year’s Oceans Conference, rehabilitating hospitals in Antigua & Barbuda and Guyana, building a school in Dominica, an Information Technology Centre of Excellence in Papua New Guinea to developing the capacity of women to stem desertification in the Kanem and Lake Chad regions. The IBSA (India-Brazil-South Africa) Fund for the Alleviation of Poverty and Hunger also hosted at the UN Office for South-South Cooperation is another unique mechanism for South-South Cooperation. Established in 2004, the IBSA Fund is supporting initiatives in the area of food security, safe drinking water, addressing HIV/AID. Since 2004, a total of USD 39.3 million has been contributed to the Fund by the three countries and the Fund has undertaken a total of 33 projects, of which 24 have been completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/never-let-geography-or-geometry-define-our-approach-to-assisting-developing-countries-india-886000.html
11-09-2020||National||Rapid antigen tests can be no more than adjunct to RT-PCR in corona battle: Scientists||Rapid antigen tests (RATs) for Covid-19 are cheaper and deliver quicker results but should be no more than an adjunct to the more reliable RT-PCR tests because of the potential for false-negative results, say scientists. The Union Health Ministry’s move on Thursday to direct all states and union territories to mandatorily retest all symptomatic negative cases of RATs with RT-PCR is the right strategy, they said. The ministry noted that symptomatic cases tested negative by RATs are not followed up by RT-PCR testing in some large states. The idea is that no positive Covid-19 cases are missed. Labelling RATs “spuriously comforting”, immunologist Satyajit Rath said it is also known that there are false-negative outcomes in the tests.   “ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) knew this all along and advised RAT-negative symptomatic people to be re-tested with RT-PCR tests,” the scientist from New Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology (NII) told PTI.  Virologist Shahid Jameel added that RATs have a field sensitivity of 50-60 per cent and show many false negatives. “If someone has symptoms, he/she should be retested. This is the correct thing to do,” Jameel told PTI. The CEO of DBT/Wellcome Trust India Alliance, a public charity that invests in building biomedical sciences and health research framework, said RATs give results in 30 minutes and help in many situations.   They can, for instance, be done before patients see doctors in hospitals, he said.   “Though not foolproof, this is one way to protect the doctor at least 50-60 per cent of the time. The other advantage is low cost compared to RT-PCR,”  Jameel told PTI.   In June, the ICMR recommended the use of RAT kits for diagnosis of Covid-19 in containment zones and healthcare settings in combination with the RT-PCR test, citing high specificity but relatively low sensitivity of RATs.   The apex health body then said RAT kits will allow faster diagnosis without laboratory examination.   “The RAT tests were nonetheless introduced because RT-PCR tests were not available in large enough numbers, especially since they needed a lot of equipment and high skill levels to be performed,” Rath said. Since June, India’s Covid-19 graph has spiked sharply. On Friday, the caseload crossed 45 lakh and the death toll climbed to 76,271 with a record 96,551 infections and 1,209 fatalities being reported in a day. According to Rath, RT-PCR tests are more expensive than antigen tests, which are better than nothing -- and that was the apparent alternative a few months ago. While rapid antigen tests detect viral protein, the RT-PCR tests detect viral RNA or its genetic material.   RT-PCR tests 'amplify' viral RNA while detecting it, but antigen tests do not do any such amplification of the detected viral protein, the experts noted.   Because of this amplification step, RT-PCR tests for viral RNA are more sensitive than antigen tests, they said.   “There are not enough RT-PCR tests and they take a long time to do in specialised centres. So the world is using RA tests for the same reason that India is using them, and with similar somewhat spuriously comforting rationale,” Rath explained.    He said there are far less expensive and cumbersome ways of detecting viral RNA than RT-PCR without losing the sensitivity advantage, but very few companies are making those sorts of kits.   “I am amazed that biotech companies in India have not yet seen this critical gap and have not filled it. I hope that this will change for the better,” he added.   Rath explained that most infected people seem to have fairly large amounts of virus so the wishful expectation was that RAT tests would be sensitive enough to detect the infection. But this is not necessarily the case.   “Another version of this argument is that RAT tests detect the 'most' infectious people because people who are RAT-negative but RT-PCR test-positive have low amounts of virus. This may still be correct,” said the immunologist.   Another advantage with RAT tests, Rath said, is that they need less in terms of specialised chemicals, equipment and even skills so they are cheaper and easier to do. A large number of tests can be done at many locations.   “All of these feel like advantages in an active spreading epidemic,” he noted.   Rath said the formal ICMR recommendation has always been to test people who are 'negative' with a 'rapid antigen test' with an RT-PCR test, at least for symptomatic individuals.   So this exhortation by the health ministry seems more or less in line with that original position, he said. Globally, the situation is the same as that in India.   The US Centres for Disease Control in its guidance for using rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 states that antigen tests for SARS-CoV-2 are generally less sensitive than viral tests that detect nucleic acid using RT-PCR.   According to a study published in June, a rapid antigen test is 10 fold less sensitive than RT-PCR for detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus.   “Hopefully, this situation will change for the better as other, smarter tests come into the market,” Rath added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rapid-antigen-tests-can-be-no-more-than-adjunct-to-rt-pcr-in-corona-battle-scientists-886012.html
11-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: IPL anthem copied from my track, claims Delhi rapper; Rhea's bail application rejected||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Supreme Court allows NLSIU to conduct separate online admission test; Microsoft will on Tuesday launch its Xbox cloud gaming service and Delhi-based rapper alleges IPL anthem copied from his track. A special court in Mumbai rejected the bail application of actor-model Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, besides four others in a case related to sourcing drugs for late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Supreme Court allows NLSIU to conduct separate online admission test; Microsoft will on Tuesday launch its Xbox cloud gaming service and Delhi-based rapper alleges IPL anthem copied from his track.      Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top news of today, Friday: September 11, 2020:  A Delhi-based rapper has alleged that this year's Indian Premier League (IPL) anthem 'Aayenge Hum Wapas' has been copied from his track, an allegation that has been dismissed by the composer of the recently released song. Rapper Krishna Kaul aka KRSNA claims the track has been lifted from his song "Dekh Kaun Aaya Waapas" but composer Pranav Ajayrao Malpe said it is his original work and he even has a certificate from Music Composers Association of India (MCAI). KRSNA told PTI that his team, including the independent hip-hop label Kalamkaar, will take the legal route and approach Disney+Hotstar, which commissioned the song. "Disney+Hotstar have left no option for us but to seek legal recourse and our label is going to fight this unfair and scandalous plagiarisation," KRSNA said. Malpe said four MCAI panelists, including musician Leslee Lewis, independently assessed both the songs and did not find any similarity. "MCAI is an institution of repute and the experts on the panel have a lot of experience. I feel we should respect the experts' views and put this debate to rest," Malpe told PTI.    The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru to conduct its separate online admission test for five-year BA-LLB course, as scheduled on Saturday. The court, however, directed that neither the results of the examination would be declared nor any admission would be made on its basis till further orders. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah agreed to consider validity of the notification issued on September 3 for the National Law Aptitude Test, "looking into importance of the issue". The court fixed the next date of hearing on September 16, on a writ petition filed by former NLSIU Vice Chancellor Prof Venkat Rao and another person, Rakesh Kumar Agarwalla. The court said the examination will be subject to the outcome of the petition. It sought a response from the NLSIU within three days. Senior advocate Nidesh Gupta, appearing for the petitioners, contended the NLSIU can't conduct separate examinations as Memorandum of Association of consortium of National Law Universities mandated a common test for National Law Universities across the country. He said due to Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation in some states, the CLAT was rescheduled several times. After unveiling the National Education Policy, the Modi government is all set to come out with a new curriculum framework for school students by 2022 that would seek to promote critical thinking. Addressing the conclave on ‘School Education in 21st Century’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a strong to inculcate critical thinking and a scientific learning among students and take reduce the reliance on a marksheet as a means of evaluation. “We will develop a National Curriculum Framework to make learning an integrated, inter-disciplinary, fun-based and complete experience,” Modi said adding that it would be unveiled in 2022, when India celebrates its 75th anniversary of Independence. He said students will be able to move towards a new future through this forward-looking, future-ready and scientific curriculum. The National Curriculum Framework was last reviewed in 2005. Microsoft will on Tuesday launch its Xbox cloud gaming service priced at $1 for new users' first month, in a major drive to attract casual gamers with the promise of cutting ties to the living room and as competition with Sony heats up. Subscribers to Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, priced at $14.99 monthly, will be able to play more than 150 games via the cloud on Xbox consoles, Android devices and PCs. A subscriber won't even need to buy a console to play the games, just an Android device and a supported controller. The launch in 22 countries, including the United States and 19 European countries, marks a shift for Microsoft into cloud gaming, which removes the need for bulky hardware but requires a fast internet connection. New entrants include Google, which has struggled to build a fanbase for its Stadia service. A special court in Mumbai rejected the bail application of actor-model Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, besides four others in a case related to sourcing drugs for late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea (28), the live-in partner of Sushant, is currently lodged in the Byculla women’s jail in Mumbai after her arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Special judge GB Gurao, who presides over a court set up under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, rejected the bail pleas of all the six accused in the case. Besides Rhea and Showik, the four other accused are Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda, house help Dipesh Sawant and two alleged drug peddlers Abdel Bashit Parihar and Zaid Vilatra. (With inputs from DHNS / PTI / Reuters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-ipl-anthem-copied-from-my-track-claims-delhi-rapper-rheas-bail-application-rejected-886036.html
11-09-2020||National||Govt working on creating database of migrant labourers: Union minister Gangwar||Union Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar on Friday said the government is working on creating a database of migrant labourers so that they get direct benefit of various welfare schemes. Speaking at an event after inauguration of a new building of the Labour Bureau Bhawan here, the Minister of State (Independent charge) for Labour and Employment said an accurate database is crucial for formulation of any policy. "We always talk about estimated figures about them (labourers). But today the need is to create such a database about migrant labourers so that they can get direct benefit of various welfare schemes," Gangwar said. "Their skill mapping has to be done, we are concerned about this, we want that they should get jobs as per their skills,” he said. “But we are working in this direction now… we are making maximum use of IT (information technology) to come out with concrete data,” he added. Stressing on the importance of accurate database for formulation of any policy, the minister said there was a need to have concrete and accurate data of labourers engaged in the unorganised sector. “They are an important and strong workforce of our country. They constitute a big chunk of workforce. If we do not have any concrete data about them, it will be felt that something is amiss," he said. “When we say we have nearly 10 crore labourers in the organised sector and 40 crore working in the unorganised sector, people ask do we have any database,” he said, adding that the Labour Bureau can do the task of organising this data. He also highlighted the problems faced by migrant labourers, a large number of whom had returned to their native states amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that migrant labourers who return from their native states are not able to get work as per their skills. He hailed the work done over the years by the Labour Bureau, which is the apex organisation in the field of labour statistics, saying “this organisation is making its contribution in the country's progress.” During the coronavirus pandemic, Gangwar appreciated efforts put in by various states to support labourers and extend monetary and other help to them. Punjab's Health and Labour Minister, Balbir Singh Sidhu touched upon various welfare steps which the Congress government in the state has been taking for welfare of labourers and workers' class. He also said that under Pradhan Mantri Shram-Yogi Maandhan' (PMSYM) for the unorganised sector workers, states contribute half of the money they get from the Centre. He demanded that “beneficiary cards issued under the scheme should also carry the photos of the chief ministers of various states along with that of the prime minister”. He also said that the Centre should extend help to the states during the current difficult situation triggered by pandemic so that they are able to continue support to the labour class and other weaker sections hit hard by it. The Labour Bureau in its earlier avatar the Directorate of Cost of Living, was established in Shimla 1941 and in 1946 the directorate was rechristened as Labour Bureau. The bureau is known for its price indices, administrative statistics and labour related surveys data. It is also recognised for unique surveys like the “occupational wage survey” which make it the lone organisation in India which has occupation wise wage data across wide ranging sectors. The bureau is also a repository of vital administrative statistics collected under the various Labour Acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-working-on-creating-database-of-migrant-labourers-union-minister-gangwar-886041.html
11-09-2020||National||Children worst affected as terror networks spread their tentacles across borders: India at United Nations||Children are worst affected as terror networks spread their tentacles across the borders and threaten peace, India has said in a veiled reference to Pakistan, as it called on the UN member states to demonstrate a greater political will to ensure perpetrators of terrorism are held accountable for abusing child rights. Terrorist outfits and individuals banned by the Council are directly or indirectly responsible for abusing child rights, India said in a statement on Thursday to the UNSC open debate on Children and Armed Conflict ‘Attacks against Schools as Grave Violation of Children’s Rights’. “In order to advance child protection agenda of the Council, its synergies with counter-terrorism need to be translated into action,” it said. India said that the member states need to demonstrate a “greater political will” to hold the perpetrators of terrorism and their collaborators and sponsors, especially those sanctioned by the Council, to account to fulfil the Council’s child protection obligations.   India underscored the importance of a greater recognition and comprehensive action to counter threats to children posed by terrorist groups in different parts of the world. In a thinly-veiled reference to Pakistan, India said that “terror networks spread their tentacles across borders, threatening peace and stability. Children are worst affected as they live with a looming sense of fear and uncertainty and are often deprived of their right to education”. In the statement, which will be included as an official UN compilation, India emphasised that the UNSC needs to factor in the stark reality that non-state parties to armed conflicts have little regard for upholding their obligations under international law. “This creates asymmetric dynamics in the field vis-a-vis the states or the UN peace operations,” the country said, adding that the Council needs to ensure that those who are engaged in the protection of children on its behalf have the necessary resources, pre-deployment and in-mission training to operate and deliver in extremely challenging situations. The country noted with concern that lack of access to schools and treacherous learning environments make children vulnerable to exploitation and recruitment by terrorists and other non-state actors. “Education facilities are often used as vehicles for radicalisation and indoctrination to violent extremist ideologies. Much of these happen in the absence of opportunity for quality formal education for children,” India said. With schools providing a crucial place of learning as well as a social safety net, India said the absence of safe school environments have a multifold impact on protection challenges. These could include young women and girls becoming vulnerable to various forms of subjugation including sexual and gender-based violence, falling victims of forced and child marriages and human trafficking. India also took note of the prevailing situation in the Sahel region of Africa, where attacks on schools are increasing due to the complex regional conflict. India said the challenges in the region call for a greater attention of the Council. "The terrorists and armed groups are increasingly targeting education facilities leading to school closures. Occupation of schools for military purposes in violation of international humanitarian law is also a contributing factor in this crisis. This has set in motion a range of negative impacts on children, especially girls,” India said. Given the complex situation in the Sahel region, India said a military response to the situation can only bear desired results if these are integrated with inclusive regional and national strategies towards security, governance, development, human rights and humanitarian issues and ownership by the governments, especially in upholding the rule of law. “Sahel must continue to remain a clear priority for the peacebuilding commission. The Council on its part also should remain engaged in the implementation of the military and political missions as well as promoting dialogue and intercommunal harmony in the region,” India said, adding that the Council must keep up its engagements with the regional bodies and child protection priorities must be integrated to the core of such engagements. The Covid-19 pandemic has also further compounded the already existing child protection challenges, India said, adding that the crisis has demonstrated the power of technology, especially education technology to provide learning opportunities to children affected by armed conflicts. “The international community must cease this momentum to use the full potential of technology to fulfil hitherto unkept promises to the children,” it said, emphasising the need for more objective reporting by the UNSC mandated officials based on complex dynamics of the situations and obligations of different parties to the armed conflict. “The tendency of ‘mandate creep’ must be checked to maintain efficacy and sanctity,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-worst-affected-as-terror-networks-spread-their-tentacles-across-borders-india-at-united-nations-886044.html
11-09-2020||National||Centre launches Climate Smart Cities Assessment Framework 2.0 for climate-sensitive cities||Union Housing Minister  Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday launched a framework that would help cities follow a climate-sensitive approach in urban planning and development. The objective of the Climate Smart Cities Assessment Framework (CSCAF) 2.0 is to provide a roadmap for cities for combating climate change while planning and implementing their actions, including investments. The framework has 28 indicators across five categories -- energy and green buildings, urban planning, green cover and biodiversity, mobility and air quality, water management and waste management. The Climate Centre for Cities under the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) is supporting the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs in the implementation of the CSCAF 2.0. The Minister also launched 'Streets for People Challenge', which aims to inspire cities to create walking-friendly and vibrant streets through quick, innovative, and low-cost measures in response to Covid-19 in collaboration with their citizens and assistance from experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-climate-smart-cities-assessment-framework-20-for-climate-sensitive-cities-886047.html
11-09-2020||National||Security cover to Kangana based on her father's request: MoS Home Kishan Reddy||The Y-plus security cover to actress Kangana Ranaut has been provided based on a request from her father to the state government in her native Himachal Pradesh which in turn forwarded it to the Centre, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said on Friday. According to Kangana's father, the actress was responding to social issues which caused "heartburn" to some people in Maharashtra, he told reporters here. Himachal Pradesh Government has asked (for security for her). Kangana Ranaut's father wrote a letter to the Chief Minister of Himachal. He had also met the CM and submitted a memorandum that his daughter was being subjected to harassment... based on his request, the Himachal Chief Minister informed the centre about the situation, Reddy said. However, when asked the Minister did not clarify who is going to foot the bills for the security-the state government or the actress herself. The Bollywood actor was given Y-plus category security and is protected by about 10 armed commandos round-the-clock after she and some of the Maharashtra politicians indulged in a bitter war of words over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June and also other issues. The decision to provide the security cover was taken as there were also threats that Ranut would not be allowed to enter Maharashtra as she did not belong to the state. He said the CBI has been probing the death of Sushant Singh as per the Supreme Courts direction and the Centre has no role in that. Reddy, however, said the Centre will interfere when there was a dispute between two states. There is a necessity to upkeep law and order and also if there are disputes between two states, the Centre will interfere, he added. The Minister, who hails from Telangana, also said the Centre has been extending all support to the state government in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic like any other state. He brushed aside allegations that the Centre was turning a Nelson's eye to Telangana issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-cover-to-kangana-based-on-her-fathers-request-mos-home-kishan-reddy-886055.html
11-09-2020||National||Supreme Court to examine incongruity in penal law on suicide, Mental Health Act||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government how it would justify a provision of the Mental Health Act, which presumed a person trying to end life as one under severe stress in need of rehabilitation, with Section 309 of IPC, making suicide a punishable offence. The top court issued a notice to the Attorney General, asking for a response from the Union government to justify the validity of a provision in the Mental Health Act, which virtually negated offence of attempt to end life by suicide. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, decided to examine the incongruity in provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Mental Health Act. Section 115 of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 created a presumption of "severe stress in case of attempt to suicide", enjoining the government to "provide care, treatment and rehabilitation to such a person". However, an act of attempt to suicide is an offence under Section 309 of the India Penal Code, punishable up to one-year imprisonment with or without fine. "We find that Section 115 of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, which creates a presumption, has an impact on section 309 IPC," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. The court decided to tag the matter along with a pending petition challenging the validity of Section 309 of the IPC and appointed senior advocate A N S Nadkarni as amicus curiae to assist it in the matter.  The court happened to consider the larger issue after animal rights activist Sangeeta Dogra, appearing for NGO, Red Lynx Confederation, sought directions to ensure prevention of attempts to suicide by persons by throwing themselves in the animal enclosures in Zoos. She showed a picture of an elephant, who has been bound because someone jumped into the enclosure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-examine-incongruity-in-penal-law-on-suicide-mental-health-act-886061.html
11-09-2020||National||VVIP chopper case: CBI seeks sanction to prosecute former CAG Shashi Kant Sharma||The CBI has sought the Ministry of Defence's sanction to prosecute former Comptroller and General Shashi Kant Sharma and former Air Vice Marshal Jasbir Singh Panesar in connection with the multi-crore AgustaWestland chopper scam. Officials said the Ministry has been approached for permission to take action against Sharma and Panesar as well as three others -- deputy chief test pilot SA Kunte, Wing Commander Thomas Mathew, and Group Captain N Santosh, who all have retired from service. They said during investigations, it has come to light the involvement of these people and after getting sanction, these five persons will be named in a supplementary chargesheet. The case pertains to giving Rs 362 crore in bribes for obtaining the Rs 3,600 crore contract for the purchase of 12 VVIP choppers for the use of the President, the Prime Minister and other VIPs. The Manmohan Singh government had signed the deal in 2007 but was cancelled six years later after allegations of corruption surfaced. The CBI had taken over the case in 2016 and had filed its first chargesheet against former Indian Air Force chief S P Tyagi and others, charging them with taking bribes to alter the specifications to suit AgustaWestland. Sharma was Joint Secretary (Air) in the Ministry of Defence between 2003 and 2007. He had initiated the purchase of the VVIP choppers as Joint Secretary (Air) and later in 2010, he approved it in the capacity as Director General (Defence Acquisition). Later, Sharma became Defence Secretary and in 2013, he was appointed CAG. A reference to JS Air in a note prepared by Christian Michel, one of the three middlemen in the case who was arrested by the CBI in 2017, had repeatedly been referred to in judgements in Italian courts, which had looked into the matter. Sharma's role as Joint Secretary (Air) is the reason why the agency wants sanction to prosecute him, officials said. Panesar and other officials are under the radar because of their roles in purchase and testing of the choppers. A supplementary chargesheet will be filed soon after the CBI gets sanction from the Ministry, CBI officials said. CBI had earlier arrested former Air chief Tyagi, his cousin Sanjeev and lawyer Gautam Khaitan among others in the case. In its first chargesheet, it had named the Tyagis, Khaitan, former AgustaWestland CEO Bruno Spagnolini, former Finmeccanica chairman Giuseppe Orsi, Michel and his two associates Guido Ralph Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vvip-chopper-case-cbi-seeks-sanction-to-prosecute-former-cag-shashi-kant-sharma-886069.html
11-09-2020||National||Accused arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari’s United Kingdom extradition hearing in June 2021||A UK court presiding over the extradition case of Sanjay Bhandari, an accused arms dealer wanted in India on money laundering charges, has set June 7, 2021, as the date for the start of proceedings. Bhandari, who was arrested on an extradition warrant back in July, was due to appear at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London on Friday for a case management hearing. But District Judge D J Goldsmith said today’s hearing had been vacated as all outstanding matters had been dealt with between the parties, with directions given via email. “Mr Bhandari’s bail conditions have been extended until February 5, 2021,” said Judge Goldspring, indicating the next date for a bail hearing in the case. The UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), representing the Indian government in extradition proceedings, said Bhandari is sought by the Indian authorities for prosecution for money laundering contrary to the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002. He faces cases against him in India filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The Indian government’s extradition request for Bhandari had been certified by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel on June 16 and he was arrested a month later on July 15. He was granted bail on 120,000-pound security and the surrender of his passport, with other restrictions including a daily curfew at his home in central London and regular visits to a police station. Meanwhile, the latest set of hearings in the extradition case of another alleged economic offender, diamond merchant Nirav Modi’s, concluded in the same court building on Thursday. The 49-year-old jeweller, wanted in the USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud and money laundering case, has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in London since his arrest in March last year. His case will now return to Westminster Magistrates’ Court for further hearings on November 3 and then in early December before a judgment expected at the end of the year or early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accused-arms-dealer-sanjay-bhandari-s-united-kingdom-extradition-hearing-in-june-2021-886074.html
11-09-2020||National||Social activist Swami Agnivesh passes away at 80||Social activist-politician Swami Agnivesh, known for his work on issues such as child and bonded labour, breathed his last at a government hospital on Friday. He was 80. Agnivesh was suffering from liver cirrhosis and was admitted to the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences here and was on ventilator support since Tuesday due to multi-organ failure. Born in Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh to a Brahmin family on September 21, 1939, Vepa Shyam Rao was brought up by his maternal grandfather, who was the Diwan of a princely state ‘Sakti’, presently in Chhattisgarh. Rao studied law and business management and became a lecturer in Calcutta before becoming a full-time worker of the Arya Samaj, a monastic order founded by reformist Dayanand Saraswati, in 1968. In 1970, Rao renounced worldly possessions to become a sanyasi and assumed the name Swami Agnivesh. Agnivesh founded a political party, Arya Sabha, based on the principles of the Arya Samaj in 1970 and was also arrested for opposing the Emergency in 1975. He was widely known for his campaign against bonded labour through his foundation Bandhua Mukti Morcha (Bonded Labor Liberation Front). He was elected to the Haryana Assembly in 1977 and was made education minister after two years. He, however, resigned from the post in protest against the Haryana government’s inaction against police who had opened fire at workers protesting bonded labour. Agnivesh also led several initiatives to foster peace and interfaith harmony in Kashmir at the height of militancy. In 2010, he was tasked by the Congress government to open a dialogue with the Maoist leadership. A year later he was part of the anti-corruption movement led by Anna Hazare, but was forced to part ways from the group after a video surfaced allegedly showing him speaking to a minister from the UPA government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/social-activist-swami-agnivesh-passes-away-at-80-886076.html
11-09-2020||National||Indian, Chinese armies expected to hold Corps Commander-level talks early next week||Indian and Chinese armies are expected to hold Corps Commander-level talks early next week with a focus on implementing provisions of a five-point roadmap agreed by the two countries to ease tensions and speed up the disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh, government sources said on Friday. India and China reached an agreement to resolve their border row at a meeting between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on Thursday evening on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet. The sources said the Indian Army will keenly observe Chinese military's overall approach along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh in the next few days to make an assessment of their seriousness in easing tension in sync with the agreement on five points. The agreement included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. It also mentioned that the two sides should expedite work to conclude "new confidence building measures" to enhance peace and tranquillity in the border areas. However, the agreement has not mentioned any timeline for disengagement of troops. It is learnt that Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane deliberated on the overall situation in Ladakh as well as on the provisions of the agreement with top military officials in the Army headquarters. Separately, the two armies held another round of Brigade Commander-level talks in Chushul from 11 AM to 3 PM on Friday with a focus on bringing down tensions in the face-off sites, sources said. "The Corps Commander-level talks are expected to be held early next week. It will definitely discuss the new agreement on resolution of the border row," said a source. The five-point consensus came days after a fresh confrontation between the two armies earlier this week in eastern Ladakh triggered a massive military build up by both sides in almost all friction points along the LAC. The Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a tense standoff in multiple areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May. Shots were fired across the LAC on Monday for the first time in 45 years with the two sides accusing each other of firing in the air. In the five rounds of corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The face-off began on May 6. The sources said India will not lower its guard and will maintain the current state of very high-level of combat readiness in eastern Ladakh till there are visible changes in the ground situation. Separately, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and top military brass on Friday deliberated on the agreement reached at Jaishankar-Wang talks. The deliberation was attended by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Gen Naravane, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh among others. The meeting also carried out a comprehensive review of the security scenario in eastern Ladakh in view of fresh confrontation by two sides in the southern bank of Pangong lake earlier this week. At the Jaishankar-Wang talks, the Indian delegation highlighted its strong concern over amassing of troops and military equipment by China along the LAC besides referring to "provocative behaviour" by Chinese army personnel at numerous incidents of friction, government sources said. They said the Chinese side could not provide a credible explanation for the troops buildup. The Indian side insisted that the immediate task is to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all the friction areas and that it is necessary to prevent any untoward incident in the future, the sources said. In the last few days, the Army further bolstered its dominance over a number of strategic heights overlooking key Chinese-held positions around Pangong lake area.   The sources said additional reinforcements have been made in hill tops and strategic locations around Pangong lake to keep a hawk-eye vigil on Chinese-held position of Finger 4. The mountainous spurs in the area are referred to as Finger. China has been holding onto Finger 4 to 8 on the north bank of Pangong lake, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-armies-expected-to-hold-corps-commander-level-talks-early-next-week-886079.html
11-09-2020||National||Al-Badr militant, two associates held in Sopore: J&K police||Jammu and Kashmir police claimed to have arrested a militant affiliated with Al-Badr outfit along with his two associates in Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Friday. A police spokesperson said a joint team army’s 22 Rashtriya Rifles, 179 Battalion CRPF and J&K police busted Al-Badr module, who were involved in a grenade-throwing incident at Police Post Warpora, Sopore. He identified the arrested militant as Ishfaq Ahmad Pandith while his two associates were identified as Abdul Majeed Dar and Mubashir Ahmad Dar all residents of Dangerpora Sopore. “A case under FIR number 237/2020 has been registered in Police Station Sopore. More arrests are expected in the case,” he said, adding that further investigation is in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/al-badr-militant-two-associates-held-in-sopore-jk-police-886081.html
11-09-2020||National||Rank cannot be determinant of nutrition in armed forces: Rahul to defence panel||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said rank cannot determine the provision for nutrition in the armed forces and called for a reconsideration of the related rules. Participating in a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence, which was convened to discuss the subject of "Provision and monitoring of the quality of ration and livery items to the defence forces, especially in border areas", he said providing less nutrition to the jawans is "unfair and discriminatory" and should be reconsidered. Gandhi pitched for the jawans, saying they should get more nutrition as they are standing at the borders and defending the country. The former Congress chief is learnt to have told the committee that the nutritional value for the jawans should be equal to that of the officers. There can be no differentiation in providing nutrition based on ranks, he told the panel, adding that ranks can be a determining factor for fixing the pay, but not nutritional value, sources said. Gandhi was told by officials that the officers in the armed forces get different food items than those served to the jawans. The defence ministry officials clarified that there is no difference in the quality and quantity of the items served, except that the officers are served different items than those served to the jawans. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence is chaired by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Union minister Jual Oram. The members who attended the meeting on Friday included Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rank-cannot-be-determinant-of-nutrition-in-armed-forces-rahul-to-defence-panel-886086.html
11-09-2020||National||Rajnath Singh holds high-level meeting on situation in eastern Ladakh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and top military brass on Friday deliberated on the five-point agreement reached between India and China on de-escalating tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, government sources said. The deliberation was attended by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh among others, they said. The meeting also carried out a comprehensive review of the security scenario in eastern Ladakh in view of fresh confrontation by two sides in the southern bank of Pangong lake earlier this week, the sources said. "The meeting discussed the agreement reached between the two countries," said a source. In the meeting, Gen Naravane briefed about the combat readiness of the Army to deal with any eventualities besides elaborating on plans to keep the forces in the high-altitude region during harsh winter months. India and China reached a five-point consensus to resolve the four-month border row in eastern Ladakh that included quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions and taking steps to restore “peace and tranquillity” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The agreement was finalised at two-and-half-hours of "frank and constructive" talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on Thursday evening on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet. The Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a tense standoff in multiple areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May. Shots were fired across the LAC on Monday for the first time in 45 years with the two sides accusing each other of firing in the air. The fresh confrontation further intensified the standoff and triggered a massive military build up by both sides in almost all friction points along the LAC, the de-facto border between the two countries. In the last few days, the Army further bolstered its dominance over a number of strategic heights overlooking key Chinese-held positions around Pangong lake area.   The sources said additional reinforcements have been made in hill tops and strategic locations around Pangong lake to keep a hawk-eye vigil on Chinese-held position of Finger 4. The mountainous spurs in the area are referred to as Finger. China has been holding onto Finger 4 to 8 on the north bank of Pangong lake, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-holds-high-level-meeting-on-situation-in-eastern-ladakh-886094.html
11-09-2020||National||India, China agree on five points, but no word on PLA restoring LAC status quo||India and China have reached a five-point-consensus, but the communist country has not made any commitment on restoring the status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi have agreed that the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of the communist country should quickly pull back troops, stay away from each other’s positions and defuse tensions along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in western sector. They, however, left it for the senior military commanders of the two sides to work out the details of the phased withdrawal of troops and to resolve the four-month-long stand-off in eastern Ladakh. Lt Gen Harinder Singh of the Indian Army and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA are likely to restart talks next week after a gap of more than a month. What is noticeably missing in the five-point-consensus Jaishankar and Wang reached during the meeting in Moscow on Thursday is any commitment by the PLA for restoration of the status quo ante along the LAC, although New Delhi has been insisting on it ever since the stand-off started and maintaining that it is pre-requisite for bringing India-China ties back on track.   A source in New Delhi, however, quoted Jaishankar telling Wang during the meeting that India would not countenance any attempt by China to change the status quo along the disputed boundary between the two nations unilaterally. Lt Gen Singh and Maj Gen Liu had five rounds of talks after the stand-off started in early May. They, however, did not have any meeting after the fifth on August 2, as the “disengagement process” they agreed upon was stalled as the PLA declined to completely withdraw troops from several face-off points along the LAC – like Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of Pangong Tso (lake). The local commanders, however, continued to hold talks on situations on specific face-off points, albeit without much headway.  Jaishankar and Wang agreed that the current situation in India-China border areas was “not in the interest of either side” and hence the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA “should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tension”, according to a joint statement issued early Friday. Though talks between the senior military commanders earlier failed to end the stand-off, a source in New Delhi said that the five-point consensus reached during the meeting between the External Affairs Minister and the Chinese Foreign Minister would now provide “political guidance” to the negotiation between Indian Army and the Chinese PLA. In view of the violent face-off in Galwan Valley on June 15 and escalation of tension on the southern bank of Pangong Tso over the past few days, both sides agreed that the immediate task was to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all the face-off points along the LAC to prevent any untoward incident. The ministers agreed that both sides “should take guidance from the series of consensus” reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Chinese President Xi Jinping “on developing India-China relations, including not allowing differences to become disputes”. They agreed that both sides should abide by all the existing agreements and protocol to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the Special Representatives would continue to hold boundary negotiations. The diplomats will also continue holding talks under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination to resolve flashpoints. They also agreed to restart discussion on new Confidence Building Measures in the border areas after resolving the current stand-off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-agree-on-five-points-but-no-word-on-pla-restoring-lac-status-quo-886096.html
11-09-2020||National||Maha govt had nothing to do with Kangana's office demolition: Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar defended the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra on Friday, saying it had nothing to with the demolition of the alleged illegal alterations at actress Kangana Ranaut's office and the decision to do so was taken by the BMC. He also suggested that bringing an ordinance could be an option after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of a 2018 state law granting reservation to the Maratha community in education and jobs earlier this week. Pawar said this could help avoid protests by the community, which is unhappy over the decision. The Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, which also has the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress as coalition partners, is facing criticism over the demolition at Ranaut's office in Mumbai's Bandra by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) earlier this week, at a time when the actress was involved in a verbal spat with the Sena.       The BMC is controlled by the Sena.  Ranaut courted controversy after she recently likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and said she feared the city police more than the "movie mafia". "The decision (to demolish the alleged illegal alterations at Ranaut's office) was taken by the BMC and the state government had nothing to do with it," Pawar told reporters here. Earlier this week, the NCP chief had said undue importance was being given to the statements of the actress. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has also hit out at the Maharashtra government after the apex court stayed the implementation of reservation for the Maratha community in education and jobs. Countering the BJP, Pawar said the decision on Maratha reservation, which has been stayed by the Supreme Court, was taken by the then Devendra Fadnavis government. "They (BJP) do not have any interest to find a solution to the problem. It seems that their idea is to disturb the social fabric of the state," the former Maharashtra chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maha-govt-had-nothing-to-do-with-kanganas-office-demolition-sharad-pawar-886124.html
11-09-2020||National||China flouted 1993, 1996 border pacts with India by deploying large number of PLA troops, Jaishankar tells Wang||China flouted key 1993 and 1996 border peace pacts with India by deploying a large number of troops along the disputed boundary between the two nations without any credible explanation, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told his counterpart from the communist country, Wang Yi. Jaishankar told Wang during a meeting in Moscow on Thursday that the provocative behaviour of the frontline troops of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) during “numerous incidents of friction” with the Indian Army along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) had also shown disregard for bilateral agreements and protocols inked between the two countries in the past. With the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA engaged in a stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh for over four months now, the External Affairs Minister had a bilateral meeting with the Chinese Foreign Minister on the sidelines of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in the capital of Russia. A source aware of discussion in the meeting told the DH in New Delhi that Jaishankar conveyed to Wang New Delhi’s “strong concerns” over the amassing of PLA troops along the disputed boundary between India and China. He referred to the 1993 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the India-China Border Areas. The 1993 agreement had been signed when the then Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao had visited Beijing and met Chinese Premier Li Peng. It had for the first time officially recognized the LAC as the de facto boundary between the two nations. The pact is still considered as the first major step by India and China to maintain peace and tranquillity along the disputed boundary. The two nations, according to Article II of the pact, had agreed that each side would “keep its military forces in the areas along the LAC to a minimum level compatible with the friendly and good neighbourly relations” between them. It was followed up by four other pacts, that were signed in 1996, 2005, 2012 and 2013, all intended to ensure peace along the LAC and avert flashpoints. The source quoted Jaishankar telling Wang that India would expect China to fully adhere to all agreements on the management of border areas. He underlined that the Indian Army had never flouted the border pacts. Wang conveyed to Jaishankar China’s “stern position” on the situation along its disputed boundary with India, emphasizing that the imperative was to immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violated the commitments made by the two sides, according to a press release issued by the embassy of the communist country in New Delhi early on Friday. Beijing has not only been dismissing New Delhi’s allegation about transgression of the LAC by the Chinese PLA but has also been accusing the Indian Army of doing the same. It also accused the Indian Army of firing warning shots on the PLA personnel on the south bank of Pangong Tso on Monday. New Delhi, however, alleged that the PLA personnel had opened fire in the air to intimidate the Indian Army soldiers. It was the first incident of firing along the India-China disputed boundary since 1975.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-flouted-1993-1996-border-pacts-with-india-by-deploying-large-number-of-pla-troops-jaishankar-tells-wang-886131.html
11-09-2020||National||PM Modi to dedicate 3 projects related to petroleum sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate to the nation three key projects related to the petroleum sector in Bihar through video conference on Sunday, his office said. The projects include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur pipeline augmentation project and two LPG bottling plants, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement on Friday. Giving details, it said the 193-km long Durgapur-Banka pipeline section, built by IndianOil, is part of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur pipeline augmentation project for which the foundation stone was laid by the prime minister in February 2019. The section is the extension of the existing 679-km long Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur LPG pipeline to the new LPG bottling plant at Banka in Bihar. The pipeline passes through West Bengal (60 km), Jharkhand (98 km) and Bihar (35 km), the statement said. Laying of the pipeline under the Durgapur-Banka section requires crossing several natural and manmade hurdles, it noted, adding that a total of 154 crossings were bridged, including 13 rivers, five national highways, and three railway crossings. The pipeline was laid under riverbeds through state-of-the-art Horizontal Directional Drilling technique without disturbing the water flow, the PMO said. The LPG bottling plant at Banka, it said, will increase the 'aatmanirbharta' (self-reliance) of Bihar by meeting the rising demand for LPG in the state. This bottling plant has been built at an investment of around Rs 131.75 crore to serve the districts of Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar in Bihar, along with the districts of Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj and Pakur in Jharkhand, it said.    The bottling plant at Harsidhi in East Champaran has been constructed at a cost of Rs 136.4 crores.    Modi had laid the foundation stone of the project in April 2018, the PMO said.    The bottling plant will cater to the LPG requirement of East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Gopalganj and Sitamarhi districts in Bihar, it added.    Sources had earlier said that the prime minister will launch and inaugurate development works worth over Rs 16,000 crore in the next 10 days in poll-bound Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-dedicate-3-projects-related-to-petroleum-sector-886147.html
11-09-2020||National||Indian road infra industry biggest ingredient to spur economy: V K Singh||Union minister V K Singh on Friday said the Indian road infrastructure sector has potential to spur economic growth, and exhorted industry players to come up with innovative solutions for cost efficiency in road construction. Addressing the valedictory session of 'BITU-CON 2020: Bitumen and Road Construction Industry', organised by FICCI, the Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways said there is need to encourage more innovations and experimentation in infrastructure development. "This sector has a lot of potential and is profitable also. Things are improving in the economy although it may take some time for complete recovery. The more we construct the better it is going to be for the economy," Singh was quoted as saying in a statement by FICCI. The Indian road infrastructure and highways construction industry, including the equipment and materials, is the biggest ingredient in spurring the economy, Singh said as per the statement. He also urged the industry to come up with innovations and expressed the government's commitment to support it at the policy level. Singh also urged the industry to use more innovative solutions to ensure that the construction cost is reduced. "We have enough expertise, innovative spirit, know-how to make things better and this sector needs it. Indians have a great ability for innovation, but we are somehow not coming out with it. Innovation and experimentation should be encouraged in the industry to bring down the cost," he said. Cost-cutting, he said, should be looked in two ways, one on the immediate cost-cutting and other on life-time cost-cutting. "We should focus on life-time cost-cutting rather than immediate cost-cutting. There is a great scope available. It ensures less road maintenance, and wear and tear also comes down," said Singh. The ministry also urged the industry to adopt pre-slab fabs in which quality is maintained and are standardised. He also suggested the industry to find out ways to expand the use of bitumen and not just restrict to road construction. Shailesh Pathak, Co-Chairman, FICCI Transport Infrastructure Committee and CEO of L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Ltd, said the industry will collectively work with the government, academia and businesses to ensure it meets target. The industry was willing to work with the government in the expansion of greenfield expressway development, Pathak said and sought government's support in ensuring that bringing newer technologies and reducing cost should not impact profits. Dilip Chenoy, Secretary-General, FICCI, stressed the need for working collectively to bring down the cost of road construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-road-infra-industry-biggest-ingredient-to-spur-economy-v-k-singh-886153.html
11-09-2020||National||Markandey Katju challenged as ‘self-publicist’ at Nirav Modi hearing in UK||Retired Supreme Court judge Markandey Katju was challenged as a “self-publicist” on behalf of the Indian government on Friday as he gave evidence in the extradition case of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi via a live videolink from India at Westminster Magistrates’ Court here. On the final day of a five-day hearing, Justice Samuel Goozee heard Katju’s detailed evidence before adjourning the case until November 3, when he will hear arguments on the admissibility of the evidence provided by the Indian authorities on the charges of fraud and money laundering against the diamond merchant in the USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. The UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian government, sought to counter Katju’s written and oral claims that Modi would not receive a fair trial in India because a majority of the judiciary was corrupt and the investigating agencies subservient to the government. “Is it at least possible, you are something of a self-publicist who will make any outrageous statements for the purpose of courting the press,” questioned CPS barrister Helen Malcolm, to which Katju replied “you are entitled to your opinion”. Malcolm also queried his decision to give media interviews in India earlier this week related to the evidence he was to give before the UK court in a sub judice matter, to which the former Supreme Court judge said that he merely responded to reporters' questions and that it was his duty to speak out on matters of “national importance”. During what became a quite a fiery exchange in court at times, some of his past controversial statements were also read out in court, in reference to gay relationships being “unnatural” and women who remain single being “prone to psychological problems”. Katju countered by stating that he was entitled to his opinion and that he had quoted from Irish playwright George Bernard Shaw’s ‘Man and Superman’, which Malcolm “as a Britisher” should have read. The former judge had been deposed by Modi’s defence team in order to substantiate their claims that the jeweller faces an unfair and biased trial if extradited to India. Katju also repeatedly made comparisons between India and Germany under the Nazi regime, saying Modi has been made a “convenient scapegoat” akin to the Jews in Nazi Germany in order to be blamed for the economic crisis in the country. Asked by the CPS if the diamantaire’s own alleged dishonest actions could be to blame, he said: “I am not making any statements on the merits of this case. I am simply saying that he cannot get a fair trial… all ministers and media have pronounced him guilty.” His assertion that post-retirement appointments were among the inducements which led to corruption among judges brought his own appointment as the Chairman of the Press Council of India following his retirement into focus, which he stressed was not a government appointment. “So, the three-member appointment committee – composed of the Speaker of the Lower House, Chairman of the Upper House (Vice-President of India) and a Press Council member – are completely apolitical and nothing to do with the government,” queried Malcolm. The hearing on Thursday concluded the bulk of the oral evidence in the extradition case, which was observed by Modi via videolink from a room in Wandsworth Prison in London – where he has been lodged since his arrest in March last year. The first set of hearings in the case took place in May, with the hearings this week slotted to complete arguments to establish the 49-year-old jeweller has a case to answer before the Indian courts. The defence team, led by barrister Clare Montgomery, has sought to not only establish that Modi’s actions related to PNB-issued Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) did not amount to fraud but also deposed witnesses to highlight his fragile mental health condition and a high risk of suicide. They have also claimed that the conditions at Barrack 12 in Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where he is to be lodged on being extradited, do not meet the court’s human rights criteria. The CPS has set out the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) case of fraud and the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) case of the laundering of those fraudulently acquired funds. It has also played videos in the court in support of additional charges of disrupting the CBI’s investigation by causing the disappearance of evidence and criminal intimidation of witnesses. Assurances of adequate prison conditions have been provided by the Indian government, which were further added to this week with an assurance of appropriate mental health care for Modi on being extradited. A hearing for final submissions in the case is currently slated for December 1 but that date is likely to be delayed, with a ruling in the case not expected before the end of this year or early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/markandey-katju-challenged-as-self-publicist-at-nirav-modi-hearing-in-uk-886154.html
11-09-2020||National||Sushant's death case not poll issue, LJP, JD(U) tussle not big problem, says Devendra Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said that Sushant Singh Rajput's death case was not an election issue in Bihar but a common man's issue, and asserted that his party would ensure justice to the talented actor. The BJP will not rest till justice was done in the case, Fadnavis, who is party's Bihar election in-charge, said. He played down reports of "rift" within NDA in the backdrop of LJP president Chirag Paswan's frequently takings potshots at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, saying there are three parties in the coalition and all of them have their own point of views on different issues, but "its not a big problem and we will solve everything through talks." The senior BJP leader was talking to reporters after inaugurating party's media centre set up here keeping in mind the assembly polls due in October-November. The Maharashtra leader arrived here on a two-day visit hours before the visit of BJP president J P Nadda to speed up party's preparation for the polls. With the Patna-born actor's premature death becoming a sentimental issue for the people of Bihar in particular and expected to have resonance during the election campaign, Fadnavis, said: "political parties are mirror of peoples feelings and hence we will not spare any efforts to ensure justice to the late Bollywood hero". With the 34-year-old actor's death turning out to be an issue between the states of Bihar and his native Maharashtra in the wake of probe done by the Bihar police into an FIR lodged by the actor's father K K Singh in Patna suspecting foul play, Fadnavis dismissed his appointment as the party's election in-charge for the state was to do anything with it. "Before the issue had cropped up I was told by the party that I have to work in Bihar during polls," he said. Rajput's death by suicide on June 14 in his Mumbai residence had taken political overtones after Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar handed over the probe into the FIR lodged at Rajiv Nagar police station here to the CBI. Shiv Sena heading the coalition government in Maharashtra had attributed this to polls in Bihar. The state government came in support of prime accused Rhea Chakraborty who had approached the Supreme Court questioning jurisdiction of Bihar police to probe the matter. Their petitions were, however, dismissed by the apex court which allowed the CBI to inquire into the case. Coming down to upcoming elections in Bihar, Fadnavis exuded confidence that people of Bihar will once again elect NDA government with a "historic majority" which will work in tandem with the central government to roll out development schemes meant for the people. On tussle between the LJP and the JD(U) which reflected issues within the coalition ahead of the polls much to the glee of the opposition, Fadnavis said it was "not a big issue and the problem will be resolved through talks." "There are three parties in the coalition having their own point of views on different issues. Had there been one thinking among all there would have been only one party and not three...nobody is going to separate from us and we will sort out the differences through talks." "I am quite confident that people of Bihar will repose faith in the NDA government and elect it once again with a historic majority which will work in tandem with the central government to roll out development schemes meant for the people," he said. Making a scathing attack at the Mamata Banerjee government, he said due to its confrontationist approach farmers of West Bengal are the worst sufferers as they were deprived of benefits of the Prime Minister Kisan Nidhi due to failure of the state government to provide the list of beneficiaries, Fadnavis said. Fadnavis was accompanied by Bihar BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal, union minister Nityanand Rai, state health minister Mangal Pandey, former union minister Ram Kripal Yadav and state BJPs media department head and MLC Sanjay Mayukh during the inauguration of the media centre. The NDA government in Bihar is doing a very good work in the state, Fadnavis said and asserted that "figures clearly tell the development story of the state if we compare it with the Lalu Raj (rule)." Schemes like Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) and Atmanirbhar Bihar (self-reliant Bihar) will turn the challenges into opportunities after coronavirus phase, the former Maharashtra CM said adding Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been able to translate all his promises into realities since 2014, unlike the previous governments which used to make tall claims and announcements only on paper. "The future of the youths lies in the hands of PM Narendra Modi for which NDA government is needed in Bihar to work for its speedy and all-round development", Fadnavis said. Speaking on the occasion, Jaiswal asserted that NDA will win more than three-fourth of seats in the assembly. I am confident that NDA will create history this time. Jaiswal said Nadda will address party workers and leaders Saturday, where he will share the broad outline of how the state will be in the next five years if the NDA continued. Nadda will also launch raths Saturday from the state headquarters which will go to different districts to solicit suggestions as what people want from the NDA government, he said adding the party will prepare its manifesto based on peoples suggestions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushants-death-case-not-poll-issue-ljp-jdu-tussle-not-big-problem-says-devendra-fadnavis-886166.html
11-09-2020||National||EGoM headed by Defence Minister to oversee OFB's corporatisation||The government has constituted an Empowered Group of Ministers (EGoM) under the chairmanship of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to oversee the process of corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), the defence ministry said on Friday. As part of the "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India) initiative, the government had announced on May 16 that it would improve the autonomy, accountability and efficiency in ordnance supplies by converting the OFB, which is a subordinate office of the defence ministry, into one or more government-owned corporate entities. On Friday, the ministry stated that the EGoM will "oversee and guide the entire process (of corporatisation), including transition support and redeployment plan of employees while safeguarding their wages and retirement benefits". Others in the EGoM are Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar, the statement said. Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievance and Pension Jitendra Singh is also part of the EGoM, the ministry noted. "The Terms of Reference (ToR) of the EGoM include: decision on conversion of OFB into a single defence public sector undertaking (DPSU) or as multiple DPSUs; matters related to various categories of employees, including protection of the salary and pension of the existing employees; financial support that may be provided to the entity/entities to make them economically viable and self-reliant," it stated. Other issues included in the ToR are: "Grandfathering of orders already being executed by OFB or for which facilities created in OFB; treatment for land assets of OFB." The composition of the EGoM, along with the ToR, has been communicated to the OFB and various employee unions or associations at the "Board/Factory/Unit level" and they have been requested to place their suggestions, issues and concerns relating to the corporatisation of the OFB before the EGoM, the ministry said. It added that it has selected KPMG Advisory Services Private Limited and Khaitan and Company as consultants to the Department of Defence for the corporatisation of the OFB. The OFB has 41 factories under it to produce ordnance for the country's armed forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/egom-headed-by-defence-minister-to-oversee-ofbs-corporatisation-886168.html
11-09-2020||National||China claims India doesn't link border row with development of ties||India does not consider the development of its relations with China to be dependent on settlement of the dispute over border between the two nations, Beijing claimed after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with the communist country’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Moscow. India “does not want to go backwards” in its relations with China, a press release issued by the government of China quoted Jaishankar telling Wang during the bilateral meeting they had on the side-line of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in the capital of Russia on Thursday. The press release of the Chinese Government was circulated early Friday – just about an hour before the joint statement outlining the five-point consensus Jaishankar and Wang reached was issued.   A source in New Delhi, however, quoted Jaishankar telling Wang that while India recognized that settlement of its boundary dispute with China would require time and effort, it was also clear that the maintenance of peace and tranquillity on the border areas was essential to the forward development of bilateral relations. He also conveyed to Chinese Foreign Minister that the recent stand-off along the disputed boundary had inevitably impacted the development of the bilateral relationship and hence an urgent resolution of the current situation was in the interest of both nations, added the source. New Delhi has been maintaining over the past few weeks that China must withdraw its troops from the territory of India and restore the status quo ante along the LAC for bringing the relations between the two nations back on track. Jaishankar, himself, articulated New Delhi’s position, stating that the future of India-China relations could not be separated from the situation in the border areas. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla too recently stated that business could not be as usual between India and China unless and until the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) pulled back troops to restore the status quo ante along the LAC. The statement circulated by the Chinese Government also quoted Jaishankar telling Wang that India did not want “tension to escalate” along its disputed boundary with China. He was also quoted saying that India’s policy toward China had not changed and that New Delhi believed that China’s policy toward India had not changed either.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-claims-india-doesnt-link-border-row-with-development-of-ties-886172.html
11-09-2020||National||Prakash Javadekar issues stern warning against sand mining mafia on National Forest Martyrs Day||Paying tributes to martyred forest officials, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday came down heavily on sand mining mafia, saying attacks on revenue or forest officials will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken against the culprits. The remarks come on National Forest Martyrs Day observed for the first time by the environment ministry. Javadekar, in a virtual interaction, appealed to states to make stern laws to tackle sand mining mafia. In a stern message against the illegal practice, he said the situation will be reviewed and those found not abiding shall be punished. Expressing deep anguish over the death of a forest staff who was killed by sandalwood smugglers in Rajasthan’s Alwar, the minister said amendments shall be made in regulations so that sandalwood can be cultivated more widely. “Revenue or forest officials doing their duty are killed. Attacks on them will not be tolerated. We will make strict laws, there will be stringent punishment provisions. This is very important, otherwise our nature will be looted, rivers will dry up,” he tweeted in Hindi. In another tweet he said, “At @MOEFCC we observed the #ForestMartyrsDay at the national level for the first time, in recognition of forest personnel who sacrificed their lives for the protection of our environment, forest and wildlife.” Forest home guard Kewal Singh was mowed down by a tractor when he along with his colleague tried to stop suspected members of mining mafia inside the Sariska Tiger Reserve in Alwar in July this year. The environment minister appealed to the state governments to take the issue of sand mining mafia seriously and impose strict laws to bring an end to the practice. He appealed that sustainable sand mining must be practised so as to prevent the depletion of natural resources from river beds, the ministry said in a press note. “In order to prevent the river beds from drying completely, sustainable sand mining must be practised and killings of foresters or revenue staff working towards the initiative of sustainable sand mining is completely unacceptable and that steps will be taken to make sure the offenders are punished,” the ministry said. According to the ministry, the minister also said that despite the new sustainable sand mining rules and regulations being passed, many states and regions are not abiding by the rules. This year, families of 25 martyred forest officials have been given the certificate of recognition, it said. As per the details shared by the ministry, in the year 2019-2020, 25 forest officials have been killed. The reasons for the killings include attack by poachers, sand mafia, mining mafia, leopards, elephants, tigers and sandal smugglers. Of the 25 deaths, over seven deaths have been reported from Kerala and Madhya Pradesh. Other states where forest officials, including forest watchers, forest guards, drivers, range officers and protection watchers lost their lives are Karnataka, Assam, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and UT Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prakash-javadekar-issues-stern-warning-against-sand-mining-mafia-on-national-forest-martyrs-day-886173.html
11-09-2020||National||National Institute of Immunology's potential Covid-19 vaccine shows encouraging results in immunogenicity study on mice||An immunogenicity study conducted on mice for the coronavirus vaccine candidate being developed by the National Institute of Immunology has shown encouraging results, NII director Amulya Panda said on Friday. The NII, an institute under the Department of Biotechnology, has started the process of developing protein-based vaccine candidates against the coronavirus. "The preliminary results of the immunogenicity study trials done on mice have shown positive results. We found it to be highly immunogenic, neutralising and it produced antibodies," Panda said. The NII's vaccine candidate is one of the many being developed indigenously. The immunogenicity study trial on mice was conducted in July. Panda said more tests need to be done on mice on a larger scale now and it is expected to start next week. "We are also working to see how good it is at neutralising (the coronavirus) in humans," he said. "Further, we plan to do it (test) in monkeys to get more solid data," he said, adding that clearances have to be taken to conduct such tests on primates. In the past, the NII had developed a vaccine against leprosy which is already in the market. It is also working on a cancer vaccine which is in phase 3 trial. Panda said the aim is to make a cheaper vaccine which can be made available to the masses. Two other indigenous vaccine candidates -- Zydus Cadila and Bharat Biotech -- have finished phase 1 of human trials and have moved to phase 2. The Serum Institute of India (SII) on Thursday announced that it has paused clinical trials of AstraZeneca Oxford COVID-19 vaccine candidate in the country Earlier this week, pharma giant AstraZeneca had said it had paused the trials because of 'an unexplained illness' in a participant in the study. The Drugs Controller General of India had issued a show-cause notice to the SII for not informing it about AstraZeneca pausing the clinical trials of the Oxford vaccine candidate for COVID-19 in other countries and also for not submitting a casualty analysis of the "reported serious adverse events".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-institute-of-immunologys-potential-covid-19-vaccine-shows-encouraging-results-in-immunogenicity-study-on-mice-886176.html
11-09-2020||National||JEE-Mains results announced; 24 students score 100 percentile||The result for JEE-Mains was announced on Friday with 24 students scoring 100 percentile in the engineering entrance exam which was postponed twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. While Telangana has maximum 100 percentile scorers at 8, Delhi is at the second spot with 5 hundred percentile scorers followed by Rajasthan (4), Andhra Pradesh (3), Haryana (2 ) and one candidate each from Gujarat and Maharashtra. The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Mains for admission to engineering colleges was conducted from September 1 to 6, amid stringent precautions and social distancing measures in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Staggered entry and exit for candidates, sanitisers at the gate, distribution of masks and maintaining distance as candidates queued up, were among the scenes witnessed at the exam centres across the country. A total of 8.58 lakh candidates had registered for the JEE-Mains exam for admission to engineering courses in IITs, NITs and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs) while only 74 per cent of them had appeared for the exam. Increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit were among the steps taken by the National Testing Agency for safely conducting the crucial exam. While the governments of Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh had assured students that they would provide transportation to candidates, a group of IIT alumni and students also launched a portal to provide transport facilities to exam centres for the candidates in need. There had been a growing chorus for postponing JEE-Mains and medical entrance exam NEET amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases.  The Supreme Court had earlier dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams amid a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, saying a "precious year" of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on. Based on the results of the JEE-Mains Paper 1 and Paper 2, the top 2.45 lakh candidates will be eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam, which is a one-stop exam to get admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). JEE-Advanced is scheduled to take place on September 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-mains-results-announced-24-students-score-100-percentile-886182.html
11-09-2020||National Politics||Union Minister Ramdas Athawale meets Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, seeks 'justice' for Kangana||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Friday met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, seeking "justice" and compensation for Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, whose office in Mumbai was partially pulled down by the civic body. Athawale said he told the governor that Ranaut was served notice and the demolition was carried out within 24 hours of that on Wednesday by the Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) while she was not in the city. The Minister of State for Social Justice had met the actress at her residence in Khar here on Thursday and told her that she need not be afraid while in the city. "I held discussions with the governor for 20-25 minutes (at Raj Bhavan). We discussed the issue relating to Kangana Ranaut. Injustice was meted out to her," Athawale told reporters after the meeting. Alleging that the BMC also broke furniture in Ranaut's office during the demolition drive, he accused the civic body of misusing its powers. "I urged the governor to ensure that Kangana gets justice and compensation," Athawale said. The Shiv Sena, which heads the alliance government in the state, and Ranaut had engaged in a war of words after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and said she feared Mumbai Police more than alleged movie mafia. Using a bulldozer and excavators, a BMC team had demolished the alterations allegedly made without the civic body's approval at Ranaut's bungalow at Pali Hill on Wednesday morning. Ranaut arrived in the city the same day after the demolition. Athawale's party - RPI(A) had come out in support of the actress and offered her security at the Mumbai airport when she returned to the city amid sloganeering by Shiv Sena workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-ramdas-athawale-meets-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-seeks-justice-for-kangana-885919.html
11-09-2020||National Politics||Issues raised by Rahul on economic crisis, industries shutting down justified: Sachin Pilot||Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Friday said the issues that have been raised by former party chief Rahul Gandhi recently are justified as industries are shutting down, the economic scenario of the country is grim and people are losing their jobs. "The issues raised by Rahul Gandhiji are justified. The country is facing an economic crisis, industries are shutting down, 2.10 crore people have lost their jobs, salaries are being cut and on the other hand, China is entering our territory," Pilot told reporters here. The former Rajasthan deputy chief minister also alleged that other issues are being talked about to divert people's attention from the border tension between India and China. He said the entire country will be with the government if it takes any action. In a series of tweets, Gandhi has raised issues related to the Chinese aggression on the India-China border, job loss, unemployment, fall in the GDP growth rate etc. Pilot appreciated the initiative started in Rajasthan by a committee appointed by the Congress high-command under the party's national general secretary and in-charge of the state, Ajay Maken, to obtain feedback from people on various issues. "It is a good platform. Holding a feedback programme is a good tradition in democracy. I hope that the high-command will take action on the feedback given to the state in-charge," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/issues-raised-by-rahul-on-economic-crisis-industries-shutting-down-justified-sachin-pilot-885920.html
11-09-2020||National Politics||Sharad Pawar demands detailed presentation on India-China border situation||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat on Friday appeared before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence, amid rising tension on the India-China border, during which senior NCP leader Sharad Pawar sought a detailed presentation on the situation. The attendance of Gen Rawat was seen as significant amid the stand-off though the agenda of the meeting was briefing by top officials about the "provision and monitoring of the quality of ration and livery items to the Defence forces, especially in border areas". Sources said Pawar, a former Defence Minister, raised the issue at the meeting chaired by panel head Jual Oram, a senior BJP MP, and sought a detailed presentation on the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). To this, the officials said they have noted the request. The NCP chief's demand for a detailed presentation comes days ahead of the start of Monsoon Session of Parliament and is seen as an attempt by the Opposition to raise the pitch on the issue. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who is also a member of the Defence panel and attended the meeting, has also been questioning the government's handling of the situation. While Rahul is learnt to have not raised the issue in the meeting, he tweeted later, "the only 'talk' to have with China is about restoration of 'status quo ante' as of March 2020. (The) PM (Prime Minister) and GOI (Government of India) refuse to take responsibility for pushing China out of our land. All other 'talk' is worthless." Before the meeting, Pawar told reporters that there should be a presentation by the government on the situation, as "we are all worried about what is happening on the India-China border, particularly in the Ladakh region". Asked whether the government was hiding information, he said he was not going to make any allegation as he does not have any such information. He acknowledged that the situation at the border is a "very sensitive" issue involving national security and nobody should indulge in any kind of blame game. Last week, Pawar and his party MPs had met former foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale and retired Air Marshal Bhushan Gohakle and discussed issues related to China. In the Parliamentary panel meet, sources said the MPs raised questions about the issue of ration and supplies to soldiers. To a question by Rahul why there was difference in food for jawans and officers, Gen Rawat said that there was no compromise on the quality and quantity of food served to them. He said the difference is because of food habits and cited that soldiers prefer rotis while officers go for bread. He also said soldiers from rural areas prefer desi ghee while officers prefer cheese.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-pawar-demands-detailed-presentation-on-india-china-border-situation-885986.html
11-09-2020||National Politics||Covid-19 outbreak in Delhi managed by Centre, not AAP: Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the Covid-19 outbreak in Delhi could be managed only after the Centre's intervention and the Aam Aadmi Party was projecting as if it was people's saviour. Referring to the AAP's anti-Covid-19 campaign, the chief minister said Goa does not need to follow any model to deal with the viral outbreak. "Some people are pretending that they are the saviours of Covid-19 patients in Goa. They are talking about the Delhi model. But they should understand that it was the Union government that provided the facilities in Delhi to manage the outbreak," he said referring to AAP. Goa is the only state that is providing free treatment and other facilities, including food to Covid-19 patients, he claimed. He further said there was no shortage of beds at Covid-19 treatment facilities commissioned by the Goa government. Sawant said majority of people, who have tested positive for coronavirus, have opted for home isolation and the Indian Medical Association and other agencies have been providing teleconsultation to such patients. The state government is also considering setting up clinics for people who have recovered from the infection, he added. Apart from this, the chief minister said the state government is working towards reopening schools from September 20 in a phased manner, starting from higher classes and in compliance with social distancing guidelines. Sawant, who has also tested positive for the infection, said that he would continue working in isolation for the next seven days from his official residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-outbreak-in-delhi-managed-by-centre-not-aap-pramod-sawant-886033.html
11-09-2020||National Politics||Maharashtra govt is fighting with Kangana Ranaut, not coronavirus: Devendra Fadnavis||Lashing out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation, Maharashtra leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis wondered whether the government was fighting coronavirus or Kangana Ranaut. “It appears that the government is fighting Kangana (Ranaut) and not corona,” Fadnavis, a former Chief Minister, said expressing concern over the Covid-19 situation in the state. "If they even put 50 percent of their ability in fighting corona we will be able to control Covid-19," he added. Fadnavis said that Shiv Sena blew the issue out of proportion. “Why was the whole issue given such importance. Kangana was not a national issue. You made it big. You (Shiv Sena) wentand razed her office. Kangana's issue was blown out of proportion by you. She is not a political leader. You don't go to demolish Dawood's home but you demolish her place," Fadnavis said. Supporting Kangana, BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam said: “Whether joining hands with ‘Hindu Hridaysamrat’ late BalasahebThackeray's sworn in enemies Congress and NCP or attacking a woman..this new Sena has done everything that chisels a blot on Balasaheb's glorious legacy.” Kangana to work from ruins A determined Kangana said that she would continue to work from the office that has been ravaged by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. “I had my office opening on 15th Jan, shortly after Covid-19 hit us, like most of us I haven’t worked ever since, don’t have money to renovate it, I will work from those ruins keep that office ravaged as a symbol of a woman’s will that dared to rise in this world,” she declared. Athawale meets Governor RPI (A) president and union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale called on Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to discuss the issue. The meeting assumes significance as a day earlier Athawale had visited the Pali Hill bungalow and met Kangana. "I met the government as requested for justice to Kangana. She should also be given compensation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-govt-is-fighting-with-kangana-ranaut-not-coronavirus-devendra-fadnavis-886034.html
11-09-2020||National Politics||H K Patil, Dinesh Gundu Rao get new responsibilities in Congress reshuffle||Senior leader H K Patil and former Minister Dinesh Gundu Rao were among few from Karnataka to get important responsibilies in the Congress' reshuffle as its office-bearers on Friday. Patil has been named as party in-charge of Maharashtra while Dinesh Gundu Rao was named as in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Goa and Puducherry. As per All India Congress Committee (AICC) reshuffle, former Minister Krishna Byre Gowda was named as member of the Central Election Authority. Senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge, who has been dropped from the post of AICC general seceretary, will continue as a member of the Congress Working Committee, the party's highest decision making body. H K Patil and Dinesh Gundu Rao will also be permanent invitees of CWC since they are the party's state affairs in-charge. Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh and former Union Minister K H Muniyappa were other permanant invitees for CWC from Karnataka. Another Karnataka leader B V Srinivas, president, All India Youth Congress continued as CWC special invitee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/h-k-patil-dinesh-gundu-rao-get-new-responsibilities-in-congress-reshuffle-886107.html
11-09-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi rejigs Congress after G-23 shock||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Friday carried out organisational changes, dropping veteran leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mallikarjun Kharge as AICC general secretaries while handing our key responsibilities to leaders considered close to Rahul Gandhi. Besides Azad and Kharge, Gandhi dropped veteran leaders Motilal Vora, Ambika Soni, Luizinho Faleiro as AICC general secretaries, while young leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Bhanwar Jitendra Singh were appointed as general secretaries. Dinesh Gundu Rao, Manickam Tagore, Vivek Bansal have been made AICC in charge of states. Karnataka leaders H K Patil and Dinesh Gundu Rao got important responsibilities while Veerappa Moily and Siddaramaiah were dropped from Congress Working Committee. Gandhi also appointed a six-member committee with A K Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, K C Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Surjewala as members to assist her in the day-to-day functioning of the party. The AICC reshuffle comes a little over a fortnight after the stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) over the letter written by 23 party leaders, who sought a “full-time and effective leadership” that is “active” and “visible” in the field. However, the Congress president did not appear to be too harsh on the ‘dissenters’ as Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Jitin Prasada, Arvinder Singh Lovely — part of the G-23 — have landed key organisational responsibilities. Surjewala appears to be the biggest gainer in the reshuffle, as he was elevated to the post of AICC General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka and also included in the six-member committee to advise the Congress President. He also retains charge of the communications department of the party. Gandhi also reconstituted the Central Election Authority with Madhusudan Mistry as chairman and Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byregowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely as members. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will continue to be in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, while Rahul loyalist Dinesh Gundu Rao, Manickam Tagore, Vivek Bansal have been made AICC in-charges of Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Haryana respectively. Another Rahul loyalist Jitendra Singh has been elevated as AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam, while Ajay Maken and Venugopal continue to be in-charge of Rajasthan and Organisation respectively. AICC general secretary and former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat has been shifted from Assam to Punjab, while former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy continues to be in-charge of Andhra Pradesh. Tariq Anwar, who recently quit the NCP to re-join the Congress, has been made AICC general secretary in-charge of Kerala and Lakshadweep. Veteran Karnataka leader H K Patil has been made AICC in-charge of Maharashtra, succeeding Kharge. Former Union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal will be AICC in-charge administration. ‘Dissenters’ Azad, Sharma and Wasnik have retained the positions as members of the Congress Working Committee, which now has new entrants Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Ajay Maken, P Chidambaram, Jitendra Singh, Surjewala, and Tariq Anwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-rejigs-congress-after-g-23-shock-886183.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army shells forward areas along LoC in five sectors in J&K's Poonch||The Pakistan army opened heavy fire and shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in five sectors in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Thursday, officials said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly, they said. "The Pakistan army continued unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in many locations," Jammu-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said. "Around 0530, 1145 and 1215 hours today, the Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in Mankote, Degwar and Mendhar sectors," he said. In the evening, the Pakistan army targeted Balakote sector. Again around 2200 hours, it initiated ceasefire violation in Krishna Ghati sector in Poonch, he added. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly, the spokesperson said. The exchange of fire between the two sides was still on when last reports came in from the area. On September 2, one junior commissioned officer of the Indian Army was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the LoC in Keri sector of Rajouri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-five-sectors-in-jks-poonch-885659.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Two power discom officials injured as family attacks them for electricity theft inspection||Two home guards of the vigilance team of Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) sustained critical injuries on Thursday after they were attacked with iron rods and sticks by a family in Bundi district when they reached the house to check for alleged electricity theft, police said. Five members of the family comprising the husband, wife, and their three sons, were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code but none of them have been arrested so far. The two injured guards identified as Ramhate Meena and Tulsiram Raiger sustained critical injuries on their head and arms. They were rushed to MBS Hospital in Kota, where they are undergoing medical treatment, police said. The JVVNL vigilance squad, led by Assistant Engineer Kamlesh Meena from Bundi district headquarters, had reached Ladpura village under Keshoraipatan sub-division for checking electricity theft at a house on Thursday, sub-inspector at Keshoraipatan police station Yudveer Singh said. When the squad entered the house of one Chothmal Meena, he along with his wife Santosh and three sons attacked the power discom squad with iron rods and sticks, he said. Based on the report by Kamlesh Meena, Assistant Engineer (AE), JVVNL vigilance squad, police lodged a case under Sections 332, 353, 143 and 308 of IPC against Chothmal Meena, his wife Santosh, sons Vinod, Jamnashankar and one other person, he further said. A police team has been sent to arrest the accused members of the family. "On suspicion of electricity theft, the guards of the JVVNL vigilance squad entered the house of the accused, Chothmal Meena for checking the electricity meter. The accused Meena bolted the main gate from the inside and along with his family members attacked the guards using iron rods and sticks. One of the guards, however, managed to unbolt the main gate allowing the other guards to escape but the family members kept hitting them causing one of them to fall unconscious with head injuries," Kamlesh Meena said. He added that the village was notorious for electricity theft and the JVVNL squad was checking houses one by one on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-two-power-discom-officials-injured-as-family-attacks-them-for-electricity-theft-inspection-885667.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||J&K LG meets journalists, seeks suggestions for effective dissemination of information||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday interacted with journalists and sought suggestions to make the dissemination of information more authentic and effective. This was his second interaction with the media persons after a delegation of Journalists from Kashmir met him on September 4 in Srinagar. Sinha welcomed the media's constructive criticism of the administration and said it makes the system more responsive and accountable. The LG said media is an important tool to take administration's works and initiatives to the public. The delegation also apprised the Lt Governor about various issues pertaining to media fraternity in Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-lg-meets-journalists-seeks-suggestions-for-effective-dissemination-of-information-885710.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||PM to launch three schemes worth Rs 901 crore in Bihar: Sushil Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch three schemes for Bihar worth Rs 901 crore on Sunday, the state's Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi said here. Modi will launch the schemes at a function held through video conference, he said. Sushil Modi said the PM will inaugurate the 193-km pipeline of Durgapur-Banka section, which has been built at a cost of Rs 634 crore, and a Rs 131-crore LPG bottling plant at Banka. He will also inaugurate a new LPG plant at Sugauli in East Champaran district, the deputy CM said. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan will address the function, too, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-to-launch-three-schemes-worth-rs-901-crore-in-bihar-sushil-modi-885716.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||BJP will relocate slum dwellers to Delhi govt's flats, says party leader Ramvir Singh Bidhuri||Senior Delhi BJP leader Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Thursday said his party will relocate slum dwellers, who will be evicted from dwellings along railway tracks, to 52,000 vacant flats of the city government by "breaking" their locks. Bidhuri, who is also the Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said the Centre has also provided funds for these houses and alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has delayed the rehabilitation of slum dwellers for years. In a recent order, the Supreme Court directed the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings along the 140 km length of railway tracks in Delhi within three months. It said the slum dwellings will be removed in a phased manner and restrained any court from granting any kind of stay with respect to removal of encroachments in the area. "The BJP will rehabilitate 48,000 slum dwellers settled on railway land by breaking the locks of 52,000 flats of the (Delhi) government. The Centre has also provided funds for these houses constructed for slum dwellers," Bidhuri said. He said the AAP is doing drama over the issue. "AAP and its leader Raghav Chadha are doing drama. We will rehabilitate slum dwellers in these 52,000 flats whose allocation has been kept pending by the Kejriwal government for many years," he said. The Bharatiya Janata Party stands with slum dwellers and will not allow any injustice to happen to them, Bidhuri said. Earlier in the day, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha alleged the Centre is issuing notices across the national capital and threatening slum dwellers that their houses will be demolished within this month. He said the AAP will not allow any slum demolition in Delhi and if needed it will move to the Supreme Court and fight the battle on the streets. The Delhi BJP, however, rubbished the allegations, saying nothing can be more false and condemnable than the AAP's diatribe on demolition of slum dwellings around railway tracks as ordered by the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-will-relocate-slum-dwellers-to-delhi-govts-flats-says-party-leader-ramvir-singh-bidhuri-885718.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||9 years on the run, man arrested for facilitating sale, encroachment of govt land in Delhi||A 56-year-old man wanted for his alleged involvement in a conspiracy to facilitate the sale and encroachment of government land nine years ago has been arrested by the Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi Police, officials said on Thursday. The accused, Diler Singh, is a resident of Chhattarpur village, they said. A case was registered in 2011 on the complaint of the then principal secretary-cum-divisional commissioner, GNCT, New Delhi, the police said. According to the complainant, an unauthorised apartment block, Neelakanth Apartment, was constructed on evacuee property bearing no. 152 to 154, Chhattarpur village and flats were sold to general public, they said. The apartment has been built on government land (Compensation Pool Property) bearing plot no. 152 to 154, and private land bearing plot number 151 and 108 in Chhattarpur village, they said. "During investigation, it emerged that the accused person got executed the sale documents of two plots number 151 and 108 in Chhattarpur village from Diler Singh and his brother Kulwant Singh," Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O P Mishra said in a statement. "Plot No. 151 was owned by Pritam Kaur and plot no. 108 was owned by Bola Singh, father of Diler Singh and Kulwant Singh. Diler Singh is the nephew of Pritam Kaur and real brother of Kulwant Singh residing at plot No.150," he said. Using the forged General Power of Attorney, Diler Singh sold plot no. 151 to Rajesh Dhir and further transferred it to builders without any demarcation of the properties, Mishra said. Taking the benefit of non-demarcation, the builders occupied the adjacent plots no. 152-154 illegally and constructed the apartment. Later, they sold the flats to general public, the officer said. Two other accused persons, Jagbir Singh and Ganesh Kumar, who sold the flats and executed sale documents in favour of buyers, have already been arrested in the case, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-years-on-the-run-man-arrested-for-facilitating-sale-encroachment-of-govt-land-in-delhi-885720.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||50% of NSA arrests in Uttar Pradesh were for cow slaughter: Report||Forty four of these arrests were made in the Bareilly police zone as of the end of August.  Comparatively, for crimes against women and children, the NSA was used only six times. It was invoked 37 times for heinous crimes and 20 times for other offences. Out of the 139 arrests, 13 were related to anti-CAA protests.  The NSA allows the state to arrest and detain someone upto 12 months, without a charge, if they are considered a threat to the security of the state.  “Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed that the NSA be slapped in case of crimes which may affect public order so that there is a feeling of fear among criminals and a feeling of safety among the public,” Awasthi told the publication.  The Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act was used to register 1,716 FIRs while a total of 4,000 people were arrested under the same during the same period.  A man was arrested in Bahraich, Uttar Pradesh, on charges of cow slaughter under the NSA on September 6. The first two people arrested in Bareilly under the NSA on suspicion of cow slaughter were in their early 20s and were believed to be part of a group of six from Bijnor that was found in possession of cow meat and slaughter weapons.  By August, 11 more people were held under the NSA in Bijnor, all related to cow slaughter.  Badaun and Bareilly both had 12 NSA arrests till August.  For anti-CAA protests, the NSA had been invoked on a maximum of five people each in both Aligarh and Mau.  Aside from the NSA, the UPP invoked the UP Gangsters’ Act against 2,384 people and the Goonda Act against 1,742 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-of-nsa-arrests-in-uttar-pradesh-were-for-cow-slaughter-report-885784.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro's Magenta and Grey lines resume services ||Delhi Metro's Magenta Line and Grey Line resumed operations on Friday after being closed for 173 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. Services started at 7 am as part of the second stage of the graded reopening of Delhi Metro, which was closed on March 22 to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. In this stage, trains will operate in two batches of six-hour each from 7 am to 1 pmand 4-10 pm.  Services on other lines which had reopened under stage one from Monday through Thursday will now also follow the stage two schedule. Yellow Line and Rapid Metro were the first ones to be reopened on Monday, followed by Blue Line and Pink Line resuming services on Wednesday. On Thursday, Red Line, Violet Line and Green Line were made operational. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has appealed to people to use the rapid transport only if urgently needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metros-magenta-and-grey-lines-resume-services-885793.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Pakistan targets forward areas in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||The Pakistan Army on Friday opened heavy fire and shelled mortars at forward areas along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, officials said. This is the third consecutive day that Pakistani troops have targeted areas along the LoC. "At about 0830 hours, Pak initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & shelling with mortars along LoC in Mankote sector in district Poonch," a defence spokesman said. The Indian Army retaliates befittingly, he added. On Thursday, the Pakistan Amy had opened fire with small arms and shelled mortars along the LoC. On Wednesday, they had targeted Malti and Degwar sectors along the LoC in Poonch with mortar bombs. On September 2, a JCO was killed in a ceasefire violation by the Pakistan Army along the LoC in Keri sector of Rajouri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-targets-forward-areas-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-885800.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Rainfall unlikely in Delhi till September 11, says IMD||The Meteorological Department on Friday said the skies over the national capital will remain clear and no rains are likely till Tuesday.  The mercury is expected to settle around 37 degrees Celsius.  So far in September, the city has recorded just 20.9 mm rainfall against the normal of 66.4 mm -- a deficiency of 69 per cent.  Overall, it has recorded 576.5 mm precipitation against the normal of 590.2 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts.  Earlier in the day, the IMD said monsoon is likely to stay longer in the national capital and start withdrawing only in the "initial days of October". The wind system had reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than normal.  Earlier this year, the Meteorological department had revised the date for the withdrawal of monsoon from Delhi from September 21 to September 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rainfall-unlikely-in-delhi-till-september-11-says-imd-885801.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Major, jawan injured in explosion along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir||An army Major and a soldier were injured in an explosion that took place along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Friday. Sources said an explosion took place in a forward location in the Nowshera sector injuring a Major and a soldier. The injured were shifted to an army hospital, where their condition is stated to be stable. The reason for the explosion was not known immediately. Meanwhile, Pakistan Army on Friday violated ceasefire along the LoC in Poonch district of Jammu region. This is the third consecutive day that Pakistani troops have targeted forward areas along the LoC. Officials said the Pakistan army fired both small arms as well as mortars in Mankote and Balakote areas of Mendhar sector. Two shops also received partial damages in the shelling, they said and added that the Indian Army retaliated befittingly. There has been a huge surge in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir this year. Between January-June 2020, there have been 2300 ceasefire violations by Pakistan against 1321 in the same period last year. In 2019 there were around 3168 ceasefire violations by Pakistan. The Army maintains that Pakistani troops have been frequently violating ceasefire by resorting to heavy shelling and firing to help the militants to infiltrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-jawan-injured-in-explosion-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-885839.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Vigilance department out of RTI ambit in Uttarakhand||The Vigilance department in Uttarakhand has been declared an intelligence organisation putting it out of the ambit of the Right To Information (RTI) Act. A notification on this was issued by the state government on Thursday following the Governor's consent. The step has been taken using powers vested in the Governor under sub-section 4 of section 24 of the RTI Act, 2005 and sub-section 1 of section 4 of Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965, the notification signed by the secretary, personnel and vigilance, Radha Raturi said. The state cabinet had taken the decision to put the vigilance department out of the ambit of the RTI Act by declaring it an intelligence organisation earlier this month.             The state government had justified the move arguing that being under the purview of the RTI Act was hindering investigations taken up by the vigilance department. As soon as the vigilance department begins to investigate a case, queries seeking information under the RTI Act on its details start pouring in, an official said. Disclosure of details in a case under investigation hampers the probe, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vigilance-department-out-of-rti-ambit-in-uttarakhand-885841.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Rape-accused Covid-19 positive undertrial who fled from UP hospital caught||One of the two undertrials, who had fled from a Covid-19 hospital here, was nabbed by the local police, an officer said on Friday. Rajju and Brijlal, accused of rape, were undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 hospital in Khoh area. They had escaped at around 4 am on Thursday after breaking a window in the bathroom, Superintendent of Police Chitrakoot Ankit Mittal said on Friday. While Brijlal was caught late Thursday night, police teams have been deployed to nab the other undertrial, he said. Both of them were admitted in the hospital on September 7 after they were found to be Covid-19 positive, he said.   Investigations are on against the policemen for laxity and action will be taken, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-accused-covid-19-positive-undertrial-who-fled-from-up-hospital-caught-885857.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||2 JeM militants held, arms recovered in Jammu and kashmir's Kupwara||Security forces have arrested two Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militants from Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir and recovered arms, ammunition and cash from their possession, the Army said on Friday. "Based on a credible input, multiple joint check posts were established in Drugmulla area of Kupwara on Thursday," an army official said. He said two JeM militants travelling in a car were arrested late in the evening and the security forces recovered an AK rifle with ammunition, two grenades, Rs 7 lakh in cash, and other war-like stores from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-jem-militants-held-arms-recovered-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kupwara-885865.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||20 arrested for graft in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur||Twenty people including two state transport department employees were arrested following a vigilance department raid at the sub-divisional transport office here. District magistrate Indra Vikram Singh said on Friday that vigilance department teams of Lucknow and Bareilly had met him on Thursday and informed about corruption in the transport office.   Later, a raid with the help of local administration was carried out at the transport office and two employees and 18 touts were arrested, the DM said.   Rs 4 lakh in cash has been recovered from them and the arrested employees have been suspended, the DM said, adding that nine laptops, 19 mobile phones and three registers were seized. Those arrested and suspended included Inspector Brijesh Kumar and chief clerk Pradip Kumar, transport department officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-arrested-for-graft-in-uttar-pradeshs-shahjahanpur-885910.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan government asks officials to stay vigilant against seasonal diseases||The state government has asked officials to stay vigilant against seasonal diseases including malaria and dengue in addition to the coronavirus infection. Health Minister Raghu Sharma has given instructions to the officials of the health department asking them to take steps for the prevention and control of waterborne and mosquito-borne diseases (dengue, malaria and chikungunya). Sharma asked officials to give attention to anti-larva activities for the prevention of mosquito breeding. He also asked them to ensure proper maintenance of hatcheries in all the districts and to put Gambusia fishes, that eat mosquito larva, in ponds and tanks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-government-asks-officials-to-stay-vigilant-against-seasonal-diseases-885929.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Congress leader Ajay Maken moves Supreme Court for rehabilitation of dwellers along rail tracks in Delhi before eviction||Former Union Minister and senior Congress leader Ajay Maken and others have moved the Supreme Court for the rehabilitation of slum dwellers residing in the 48,000 'jhuggis' alongside railway lines in Delhi. These shanties were ordered to be demolished by the top court on August 31 within a period of three months in the case of M C Mehta related to Delhi pollution.  In an application, Maken asked the top court to direct the Indian Railways, Delhi government and others to rehabilitate the slum dwellers prior to eviction or demolition of their jhuggis. He also sought a direction for complying with the provisions of the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015 and the protocol (for removal of Jhuggis) in letter and spirit. Maken said that many of those who have been living over there for 30-40 years would be rendered homeless at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic which may prove to be a recipe for disaster.  On August 31, the court gave a detailed hearing to the Railways, Municipal Corporations, etc who sought to dispossess the slum dwellers. However, the court completely ignored the affected and vulnerable population of slum dwellers by denying them an opportunity of being heard, he said. Questioning the direction which said no court will grant stay in the demolition process, Maken said this amounted to grave obstruction in the right to access to justice. With the directions, he said that the casualty would be greater than 48,000 shanties as more than 5,00,000 people, who contributed to the social and economic life of the city by working as sanitation workers, garbage collectors, domestic help, rickshaw pullers, labourers, etc, would be directly affected. Among the grounds, the applicants said it would be highly risky to demolish the hutments without prior rehabilitation as they will be forced to move from place to place in search of shelter and livelihood. "Needless, to say that even if a small percentage of the displaced population gets affected by Covid-19, the same will prove to be a recipe for disaster in the current pandemic," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leader-ajay-maken-moves-supreme-court-for-rehabilitation-of-dwellers-along-rail-tracks-in-delhi-before-eviction-885932.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 to cast its shadow on Uttarakhand assembly session as many MLAs test positive||The rising curve of Covid-19 is all set to cast its shadow over the forthcoming monsoon session of the Uttarakhand Assembly slated to begin on September 23 with several MLAs testing positive for the virus.            Coronavirus cases have seen an unprecedented rise in Uttarakhand of late with more than 1,000 new cases being reported over the last two days in a row.             Several MLAs and ministers have also contracted the infection while two legislators of the ruling BJP have demanded imposition of a lockdown in the state to contain the fast spreading pandemic.          The latest to be infected is BJP MLA from Khanpur, Pranav Singh Champion, who is under isolation at his Mohini Road residence since Thursday after testing positive for Covid-19, official sources said. Party MLA from Kaladhungi in Nainital district, Bansidhar Bhagat, who also heads the pradesh BJP was hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19 on August 30. Although, he was discharged from the hospital earlier this week, Bhagat has been advised by the doctors to remain quarantined at his home for 10 days.            State parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik who represents Haridwar seat in the state assembly is quarantined at home after being discharged from AIIMS, Rishikesh where he was admitted after testing positive for Covid-19 last Sunday. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat too had self-isolated himself as a precautionary measure thrice for brief periods recently after officials at the CMO tested positive for the virus.          The chief minister's OSD Urbadutt Bhatt who lost his wife to Covid-19 on Thursday, has himself been under treatment along with his daughter and sister-in-law after testing positive.                Uttarakhand Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal said a Covid-19 test of the members before entering the assembly will be compulsory.             "The members will have to undergo a corona test two days ahead of the start of the session and certify that they are corona free. Arrangements can be made at the MLA hostel for a Covid test of MLAs if they cannot do it on their own," Aggarwal said.           However, the Speaker advised members above 65 years of age to attend the assembly session virtually for their own safety. There are 12 MLAs in  the state assembly aged above 65 years.            "We have made adequate arrangements for members for their virtual participation in the session. No one is going to have any problems," the Speaker said.            Meanwhile, Rajpur MLA Khajan Das and Badrinath MLA Mahendra Bhatt have demanded that a lockdown be imposed in the state in view of the pace at which  positive cases are rising.            "Worried over the surge in coronavirus cases, people are in favour of a lockdown. If a lockdown is imposed in the state for 10 days, the situation can be brought under control," Khajan Das said.           He said he will soon put the matter before the chief minister who can take a final call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-to-cast-its-shadow-on-uttarakhand-assembly-session-as-many-mlas-test-positive-885943.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Will firmly stand by Chirag's decisions: Ram Vilas Paswan amid rift with JD(U)||Amid the growing rift with NDA partner JD (U) ahead of the Bihar assembly polls, Lok Janshakti Party patron Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday said he will stand firmly with whatever decision his son and LJP chief Chirag Paswan takes on the party's ties. In a series of tweets, the Union minister also revealed that he was hospitalised with an illness and was getting treatment for it. He, however, did not mention the nature of his illness. "In the time of the coronavirus crisis, I served the country as the food minister and made every effort to ensure that food items reach on time everywhere. During this time, my health started deteriorating but to ensure that there was no laxity in work due to this, I did not go to a hospital," Paswan said. मेरी ख़राब तबियत का एहसास जब चिराग को हुआ तो उसके कहने पर मैं अस्पताल गया और अपना इलाज करवाने लगा। मुझे ख़ुशी है कि इस समय मेरा बेटा चिराग मेरे साथ है और मेरी हर सम्भव सेवा कर रहा है। मेरा ख़याल रखने के साथ साथ पार्टी के प्रति भी अपनी ज़िम्मेदारियों को बखूबी निभा रहा है 2/3 The minister said that it was at his son Chirag's behest that he went to a hospital and started treatment. "I am happy that my son Chirag is with me at this time and is looking after me in every possible way. Besides taking care of me, he is also fulfilling his responsibilities towards the party," Paswan said In a politically significant statement, he also indicated that he would stand by Chirag's decision on alliance and seat sharing for the Bihar assembly polls. "I am confident that with his youthful thinking, Chirag will take the party and Bihar to new heights. I firmly stand by all the decisions of Chirag. I hope that I will soon be well and among my loved ones," Paswan said. His statement comes after the LJP authorised Paswan to take a call on whether the party will fight against Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-headed Janata Dal (United) in the assembly polls and decided to prepare a list of candidates for 143 constituencies. Chirag Paswna's run-in with the government in the state began in March this year when he embarked on a ''Bihar First Bihari First'' campaign which was viewed with suspicion by the JD(U). The relationship between the two parties had nosedived in the subsequent months with the LJP chief taking potshots at the JD(U) government over its handling of COVID-19, the migrants crisis that followed the lockdown and the insistence on holding assembly elections, scheduled in October-November, on time despite the raging pandemic. Kumar's decision to join hands with former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Dalit leader like the Paswans with a history of targeting the LJP, has further soured their ties. While aiming at Kumar, Chirag Paswan has refrained from attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and has even been lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-firmly-stand-by-chirags-decisions-ram-vilas-paswan-amid-rift-with-jdu-885948.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||HC asks DGDE to compensate 87-year-old man denied dues for 50 years||The Delhi High Court has imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on the Directorate General of Defence Estates (DGDE) which failed to compensate an 87-year-old man whose land in Pathankot was taken by the authorities five decades ago. The high court said the DGDE certainly cannot take the property of a citizen without paying the due compensation on the “specious ground” of some sanction to be obtained from within the Department. “The petitioner (Mohinder Lal) has clearly been wronged and in fact, needs to be compensated for the same,” Justice Navin Chawla said in the September 7 order. The court also said that Lal has been forced to file this petition and pursue it due to complete apathy shown by the authorities and their inaction. “The petitioner is aged 87 years and even at this age is being made to run around for his legal and legitimate dues,” it said. The man, represented through advocate Tarun Rana, said that his agricultural land in Punjab’s Pathankot area was requisitioned by the DGCE for defence purposes under the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 through a March 1970 notification. The advocate said the first order to pay compensation was passed by a trial court in Punjab in 1987, then by the Punjab and Haryana High Court and also the Supreme Court, however, no amount was paid to Lal till date. Rana said Lal, a social worker, even at this age is regularly helping needy patients coming to hospitals here. He also helps them financially for their treatment. The man approached the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the authorities to comply with the 2011 order of Punjab and Haryana High Court and make payment of the compensation due to him along with interest. The amount of compensation to be paid to the man is not yet clear. DGDE submitted before the high court that matter is pending before the Delhi Cantonment office for grant of sanction to make payment of the awarded amount to Lal. It said in the status report that all efforts are being made for making payment to the man and it will be made as and when the sanction is received from the Union Ministry of Defence. DGDE also raised objection over jurisdiction of Delhi High Court to hear this matter, which was rejected by the court. “As far as the objection on the jurisdiction is concerned, the same is only stated to be rejected inasmuch as the respondent No. 2 (DGCE) itself admits that the compensation amount has not been paid to the petitioner only because of the want of sanction from the Authorities in Delhi to whom the proposal has been forwarded way back on December 21, 2017 followed with various reminders of the Principal Director, Defence Estates, Western Command, Chandigarh. Therefore, the cause of action has arisen within the jurisdiction of this court,” Justice Chawla said. Regarding the authorities' submission that the payment shall be made as and when sanction is received from the Defence Ministry, the court said it was “a totally unacceptable justification” of DGDE as the Supreme Court by its October 2010 order had enhanced the compensation amount to be paid to Lal and the decision of the apex court should have been complied with. “The land of the petitioner was acquired in 1970 and the Supreme Court judgment deciding the quantum of compensation payable to the petitioner was passed on October 26, 2010. The petitioner has been forced to file the present petition and pursue the same due to complete apathy shown by the respondents and their inaction... “The respondent No. 2 shall also pay costs of Rs 1 lakh to the petitioner for the present petition,” the court said. It also directed DGDE to pay compensation to the man in accordance with the apex court’s verdict within four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-dgde-to-compensate-87-year-old-man-denied-dues-for-50-years-885950.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal inaugurates NDMC's Integrated Command and Control Centre||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday inaugurated the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) and the Shera Maidan Sports Centre, which was redeveloped by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC). "The ICCC has been designed to serve as the nerve centre for NDMC services. Nineteen services have been integrated in phase one. Other services will be continuously added from time-to-time," an official statement said. These 19 services include solid waste management, street lighting, parking, sewage treatment plants, electric and water billing. These are at the core of the municipal services of the NDMC, it said. "The centre will facilitate to monitor and take real-time decisions for the above services based on real-time data," the statement said. Baijal said that the ICCC will enable the NDMC to improve efficiency and quality, and promote a better quality of life for residents of NDMC areas with optimal utilisation of resources. The statement said that at the Shera Maidan Sports ground, "the NDMC has developed an international standard synthetic football field, two synthetic lawn tennis courts, jogging track and outdoor gymnasium". It will provide better sports facilities to schoolchildren and residents of Delhi, it said. This project is funded by the NDMC Smarty City Limited with a project cost of Rs. 2.21 crores, the statement said. "This Shera Maidan Sports ground will become a much sought after place for the students of NDMC and other neighbouring schools and will serve its noble purpose in attracting and nurturing budding talents by providing enviable sports facilities and environment," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lieutenant-governor-anil-baijal-inaugurates-ndmcs-integrated-command-and-control-centre-885953.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Students to study under new curriculum as envisaged by NEP by 2022 : PM Narendra Modi||After unveiling the National Education Policy, the Modi government is all set to come out with a new curriculum framework for school students by 2022 that would seek to promote critical thinking. Addressing the conclave on ‘School Education in 21st Century’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a strong to inculcate critical thinking and a scientific learning among students and take reduce the reliance on a marksheet as a means of evaluation. “We will develop a National Curriculum Framework to make learning an integrated, inter-disciplinary, fun-based and complete experience,” Modi said adding that it would be unveiled in 2022, when India celebrates its 75th anniversary of Independence. He said students will be able to move towards a new future through this forward-looking, future-ready and scientific curriculum. The National Curriculum Framework was last reviewed in 2005. The Prime Minister said there was a need to promote critical thinking, creativity, collaboration, curiosity and communication skills among students and encourage them to understand concepts such as sustainable future and sustainable science. “Students need to learn concepts such as coding, artificial intelligence, Internet of Things, cloud computing, data science and robotics early,” he said. The Prime Minister said that a marksheet had become a “pressure sheet” for the children and a “prestige sheet” for parents, and that the NEP 2020 aimed to remove this pressure. “Instead of a mark sheet, the National Education Policy has proposed a holistic report card which will be a detailed sheet of unique potential, aptitude, attitude, talent, skills, efficiency, competency and possibilities of the students,” Modi said. The Prime Minister also stressed on imparting primary education – at least till grade five – in the mother tongue of the student. “I see there is a misunderstanding on this count. The National Education Policy does not bar any one from learning in any language other than the mother tongue,” the Prime Minister said. He said it would be better for the student to learn foreign languages other than English. “But we will also promote Indian languages so that our youth is acquainted with languages and cultures of different states and strengthen ties with each other,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-to-study-under-new-curriculum-as-envisaged-by-nep-by-2022-pm-narendra-modi-885976.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC declines to stay 8 pm telecast of Sudarshan TV programme on Muslim infiltration in govt services||The Delhi High Court Friday declined to stay the evening telecast of Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol’ programme, whose promo claimed that the channel was all set to broadcast a 'big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service'. The show is scheduled to be telecast at 8 pm on Friday. Justice Navin Chawla also issued notice and sought reply of the Centre and Sudarshan News and its Editor-in-Chief Suresh Chavhanke on a petition filed by former and present students of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) University challenging the nod given by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to the channel’s broadcast. The high court granted time to the ministry, represented through central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, to file an affidavit in response to the plea which has sought to set aside the government’s September 9 order and to reassess the legality of the channel’s show. It fixed the next date of hearing on November 18. Advocate Bijender Singh, who was representing the TV channel, said "there is no stay on the telecast of the programme. The court declined it." The petition by Syed Mujtaba Athar and Ritesh Siraj sought urgent hearing seeking a direction prohibiting the broadcast of the show titled ‘Bindas Bol’, which is scheduled to be telecast at 8 pm tonight on Sudarshan TV till the time government decides on the legality of the show. The plea claimed that the proposed show is full of hate speech and defamation against the petitioners and if the current petition is not adjudicated prior to its broadcast, irreparable harm will be caused to them and the plea will also become infructuous. The plea said the ministry has refrained from exercising its powers under the Cable TV Act to prohibit the proposed show. The plea claimed that the ministry passed a non-speaking order, which is quoted as, “Having regard to the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case, Sudarshan TV channel is hereby directed to ensure that the programme proposed to be telecast does not violate any of the programme codes. If any violation of the programme code is found, action as per law will be taken.” The petition also sought direction to the channel and its editor to not broadcast their show ‘Bindas Bol’ on the topic of entry of Muslims and Jamia alumni into civil services and its promo till the ministry reassess and decides if the broadcast of the show needs to be prohibited under the cable TV Act and other laws. The high court on August 28 stayed the telecast of the programme which was scheduled the same evening. On August 29, the high disposed of the plea with a direction to the ministry to take a decision on the prohibition of the proposed Show pursuant to its August 28 show-cause notice. The high court had also directed the channel and its editor to not broadcast the proposed show till such time the ministry takes the decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-declines-to-stay-8-pm-telecast-of-sudarshan-tv-programme-on-muslim-infiltration-in-govt-services-885988.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir rolls out maiden grievance redressal system||After complaints that officers were available to address grievances of people, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday unveiled maiden Integrated Grievance Redressal System. The System is for timely redressal of peoples issues and there will be round the clock monitoring of the complaints and grievances lodged by the people. While addressing his first press conference at Raj Bhawan, here, after taking over as LG last month, Sinha said the decision to roll out Integrated Grievance Redressal and Monitoring System was taken in the ‘State’ Administrative Council (SAC) meeting held earlier in the day. “After meeting various delegations and journalists recently, we came to know that officers from the administration and other departments related to governance aren’t available for the people. So we have rolled out J&K IGRMS,” the LG said. He added that to begin with a pilot project has been launched in twin capitals of Srinagar and Jammu besides Reasi district while in coming weeks, the facility will be available in other districts as well. “There will be a minute by minute status update of the grievances on the portal. And if any laxity will be found, we can talk to the concerned elders of the district and the concerned officers. Action will follow if any delay or callouses is found while addressing the people’s grievances,” Sinha said. Another SAC decision has asked all district Superintendents of Police and Deputy Commissioners to remain present for people in their offices from 10:30 am to 11:30 am five days a week from Monday. “Similar directions are for the Divisional Commissioners and IGP’s of Jammu and Kashmir regions,” the LG said. He also announced the launch of Ayushman Bharat health insurance cover of Rs five lakh for every resident of the J&K. The cover will be for the people suffering from fatal diseases and others as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-rolls-out-maiden-grievance-redressal-system-885991.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Rape victim withdraws complaint after 'deal' with accused former UP minister||A former Uttar Pradesh minister, who was accused in a rape case and was recently granted interim bail by the court, allegedly got the victim to withdraw her complaint in exchange for land and other properties. According to the police sources here, Gayatri Prajapati, who was a minister in the Samajwadi Party (SP) government in the state between 2012 and 2017, had allegedly raped a woman, a resident of Chitrakoot district. Prajapati was arrested after the police lodged a case of rape against him on the direction of the Supreme Court in 2017. He had been in jail since then and was released on interim bail for two months on health grounds. The case took a new twist recently when the rape victim made a u-turn and said that she had been coerced to lodge the complaint against the former minister by Prajapati's rival Ram Singh, who had 'kidnapped' her daughter and had also raped her. She moved the court to withdraw her complaint and also fired her lawyer. Singh was later arrested by the police.  The lawyer, a few days back, lodged a complaint with the police alleging that Prajapati had 'transferred' land and other properties worth crores to the victim to get her to withdraw the charge. The police have registered a case of forgery, cheating and issuing threats against former minister Gayatri Prajapati and the rape victim on a complaint by the lawyer of the victim. Two cops, including an inspector, were suspended on Thursday after it turned out that they had arrested Singh without any evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-victim-withdraws-complaint-after-deal-with-accused-former-up-minister-885995.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Major among two army officials injured in mine blast along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir||Two army men, including a Major, were injured in a land mine blast along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, sources said on Friday. The blast at an anti-personnel mine took place in Khori Dhaba area on Thursday night during a routine patrolling of the forward areas along the Line of Control, they said. A Major-rank officer and a Subedar were injured in the incident, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-among-two-army-officials-injured-in-mine-blast-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-886004.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Central govt pensioners can submit life certificate from Nov 1 to Dec 31: Jitendra Singh||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, all central government pensioners can submit life certificate from November 1 to December 31, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday. Earlier, life certificate used to be submitted only in November for maintaining continuity of pension, he said. Singh said the decision was taken in view of the pandemic and the vulnerability of the elderly population to Covid-19.   "All central government pensioners can submit life certificate from November 1, 2020, to December 31, 2020,” the minister of state for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions said. "However, the pensioners in the age group of 80 years and above can submit life certificate from October 1, 2020, to December 31, 2020. During this extended period, the pension will be continued to be paid by the pension disbursing authorities (PDAs) uninterrupted," according to a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. Singh said the government's decision to relax the existing timeline for submission of life certificate will act as a major relief to elderly persons. Pension disbursing banks have also been asked to explore video-based customer identification process (V-CIP) for obtaining a life certificate from the pensioner to the extent permitted by the RBI's guidelines to avoid the rush at the branches, the statement said. The central bank had on January 9 issued a notification permitting V-CIP as an alternate method of establishing customer's identity, the statement added. Pensioners can submit life certificate by visiting the bank branches, however, the Department of Pension & Pensioners' Welfare has been promoting the digital life certificate which can be given from the comfort of one's home, the statement said. The department had last year issued orders enabling pensioners in the age group of 80 years and above to submit life certificate from October 1 onward instead of November 1 so that they could avoid the general rush, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-govt-pensioners-can-submit-life-certificate-from-nov-1-to-dec-31-jitendra-singh-886080.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Students' unions burn Uddhav Thackeray's effigy in Uttarakhand||Students' Unions of the city's prominent colleges burnt effigies of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday in protest against the "vindictive action" against actor Kangana Ranaut. Terming it "brazen misuse of power" to stifle criticism, students' unions of the DAV College and Guru Ram Rai PG College here said the youth stands in solidarity with Ranaut who is the "country's daughter".  They termed the action taken against the actor "vindictive" and demanded an apology from Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut for using abusive language and insulting her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-unions-burn-uddhav-thackerays-effigy-in-uttarakhand-886085.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Man caught on video deftly lighting matchstick with one hand and stealing expensive items held||A burglar, who lost his right hand in an accident some years ago and was caught on video deftly lighting a matchstick with his left hand and stealing expensive items from a furniture shop, has finally been arrested, police said on Friday. Raju (38), a resident of Dwarka, was arrested on Thursday, they said, adding that he used to dispose of the stolen items to scrap dealers. His right hand was amputated while working on a threshing machine at his native place in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur, police said. According to police, the accused observed the furniture shop in southwest Delhi’s Vasant Kunj in the day time and on the same night, he entered the store after breaking its lock with the help of an iron rod. Since it was dark, he lit matchsticks with his single hand and lifted a laptop, iPad and mobile phones from the shop. The entire act was caught on CCTV camera installed inside the shop. The robbery was reported to police on August 27. "Acting on a tip-off, we laid a trap at a bus stand on MG Road on Thursday. At 8.10 am, when Raju arrived at the spot, our team apprehended him,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. Two mobile phones, a laptop and an iPad were seized from his possession, the officer said. Raju was earlier arrested in 2013 when he was caught stealing an LPG gas cylinder in south Delhi's Neb Sarai, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-caught-on-video-deftly-lighting-matchstick-with-one-hand-and-stealing-expensive-items-held-886089.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||J&K Covid-19 tally crosses 50,000; death toll at 854||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 1,578 fresh cases on Friday, taking the caseload in the Union Territory to 50,712. This was the ninth consecutive spike of over 1000 cases reported in J&K. On Wednesday, J&K had witnessed its highest spike of 1,617 Covid-19 cases. While on August 31 the total number of cases in the UT was 37,698, in the first 11 days of September, 13,014 positive cases have been reported. It took a month to double the positive cases in the UT as on August 11, the number was 25,931. Jammu and Kashmir reported 17,339 Covid-19 positive cases and 326 deaths in August. Of the total 50,712 cases, 35,037 are from Kashmir and 15,169 from the Jammu division. Among 1,578 new cases, 770 belong to the Kashmir division while 808 are from the Jammu division. According to a daily media bulletin, in the Kashmir division, 27,115 positive patients have recovered so far while in the Jammu division, 7,574 recoveries have been reported. While the Kashmir region has reported 717 deaths, the death count in the Jammu region has reached 137. Pertinently, the Jammu division crossed the 10,000 mark last Friday and since then, in one week, it has reported more than 5,000 positive cases. With 11,243 positive cases and 247 deaths, Srinagar district tops the list, while Jammu district with 7,697 cases and 81 deaths stands at the second position. Kishtwar district in the Jammu region has the least number of positive cases (487) and only one death. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is over 4,000 cases per million of the population. The national average per million population so far is 3,330. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-covid-19-tally-crosses-50000-death-toll-at-854-886101.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi's birthday: MP BJP to hold 'Seva Saptah' from Sep 14-20||The Madhya Pradesh BJP will celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi turning 70 years of age on September 17 by kicking off 'Seva Saptah' (service week) between September 14-20 with 70 social initiatives planned on each day. MP BJP chief and Khajuraho Lok Sabha MP Vishnu Dutt Sharma told reporters on Friday that Seva Saptah will focus on sections like deprived, the backward, the exploited and the poor for whom the PM and his government have worked tirelessly. "During Seva Saptah, we will distribute fruits in Covid-19 hospitals on September 17 after following medical protocols. During the week, in each division, 70 'divyangjan' would get artificial limbs etc, while 70 poor people would get spectacles. We will have plasma donation initiative for 70 Covid-19 patients as well," he said. Sharma said 70 blood donation camps will be organised, an equal number of saplings will be distributed, and cleanliness drives started in 70 places in each district. "We will have a swachhata campaign and plastic-free drive in 70 villages of each district. We will also organise 70 virtual conferences to focus on the personality and works of the prime minister," the MP BJP chief said. The MP government under Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will observe the period as 'poor welfare week' with 37 lakh people getting ration eligibility slips, he informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modis-birthday-mp-bjp-to-hold-seva-saptah-from-sep-14-20-886114.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||2 held for duping people in several states of Rs 42,000 crore||Two men have been arrested for allegedly cheating thousands of people in several states of approximately Rs 42,000 crore by promising them good returns through a ponzi scheme, police said on Friday. The two accused, directors of a Uttar Pradesh-based private company named M/s Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited, have been identified as Sanjay Bhati and Rajesh Bhardwaj, they said. They were arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Delhi Police. Police said their company had its office registered in Gautam Buddh Nagar in Uttar Pradesh. A probe was initiated by the police after they received complaints from several victims, who alleged that Bhati's company had duped them. Elaborating on the duo's modus operandi, Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) Dr O P Mishra said the accused induced their victims to invest Rs 62,000 for a bike to get an assured return of Rs 9,500 per month, including the principle and rental income on the bike, till one year. As the offer was lucrative, a number of victims invested their hard money in this scheme, the DCP said. "In January 2019, the company launched an electric-bike scheme. In this scheme, they again provided a lucrative offer to invest Rs 1.24 lakhs for a bike and get and assured return of Rs 17,000 per month till one year. "Further, the accused induced more return on more investments. Initially, the company had repaid the assured amount to the investors but after winning their confidence, they defaulted and absconded," he said. During investigation, it emerged that approximately 8,000 complainants are from Delhi while various other cases are registered in Noida as well as in other states against the company based on the statement of victims, the officer said. Based on the analysis of bank account details of the company and the response sought from the Reserve Bank of India, it was revealed that the company was not registered with RBI as a Non Banking Financial Company and was not authorized to collect money from public, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-held-for-duping-people-in-several-states-of-rs-42000-crore-886123.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: POCSO court frames charges against ashram owner, disciple in sexual exploitation case||A POCSO court on Friday framed charges against an ashram owner and his disciple in connection with the case of sexual exploitation of children at the place in Shukratal area here. The owner of the ashram, Bhakti Bhushan Govind Maharaj, along with his disciple Krishan Mohan Das were charged under various sections of the law by Special Judge Sanjiv Kumar Tiwari. The special judge framed Maharaj under Sections 323, 377 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code, Section 5 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Sections 75 and 77 of the Juvenile Justice Act and Section 3 of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Das was charged under Sections 323 and 504 of the IPC along with provisions of the JJ Act. The court fixed September 15 for evidence to be put forward from the prosecution side. According to special lawyer for POCSO cases Dinesh Sharma, police had filed a chargesheet against the ashram owner and his disciple under various sections of the law in connection with the case that took place at the ashram. Maharaj and Das were arrested in July for sexually exploiting children and forcing them to work as labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-pocso-court-frames-charges-against-ashram-owner-disciple-in-sexual-exploitation-case-886128.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Publicity of criminal antecedents of candidates during electioneering: EC makes norms stringent||Ahead of Bihar polls, the Election Commission on Friday made the norms of publicity of criminal antecedents of candidates stringent by putting a timeline on when such advertisements should be published and broadcast during electioneering. In October, 2018, the Election Commission (EC) had issued directions making it compulsory for candidates contesting elections and the parties fielding them to advertise their criminal antecedents in TV and newspapers at least three times during electioneering. Now, the EC has made it clear that the first "publicity" of criminal records should be within first four days of the last date of withdrawal of candidature. It said the second publicity should be within fifth and eight day of the last date of withdrawal. The third and final publicity should be from ninth day till the last day of campaign -- two days prior to polling day. "This timeline will help the voters in exercising their choices in more informed manner," a statement by the Commission said. The poll panel also made it clear that uncontested winning candidates as well as the political parties who nominate them will also publicise the criminal antecedents, if any. "All instructions, in this regard, must be complied by the contesting candidates with criminal antecedents and the political parties regarding their nominated candidates," it cautioned, adding that the fresh directions come into effect immediately. Candidates contesting the upcoming Bihar elections as well as those fighting 64 assembly bypolls and one Lok Sabha by-election in the coming days, will have to adhere to the new timeline while advertising their criminal antecedents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/publicity-of-criminal-antecedents-of-candidates-during-electioneering-ec-makes-norms-stringent-886142.html
11-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 tests conducted so far crosses 20-lakh mark in Delhi||The number of Covid-19 tests conducted so far has crossed the 20 lakh-mark in the national capital which has witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases, according to Delhi government's health bulletin. According to the latest bulletin released on Friday, 20,22,700 tests have been conducted from March till date. The number of tests per million stands at 1,06,457, it said. On July 30, the number of tests conducted for the infection had crossed the 10 lakh-mark while on Friday the figure crossed the 20 lakh-mark. Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the last few days.  Barring August 31 when over 14,000 tests were conducted and 1,358 fresh cases reported, since Sunday, daily cases count has been recorded in excess of 2,000.  The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported from August 30-September 11 in that order are: 14,389 (1,358); 20,437 (2,024); 24,198 (2,312); 28,835 (2,509); 32,834 (2,737); 36,219 (2,914) 38,895 (2,973), 36,046 (3,256); 22,954 (2,077); 45,797 (3,609); 54,517 (4,039); 58,340 (4,308); 60,580 (4,266).  On Thursday, the national capital had recorded 4,308 Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far, taking the tally to over 2.05 lakh. On Friday, Delhi recorded 4,266 coronavirus cases, taking the caseload to 2,09,748. The rapid antigen tests was started in Delhi from June 18, and that is when the testing figures started rising in the national capital. According to Friday's health bulletin, 52,275 rapid antigen tests and 8,305 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-tests-conducted-so-far-crosses-20-lakh-mark-in-delhi-886170.html
11-09-2020||Opinion||A plan that can go very wrong||The new rules notified by the central government for compulsory retirement of errant staff are apparently intended to improve efficiency and reduce corruption and other kinds of misconduct. They will enable the government to retire those who complete 30 years of service or cross 50-55 years of age if they fail performance reviews. A detailed procedure has been laid down for central government establishments to send monthly reports of how many employees were reviewed and how many were recommended for premature retirement. From the way it is designed, the plan seems to be not just an initiative to weed out errant staff. It may also be intended to cut down the number of staff as such. There is a general impression that government departments and undertakings are overstaffed and need to be downsized. Pay commissions have also called for this. The proposal is often cited as necessary to achieve the motto of minimum government and maximum governance.  This is not the first time that the Modi government is implementing such a plan. There was a similar plan in 2014 also and it has been used for forced retirement of a number of staff. Last year, over 60 tax officials were issued retirement orders on grounds of corruption and misconduct. Governments have been trying to prune staff strength for many years. They have gone slow on recruitments, and many jobs and tasks are now done by contract employees. Employees’ unions have naturally opposed the plan and described it as a move to privatise a large part of the government sector. The problem actually is about how well the performance assessment of staff is carried out. Ministries have been told to ensure that the prescribed procedure for retirement is strictly adhered to and the decision is not arbitrary and based on collateral grounds. Detailed guidelines for this have been formulated on the basis of some Supreme Court orders and observations.   But there are apprehensions that the initiative will be selective and vindictive, and efficiency, good conduct and integrity may not always be the yardsticks for performance assessment. Considerations relating to religion, caste and community, parochial sentiments, gender-related discrimination, politics specific to offices, personal animosities and jealousies and many other issues can vitiate performance assessment if there is no strict monitoring and supervision of the process. The methods, efficacy and quality of the process will have to be under scrutiny. There are also fears that the initiative may be used against those who hold political views different from those of the ruling party and against certain sections and groups of people. It should not lead to a political or any other kind of purge of the official set-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-plan-that-can-go-very-wrong-885670.html
11-09-2020||Opinion||A freshly killed chicken is mightier than the Covid-19||By Daisann McLane The cashier at the door, instead of greeting me with the usual efficient nod and asking “How many people?” pointed a temperature gun at my forehead before even allowing me to step inside. In Hong Kong, where space is at a premium and mom-and-pop restaurants operate on a paper-thin margin, diners typically share tables with strangers. This is part of the fun of the Hong Kong eating experience: As you rubberneck, you see what other people have ordered and occasionally strike up cross-table talk. But that day the chatter was muffled, and no bowls of roasted chilli oil were being passed across the table. The owners had installed movable plexiglass partitions, as per the latest regulations, to keep customers apart and conversational droplets away. Before Covid-19, there was SARS, in 2002-2003. And before that, the bubonic plague, smallpox, leprosy, rabies and bird flu. Infectious diseases have been part of Hong Kong life at least since the territory was colonised by the British in 1841. Few major modern cities have been so profoundly shaped by their battle against contagion. And if you dig into this city’s food culture, you’ll find enduring traces of epidemics past. This might not seem like a big deal, but in a culture that has a specific term — “gaap sung” — for taking food from a common platter with your chopsticks, it is. Now, courtesy of the new coronavirus, chopsticks for serving can often be found in even the most humble street eateries. As for the chopsticks you eat with, the old-fashioned canisters stuffed with communal acid-green and neon-orange plastic chopsticks that used to grace the tables at On Lee are gone. They have been replaced by individually wrapped packages of the disposable Japanese-style kind. Hotpot? Not. The Sichuan winter tradition that became a Hong Kong year-round rage in the 1990s lost its allure in late January after 11 members of one family became infected with the new coronavirus from sharing a holiday meal over a bubbling communal pot. The city’s most famous breakfast and lunch custom, dim sum, has taken a hit, too. Normally it’s a boisterous occasion, with extended families or office mates hunkered over steamer baskets that cover all the tabletop real estate. But in late July, the Hong Kong government restricted restaurant dining to a maximum of two people per table. (The rule has recently been relaxed to allow four people per table starting September 11.) Diners have had to adjust to unaccustomed dim sum intimacy: a pair of people, a few lonely baskets and quiet, face-to-face conversation. Dinnertime has suffered especially. The typical Cantonese restaurant meal is a delicate balancing act of multiple courses, each showcasing a different ingredient, flavour, texture, cooking method and — in a culture in which food is also considered medicinal — health benefit. Ordering the right parade of dishes is an art, and they are sized for group-sharing so that diners (ideally six to eight people) can eat a bit of everything while maintaining dietary equilibrium. Downsizing restaurant meals to only two (or even four) people means adjusting not just service and table size, but also menus and recipes, as well as the cuisine’s very ethos. Hong Kong, a crowded semitropical city built on global trade, has been a crucible for contagion pretty much since its urban beginnings. The catastrophic bubonic plague that first hit in 1894 and then recurred redrew the city’s urban landscape — an entire disease-ravaged neighbourhood was razed to the ground. It also sowed the seeds of what would become an influential and wide-reaching public health and hygiene bureaucracy. Well over a century later, that legacy can still be felt in Hong Kong’s stringent regulation of foodstuffs, public sanitation and disease control, as well as in the strict (some say too strict) measures recently imposed in response to SARS-CoV-2. One of the pandemic’s biggest casualties here has been the reputation of wet markets. It is at one of those, in Wuhan, China, that the original outbreak is said to have occurred. A sudden surge of infections in Beijing in June was also traced to a wet market. So, too, with some cases from the latest, third, wave of infections in Hong Kong, the city’s worst so far. For my Western friends who’ve never travelled to Asia, the very word “wet” seems to conjure up frightful visions of blood, contaminated fluids and unchecked filth. In fact, “wet market” is simply a literal translation of the Cantonese “sap fo gaai sih,” a term for a market where fresh vegetables, meat, fish — and sometimes live animals — are sold (as opposed to a “dry” market, which sells dry goods and canned or bottled foods). I shop in a wet market almost every day, and it pains me that the place where I buy wriggling, silvery pomfrets plucked from a bubbling water tank by the fisherwoman herself is being rebranded worldwide as ground zero for the pandemic. I suppose I’m experiencing something like what Hong Kong’s Cantonese community must have felt at the turn of the last century when after an outbreak of the bubonic plague the British colonial authorities scapegoated street markets. Brandishing rules, laws and inspections, they pulled vendors into purpose-built indoor premises. The wet markets survived nevertheless — there are hundreds in Hong Kong today, including 74 run by the government — because Cantonese cooking requires above all the freshest ingredients, and here fresh means something just killed, just picked or just plucked. The cuisine originated in Guangdong Province, in southern China, a region well known for the abundance and variety of its foodstuffs. Cantonese chefs strive to create dishes that capture the ephemeral intensity and integrity of a food’s original essence, rather than smother it in spices or heavy sauces. A grouper will arrive at your table perfectly steamed, garnished with nothing but a whisper of hot oil and soy sauce, and a scattering of ginger slivers and spring onions. Cantonese cuisine can’t be maintained at its highest expression without wet markets, and remarkably the city authorities, both British and local, have gotten this. Despite a contagion-driven obsession with hygiene, they have adapted health regulations with elaborate workarounds to preserve the local food culture. Consider the chicken. In Cantonese cooking, there is simply no substitute for a just-killed chicken. The classic preparation, “bak chit gai,” is deceptively simple: a whole chicken slow-poached in water, hacked into small pieces and served with a side of dipping oil infused with ginger and scallion. Getting the dish right is not so easy. Cantonese cuisine plays with subtleties of texture as well as flavour. The chicken can’t just taste good; it must feel right in the mouth: tender but with a chewiness to the bite. “You lose that texture if your chicken has been chilled or frozen,” Lau Chun, a Cantonese chef and food columnist in Hong Kong, explained. “It can get soft and mushy.” Having a ready supply of live chickens is also important for reasons that transcend the culinary. “We have a saying, ‘Kill the chicken to thank the gods,’” Professor Cheung said. “Cooked chicken is a ritual offering in religious practice. And of course, you want that to be of quality. You wouldn’t want to be offering a frozen chicken to your ancestors.” Over the years, the live chicken has been a flashpoint between Cantonese culture and Western presumptions of cleanliness and cultural superiority. A local newspaper article from 1895, the second year of the bubonic plague, describes the food stalls newly established by the British authorities as a “healthful change” from “the old dirt begrimed sheds which have for the last years answered for the Hong Kong Market.” Mr Lau, the chef, told me: “There’s always been controversy over the practice of selling fresh-killed chicken and other live animals in Hong Kong. It touches issues of hygiene, animal welfare and how supposedly ‘barbarian’ we Chinese are.” In fact, it was local Chinese elites, not the British, who spearheaded the drive to eliminate the sale of exotic animals in Hong Kong wet markets after a rabies panic hit the city in 1949. The “Dogs and Cats Regulation” ended the sale and consumption of those animals for meat in 1950. Yet the chicken, even after more than a century of plagues, bird flus and coronaviruses, is still quite alive and squawking. In my old local street market in Wanchai, a neighbourhood in the city centre, two vendors in open storefronts ply their trade across from each other. Despite the premium price — a live three-to-four pounder can go for $30 — lines often stretch down the street on Sundays and around Chinese New Year, both high-demand chicken occasions. Middle-aged women point at their preferred bird in the cage. The butcher holds the reluctant fowl up to demonstrate its size. Soon, feathers and squeals are flying from the back of the shop. Watch this scene, and you might think that little has changed since the 19th century. But you would be wrong. From egg to pot, the contemporary Hong Kong chicken has been bred and monitored and regulated in ways that wouldn’t have been possible even 30 years ago. After bird flu emerged here in humans in the late 1990s, local health officials, along with many politicians, called for an end to the live-chicken trade. But in the face of opposition from the public, they eventually kept bak chit gai on the menu by imposing near-draconian health regulations at every stage of the trade. Today, health officials inspect Hong Kong’s 29 government-registered chicken farms once a week. They require a vaccination certificate and a blood test for every bird. Delivery trucks must drive through a disinfection pool when entering or leaving a wholesale market. They may only carry birds from the same farm, with no mixing. That way any infection can be traced with accuracy. Once the tagged-and-tracked chickens arrive for sale at markets, their cages are separated from shoppers with plexiglass partitions like the ones now commonplace in Hong Kong restaurants. For these socially distanced chickens, the clock is ticking. No bird is allowed to spend the night at the market. Come 8 pm, the ones that weren’t killed for sale that day will be slaughtered and sold the following day as cheaper “chilled” chicken. And if even a trace of bird flu appears — in just one chicken — the entire population might be killed. Millions of fowl have been destroyed over the years, after sanitary culls in 1997, 2001, 2002, 2008, 2011, 2014 and 2016. Faced with an epidemic and a public health dilemma, Hong Kong developed an intricate, expensive and time-consuming regulatory regimen — all to preserve a flavour, a texture and a Cantonese cuisine classic that people refused to give up. Food, tradition and culture are stronger than anything a disease can throw at us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-freshly-killed-chicken-is-mightier-than-the-covid-19-885734.html
11-09-2020||Opinion||Is staying home harming your child’s immune system?||The coronavirus pandemic has come with a few silver linings. The clear winner for me has been the delightful dearth of snot: My kids haven’t had a cold since March, and neither have I, and I haven’t missed those crusty red noses one little bit. Yet I know it can be good for kids to encounter bacteria and viruses, because microbial exposure shapes the development of the immune system. This is one of the reasons we have vaccines; when we inject our bodies with little bits of pathogens, or dead ones, they learn how to better recognize and fight these same (live) pathogens down the line. Exposure to a wide variety of microbes early in childhood also trains kids’ immune systems to recognize what’s dangerous and what’s not. Parents are now told to feed their babies allergens like peanut butter and eggs earlier rather than later in infancy, because doing so teaches a baby’s immune system, little by little, that these foods are safe. And according to the hygiene hypothesis — a controversial theory first proposed in 1989 by an English scientist, David P. Strachan — as kids in developed countries have grown up with more bleach and disinfectant wipes and fewer infections over recent decades, rates of allergies and autoimmune diseases have increased substantially. Cleanliness and isolation, the argument goes, aren’t good for developing immunity, although some scientists aren’t convinced. So I can’t help but wonder, even as I celebrate the lack of snot and sneezing: Is Covid-19 isolation affecting kids’ immunity? Will locking our children inside the apartment all day to protect them from one virus make them more susceptible to others — even some chronic illnesses — for the rest of their lives? Some Illnesses Are Better Caught Early, Others Later First, some reassuring news: Some kids’ immune systems will benefit from having more time at home this year. Consider respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, a common respiratory virus that kids typically catch before the age of 2 (often at day care). RSV can be very serious, leading to some 57,000 hospitalizations in American babies and toddlers each year. RSV is also believed, in rare cases, to trigger asthma, a disease sparked in part by an overactive immune response — and “the younger you are when you have RSV, the higher the risk,” said Tobias Kollmann, M.D., Ph.D., a pediatric infectious disease physician at the Telethon Kids Institute in Perth, Australia. So if babies who otherwise would have caught RSV this year do not, that’s a win; when they eventually catch it later on (nearly all kids do), the potential risks will be lower. Yet the opposite can be said about other infections. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), two common infections caused by herpes viruses, incite few serious symptoms in toddlers and young kids. But when older kids catch them, they can cause infectious mononucleosis, a debilitating illness that can last for months. In rare cases, too, kids with mono have more serious complications; their spleens can rupture, which can be fatal. Measles, mumps and chickenpox are other infections that can be more serious when caught by older kids. But in the US, these infections can be prevented by vaccines. Interestingly, too, kids who acquire CMV while young may reap additional immune benefits. (In the US, about half the population of young adults has CMV; in developing countries, the proportion is closer to 80-90 per cent, although people rarely know whether or not they have it.) The virus persists in the body for life and, like other herpes viruses, has co-evolved with humans for many millions of years. It has “a big impact on immunity,” said Sallie Permar, M.D., Ph.D., a pediatric immunologist at the Duke University School of Medicine. Benefits of Early Exposure to Microbes, Allergens and Bugs Infections, though, aren’t the only things to consider. When kids are around other kids, they share microbes that don’t necessarily make anyone sick but could be good for developing immunity because they seed a more hearty ecosystem of microbes in the body, or microbiome. In a 2015 study, researchers studied African baboons who had similar behaviors and diets and overlapping environments but who differed in one key way: One group engaged in social grooming — touching and picking things off each other — while the other did not. They found that the baboons that groomed each other had more similar microbiomes to one another, suggesting that social contact leads to meaningful microbial exchanges. Researchers theorized in another 2015 paper that when people isolate from one another and spend their time mostly inside, it may reduce “our exposure to richer microbiomes from other sources, thereby limiting the development of our immune system.” Another reason more exposures may be better is that when young kids are regularly exposed to small amounts of potential allergens — things like pollen, eggs, peanut butter and shrimp — it trains their bodies to handle those things well in the future. “The idea is that if you’re exposed to something over and over again, you become tolerant to it rather than have an overactive response,” Permar said.  Other research suggests that more exposure to “good” bugs is better. Babies who receive antibiotics, which kill the microbes in their microbiome, are at a higher risk for developing asthma, eczema and allergies, while kids who grow up on farms and are, among other things, surrounded by animals harbouring all sorts of microbes have a lower risk of developing these same conditions. One unpublished 2019 experiment reported that babies who grow up on farms have more gut bacteria known to reduce inflammation. A theory known as the “old friends” hypothesis, developed in 2003 by British microbiologist Graham Rook as a replacement for the hygiene hypothesis, suggests that frequent exposure to harmless microbes that have co-evolved with humans help to train the developing immune system. “You need that microbial exposure to really develop your immune system fully,” said B. Brett Finlay, Ph.D., a microbiologist at the University of British Columbia and co-author of “Let Them Eat Dirt: Saving Your Child from an Oversanitized World.” “Our immune systems are built to be exposed to things early in life so we can then be ready for the rest of our life,” he added. Does this mean that if your kids stay home all year, their immune systems will be doomed? No. Because when it comes to how the immune system develops, “there’s so many things to consider,” said Ruchi Singla, M.D., a pediatric allergist and immunologist at University of Chicago Medicine. “Just as the immune system is so complex, all of the things that affect it are so complex.” Immunity is largely shaped by genetics, for instance, which means that what your children do or don’t do this year will only shape certain aspects of their immunity. “Not a One-Size-Fits-All” This is why, when researchers try to tease out how specific behaviours and choices shape immune responses, they don’t always get clear-cut answers. Dozens of studies have tried to understand the health effects of attending daycare by comparing kids who go to daycare with those who stay home, hoping to identify differences in rates of allergies, asthma and other immune-related conditions. Yet the studies largely conflict; if one study comes to one conclusion, another one often contradicts it. Given that immunity is shaped by so many factors, Permar said, if isolating our kids for a year or two has any effect, “it will probably be subtle.” Families who stay home this year may also do other things to balance out the potentially bad effects of isolation. Some mothers may breastfeed their babies for longer than they otherwise would have, Finlay said, which could strengthen their immunity, since breast milk contains maternal antibodies. Families may also spend more time outside than usual, where they will be exposed to more diverse microbes. Many families adopted pets during the pandemic, too, and research suggests that pet ownership (especially dogs) reduces the risk for eczema and asthma. The upshot is that the impact of coronavirus-induced isolation is “not a one-size-fits-all,” Finlay said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-staying-home-harming-your-child-s-immune-system-885795.html
11-09-2020||Opinion||Why Modi may be the most popular populist||By Mihir Sharma India’s Covid-19 cases continue to climb, even as the economy tanks. China is pressing forward on the two countries’ disputed Himalayan border, where dozens of Indian soldiers have been killed. Tax revenues have plummeted, state governments are unhappy and 21 million of India’s rare salaried jobs vanished in the last few months. And yet Prime Minister Narendra Modi — who recently posted pictures of himself feeding peacocks in his serene garden — remains as popular as ever. How does Modi do it? While they have responded to the coronavirus in different ways, many of his fellow populists are struggling. Mexico’s Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, faced with crashing poll numbers, flatly refuses to believe they are true. Multiple missteps in recent months have brought Boris Johnson’s Tories practically level with Labour in some recent UK polls. Vladimir Putin’s United Russia party is facing a tough set of local elections. And, of course, there’s US President Donald Trump, whose re-election campaign seems to be based largely on pretending the pandemic doesn’t exist.     Modi seems to understand something that the others do not about the relationship between a populist leader and voters. In a crisis, you can, like Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro, temporarily push your numbers up through cash transfers. Or you can, like Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan, use identity politics to distract people from your bungles; that’s being tried in India as well. But there’s another factor Modi exploits to the hilt. The most adept populist leaders don’t only detach the electorate’s perception from inconvenient facts, providing an alternative narrative in which they, and they alone, are the stars. To repeat that trick in the face of disasters such as a recession or a pandemic, they also need to act. They have to make the sort of big decisions around which their supporters can construct a convincing narrative: a decision that comes across as brave, or stern, or wise, or fatherly or, ideally, all of those things. When Modi, with just a few hours’ notice, withdrew 86% of India’s currency in November 2016, it was unquestionably a disaster. People lost jobs and livelihoods, economic growth was mortally injured and, given that all the money eventually returned to circulation, none of the exercise’s goals were actually met. What Modi learned from the experience, however, is that it does not matter whether the decision you make pans out or not. All that matters is that people believe that you did something big, something that only you would dare to do, and that you did it for the best reasons. That’s what many Indian voters thought about “demonetisation”: If the gambit didn’t work, it was everybody else’s fault. At least Modi tried to stamp out corruption, supporters said, doing something no other prime minister in India’s history, no other world leader had done. (For good reason.) Just months after demonetisation, while Indians were still suffering from its after-effects, Modi’s party won crucial elections in India’s largest state. The political scientists Rikhil Bhavnani and Mark Copelovitch discovered that, in fact, Modi’s party did relatively better in those areas where people were hurt the most by demonetisation. Apparently, the worse the medicine tastes, the more the doctor must care about the disease and want to cure it. While people suffered, every voter in every part of the country knew that Modi alone had shut the economy down in response to the threat. By taking action early and on the grandest possible scale, he essentially inoculated his popularity against the pandemic’s political effects. No rival can now accuse him of not doing enough and be believed by voters. The chances are that the decision to go big will work out far better for leaders such as Modi and the Philippines’ Rodrigo Duterte, who also shut down early and hard, than denying the pandemic will for others, from AMLO to Trump. Denial and delay was, in any case, the wrong course. Now the consequences of not acting are entirely on them. In India, they’re on everyone else. If the pandemic spreads, that’s because bureaucrats, or state governments, or the people themselves failed to live up to the leader’s vision. Some have hoped that the pandemic will cause voters around the world to once again demand “competence” from their leaders. That’s just wishful thinking. The evidence from India is that nothing has changed. The populist playbook is still effective, as long as it’s in hands as skilled as Modi’s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-modi-may-be-the-most-popular-populist-885809.html
11-09-2020||Opinion||How ‘Keeping up with the Kardashians’ changed everything||This week, the Kardashian-Jenner family announced that after 20 seasons, their namesake reality TV show, Keeping Up With the Kardashians, would come to an end in 2021. When the program first aired in 2007, the leading family was known for its late patriarch, an attorney who represented O.J. Simpson; the Olympian who married in; and a daughter whose personal life was exposed in a pornographic video leak. But within years of the premiere on E!, the women of the family and their matriarch “momager” became, in their own right, some of the most famous and influential people in the world. For the show’s loyal fans, its final season means the end of an era of entertainment and access to the stars’ personal lives, which the show has documented in sometimes unsparing detail. Even for non-watchers, the show’s impact may be felt; after all, the influence of “KUWTK” on celebrity, beauty, entrepreneurship and status can be seen on magazine covers and social media, in shopping malls and e-commerce, and on people’s faces. Here are a few of the ways the show changed not only TV but culture at large: It made celebrities of a regular-rich family In its early seasons, the self-aware tackiness of Keeping Up With the Kardashians was evinced in the opening credits. The family, dressed in sequins and satin, stands against a cityscape backdrop. A goofy whistling tune plays as they pose for the camera and jockey for attention. These people, with their generously sized home and seemingly relaxed work schedules, are clearly well-off. But they’re also striving. Fast forward seven years and Kim is on the cover of Vogue with her husband, Kanye West. A few more years, and Kylie, the youngest, is named a billionaire (a designation since amended, but still, she’s loaded). All of them are owners of multimillion-dollar homes, followed by multiple millions of people on social media and vastly rich in entrepreneurial ventures. It’s easy to say it could have happened to any family; even now, the idea that the Kardashians are “famous for doing nothing” remains persistent. But it wasn’t any family. And the numbers keep getting bigger. - Bonnie Wertheim It built a multi-brand empire First, there was the store (R.I.P. Dash). Then the beauty collections (Kylie Cosmetics taught the world about “lip kits”); a hit video game (“Kim Kardashian: Hollywood”); the clothing lines (Skims; Good American; Kendall + Kylie, for the younger fans; and the Kardashian Kollection, for the thriftier ones, sold at Sears); the sci-fi books (thank Kendall and Kylie for those); a prepaid credit card; and countless brand collaborations. It’s not unusual for celebrities and influencers to create products that bear their names. What makes the Kardashians different is their promotion of said brands, which were woven into the show as well as the publicized interpersonal conflicts and life changes that made viewers feel close to the family. Looks like it paid off. Now the landscape has changed, mostly by their own doing. They don’t need a TV show to hawk their wares like they may have when “KUWTK” debuted over a decade ago. The power is in their hands. When you can reach your followers directly on social media, control your public image and make millions? (Billions?) That’s a sweet deal. - Lindsey Underwood It set new, unrealistic standards of beauty Have the Kardashian sisters gone under the knife? The family line, with a couple of exceptions, is no. They say that their ever-changing bodies are sculpted and whittled and plumped through nonsurgical means: Instagram filters, dermal fillers, contour powder, squats. The claim is both ludicrous and shrewd. A triumph of the Kardashian marketing regime has been selling the appearance of extreme, even campy body modification as an accessible consumer experience, one sold through spa trips on Keeping Up With the Kardashians, makeup-chair selfies on Instagram, and branded products like Kylie’s lip kits and Kim’s shapewear. “Plastic surgery” has long been shorthand for the interplay between Hollywood wealth and glamour, but for the Kardashians — creatures birthed by reality television and raised by the internet — the idea of the scalpel on skin feels too old school, too fleshy, too human for the brand. The Kardashians were the prototypes for the uncanny cyborg look that has since colonised social media. They exist less as fixed images than as a blur of constant technological upgrades. They refashioned femininity into a computer prompt: enhance, enhance, enhance. - Amanda Hess It gave America language to talk about transitions Caitlyn Jenner — despite having married Elvis’ ex (you know her as the mom of Brandon and Brody, those princes of Malibu, California) — often gave the appearance of being the least spectacular one of the family. But if the extended Kardashian ecosystem has taught us nothing else, it’s that we should also always look beneath a surface. Caitlyn and Kris Jenner each have six children. The Venn diagram of those 12 contains two, Kendall and Kylie — who some believe are the most potent of the species. Of the extended family’s skills that Kendall and Kylie and their kin have mastered — wonderful portraiture of the self, a native sense for the exploitation of brand identity, the ability to dance with stars, an incredible gift for argument and persuasion — Caitlyn may be the one who has studied the hardest. The announcement of her gender transition ate a significant amount of the news cycle of the middle of 2015, an otherwise uneventful year apparently. She began secretly meeting with Buzz Bissinger for a profile in Vanity Fair in February; she confided publicly in Diane Sawyer in April. The Annie Leibovitz portraits were released in June for the July cover of Vanity Fair. The reality show called I Am Cait premiered at the end of July to millions. It was a rollout of extreme finesse in which everyone went home delighted. (“All stories are part of some coordinated rollout,” shrugged former Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter to this paper at the time.) Caitlyn brought all the extreme ferocious professionalism and resources of the family to bear, and for a good personal reason. But she also did something for the rest of us. In setting the framing of the conversation, she may have changed hearts and minds among older and more conservative and more transphobic Americans. - Choire Sicha It shaped reality TV as we know it At this point, we all know that the reality we see on reality TV is not real. But when “Keeping Up With The Kardashians” premiered in 2007, the lines were a little more opaque. It was around the time of Laguna Beach, and The Hills, shows famous for making viewers question whether it all was scripted. There were the youths on The Real World who weren’t going to be polite anymore and The Real Housewives wreaking havoc on Orange County. But then came the Kardashians — sharing their worst moments (cheating, sex tapes, robberies) and their best (weddings, births, brands). Of course, we knew. We knew this was all a karefully kreated koncoction. You can’t kontrol everything. Real parts of their lives started to reveal themselves through social media and the celebrity news media. Maybe it’s better to keep up with them there. The question now for most of these shows and the stars they spawned is what they provide that we can’t see for free in real-time. Surely they will find a way. - Lindsey Underwood It showed us another side of Kanye Kanye West began appearing on Keeping Up With the Kardashians in 2012, the year he started dating Kim Kardashian. He was visibly uncomfortable with the camera. He wouldn’t sit for confessionals. But he was there. In a memorable early appearance, Kanye came to Kim’s house to rearrange her wardrobe. Kim, explaining why she would let her boyfriend mutilate her closet, told the camera: “He’s a fashion designer, and he loves clothes, so I’m excited to collaborate with him to see what his take on fashion is.” Kanye’s design aspirations had been clear to his fans for some time. But for the show’s massive audience, Kim’s words meant something. They were actualising. The following year, Kanye signed a deal with Adidas, which led to the creation of the Yeezy brand, a line of shoes and apparel worth billions. The show has helped Kanye promote himself not only as a designer but as a visionary aesthete, as a husband, as a father and as a Christian. It has provided a counterpoint to those who have scorned his ambitions and a public relations platform in times of crisis. Since 2012, he has grown far more comfortable on camera and significantly more involved behind the scenes of the show. And in 2019, he appeared in his first confessional. He was inspired to do so, he said, by the Pixar film The Incredibles, which opens with seated interviews. “The wife got a big butt,” he told the camera, explaining the similarities. “And I just see our life becoming more and more and more like ‘The Incredibles’ until we can finally fly.” - Jonah Engel Bromwich It created a power broker When Kim Kardashian West announced, in 2019, that she was pursuing a law degree, critics were quick to dismiss her aspirations. She clapped back with a few self-referential Legally Blonde jokes. It’s true that her path was unusual: She didn’t graduate from college and had no plans to enrol in law school. (California is one of four states where a degree is not required to take the bar exam; Kim will be eligible once she completes an apprenticeship.) Still, despite the unconventional means, her investment in criminal-justice reform was demonstrably real. The previous year, she paid a visit to the White House to speak with Donald Trump about Alice Marie Johnson, a grandmother in her 60s who had received a life sentence for a nonviolent drug offence and had been in prison for 20 years. Kim learned about her case on social media. After the meeting, Trump granted Johnson clemency. Over the last few years, Kim has made calls to politicians, written letters of support for clemency petitioners and paid legal fees for people seeking release. This spring, she headlined a documentary about incarcerated felons seeking a second chance and recently landed a deal for a podcast on the same subject. It would be easy to write off these efforts as an extension of her brand and influence, which they are. But they’re working. - Bonnie Wertheim It introduced the world to an entire universe of supporting characters If the Kardashians proved anything during their long run on television, it’s that fame is an endless resource that can be harnessed by anyone who knows how to work a camera. Kim, for one, began her ascent to stardom in the early 2000s as Paris Hilton’s friend and assistant. Their brigade of on-screen best friends includes the “Foodgod” Jonathan Cheban; Malika Haqq, Khloe’s longtime BFF; and Anastasia Karanikolaou (aka “Stassie”), who’s often hanging around Kendall and Kylie. Other characters have spun less favourable attention. Jordyn Woods was known as Kylie’s best friend until rumours surfaced about her and basketball player Tristan Thompson, who was Khloe’s boyfriend at the time. Then there’s the sprawling network of exes, which includes Scott Disick (Kourtney’s ex-boyfriend, with whom she has three children); Kris Humphries (Kim’s ex-husband of 72 days); Blac Chyna (Rob’s ex-fiancée, with whom he has a daughter); Tyga (Kylie’s ex-boyfriend, who also has a child with Blac Chyna); Travis Scott (Kylie’s on-and-off boyfriend, with whom she has a daughter); and Lamar Odom (Khloe’s ex-husband). Though many of these people were famous in their own right before making cameos on the show, anyone who enters the Kardashian limelight is given the launchpad of a lifetime. - Julia Carmel||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-keeping-up-with-the-kardashians-changed-everything-885821.html
11-09-2020||Opinion||Mukesh Ambani’s $2 chutzpah unlocks another fortune||Mukesh Ambani has joined the league of world’s richest with the help of a simple formula: assembling admirers for $2 businesses. First he got Facebook Inc and Google to back his fledgling digital ambitions, and now he may be trying  to entice Amazon.com Inc into his retail venture, already India’s largest. In four years, the Indian billionaire has amassed roughly 400 million customers for his mobile data business. What does Ambani eke out from each of them? Less than $2 a month. The chump change didn’t deter Facebook and Google’s parent, Alphabet Inc. Together with marquee private equity investors and sovereign wealth funds, Silicon Valley tech titans made a beeline recently to invest in Ambani’s Jio Platforms Ltd., valuing it at about $65 billion.  That $20 billion fund-raising spree has already met the refining and petrochemicals czar’s goal of making his flagship Reliance Industries Ltd net-debt-free, giving it enviable financial strength just as the coronavirus pandemic is taking a toll on most other balance sheets. The tycoon wants a repeat performance for another $2 business in his stable: retail.  He has offered a 40% stake in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd. to Amazon, Bloomberg News reported Thursday. It’s unclear if Jeff Bezos will bite. But others have. Menlo Park, California-based Silver Lake Partners, which bought a stake in Jio, has written a $1 billion check for 1.75%. Another Jio investor, KKR & Co., is also probably coming on board. To see how the excitement is rising once again over a princely $2, consider Reliance’s 30 million square feet of retail space. Each square foot, analysts expect, will garner $2 a day by 2022. On an operating margin of 7%, that translates to  $1.5 billion in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. All Ambani had to do was to convince Silver Lake that this Ebitda is worth 38 times today. And with that, he unlocked the gates to a $57 billion enterprise. If the Facebook deal for Jio is any guide, Amazon as a strategic partner might get its 40% for a small discount to what Silver Lake paid, though the reported $20 billion price tag is still formidable. Excluding his $38 billion divorce settlement, Bezos hasn’t done a transaction as large as this. There’s another wrinkle. Amazon India, in which he has already committed billions of dollars, competes with Reliance Retail’s physical stores — as well as with Ambani’s version of “phy-gital” retail.  But on his own, Bezos must fight with one hand tied behind his back. Foreign-owned e-commerce sites, such as his or Walmart Inc.’s Flipkart, must operate as pure marketplaces for third-party sellers. The law against owning inventory has become stricter, with discounts triggering allegations of favoring connected parties. India’s competition commission received a fresh such complaint from a group of Amazon vendors recently. Being an Indian company, no such restrictions apply to Reliance’s grocery stores, supermarkets, or JioMart, Ambani’s vision of virtually connecting 30 million neighborhood shops with his telecom customers. Although still untested, the latter is his edge. The bulk of the 20-fold growth that India’s online grocery sales might witness over the next five years may go to the Jio-Facebook partnership, Goldman Sachs Group Inc estimates. The advantage for Ambani could also carry over to higher-margin items, the same way as Costco Wholesale Corp’s popular $4.99 rotisserie chicken helps the American retailer sell a little more of everything from apparel to flat-screen TVs.  Covid-19 has been a shot in the arm for Reliance, despite retail Ebitda of only $145 million in the June quarter, a 47% drop from last year. The carnage from a nationwide lockdown allowed it to swoop on debt-strapped rival Future Group’s retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units, acquiring the lot for just $3.4 billion. More importantly, the prospect of getting stuck with sub-5% growth in the post-pandemic economy is making Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government reliant on an increasingly small number of domestic groups to pull India out of its tight spot.  Unlike China, India’s billion-plus consumer market has been open to US tech firms. But when Ambani requested Modi last year to end “data colonization” by global corporations, it became clear that a shift was coming. Any remaining doubts have been removed by the post-Covid surge of economic nationalism.  Where does that leave Silicon Valley and Wall Street? With US-China relations deteriorating — most recently over the erosion of Hong Kong’s autonomy — both need an alternative. In a billion-plus consumer market, even a $2 business holds the promise of future riches, and Reliance is demonstrating that it has more than one such opportunity. To get into bed with Facebook, Google, and possibly even Amazon at the same time takes some chutzpah, though. Chalk it up to Ambani’s dominance of the market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mukesh-ambani-s-2-chutzpah-unlocks-another-fortune-885863.html
11-09-2020||Opinion||Virtual courts for traffic challans could benefit Bengaluru in more than one way||A move by the High Court of Karnataka to set up virtual courts for traffic challans might not just reduce the burden on courts but also lessen Bengaluru’s traffic woes.   Under a new system, inaugurated on August 6, 2020, fines can now be paid online for uncontested minor traffic offences, without having to physically appear before the courts. These offences are drunken driving; alteration of motor vehicles; driving without registering the motor vehicle with the RTO; driving without a permit or violating permit conditions and not exhibiting display cards for motor vehicles with permits.  The move to virtual courts for payment of these fines has been lauded for leading to speedy disposal of such cases and for not clogging the judiciary, which can better spend its time in the adjudication of more serious offences. It can also have a spinoff benefit for the management of vehicular traffic in Bengaluru, a point to which we will come to later.  But first, in order to understand the likely impact of these virtual courts, it is important to analyse how these cases were progressing in regular physical courts before the virtual courts were introduced. An analysis of cases before the six Metropolitan Magistrate Traffic Courts in Bengaluru can help shed light on the likely impact of the virtual court for traffic challans.  An analysis of 33,108 disposed cases, as of November 2019, was taken up from the DAKSH database. Relevant cases were identified based on the Acts and sections to which the cases were tagged. The analysis showed that a large majority (83 per cent) of the cases were regarding drunken driving. While cases pertaining to the relevant section (Sec 185), took an average of 15 days to be disposed, it was found that cases regarding Section 192 (using vehicle without registration) took the most time to be disposed (34 days), and cases regarding Section 192A (using vehicle without permit) took an average of 1 day to be disposed.  Since a large volume of the cases relate to drunken driving, it is interesting to further look at these cases. Contested drunken driving cases took an average of nine days to be disposed, while uncontested drunken driving cases took 50 days to be disposed. A closer look at the uncontested drunken driving cases showed that while 84 per cent of these cases were disposed on the date they were filed, the remaining cases took longer – five per cent of the cases even took over 500 days to be disposed.  A possible reason for uncontested cases taking this long could be due to the non-appearance of the accused. For example, one case which took 614 days to be disposed went through 21 hearings, but was eventually disposed for the continued non-appearance of the accused. It is hoped that the new system will reduce delays of this kind.  Benefits for Bengaluru’s traffic police Allowing for access to pay fines and clear cases in the virtual court 24/7 will go a long way in making the system easily accessible, reducing the time taken to dispose cases, as well as reducing the workload of courts. Further, if tracking and monitoring of cases before the virtual courts is carried out in a systematic and effective manner, it can also help the Bengaluru’s traffic police understand where most traffic offences seem to be registered. While one third of these traffic cases have not been tagged to any police station in the court data, the remaining two thirds of cases were tagged to 72 police stations. It was also seen that the top police stations which had the highest number of cases tagged to them were Kumaraswamy Layout Police Station (PS), followed by Yeshwanthpur PS, Basavanagudi PS, and Malleshwaram PS.  Analysis of data and e-filed documents from the virtual court for traffic challans can help the traffic police in identifying patterns in the offences committed in different jurisdictions, adjusting traffic police deployment, easily identifying vehicles with repeated violations and offenders who frequently violate the law. They can also study the reasons for which alleged traffic offences are contested by violators, and refine policing measures to improve adherence to traffic laws.  While the virtual courts for traffic challans have thus far been hailed as a measure to unclog courts and reduce judicial delays, there exists an untapped opportunity for Bengaluru’s traffic police and it is hoped that this will also result in improved policing and reduction in city massive traffic problems. (Shruthi Naik is a lawyer working at DAKSH Society in Bengaluru, a non-profit organisation working on judicial reforms) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/virtual-courts-for-traffic-challans-could-benefit-bengaluru-in-more-than-one-way-885984.html
11-09-2020||Panorama||Compensate states before GST regime begins to crumble||During the three years since the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax, the GST regime has suffered its tense moments. The reasons were mostly technology-related. However, over the last few months, GST is facing a “make or break” situation on a political issue – the payment of the promised GST compensation to states. The latest meeting of the GST Council was called to resolve the issue, and it proposed a couple of options. The initial response from the states has been varied: Some have chosen an option, some are yet to decide, some have written to the Prime Minister to intervene while others are prepared to drag the Centre to court over this. Revenue Shortfall The GST Council split the revenue shortfall into two categories: One caused due to reduced GST revenues and another due to Covid-19. It also gave states two options: One, a special window to states, in consultation with the RBI, to borrow the projected GST shortfall of Rs 97,000 crore, and an amount that can be repaid after five years of GST, ending June 2022, from the compensation cess fund, aided by a 0.5% relaxation in the borrowing limit under The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act; two, an option to borrow the entire projected shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore – both on account of faltering GST collections and the expected shortfall due to the pandemic – facilitated by the RBI. While the entire world is increasingly convinced that the pandemic is due to an act of indiscretion on the part of China, the Finance Minister termed it an ‘act of God’. The reason for asking the states to resort to borrowing is because of a legal opinion given by the Attorney General of India that the period of payment of compensation can be extended beyond June 2022 but the Consolidated Fund of India cannot be used to bridge the gap. The GST Council has known for almost a year now that there would be persistent shortfalls in the compensation payable to states, but no concrete action was taken as everyone thought that things would self-correct over a period of time. And then, Covid-19 struck. The pandemic has disrupted everything to such an extent that history may soon be split into two periods: the ‘Before Covid’ and ‘After Covid’. GST is no exception in facing its impact -- the economy is down, collections are not improving and evasion is rampant. Yet, the GST Council cannot run away from the problem and, leaving the states holding the baby. If GST is truly a tax that represents the spirit of federalism, the Centre should come out with a proper plan to compensate states. In times like these, the question is not who should borrow but who has a better credit rating to borrow and more options. Undoubtedly, the Centre has a better credit rating and options to borrow, including from international agencies and financial institutions, which they should tap into. They also have the luxury of having a central bank with a strong balance sheet. State of the states State governments need to realise that the 14% growth assurance given for the GST compensation promise is a thing of the past. Even if GST had not been introduced, states would have seen a reduction in VAT revenues, thanks to Covid-19. So, they really cannot be expecting compensation with an assured 14% annual growth. Till Covid-19 lasts, ‘force majeure’ is a reality. The GST Council should tell the states that the 14% growth in revenues that was assured is unsustainable. This could come down to 10%. States should also not be tempted to levy local taxes and duties on an ad hoc basis to make up for lost revenues. Levy of a ‘Covid Cess’ for some time can be thought of. Cesses suffer from two problems -- they are supposed to be temporary but seldom are; and input tax credit cannot be claimed by the counter-party. Due to this, a cess may not fly with taxpayers. The kerfuffle over GST compensation has ensured that there are a couple of certainties in the near future. Liquor, fuel and stamp duty will not come under the purview of GST for some more years. States will ensure that. As a result, the GST we have is not an ideal GST but a “jugaad GST”, and it will remain so. The second certainty is that GST battles of the future are going to be fought not on economic/taxation grounds but on political grounds. This could derail some GST provisions in the future since states would tend to object to them due to political differences. In some quarters, it is already being said that the erstwhile laws were better since the issue of compensation was driven by the Finance Commission’s diktats and was based on a percentage rather than a share in revenues. Taxpayers would tend to agree as they had got used to dealing with known persons in the departments and the laws had reached some stability. One cannot disagree with the statement that GST is a good law that has been badly implemented. It may take an extremely long time but the hassles that taxpayers face will hopefully gradually reduce and disappear. However, since GST compensation hits the states where it hurts the most -- their treasuries -- a resolution to this issue cannot wait. The GST Council should quickly think of a workable solution to compensate states. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/compensate-states-before-gst-regime-begins-to-crumble-885675.html
11-09-2020||Panorama||An ingenious helicopter on Mars||Despite a raging pandemic and a last-minute moderate earthquake, there was no stopping Perseverance, NASA’s latest rover to Mars, from taking to the skies. Perched on top of the Atlas V rocket, a rotating disc-like spacecraft shot into space on July 30th, carrying the rover on an interplanetary mission to Mars. Perseverance will travel some 450 million kilometres in a quest to explore signatures of ancient life on our planetary neighbour.  The earlier Mars missions revealed that the now cold and dry red planet has water trails embedded in its rocky terrain. And, where there is water, the possibility of remnants of ancient life forms (even if microscopic) in frozen form is rife. Perseverance is out to check out these biosignatures with the help of advanced machinery that will drill through rocks and collect samples. The samples will be stored safely on Mars for future missions to bring them back to earth. Apart from these futuristic experiments, Perseverance is also supporting another agenda – delivering a mini-helicopter named Ingenuity to Mars.  Ingenuity is hitching a ride on Perseverance, tucked under its belly. The helicopter is a two-kilo, marvellously crafted machine which took more than three decades to engineer. Like a drone, this experimental machine will conduct an aerial survey of Mars within specified regions. Most importantly, the success of Ingenuity will demonstrate and establish the technology capability to fly an aircraft on another planet. It will open avenues for future missions to utilize comprehensive flying machines on other planets. Helicopters depend on air to provide an upward lift. For this, their rotor-blades rotate to cut through the air and generate the lift. Mars has a very thin atmosphere on its surface – almost 99 times less dense than that of the earth (a rough comparison would be the available air at an altitude of about 30000 meters on earth). Hence, there is very little air-lift from the Martian atmosphere. To overcome this drawback, Ingenuity is designed with two sets of thin, lightweight, 4 feet long fibre rotor blades.  The blades rotate in opposite directions, five to six times faster (at 2400 rpm) than a traditional chopper rotor to generate the necessary air-lift for the two-kilo drone to be airborne. Moreover, the chopper’s engines have to run overtime to create the air-lift. Once, the lift is achieved, the low gravity of Mars (which is one-third that of the earth) aids it to keep the machine flying.   Second, the lift and landing of the copter on the Martian surface have to be smooth operations without raking a plume of regolith. Regolith is the fine abrasive dust on the surface which can hamper the machinery in no time. Ingenuity will land on four scrawny, padded legs for a smooth landing. Next, the long nights on Mars can be intensely cold, with temperatures dropping to -90 degrees Celsius and Ingenuity must safeguard itself from these freezing climes. Solar panels fitted above the rotor will recharge the batteries for a whole day, and use two-thirds of it to keep the copter warm.  Despite these measures, Ingenuity cannot be controlled in real-time like a drone by ground-based engineers. Ingenuity is paired to Perseverance for communication. All signals from Ingenuity will go to the rover first, which in turn will beam them to an orbiting spacecraft, from where they will be transmitted to earth. The signals take some time to travel to earth due to the vast interplanetary distances.  To overcome transmission delays, commands are sent in advance. However, for the most part, Ingenuity will make its own navigation decisions. Specially designed software will feed data from the onboard sensors to the chopper. Simultaneously, Ingenuity will continuously stream the real-time data to the rover for transmission to earth. Besides, Ingenuity must survive the rigours of space travel: a seven-month-long space journey, high gravitational forces and scorching temperatures during descent.  If Ingenuity is successful, it will be a historic endeavour, for, any day, a flying probe is better enabled than ground rovers. Aerial surveys offer the vantage of accessing broad area information and can scan hard to reach areas.  (The writer is a science communicator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/an-ingenious-helicopter-on-mars-885677.html
11-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Read the intent||Sitting with my uncle in his electrical parts shop in downtown Delhi, a known dealer from the market asked for fifty inductors. “No, I don’t have a single piece”, proclaimed my uncle. Ignoring what my had said so seriously, the visitor grovelled, “I direly need it, a long time customer is waiting in my shop; I know you alone can help!” My uncle’s 'no' thawed, “You don’t deserve it, you didn’t settle last three payments despite several reminders.” The visiting dealer admitted the lapse, “our own payments were held up. Also, huge funds were spent on my mother’s treatment, the entire market knows.” After some more arguing, the dealer returned with the stuff he wanted, attesting that sometimes a 'no’ may include ‘yes’.  What we hear is half the truth. Apropos of Tennyson’s line, “Words like nature half reveal and half conceal the soul within”. Most children understand that ‘no’ to their demand shall turn to an okay if pursued full-heartedly. With poor vocabulary at their command, many pour out whatever poor substitute occurs to mind in the heat of the moment. I recall a father flaring up after being repeatedly blamed by his hostile son, “you want both of us to die?” Not knowing how to respond, and knowing respond he must, the nonplussed son bursts out, “yes, I do!” The arrow had been shot! After this, the parents latch on to the point, “he doesn’t want either of us to survive anymore, he himself said so. Ask him?” The other day, a cousin who lived nearby gave me an SOS call to appear and help settle a violent outbreak allegedly created by his wife. Without loss of time, as I reached, the lady burst into tears, yelling, “It’s me who had to put up with a man of this ilk all these thirty years; no one else could have tolerated such a rascal! It’s too much now, and I feel suffocated to stay on with this man any longer.” With my usual cool, I asked for a glass of water though didn’t really need it. Then I reprimanded both partners for ignoring the normal courtesy of inviting me in. In an hour-long moderating monologue, interspersed with several examples, I passionately pleaded with the both of them to cease any further argument, to understand one’s own self first before making the other understand, and always remember that our days are numbered. I thanked God when the storm subsided. The lady went into the kitchen and returned shortly with three cups of tea on one hand and plate with raw vegetables to be cooked in another.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/read-the-intent-885673.html
11-09-2020||Second Edit||Vanishing wildlife cause for worry||There has been a ‘catastrophic decline’ in the world’s wildlife populations. According to a study by the conservation group World Wildlife Fund, wildlife populations plummeted 68% between 1970 and 2016. The findings of the study, which tracked 21,000 populations of mammals, birds, fish, reptiles and amphibians, has been published in its Living Planet Report 2020. It draws attention to some alarming facts. The largest decline in wildlife populations in the 1970-2016 period has been in Latin America (94%) followed by the Asia-Pacific (45%). The situation in India is worrying as well. Over 12% of our wild mammals and 3% of bird species are on the verge of extinction, the report says. Besides, 19% of India’s amphibians are threatened or critically endangered. Freshwater mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and fish are particularly vulnerable, the WWF has found; their populations have plummeted by 4% annually since 1970. The WWF report is unequivocal in blaming human activity for the destruction of wildlife populations. Humans have altered 75% of the Earth’s ice-free land surface, making vast tracts of this unsuitable for wildlife. Forests are being burned down to make them suitable for human habitation or convert them into agricultural land. Deprived of their natural habitat, wild animals are getting boxed into ever-shrinking habitats. They are under tremendous pressure from habitat loss. We are overfishing the oceans and, in the process, wiping out entire fish populations. In addition to destruction of ecosystems and species overexploitation, human-caused climate change is eliminating wildlife populations. It is possible to reverse the destruction of wildlife populations. It requires sustained restoration efforts. But first, humans need to realise that their survival depends on the survival of other species. Besides, unsustainable exploitation of nature is endangering human life. Virologists have been warning of the dangers of human consumption of high-risk wildlife which is paving the way for crossing of pathogens from wildlife to humans, causing zoonotic diseases like Covid-19. The trading and consumption of high-risk wildlife must be halted.   But importantly, there is a need to also change how we go about conservation. Animals that are majestic like the tiger or powerful like the elephant and cute like pandas have attracted funding and conservation efforts, and there are of course good reasons for that. But ‘ugly’ creatures like the Titicaca water frog and the Blobfish are far less fortunate and their endangered status is going by unnoticed and unattended to. There is a need for conservation bodies to rethink conservation strategies. ‘Ugly’ creatures need saving, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/vanishing-wildlife-cause-for-worry-885668.html
11-09-2020||South||Language and identity politics making a comeback in Tamil Nadu||For long, Tamils have worn linguistic pride on their sleeves and language has been an integral part of the state’s politics. It was the then Congress government’s insistence on making Hindi compulsory in schools that opened the gates for Dravidian parties to rule Tamil Nadu since 1967. For over 50 years, Dravidian majors – DMK and AIADMK – have been ruling the state alternatively and had stonewalled every move, both direct and indirect, by successive Union Governments to “impose” Hindi on Tamil Nadu. After decades, the language and identity politics is making a strong comeback in Tamil Nadu, which will face its most-crucial assembly elections in recent times in the first-half of 2021. Tamils have always shunned Hindi, maintaining that they are not against learning the language but only oppose shoving it down their throat forcibly. With social media emerging as the new political battleground, a large number of Tamils have taken to such platforms to voice their opinion against “Hindi imposition.” For the past few weeks, Tamil Twitter has been flooded with hashtags against Hindi and a section of Tamils did demonstrate their opposition in style wearing T-shirts with words like “Hindi Theriyathu Poda (I don’t know Hindi. Go Man) that went viral. What spawned the resurgence of identity and linguistic politics?  It is the policies of the BJP-led Centre – be it the New Education Policy (NEP) that proposes a three-language formula which Tamils view as facilitating a back-door entry to Hindi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s declaration that Hindi was the only language that would integrate India, observers say. Incidents like DMK MP Kanimozhi being asked whether she was an Indian at the Chennai Airport for not knowing Hindi, farmers receiving answers for their questions under the Right to Information Act in Hindi and a Secretary- level officer asking doctors from Tamil Nadu to leave a conference if they did not know Hindi only aggravated the anger of an average Tamil.   Senior journalist R Mani said there was a distinct difference between the designs used by previous governments to impose Hindi and the one being adopted by the Narendra Modi dispensation. “The current BJP dispensation is open about its love to impose Hindi on Tamils. They do not hide it anymore. They are very vocal about pushing Hindi down the throat of Tamils, despite knowing the kind of resistance they would face. BJP leaders now say people should learn Hindi too. It (Hindi imposition) is an all-out political war by the BJP to wipe out the distinct identity that Tamils possess,” Mani told DH. And to dismiss the anti-Hindi sentiments as a mere internet phenomenon would not just be politically naïve but suicidal too as the attachment of Tamils towards their language is strong, political analysts warn, reminding that the Congress, which was thrown out of power in 1967, has not been able to nurse the wounds it suffered even after 50 years. By reigniting the debate, the BJP, which is desperate to make inroads into Tamil Nadu, seems to have gifted the “Hindi imposition” issue on a platter to the Dravidian parties, especially the DMK, which is milking the issue to the hilt. The incident involving Kanimozhi hit national headlines evoking condemnation from most non-Hindi speaking states and the DMK is now trying to project itself as a force against Hindi hegemony in India. Though Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami opposed the three-language formula and declared that the state would continue with the existing two-language policy, the AIADMK has not been quite active in voicing its opinion on the language issue. Party stalwarts M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa had also steadfastly opposed any kind of Hindi imposition though the latter spoke the language very fluently. “Opposing Hindi imposition is no more just the job of the principal Opposition party. Every Tamil should be on the streets to oppose the worst form of Hindi imposition by the Modi dispensation. And one should be clear that people are not against learning the language but only against its imposition,” Mani added. Though the BJP says it has taken Tamil to the global stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi referring to verses from the rich literature, the party’s stand has few takers due to “unflinching love” for Hindi. And the BJP is making every effort to convince people on how a third language would bring better employment and economic opportunities. If one goes by the hints dropped by DMK, linguistic pride and Tamil identity will find a prominent place in its campaign for the elections due next year. And the BJP’s counter-strategy will be interesting to watch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/language-and-identity-politics-making-a-comeback-in-tamil-nadu-885690.html
11-09-2020||South||Over 24,000 people use Chennai Metro rail since service resumed||In a sign of increasing patronage, as many as 24,354 passengers travelled in the Metrorail here since services resumed, authorities have said. More than 24,000 passengers used the Metro train services as of Wednesday since operations resumed on September 7. On the opening day, 5,033 passengers used the metro services. A total of 18,769 passengers travelled using Smart Card ticketing system and 637 utilised the QR code ticketing system till September 9, a Chennai Metrorail release on Thursday said. "As part of encouraging contactless ticketing measure to minimise the spread of Covid-19, CMRL has decided to extend a 20 per cent discount on QR Code ticketing," for single, return, group and trip passes from Friday. This is to encourage passengers to avoid queuing up at stations and they could download the CMRL mobile app for using the QR code ticketing system. Travel card readers have been installed at all Metro Stations for passengers to avoid queuing in front of customer counters and ticket vending machines. CMRL requested passengers to co-operate with its security, ticketing and other staffers for a safe and smooth travel in its efforts to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and maintain social distancing. Chennai Metro rail services resumed from Washermenpet to Airport on Monday and between St Thomas Mount and M G R Central Metro via Koyambedu on Wednesday. Considering several requests, CMRL said it extended its services till 9 pm from the previous 8 pm effective Thursday and services start at 7 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-24000-people-use-chennai-metro-rail-since-service-resumed-885823.html
11-09-2020||South||Puducherry sees 504 new Covid-19 cases; death toll at 365||Puducherry continued to witness a surge in Covid-19 infections as 12 more people died of the virus and 504 cases were added anew on Friday, taking the overall tally to 19,026. A release from Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said 12 people succumbed to infection during last 24 hours ending 10 am on Friday, taking the toll to 365. The Director said 504 fresh cases were recorded at the end of examination of 2,823 samples. Kumar said 4,878 active cases were reported so far including 3,136 in home quarantine while 13,783 patients recovered and were discharged. He noted that the fatality and recovery rates were 1.92 per cent and 72.44 per cent respectively in the union territory. As many as 92,904 samples were tested so far and it was found that 71,196 out of them to be negative. Result of examination of remaining samples was awaited. All the 12 deceased hailed from Puducherry region. Most of those who died had co-morbidities and were in the age group ranging between 40 and 88 years. Puducherry region accounted for a major chunk of 438 cases followed by 35 in Karaikal, 27 in Yanam and 4 in Mahe region. The official said 394 patients were discharged during last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-sees-504-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-at-365-885873.html
11-09-2020||South||Kerala minister E P Jayarajan tests Covid-19 positive||Kerala Industries Minister E P Jayarajan has tested positive for coronavirus, becoming the second member of the Pinarayi Vijayan cabinet to be infected by the virus. Jayarajan and his wife, who has also contracted the disease, have been shifted to the Pariyaram Medical college hospital in Kannur, government sources said. Earlier, Finance Minister Thomas Isaac had tested positive for the pathogen. Jayarajan, who was in the primary contact of Isaac, was under quarantine at his home in Kannur. His sample had been sent for testing three days ago and returned positive today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-e-p-jayarajan-tests-covid-19-positive-885879.html
11-09-2020||South||Temple priest held in Kerala for sexually abusing minor girl||A temple priest in Kerala was arrested on charges of sexual abuse of a minor girl at the temple premises at Chirayankeezhu, in the rural part of Thiruvananthapuram. The accused, identified as Sreekumar Namboothiri, 67, of Chiryankeezhu Mudapuram Theniyoor temple, about 30 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city, was produced before court and remanded. According to the local police, the incident took place on Wednesday. The victim, aged around 15, was allegedly lured by the priest to his room offering special pooja and 'prasadam'. He then tried to sexually abuse the girl. The girl managed to run out of the room and informed her relatives. Subsequently the police was alerted, and the priest held. Police sources said that various sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and attempt to rape were invoked against the accused. The priest was serving at the temple over the last couple of years. Even as there were suspicions that many other women could have suffered unpleasant experiences from the priest, police said that so far no other complaints came up against the accused. The police conducted scientific examinations at the priest's room. A team led by Attingal DYSP S Y Suresh is probing the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temple-priest-held-in-kerala-for-sexually-abusing-minor-girl-885880.html
11-09-2020||South||MGR's nephew dies of Covid-19, AIADMK extends condolence||AIADMK founder and former Chief Minister M G Ramachandran's nephew M C Chandran, has succumbed to coronavirus in Chennai on Friday, the party said. The AIADMK said 75-year old Chandran is the son of MGR's elder brother M G Chakrapani and he was treated at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai for Covid-19. "We were grieved to learn that he has passed away not responding to the treatment," AIADMK's coordinator and co-coordinator, O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami said in a party release. Extending condolences to the bereaved family, the top party leaders said they prayed to the Almighty to rest his soul in peace and give the family the strength to bear the loss and grief. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam chief TTV Dhinakaran was among others who condoled Chandran's death. M G Ramachandran, popularly known as MGR founded the AIADMK in 1972 and he was the Chief Minister between 1977-87. MGR died on December 24, 1987.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mgrs-nephew-dies-of-covid-19-aiadmk-extends-condolence-885907.html
11-09-2020||South||Puducherry CM Narayanasamy pays homage to nationalist poet Bharathi||Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Saturday paid homage to a statue of the poet-nationalist Subramania Bharathiar or Bharathi on his 99th death anniversary. Welfare Minister M Kandasamy, Speaker V P Sivakolundhu and representatives of different Tamil organisations were among those present. Bharathi had his sojourn in Puducherry during the then French rule here from 1908. He composed several of his songs, including Panchali Sabatham and Kuyil Paattu, in Puducherry. When the then British rule in adjoining pockets wanted to arrest him, Bharathiar took shelter in the then French-ruled Puducherry. A Bharathi memorial committee was formed in the Union Territory even before the former French establishments in India merged with Indian Union. Journalists like the late V S Mani Iyer and Venkatavaradhan, businessmen and delegates of various service outfits constituted the memorial committee and it was celebrating the birth anniversary of the poet by holding competitions for school children. The initiative of the committee resulted in an important street being named after Bharathi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-narayanasamy-pays-homage-to-nationalist-poet-bharathi-885908.html
11-09-2020||South||NGT raps Kerala pollution control board over sand mining in Kollam district||The National Green Tribunal has rapped Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) over its "incompetence" to decide the environmental impact of sand mining in a coastal village in Kollam district. The NGT said the KSPCB is entrusted with the statutory obligation to enforce the environmental norms which include the application of 'Polluter Pays' principle. "We are surprised that the Board should express its incompetence to decide the issue. If the Board has any difficulty in determining any particular question, it can always take the assistance of any department, including the mining department and expert body, such as the Central Pollution Control Board, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute etc," the NGT said. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the board to consult the matter with concerned departments or experts and file a further report before February 10, 2021, by e-mail. The KSPCB told the tribunal that it is not competent to assess the other legal aspects of mining, which come under the Department of Mining and Geology, Atomic Mineral Division, Government of India, and causes of beach erosion. The accused companies raised an objection that destruction of the beach is not entirely due to the beach mining but there are several reasons for which they demanded an extensive study. "Similarly the companies report that they are conducting mining as per the mining plans and Government lease issued to them. However, the units, even though applied for, have not obtained Environmental Clearance, for beach mining," the board said. The tribunal had earlier sought a report from the Kollam district administration after taking note of a news report about a 17-year-old girl's viral video on the environmental impact of sand mining activity in her coastal village of Alappad in Kerala. The tribunal's direction came after taking suo motu (on its own) cognizance of an Indian Express news report titled "17-year-old's video gets Kerala talking of impact of sand mining". The news report mentioned about Kavya S, a class 12 student, who made the video about the environmental impact of the decades-long black sand mining activity in her village Alappad. "The video, in which she relays a village's strong fears about falling off the map due to extensive dredging and excavation works by two public-sector firms, has become a huge talking point on television news channels, radio stations, and social media networks. "Her video and word of the campaign have been amplified by Malayalam cinema's young actors like Prithviraj Sukumaran and Tovino Thomas," the news report said. The report said that Alappad and several villages on the coasts of Kollam and Alappuzha in southern Kerala are rich repositories of black sand that contains important minerals like monazite, ilmenite, rutile and zircon. "Sand mining activities began in Alappad in the mid-60s, mainly under the auspices of the Centre's Indian Rare Earths Limited and the state-owned Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ngt-raps-kerala-pollution-control-board-over-sand-mining-in-kollam-district-885928.html
11-09-2020||South||SRM University partners with US's Northeastern University for research||SRM University-AP has joined hands with Northeastern University in Boston, US, towards the advancement of education and research, Vice-Chancellor V S Rao said. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been signed recently between the two universities, he said in a release here on Friday. "This is a significant venture to collaborate with top universities such as Northeastern University, which will lead the university on the path of advanced research and educational programmes. Northeastern University is among the top five per cent of universities in the world and this collaboration will provide an opportunity for our students to visit, learn and explore from a reputed university of the USA," Prof Rao said. Joint research programmes for faculty and scholars would also be enabled, besides joint teaching and cultural activities, in future, he added. The SRM Vice-Chancellor said the two universities would also collaborate in academic publications and other materials of mutual interest and development of curricula. The collaboration between the two universities would begin with Computer Science and Engineering and Mechanical Engineering departments while other engineering and management streams would be included later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/srm-university-partners-with-uss-northeastern-university-for-research-885955.html
11-09-2020||South||ED attaches assets worth Rs 1.84 cr in Kerala gold smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached movable and immovable properties worth Rs 1.84 crore under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a gold smuggling case in Kerala.   In a statement, the ED said the attached immovable properties include a residential house, an apartment and a piece of land in Kozhikode. The attached moveable properties are in the form of fixed deposit held in Kozhikode branch of the Federal Bank. The ED initiated the investigation in a gold smuggling case on the basis of an FIR and chargesheet filed by the CBI and the Anti Corruption Bureau, Cochin against C Madhavan, a former deputy commissioner of customs, P P Sunil Kumar, Faiz T K, Ashraf Kallunkal, Subair Y M and Abdul Rahim and others. The probe was carried out after two women - Arifa Haris and Asifa Veera - were apprehended by customs authorities and 20 kgs of gold was allegedly recovered from them on March 19, 2013. The two women had allegedly illegally carried 56 kgs of gold from Dubai to Cochin during August - September, 2013, the ED claimed.  These gold consignments were allegedly sent by one Faiz T K using his contacts with customs officers allegedly for one Ashraf Kallunkal, who is a prominent businessman of Kerala, the ED claimed. According to the CBI chargesheet, the smuggling of gold worth Rs 17.86 crore led to the loss of Rs 1.83 crore (10 per cent customs duty and 3 per cent cess) to the exchequer. The money trail investigation carried out by ED revealed that Faiz and Kallunkal were allegedly the "masterminds" of the gold smuggling, the ED claimed. Faiz allegedly picked the women carriers staying in Dubai with their family, who were in need of money and executed the smuggling.  Accused Kallunkal was the "main investor" in the gold purchase and allegedly smuggled the consignment to India with the help of Faiz, who has good relationship with many prominent people in Kerala, the ED claimed. The agency said Kallunkal and Faiz had allegedly accumulated the profit in Dubai and later transferred the same to their accounts in India. The proceeds of the alleged crime were placed in the form of immovable and movable properties, the ED said.  The identified proceeds of the alleged crime in the form of the immovable properties valued at Rs 98.85 lakh and one FD valued at Rs 85,15,230, which totalling to Rs 1.84 crore have been attached under the PMLA, the ED said, adding further investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-184-cr-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-885962.html
11-09-2020||South||CPM woman activist found hanging in party building in Kerala; suicide note alleges mental torture||A woman activist of the CPM in Kerala was found hanging in a building of the party in Thiruvananthapuram. She was suspected to have ended her life, and a note recovered from the spot accused party local leaders of mental torture by some party local leaders. The incident caused further embarrassment to the ruling CPM in Kerala, which is already caught up in a series of allegations. Asha, 41, of Parassala on the rural part of the district, was found hanging on Thursday night in a building recently acquired by the CPM for opening a local office of the party at Udiyankulangara, about 25 kilometres from the city. A note, believed to be a suicide note, was recovered from the spot which mentioned about mental torture by some local party leaders. A section of Congress workers and local people staged a protest at the spot and blocked the road on Friday morning, alleging a mystery in the death and demanding a detailed probe. She was reported missing over the last two days. CPM district leadership maintained that she was not a party member, but was a follower. No complaints were received from her against any local leaders so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpm-woman-activist-found-hanging-in-party-building-in-kerala-suicide-note-alleges-mental-torture-885987.html
11-09-2020||South||Jaganmohan Reddy launches Rs 27,000 crore 'Aasara scheme' to benefit 88 lakh SHG women in AP||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has launched “YSR Aasara” scheme to benefit about 88 lakh women organized as Self-Help Groups in the state. Under the scheme, the government would reimburse their outstanding bank loans as on 11 April 2019 amounting to over Rs 27,000 crore, in four phases. On Friday, Reddy released the first tranche of Rs 6792 crore from his camp office in Tadepalli in Guntur district. Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister Reddy said that during his 3,648-km padayatra in the state prior to the elections, he was witness to the travails of these SHG groups operating under the aegis of the previous governments. “I had then promised to clear their dues as on 11 April 2019 in four installments and have kept my word by releasing the first trance here today,” Reddy said, while stating YSR Aasara as his government’s another step towards empowering women socially and economically. Rs 6,792.2 crore towards the first installment of the total dues of Rs 27,169 crores was released to the banks of 87,74,674 women belonging to 8.7 lakh SHGs. A virtual meeting with the district collectors and some of the beneficiaries was also held. “The beneficiaries will have total freedom on how they would like to utilize the amount. There are no restrictions or compulsions. Those intending to invest the money in productive business opportunities would be supported by the state’s Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty and Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas,” the CM said. “We are opening up opportunities of entrepreneurship (for these women) - from a small grocery store to a dairy or a food processing unit. We are also showing them a way to avail bank loans in their endeavor, the Chief Minister said. The YSRCP government has signed MoUs with companies like ITC, Procter & Gamble, HUL, Amul, and Reliance, besides banks for the purpose. Interested women are given training, provided technical transfer, assisted in marketing etc, to help them with their cottage, petty, small, and medium scale business units. In another such women financial empowerment program, Reddy has last month launched the Cheyutha scheme. Women aged between 45-60 years from the SC, ST, BC, and minority communities are provided Rs 18,750 annually for four years and are handheld till they could establish a sustainable livelihood venture. Kapu community women are given Rs 15,000 per annum for five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jaganmohan-reddy-launches-rs-27000-crore-aasara-scheme-to-benefit-88-lakh-shg-women-in-ap-886006.html
11-09-2020||South||Kerala offers self-employment loans for transgender community||As part of its social upliftment measures for the members of transgender community, Kerala government launched a self-employment loan scheme for the transgender community members. Loans ranging from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 15 lakh will be offered to the transgender community members for self-employment projects through the Kerala State Women's Development Corporation, said Kerala Health and Social Justice Minister K K Shailaja. With unemployment remaining as one major issue faced by the 38,000 odd transgender community members in Kerala, the self-employment scheme could be very beneficial, said Sheetal, a member of Kerala Transgender Justice Board. At present hardly ten percent of the community members have some or other regular employment, she added. She said that Kerala government had been initiating a slew of welfare measures for the community, including health and education schemes. Compared to other states in India, Kerala seems to be much ahead in implementing schemes for welfare of transgender community. Shailaja said that the self-employment loan scheme was aimed at empowering the transgender community members. Once the community members come up with viable self-employment projects, they would be sanctioned loans. Up to 70 per cent of the loan would be sanctioned initially after the scheme was approved by the government, and remaining 30 percent would be sanctioned after evaluating the implementation. Already several self-help groups of transgender community members were functioning in Kerala and such group would get priority in the loan scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-offers-self-employment-loans-for-transgender-community-886024.html
11-09-2020||South||Kerala Congress infighting: HC stays EC order on 'two leaves' symbol; breather for P J Joseph faction||In a breather for the P J Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress (M), the Kerala High Court on Friday stayed a recent order of the Election Commission allocating the party symbol to the rival faction led by Rajya Sabha MP Jose K Mani, who is also party founder leader K M Mani's son. Considering an appeal filed by the P J Joseph faction, the High Court stayed the Election Commission order of August 31 for one month. A detailed hearing on the matter would follow. Reacting to Kerala HC stay on the symbol allocation, P J Joseph said that truth would prevail. The Election Commission had issued an order on August 31 allocating the party symbol, two eaves, to the Jose K Mani faction mainly considering that out of the seven MPs and MLAs of the party, four were backing the Jose K Mani faction. However, one of the members had expressed dissent maintaining that neither of the factions could be recognised until fresh affidavits of support were received. The HC stay is an added setback for the Jose K Mani faction as the Congress-led United Democratic Front on Tuesday decided to keep the Jose K Mani faction out of the front for violating an earlier assurance to share a panchayat president post with the Joseph faction. Though the Left Front sent welcome signs to the Jose K Mani faction, they were yet to announce future plans.   Meanwhile, only the Jose K Mani faction was invited to an all-party meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday to discuss deferring assembly bypolls and local body polls. Vijayan maintained that the Jose K Mani faction was the one officially recognised by the Election Commission. Incidentally, the HC stay came a couple of hours after the statement was made.  The infighting in the Kerala Congress (M), a prominent regional party, broke out after the death of K M Mani, the party chairman, last year. While Jose K Mani claimed the chairman post, P J Joseph, who is a veteran leader and former minister, claimed that since he was the party's working chairman, he should have been made party chief in the absence of the chairman. Though Jose K Mani was earlier elected by his faction as party chairman, it was stayed by a local court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-infighting-hc-stays-ec-order-on-two-leaves-symbol-breather-for-p-j-joseph-faction-886028.html
11-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu man installs statue at home in memory of wife||74-year-old Sethuraman felt a vacuum in his life after his wife of 48 years, Pichaimani, died on August 10 following a heart attack. The void left by his wife is hard to fill, Sethuraman knew, but he decided to get a statue of his late-life partner installed at his house in Madurai to “feel her presence” round-the-clock. On September 10, Thursday, 30 days after he lost his wife, the septuagenarian posed for pictures standing next to a four-feet tall statue of Pichaimani in a sitting position in his residence. “We lived happily for 48 years and she had never left me alone even to go to her parent’s place. We were living a content life until my wife fell ill. She was hospitalised for ten days, but doctors could not save her,” Sethuraman told DH over the phone from Madurai, 465 km from here. The statue made of plastic fibre was finished in just 22 days by a sculptor named Prasanna, who burnt the midnight oil to deliver it on time to his customer. In a display of his love for his late wife, Sethuraman also got a portrait of Pichaimani, who was 68, made in 10 days and it now occupies prime space in the sprawling drawing room of his house. “I was determined to get the statue installed and the portrait hung on the wall on the day we observed the 30th day of my wife’s death. Thankfully, I could get the statue installed on Thursday. It is an expression of my feelings and love for my wife,” Sethuraman, who has three daughters, said. His elder daughter Kanimozhi is married to DMK MLA from Tiruparankundram P Saravanan. The 74-year-old man, who owns three marriage halls in Madurai, says the statue and portrait of his wife allow him to feel her presence. “I know I will not get her back. What else can I do other than getting a statue? The sculptor said he cannot make it in 22 days, but I pressured him so much that he delivered on time. I still miss my wife,” he said. The incident comes close on the heels of an industrialist in Karnataka installing a statue of his wife who died in a car crash in 2017 during the house-warming ceremony of his new house. “After my wife’s death, my grandchildren stay with me. But the void left by my wife can never be filled,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-man-installs-statue-at-home-in-memory-of-wife-886049.html
11-09-2020||South||Covid-19 prevalence found in 20% of Andhra Pradesh's population||About 20 per cent of the 5.4 crore population in Andhra Pradesh is projected to have been infected by the Covid-19 virus.      The estimate is based on a sero survey conducted in two phases in August, with a total of about 59,000 samples collected from the 13 districts in the state. The per centage of asymptomatic persons among those who tested positive varied between 90 to 100 per cent in these districts. All those who tested positive from among the 5000 people in Chittoor district have shown no signs of the illness.   Vizianagaram tops; Nellore at the bottom Overall Covid-19 prevalence in AP is pegged at 19.7 per cent. Vizianagaram emerged at the top with 30.6 per cent people there assessed to have developed antibodies against the Covid-19 virus. Incidentally, Vizianagaram, a relatively small district in north coastal Andhra Pradesh, was the last to report a positive case - on 6 May. Kurnool, which is one of the worst affected districts, came second with 28.1 per cent prevalence. Nellore district which reported the first Covid-19 case in Andhra Pradesh in the middle of March, has shown only 8.2 per cent sero prevalence.   Sero surveillance provides estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and is considered the gold standard for measuring population immunity due to past infection or vaccination, officials said. The present process involves testing blood (serum/plasma) samples from thousands of people for the SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. These surveys provide information on the proportion of population that may have acquired Covid-19 immunity and help track the same over time.     “The sero survey results are helpful in understanding the infection spread and thereby in the planning of required medical infrastructure, Covid-19 care in the districts,” said Bhaskar Katamneni, commissioner, health and family welfare, Andhra Pradesh. Prevalence bit higher among females A slightly higher number of women (19.9 per cent) are stated to have been infected than males (19.5). The occurrence among the high-risk population i.e., senior citizens, and those with comorbid conditions is 20.3 per cent. The Covid-19 prevalence is found to be 22.5 per cent in the urban areas and 18.2 in rural. While around 3500 samples were examined from each of Anantapuram, East Godavari, Krishna and Nellore districts between 5 to 15 August; 5,000 samples each were tested from Chittoor, West Godavari, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Guntur, Prakasam, Kurnool and Kadapa from 26 to 31 August. As of Friday, Andhra Pradesh has recorded a total 5.47 lakh positive cases. While active cases are 96,191, the state has 4,779 Covid-19 related deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-prevalence-found-in-20-of-andhra-pradeshs-population-886057.html
11-09-2020||South||Two students, arrested under UAPA, released from Kerala jail after 10 months||Two students, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in November last year for their alleged Maoist links, were released from jail on Friday, two days after a special NIA court granted them bail. The two-- Thaha Fazal, a journalism student, and Allan Shuhaib, studying for law, were released on stringent bail conditions. Thaha Fazal said he was happy on being released, while Suhaib's mother said the family was thankful to all those who had helped them. The local police had arrested them under the UAPA after stating that banned Maoists pamphlets and books were seized from them. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The NIA court, while granting them bail, had directed the duo to appear before their respective police stations on the first Saturday of every month, surrender their passports and not to get in touch with Maoist outfits. The court had also directed their close relatives to stand sureties and execute bonds of Rs one lakh each. NIA's plea on Friday that they should not be released until its appeal before the Kerala High court was taken up, was turned down by the NIA court. The two, in their early twenties, and CPI(M)'s branch committee members, had been expelled by the marxist party after their arrest. There was widespread condemnation following the their arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-students-arrested-under-uapa-released-from-kerala-jail-after-10-months-886059.html
11-09-2020||South||A live debate between BJP member Annamalai IPS and DMK MP Senthilkumar?||If all goes well, Tamil Nadu will witness a live debate between former IPS officer K Annamalai, who has now joined BJP, and DMK MP Senthilkumar on several issues, particularly “Hindi imposition”. It all started with Annamalai, who joined the BJP on August 25, seeking to know whether DMK was ready to debate with him on several issues, during an interview. On Thursday, Senthilkumar, Lok Sabha MP from Dharmapuri, accepted the challenge, saying he was ready to debate with the former IPS officer. Soon, several television channels approached both Annamalai and Senthilkumar seeking to know whether they can host the live debate. While Senthilkumar wanted the debate to be completed before Parliament begins its session on September 14, Annamalai has proposed two weekends in September and one weekend in October. “Since the session begins on Monday, I will be in New Delhi on Friday night. I need to get my Covid-19 test done before attending the session on Monday. The weekend dates proposed by Annamalai will not work out as Parliament will continue to work even on Saturdays and Sundays,” Senthilkumar told DH, adding that he can think about dates after the session. Annamalai and Senthilkumar engaged with each other on Twitter for the debate. The BJP, which projects to emerge as an alternative to the Dravidian ideology, views the DMK as its prime political opponent and has been calling its “Hindi imposition” stand as a “drama” aimed at votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-live-debate-between-bjp-member-annamalai-ips-and-dmk-mp-senthilkumar-886075.html
11-09-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: Kerala Minister K T Jaleel quizzed by ED||The Enforcement Directorate reportedly took a statement of Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel in connection with his links to the Kerala gold smuggling accused. The minster accepted food kits for distribution in connection with Ramadan and packets containing Quran from the UAE consulate and he was found to be in touch with UAE consulate former employee and gold smuggling case accused Swapna Nair. The minister and ED officials are tight-lipped over the matter. It was learnt that the ED officials took Jaleel's statement at premises in Kochi on Friday. While the fresh development caused further embarrassment to the left-front government in Kerala, the Opposition Congress and BJP demanded Jaleel's resignation.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had earlier justified Jaleel. He said that there was nothing unusual in higher education minister K T Jaleel's direct deals with the UAE consulate. Jaleel had also maintained that it was a normal practice to accept food kits and Qurans as those were part of religious customs and cultural practices. However, the minister's action was alleged to be against protocol. It was during the probe into the gold smuggling involving UAE Consulate former employees that the customs came across the distribution of Quran through diplomatic baggage. Around 300 packets containing Qurans were found to be brought in March-April and distributed using vehicles of state government agency Centre for Advanced Printing and Training, allegedly as directed by Jaleel. The actual number of Qurans in the packets were yet to be ascertained. The allegations against Jaleel surfaced initially after his phone number was found among the call details records of UAE consulate former employee and gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh Jaleel then defended that the UAE consul general offered Ramadan relief kits, which was usual practice, and his conversations with Swapna pertained to that only. The ED had already launched a probe into the financial aspects of the gold smuggling case as well as the links of the accused with the Bengaluru based drug peddling racket that recently emerged. Kerala CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son Bineesh Kodiyeri, who was found to have links with the drug peddling accused, was quizzed by ED for over ten hours on Wednesday. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said that it was for the first time that a minister in Kerala was being quizzed by the ED. BJP state president K Surendran said that if chief minister's principal secretary M Sivasankar was kept under suspension after he was quizzed by central agencies, why similar step was not being taken against Jaleel. Various opposition parties including the Congress and the BJP unleashed violent protests in front of Kerala secretariat on Friday night demanding Jaleel's resignation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-quizzed-by-ed-886148.html
11-09-2020||State||In a first, 3 Karnataka women awarded Chevening scholarships||For the first time, all state awardees of the United Kingdom’s Chevening Scholarship this year are women. The women are due to start a master’s programme at some of the UK’s top universities next month. The Chevening Scholarships offer full financial support for one year to candidates applying for a master’s degree at any UK university, covering nearly 12,000 courses from more than 150 universities. Across India, 39 candidates have been chosen for the programme for the current year. Jeremy Pilmore-Bedford, British Deputy High Commissioner to Karnataka and Kerala, described the three scholars going from Bengaluru as “exceptional.”  “They will study diverse subjects, such as law, health and tropical medicine and social innovation and entrepreneurship,” the Deputy High Commissioner said. Among the awardees is Sushma Mahabala, a Bengalurean who led safety and sustainability initiatives at B PAC, focusing on women development. She will be studying Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship at the London School of Economics and Political Science.  Another is Rutuja Chhajed, a Biomedical engineering graduate from the Indian Institute of Technology (BHU) who is pursuing an MSc in International Health and Tropical Medicine at the University of Oxford. For the last three years, she has been working as a research analyst at St John’s Research Institute Bangalore.  The final awardee is Roshni Menon, a law graduate from Christ University, who will be studying for an LLM in International Financial Laws at King’s College London. She said that she hopes to use her education to help her understand how to improve commercial law policy in India. Aspiring scholars can apply for a one-year master’s under the Scholarship programme by 3 November 2020 or for the short-term thematic Fellowship programmes by 19 October 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/in-a-first-3-karnataka-women-awarded-chevening-scholarships-885669.html
11-09-2020||State||Mysuru Urban Development Authority recovers encroached land||Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) recovered its encroached land worth Rs 15 lakh at Sathgalli. The civic body recovered an encroachment of 3.27 acres on Survey number 68/1, 2, 3. A few private parties had encroached upon the land, which had been left vacant. A few years ago, MUDA had acquired the land to develop a layout in the area and a portion of land was used for the purpose. MAs on the directions of MUDA Commissioner D B Natesh, Superintendent Engineer Shankar, zonal officers Ravindra Kumar, G Mohan, Venugopal, Kaveri Gowda and other officials, evicted the encroachment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-urban-development-authority-recovers-encroached-land-885772.html
11-09-2020||State||Three temple priests brutally murdered in Karnataka's Mandya, burglars decamp with temple offerings||In a shocking incident, three priests of Arkeshwara temple, in Mandya taluk, were brutally murdered on Thursday night. Miscreants escaped with the offerings from the temple Hundi. The priests who were murdered are Ganesh (35), Prakash (36), and Anand (33). It is said that along with performing pujas and other rituals, the priests were given the responsibility of security of the temple. The Arkeshwara temple at Gottalu village, Mandya taluk, comes under Muzrai department, and the police are on the lookout for murderers. The burglars, after opening the hundis, escaped with the notes and left behind the coins. More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-temple-priests-brutally-murdered-in-karnatakas-mandya-burglars-decamp-with-temple-offerings-885831.html
11-09-2020||State||Karnataka government acknowledges plight and problems of private schools||The plight and distress of the teaching fraternity working at various private unaided schools echoed at the state-level Teachers' Day celebrations, organised by the State Department of Primary and Secondary Education, on Friday in Bengaluru. Much to the surprise of teachers and management representatives, the issue was raised by Education Minister S Suresh Kumar. Addressing the teachers, the Minister expressed helplessness of the state government. "More than 3.5 lakh teachers from unaided schools are in crisis due to Covid-19. The state government is trying its best to help them in whichever way possible," Suresh Kumar said. The Minister also promised the Chief Minister that not a single kid will be left out of school or the education system. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Yediyurappa appreciated the efforts of the department in the successful conduct of SSLC exams even during the pandemic situation. "It is indeed the greatest achievement of the department that it conducted the SSLC exams during the pandemic without any hurdles," the Chief Minister said. He also expressed happiness on the Vidyagama programme and said, "The scheme has even been appreciated by the Union government." Commenting on the increasing enrollment rate of students at the government schools, Yediyurappa said, "It is a proud moment for the department and reflects upon the state government's effort to strengthen the school system especially in providing a child-friendly environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-acknowledges-plight-and-problems-of-private-schools-885860.html
11-09-2020||State||Low-lying areas inundated in Mangaluru in heavy rain||Heavy rain continued to lash various parts of Dakshina Kannada district on Friday. The low-lying areas in Jeppinamogaru, Ekkur, Kottara Chowki and Kallapu have been inundated. The fire service personnel have evacuated several people from the affected areas. The Rajakaluve and storm water drains in Jeppinamogaru area are overflowing, thus inundating fields and houses. The areas on both the sides of the highway from Jeppinamogaru to Kallapu have been inundated. Several cars have been damaged after a compound wall collapsed near an apartment at Kuntikana. In the last 24 hours, DK district received an average of 78.7 mm rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/low-lying-areas-inundated-in-mangaluru-in-heavy-rain-885930.html
11-09-2020||State||Mysuru APMC President Basavaraj elected as State Agricultural Marketing Board director||Mysuru Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) President Basavaraj of the Congress party has been elected as Director of Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board. Basavaraj was appointed after defeating JD(S) candidate Subash of Hunsur APMC President by one vote of seven. The election was held on Friday. While Periyapatna, Nanjangud, T Narasipura and Mysuru Presidents supported Basavaraj, the presidents of H D Kote, Hunsur and K R Nagar supported Subash. MLA Dr Yatheendra Siddaramaiah and other leaders congratulated Basavaraj on his appointed||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-apmc-president-basavaraj-elected-as-state-agricultural-marketing-board-director-885942.html
11-09-2020||State||All-party meeting for deferring Kerala Assembly by-polls and local body polls||An all-party meeting convened by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday decided to urge the Election Commission to drop the proposed by-polls for two assembly seats considering how short the term will be for the elected members. The state election commission will be also urged to postpone the elections to the local bodies considering the coronavirus scenario in the state. The Election Commission recently announced that by-polls to Kuttanad in Alappuzha and Chavara in Kollam, which became vacant owing to death of sitting MLAs, would be conducted by November. But the term of the present government is ending by May 2021. Hence the MLAs getting elected in the by-polls might get only around three months to work as the model code of conduct for general election might come by March 2021. The Chief Minister said that all political parties agreed to dropping the by-polls and hence a request would be made to the election commission. Though the state government recently made a request to the Election Commission, the Commission did not entertain it. Hence the Chief Minister convened the all-party meeting. Elections to local bodies The term of the current local bodies are ending by November. But conducting elections at this time involves serious risk owing to the Covid surge in the state. Hence the state election commission would be urged to slightly postpone the elections, said the Chief Minister. The BJP had earlier expressed reservations over postponing the local body elections. Sources said that according to the norms, the local body elections could be postponed only for a maximum of six months and once the term of the elected members ends, the governance of local bodies would have to be handed over to a steering committee preferably led by a respective district collectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-party-meeting-for-deferring-kerala-assembly-by-polls-and-local-body-polls-885958.html
11-09-2020||State||Union minister Suresh Angadi tests positive for Covid-19||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi has tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Angadi made the announcement of his diagnosis on twitter. He said, “I have tested Covid-19 positive today. I am doing fine. Taking the advice of doctors. Requesting all those who have come in close contact with me in the last few days to monitor their health and get tested in case of any symptoms.” He said that he was asymptomatic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/union-minister-suresh-angadi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-885975.html
11-09-2020||State||Four injured in LPG cylinder blast in Kalaburagi||As many as four persons were injured after an LPG cylinder exploded at a house in Chowdeshwari Nagar of the city on Friday morning. The incident took place at the house of Ramesh Firozabad due to a gas leak while connecting another cylinder after the one in use got exhausted while cooking. The cylinder exploded as soon as a woman, Shashikala, tried to light the stove. Shashikala has been admitted to United Hospital where she is currently undergoing treatment. Firozabad, his daughter Ambika and son Mallinath sustained minor injuries and have been admitted to the district hospital.  The impact of the explosion was such that it shattered the windows and doors of the house, sending waves of panic through the residents of the surrounding houses. A case has been registered at Raghavendra Nagar police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-injured-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-in-kalaburagi-886193.html
11-09-2020||State||First phase of Yettinahole in June 2021: Ramesh Jarkiholi||The first stage of Yettinahole project will be commissioned in June 2021, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said Friday. One of the flagship projects of the Water Resources Department, it will divert 24 tmcft water from Yettinahole - one of the tributaries of Netravathi river - to the parched districts of Kolar and Chikkaballapur. “Water will be flown upto 31 km of the gravity canal, and will be released to Vedavathi valley,” he said. The project was earlier scheduled to be commissioned this monsoon. On the Mekedatu project, he said that a petition was in the Supreme Court and steps will be taken for clearance to implement the same. “Complications on the implementation of the project will be discussed when the ministerial delegation, led by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, will visit Delhi,” he said. UKP: relief for farmers In order to ensure direct transfer of compensation for farmers losing land under the Upper Krishna Project, he said that a separate portal will be set up for the same. “A separate head of accounts will be maintained in four Corporations of the Department for compensation alone,”he said. On funds required to implement all the proposed irrigation schemes, he said that Karnataka would require around Rs 1.1 lakh crore. A note issued by the minister’s office said that a detailed project report was ready to develop Brindavan Gardens at Krishnaraja Sagara reservoir in Mandya district at a cost of Rs 425 crore. This will be implemented in four stages under the PPP model,he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/first-phase-of-yettinahole-in-june-2021-ramesh-jarkiholi-886206.html
11-09-2020||State||Heritage activists oppose road criss-crossing Hampi ruins||The Hampi World Heritage Area Management Authority has taken up a slew of development works in the erstwhile capital of the medieval Vijayanagar Empire. And the latest entry to the list - a km-long 40-feet wide road amid the ruins.  The Public Works Department has prepared an action plan for the proposed road in the heart of the heritage town. The PWD has estimated a cost of Rs 4.50 crore for the road and A proposal on the same has been submitted to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) - Hampi Circle. The proposed road cutting through the Vijayanagara ruins has drawn fierce opposition from the local heritage activists. “Hampi is an open-air museum and continues to be an important site due to its magnificent archaeological remains. Modern construction work will ruin its beauty. Already concrete structures in the name of ticket counter and canteen have come up behind Krishna Temple and near Gejjala Mantapa. Now the proposed road will only spoil the heritage value of Hampi,” local heritage activists Y Shashidhar and J Shivakumar told DH. However, the Hampi authority has a different take on the proposed road. Hampi authority Commissioner P N Lokesh told DH, “The road which passes through the Krishna Temple Mantap is narrow. The vehicles while negotiating the narrow road ram into or brush past the mantap. Such incidents occur quite often. In order to prevent damage to the mantap and also ensure smooth passage of vehicles, the authority has decided to lay a 40-feet wide road from Akka-Tangi Gudda (hills) to the Kaddirampur Main Road,” he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/heritage-activists-oppose-road-criss-crossing-hampi-ruins-886210.html
11-09-2020||State||Covid-19 test on Dasara elephants, if required||“The elephants will be tested for Covid only if it is necessary. A tiger tested positive for the virus in New York. Therefore, elephants too could be subjected to test,” said Mysuru Division Deputy Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) M G Alexander. The state government has decided to celebrate Dasara in a simple manner this year in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Dasara will commence on October 17 and conclude on October 27 following Jamboo Savari in Mysuru. Alexander said, elephants Abhimanyu, Vikrama, Vijaya, Gopi and Kaveri are identified for Dasara celebration.  Arjuna, the howdah elephant until 2019, is dropped from the list, as he has crossed 60 years. As per the order of Supreme Court, no elephant above 60 years can be tasked to carry any load.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-test-on-dasara-elephants-if-required-886214.html
11-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||H D Kumaraswamy meets B S Yediyurappa, says it was to talk about rains in Bengaluru||In a surprise development, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy held talks with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa early Friday morning and both leaders said it was about the rain situation in Bengaluru. The meeting assumed political colours as it was the first time Kumaraswamy met Yediyurappa after the fall of the Congress-JD(S) coalition that he headed last year. Their meeting at the CM’s home office Krishna lasted close to half an hour. “I came to discuss the rain-related situation in Bengaluru, especially in the Dasarahalli constituency represented by our MLA R Manjunath,” Kumaraswamy told reporters. “The areas of Chikkabanavara and Peenya have suffered a lot of rain-related damage. When I was the CM, I had approved projects worth Rs 515 crore to Dasarahalli. Till now, only Rs 16 crore have been released. Several layouts there are flooded. So, I came along with the MLA to meet the CM seeking more funds to the constituency,” Kumaraswamy said. Manjunath is the lone JD(S) MLA in Bengaluru, which has 28 Assembly segments. Speaking to reporters later, Yediyurappa also corroborated Kumaraswamy’s statement. “We discussed the rain situation in Dasarahalli,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/h-d-kumaraswamy-meets-b-s-yediyurappa-says-it-was-to-talk-about-rains-in-bengaluru-885883.html
11-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Drugs case: ED probing financial aspect and hawala angle, says Basavaraj Bommai||The Enforcement Directorate is investigating the financial aspects of the drug peddling and substance abuse case, and the hawala angle, if any, will also be looked into, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday. The minister also said officials have been asked to check information coming from various sources in connection with the case and investigate it. "Central Crime Branch (CCB) investigation will continue in Bengaluru, some accused are being presented before the court.I have instructed officials to take information coming from all sources regarding the case seriously. Information from media reports should also be considered and investigated," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said there is no question of leaving anyone and officials have been told that comprehensive investigation should happen and merciless strict action taken against those involved. "Drugs have financial aspects also and in most instances, there is suspicion that it will have a foreign connection, connection with those involved in various activities, hawala--so for detailed and thorough investigation ED's role is also important, they have collected information. ED will inquire into matters that come under their purview," he said. CCB police investigation into the case has led to several arrests including that of actresses Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani, and high-end party planner Viren Khanna, among others. Hawala denotes an illegal transaction of funds by skirting the legal banking channels. To a question regarding Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan's name allegedly being linked to the case, Bommai merely said officials have been asked to investigate information coming from all sources. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa reiterated that the government has taken the case seriously and officials are investigating it thoroughly. "All our officers are taking a lot of interest (and investigating), a lot of things are coming out..we have taken it very seriously, you wait for some time, so many things will come out," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drugs-case-ed-probing-financial-aspect-and-hawala-angle-says-basavaraj-bommai-885940.html
11-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Targeted in drugs racket for being a Muslim: Zameer Ahmed Khan||Congress legislator B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, who has been accused of having links with the drugs racket, said Friday he was being targeted for being a Muslim. “I’m a minority, a Muslim...some people aren’t able to digest my growth,” Khan told reporters after meeting Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah. Khan said he would file a defamation suit against entrepreneur Prashanth Sambaragi, who has accused the former minister of having links with those allegedly involved in the drug racket. "Whatever allegations have been levelled against me, I will answer them legally. I will not discuss it before the media,” he said. “It’s not the Congress, but the BJP that’s in power. Actor Sanjjanaa Galrani is in police custody. I have already said that the investigation should be done thoroughly, and if I’m involved, then I will transfer all my assets to the government,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/targeted-in-drugs-racket-for-being-a-muslim-zameer-ahmed-khan-886002.html
11-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dasara elephants to undergo Covid-19 test if needed||Mysuru forest department officials have decided to conduct Covid-19 tests among Dasara elephants if needed. Mysuru Division Deputy Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) M G Alexander said that the elephants will be subjected to Covid-19 tests only if it was necessary. In New York, the authorities had conducted a Covid-19 test on a tiger that had returned positive. "When a tiger can be tested, elephants can also be subjected to the test," he said. Veterinarian Dr Nagaraju, who is also a caretaker of Dasara elephants, said that a swab test would be conducted and samples will be collected from the elephants for the same. According to him, the procedure of the test would be similar to that among humans.  Five elephants for Dasara The Forest department officials have identified five elephants for the Dasara celebration in Mysuru and have sent the list to the Chief Wildlife Warden for his approval. Alexander said that the elephants -- Abhimanyu, Vikrama, Vijaya, Gopi and Kaveri -- have been identified and picked for the celebration.  Arjuna, who carried the Howdah for several years, has been dropped from the list as he is above 60 years old. As per a Supreme Court order, no elephant above 60 can be used to carry the Howdah. "We have mentioned the reason why Arjuna is dropped from the list," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dasara-elephants-to-undergo-covid-19-test-if-needed-886011.html
11-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Wake up, BSY, Covid-19 pandemic isn’t over: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday accused the B S Yediyurappa administration of having become complacent in handling the Covid-19 pandemic. “State government is under the assumption that the pandemic has ended. They have to wake up from slumber & solve health infra issues,” Siddaramaiah said in a series of tweets branded as #WakeUpBSY. “Asymptomatic patients may not be getting admitted to Covid centres & that doesn't mean the number of those who need critical care has reduced,” he pointed out. The Congress leader said the state’s health infrastructure was in shambles. “Many people are frantically looking for ventilators for their dear ones but there is no help from BBMP or the Health Department,” he said, asking Yediyurappa to release daily bulletins on health infrastructure. Urging Yediyurappa to review the situation, Siddaramaiah said private hospitals were denying admissions to patients. “They are giving preference to those who have money & sending back poor people,” he said, adding that the government was “somewhat” responding when the media highlighted Covid-19 issues. “But now, the government feels that its inefficiency is invisible."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wake-up-bsy-covid-19-pandemic-isn-t-over-siddaramaiah-886023.html
11-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 death toll breaches 7,000-mark in Karnataka; 9,464 new cases reported||The Covid-19 death toll in Karnataka breached the 7,000-mark on Friday as the state reported 130 fatalities, while 9,464 new cases took the total infection count to 4,40,411. Recoveries outnumbered the number of new cases, with a record 12,545 patients getting discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 3,34,999. The day also saw the state testing 64,699 samples, including 28,350 using rapid antigen kits as the cumulative number of specimens examined crossed the 36.5 lakh-mark. The state's cumulative positive cases stood at 4,40,411, including 7,067 deaths and 3,34,999 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said there were 98,326 active cases, of whom 97,556 are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 770 are in Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum of 32 of the 130 deaths reported on Friday, followed by Mysuru (13), Belagavi and Dharwad (9), Ballari and Shivamogga (8), Dakshina Kannada (7), Koppal (5), among others. Most of those who succumbed had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Bengaluru Urban continued to be on top in the number of new cases reported, accounting for 3,426 of the total number of infections, the health department said in its bulletin. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 3,426, Mysuru 676, Dakshina Kannada 446, Tumakuru 395, Ballari 382, Shivamogga 349, Hassan 305, Davangere 297, Kalaburagi 261, followed by others. Bengaluru urban continued to top the districts in the number of positive cases, with a total of 1,63,631 infections, followed by Ballari 25,786 and Mysuru 24,449. Among discharges too, Bengaluru urban recorded the most with 1,20,324 discharges, followed by Ballari 20,975 and Mysuru 16,925. A total of 36,50,819 samples have been tested so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-death-toll-breaches-7000-mark-in-karnataka-9464-new-cases-reported-886097.html
11-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Courts should act as Lord Krishna of Mahabharata to protect the safety of women: Karnataka High Court||The Karnataka High Court has observed that courts should act as Lord Krishna to protect Dharma in order to ensure the safety of women. Courts cannot act like a mute spectator to allow injustice being done to the women for generations to generations, a division bench of Justice B Veerappa and Justice E S Indiresh said while dismissing an appeal filed by a rape convict accused of raping a 69-year-old woman in 2013. "Now time warrants that the court should act as guardians and protect dharma in order to protect the safety of women, as contemplated under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and deal with the violators including rapists sternly and severely with iron hands.. Courts should act as Lord Sri Krishna of Mahabharata to protect dharma," the bench noted in its order on September 8, while referring to two verses in the Bhagavad Gita. The bench was hearing an appeal by the convict challenging the order passed by a district court of Dakshina Kannada dated November 14, 2014. The petitioner, who was a 24-year-old labourer at the time of perpetrating the offence, was found guilty of raping a 69-year-old woman, whom he used to call 'grandmother', at knife-point and robbing cash and valuables over Rs 55,000. Counsel for the convict had sought setting aside the district court order by contending that the evidence did not corroborate his involvement in the crime. However, the division bench upheld the lower court order sentencing him to seven years rigorous imprisonment and dismissed the appeal. The bench noted that even after the lapse of 74 years of independence, women still are not safe in the hands of the violators of law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/courts-should-act-as-lord-krishna-of-mahabharata-to-protect-the-safety-of-women-karnataka-high-court-886100.html
11-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NIA to investigate two Bengaluru riots cases||The investigation in two cases pertaining to the recent riots in KG Halli and DJ Halli is likely to be transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The counsel representing the NIA informed this to the High Court of Karnataka. A bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing a batch of petitions filed in connection with the riots in the city. Prasanna Kumar, Special Public Prosecutor for NIA, told the court that he has been orally instructed that the Union government is likely to transfer the two cases in which the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) 1967 was invoked. The Union government has time till September 18 to pass an order in this regard. The state had sent a report to the Union government on September 3 about the registration of cases under the UAPA Act, as per the requirement under the NIA Act. The bench adjourned the hearing to September 21, directing to place the government order transferring the investigation. Earlier, during the hearing, Advocate General (AG) Prabhuling K Navadgi informed the court that a nodal officer has been appointed to ensure infrastructure and other facilities to the Claims Commissioner, appointed to fix liability on the damages caused to private and public properties. The AG also submitted that the order appointing Justice H S Kempanna, retired high court judge, as the Claims Commissioner was issued on September 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nia-to-investigate-two-bengaluru-riots-cases-886162.html
11-09-2020||West||Sharad Pawar holds meeting over Koregaon-Bhima violence case||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday held a meeting with a few Maharashtra ministers on the 2018 Koregaon-Bhima violence. Energy Minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut, who attended the meeting, said a "serious discussion" was held on forming a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the "real criminals who hatched the conspiracy". Apart from Raut, the meeting was also attended by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil (all from NCP) and School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad (from Congress). "Idea to form an SIT to book the real culprits of #BhimaKoregaon riots discussed in a meeting today with Hon. Sharad Pawar @PawarSpeaks ji. Those who were let go unpunished by BJP government will not be spared anymore," Raut tweeted later. Earlier this year, Pawar had written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking an SIT to investigate the matter. "Some people were termed as Naxalites (in connection with the case). We don's think it was correct. So, we reviewed the matter to find out what is the exact situation and are thinking about what can be done after speaking to experts," Pawar told reporters after the meeting. Noting that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is probing the matter, Pawar said it is the Centre's prerogative and he was not interfering in it. "But the state government too has some powers. It was discussed in the meeting whether it is appropriate or not to use those powers," Pawar said. Violence broke out near the Koregaon Bhima war memorial near Pune during the bicentennial celebration of an 1818 battle on January 1, 2018. The East India Company's forces, which included sepoys of Mahar caste, a Dalit community, defeated the army of the Brahmin Peshwa ruler of Pune in the battle in 1818. Dalits commemorate the victory as a symbol of defeat of the old Brahmanical order. Pune Police had claimed that inflammatory statements made a day earlier at Elgar Parishad conclave, allegedly backed by Maoists, led to the violence. The NIA took up the investigation of the case on January 24 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-holds-meeting-over-koregaon-bhima-violence-case-885658.html
11-09-2020||West||3.5 magnitude earthquake hits Palghar district in Maharashtra||A medium-intensity earthquake of magnitude 3.5 hit the coastal district of Palghar in Maharashtra early Friday morning, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said. The quake occurred at 3.57 am at a depth of 10 kilometres, the NCS, a body under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, said. A district adjoining Gujarat and Mumbai, Palghar also houses the Tarapur Atomic Power Station units 1-4. The district has been witnessing a series of low-intensity quakes since last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/35-magnitude-earthquake-hits-palghar-district-in-maharashtra-885789.html
11-09-2020||West||Mumbai’s biryani king Jaffer Bhai dies of Covid-19||Mumbai’s famous briyani king Jaffer Bhai Mansuri passed away due to Covid-19 on Wednesday. The 84-year-old, who founded ‘Jaffer Bhai’s Delhi Darbar’ chain of restaurants famous for its biryani, was among the who’s who of Mumbai’s culture and food. He was admitted to the Breach Candy Hospital on September 2 and put on ventilator. He succumbed to the deadly virus on September 9. He was laid to rest at the Bada Qabrastan. The “Biryani King of Mumbai”, Delhi Darbar’s Jaffer Bhai said to make the biryani himself and is the only restaurateur who could cook every item on the menu. 1973 saw the inception of Jaffer Bhai’s Delhi Darbar at Grant Road, Mumbai. Now, the brand is spread over Mohammed Ali Road, Marine Lines, Jogeshwari, Mahim and Navi Mumbai. There is also a restaurant in the hill station of Panchgani and Dubai. With passion in his heart, Jaffer Bhai's hands led to the best culinary art. Jaffer Bhai’s philosophy was to be a perfectionist from start toend. He believed in identifying the right ingredients for quality products. An avid chef for whom the art of cooking was what he lived for. “We express deepest condolences to the family of legendary Jaffer Bhai, Biryani King of Mumbai and owner ‘Delhi Darbar’ on his sad demise and we pray to the Almighty to give strength to the family to bear this huge loss,” said, Shivanand Shetty, President, Indian Hotel & Restaurant Association. Senior IPS officer Qaisar Khalid, who is also the founder of   Pasbaan-e-Adab, a social and cultural organization committed to the cause of spreading the values of the composite culture of this country through literature, music and art, said it was a big loss. “Few people become legends in their lifetime. Jaffer Bhai who created ‘Dilli Darbar’ and ‘Jaffer Bhai’s Dilli Darbar’ was one of them. Smiling, encouraging and courteous, he supported Indian culture and hosted artists with famous biryani,” he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-s-biryani-king-jaffer-bhai-dies-of-covid-19-885803.html
11-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput's death case: Court rejects bail pleas of Rhea Chakraborty, her brother||A special court in Mumbai rejected the bail application of actor-model Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, besides four others in a case related to sourcing drugs for late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea (28), the live-in partner of Sushant, is currently lodged in the Byculla women’s jail in Mumbai after her arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Special judge GB Gurao, who presides over a court set up under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, rejected the bail pleas of all the six accused in the case. Besides Rhea and Showik, the four other accused are Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda, house help Dipesh Sawant and two alleged drug peddlers Abdel Bashit Parihar and Zaid Vilatra. This is the second time, Rhea’s bail plea has been rejected – the earlier being by the Magistrate’s court. While Rhea is in judicial custody till 22 September, Showik and four others are in judicial custody till 23 September. The Chakraborty siblings were represented by advocate Satish Maneshinde, while NCB was represented by special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande.   NCB’s intelligence officer Kiran Babu was also present in the court. The accused are likely to move the Bombay High Court and challenge the special NDPS court and seek bail. “Once we get the copy of the order, we will decide next week on the course of action about approaching the high court,” Maneshinde said. Welcoming the order, Sarpande said: “While rejecting the bail pleas, the court has accepted the contentions of the prosecution that the investigations are at a crucial stage”. During the investigations, the accused were grilled by a team of senior officers including NCB’s deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain, deputy director of operations KPS Malhotra and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) joint director Sameer Wankhede, who has been attached to NCB for six months in the wake of this case. Rhea, who has been with Sushant since 2019, has retracted the confessional statement recorded by NCB. The anti-drug agency has told the court that Rhea was conscious that Sushant was consuming drugs but continued to procure for him. The NCB had said that although the quantity of banned drugs seized in the case was small, it was still a commercial quantity and worth Rs 1,85,200."Rhea and Showik financed and arranged drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput and at his instructions," the NCB had said in its affidavit responding to the bail pleas.” Co-accused and Rajput''s domestic help Dipesh Sawant, he used to procure drugs from other accused in the case on the instructions of Rajput and Rhea. The financial transactions were handled by Rhea and sometimes Rajput. Dipesh Sawant used to procure drugs along with co-accused Samuel Miranda for Sushant's consumption," the affidavit said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-rhea-chakraborty-her-brother-885813.html
11-09-2020||West||MSRTC adds 140 buses in MMR to cater to growing travel demand||In view of the increased travel demand from people, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has deployed 140 additional buses in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), its top official said on Friday. These 140 buses are apart from the 400 that are already in operation in the region, Shekhar Channe, vice- chairman and managing director of the MSRTC told PTI. Under the 'Mission Begin Again' unlocking process, the state government has allowed 30 per cent attendance at private offices. But although the travel demand in the region has increased due to it, the public transport facilities are falling short. "The newly-introduced buses will be operated on various routes in the MMR considering the demand of the people. If required, more buses will be pressed into service," Channe said. The MSRTC has resumed its inter-district operation from August 20, whereas its intra-district operation had re- started from May 22. Channe said that presently there are 5,500 buses running on various routes across the state and over 5.5 lakh passengers are using the services everyday. With a fleet of over 18,000 buses and nearly one lakh workforce, the MSRTC is one of the biggest road transport corporations in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/msrtc-adds-140-buses-in-mmr-to-cater-to-growing-travel-demand-885825.html
11-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: 8 low-intensity quakes hit Palghar within 4 hours||Eight low-intensity earthquakes in the range of 2.2 to 3.6 magnitude were recorded in Palghar district of Maharashtra within four hours early on Friday, officials said. The tremors were felt in Dahanu and Talasari tehsils of the district and no loss of life was reported so far, they said. "An earthquake of 3.5 magnitude was recorded at 3.29 am, which was followed by 3.5 and 3.6 magnitude quakes at 3.57 am and 7.6 am respectively," chief of the District Disaster Control Cell Vivekanand Kadam said. Dahanu Sub Divisional Officer Ashima Mittal said, "Besides these three earthquakes, which were above 3.0 magnitude, five others were experienced between 3 am and 7 am. Their magnitude was in the range of 2.2 to 2.8." Kadam said the local tehsildars have been instructed to carry out inspection of the villages. These two tehsils have been experiencing low-intensity earthquakes over the last few days. During the intervening night of Friday and Saturday last week, four such quakes had been recorded. One of them was of 4.0 magnitude, officials said. Mittal said that in view of the series of tremors experience of late, big tents have been set up on open grounds in the villages of these two tehsils so that local residents can move in there if they feel unsafe in their houses. Following the last week's tremors, walls of some houses in Dahanu and Talasari had collapsed, while several other houses had developed cracks. According to Mittal, disaster coordination committees have been formed at the village level and the civil defence staff has been asked to remain prepared for assistance. "Mock drills will be carried out in the villages to make people aware of the dos and don'ts," she said. Meanwhile, the district authorities released an audio message, asking the villagers in Dahanu region to remain alert as they reside in "earthquake-prone" area. Palghar's Dahanu area has been experiencing such tremors since November 2018, with most of them centered around Dundalwadi village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-8-low-intensity-quakes-hit-palghar-within-4-hours-885842.html
11-09-2020||West||Man arrested for threatening Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut||A resident of Kolkata was arrested for allegedly threatening Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut over phone. He was arrested on the early hours of Friday by a team of Mumbai Police working in collaboration with Kolkata Police. Police sources said that he threatened Raut over a phone call made with voice over internet protocol. They also said that the accused Palash Bose (nearly 30 years old) was arrested from his residence at Tollygunge in South Kolkata. Bose, a gym instructor by profession, threatened Raut over the recent tension between the Shiv Sena and Kangana Ranaut, police sources said adding that he is a fan of the actress. A team of Mumbai Police officials raided Bose’s house on the early hours of Friday and seized his mobile phone and laptop before arresting him. They also conducted search operation at his residence. However, Bose’s family members have denied the allegations. According to sources, Bose will be produced at a city court where Mumbai Police will seek transit remand. The development comes at a time when the Shiv Sena and Ranaut are engaged in a bitter spat after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished parts of Ranaut’s bungalow at Bandra. Later, the Bombay High Court issued a stay order on the operation. “I am never wrong and my enemies prove again and again this is why my Mumbai is POK now #deathofdemocracy,” Ranaut had earlier tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-arrested-for-threatening-shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-885850.html
11-09-2020||West||I don't wash dirty linen in public: Devendra Fadnavis on Khadse remarks||Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said he has a lot of patience and does not wash dirty linen in public. His remarks come a day after his disgruntled party colleague Eknath Khadse accused Fadnavis of having "direct or indirect" hand behind the allegations levelled against him. However, Fadnavis avoided criticising Khadse and added that whatever complaints the latter has will be resolved through discussion within the party. Khadse had on Thursday said he will come out with a book to highlight the "conspiracy" that eventually saw his ouster as a minister from the Fadnavis-led government in the state in 2016. The 68-year-old former minister said such an atmosphere was created in the eyes of the party's senior leaders that he was made to look like a "corrupt" person. Talking to reporters in New Delhi, Fadnavis said, "I have a lot of patience and I don't wash dirty linen in public. Khadse saheb is our senior leader. So I won't criticise him or make comments on it." Khadse, who was revenue minister in Fadnavis government, faced allegations of receiving calls from gangster Dawood Ibrahim's residence in Karachi as well as land grabbing. One 'ethical' hacker Manish Bhangale had then accused Khadse of receiving calls from Ibrahim. Fadnavis said Khadse did not have to resign in Bhangale matter and was rather given a clean chit in connection with the case within 12 hours. "Khadse had to resign in the land grab case," Fadnavis added. "I formed a committee headed by a judge (following the land grab allegations). Khadse himself had demanded it. The committee's report was submitted to us. "But before the report came, some people approached the high court, which directed that a case be filed against Nathbhau (Khadse) under anti-corruption laws. So, I had not filed that offence (against Khadse)," Fadnavis said. The former chief minister said his government filed its report in that case before the high court "within only two months". But the court did not accept the report, he added. "Hence, I think there is no need to spread confusion among the people. He (Khadse) is our senior leader. We will discuss with him within the party if he has complaints and resolves the issue," the Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-dont-wash-dirty-linen-in-public-devendra-fadnavis-on-khadse-remarks-885889.html
11-09-2020||West||NGT seeks report on allegation of pollution by Aditya Birla Grp's flagship co. in Gujarat||The National Green Tribunal Friday formed a committee to submit a report on a plea alleging discharge of chemicals by Aditya Birla Group's flagship Indian Rayon in Gujarat's Gir Somnath district. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel constituted a committee comprising Central Pollution Control Board, state pollution control board, Gujarat Coastal Zone Management Act, nominee of National Institute of Oceanography, Goa and District Magistrate of Gir Somnath.  “We are of the view that since the pleadings have been filed long back, without expressing any final view on the rival aspects, it is necessary to ascertain the latest status on the ground by appointing an independent Committee,” the bench said. "The joint Committee may visit the plant and the site of disposal of the effluents within one month, look into the compliance of relevant parameters and furnish its report to this Tribunal within three months by e-mail,” the NGT said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Protection of Environment and Public Service Committee alleging violation of environmental norms by Indian Rayon (A unit of Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd.) at Junagadh-Veravel, Gir Somnath district in Gujarat.  According to the applicant, the damage is done to Deveka River at Gir Somnath and the company was discharging hazardous chemicals into the sea as well as the river. The unit was generating electricity for which Environmental Clearance (EC) was granted on June 22, 2015, inspite of opposition of the inhabitants, it said. There is dumping of fly ash at public places and there is also air pollution, the plea claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ngt-seeks-report-on-allegation-of-pollution-by-aditya-birla-grps-flagship-co-in-gujarat-885912.html
11-09-2020||West||Freedom of speech and expression not an absolute right: HC||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the freedom of speech and expression provided under Article 19 of the Constitution was not an absolute right. The court made the observation while refusing to grant interim protection from arrest to a woman booked by the Mumbai and Palghar police for allegedly making offensive remarks on Twitter against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aditya Thackeray. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik, however, accepted the state government's oral assurance that the woman, Sunaina Holey, will not be arrested in the case at least for the next two weeks. The state, however, added that such relief will be subject to Holey visiting the Azad Maidan and Tulinj police stations Mumbai and Palghar district, respectively, for questioning, and "cooperating" with the police in their probe. The bench also allowed Holey to approach the court at any time during this period in case the police decide to take any coercive action against her, or if any of her rights were breached. Holey has approached the Bombay HC through her counsel Abhinav Chandrachud, seeking that all the charges against her be quashed. As an interim relief, she had sought that the court grant her protection from arrest till her case was heard finally and the court took a decision on quashing the FIRs against her. Holey has three FIRs filed against her, one in BKC cyber crime police station, another at Azad Maidan police station, and the third one at Tulinj police station in Palghar. The FIRs were registered following complaints made by several persons, including by one Rohan Chavhan, a leader of the Shiv Sena's youth wing Yuva Sena. As per the complaints, Holey, 38, made offensive and defamatory comments against the CM and his son on Twitter. She was arrested in August this year and released on bail in the case pertaining to the FIR registered against her by the BKC cyber crimes police. On the remaining two FIRs, she was served notices under section 41A(1) of the CrPC, asking her to visit the concerned police stations for probe. On Friday, the state's counsel Y P Yagnik told the court that Holey had not responded to the notices. Advocate Chandrachud, however, said that his client was apprehensive that if she visited the police, she would be arrested. Therefore, he sought interim relief. However, the bench said that interim protection from arrest could be granted only for arrest in rare case. But it noted that the section 41 (A) provided that a person need not be arrested as long as he or she was cooperating with the police's probe. And in case one is required to be arrested, the police must give prior notice for such arrest. Yagnik said that the police wasn't merely focused on arresting Holey, but it wanted to make progress in its probe. The court accepted Holey's submission that she will visit the two police stations next week. Holey, a Navi Mumbai resident, has been booked under IPC sections 505 (2) for statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes and 153 (A) for promoting enmity between different religious groups, and under relevant sections of the IT Act. According to police, she had made a series of posts on social media between July 25 and 28, including an offensive caricature of Uddhav Thackeray and Aditya Thackeray. On Friday, while pressing for interim relief, advocate Chandrachud told the court that the case was a "rarest of rare" one as Holey was now being targeted for any and all of her tweets. His client's rights under Article 19 of the Constitution were being breached, he argued. "This has now attained a political colour and for every tweet I have an FIR registered. I am having to run from pillar to post," advocate Chandrachud said. The bench however, reminded that one's right to free speech and expression under Article 19 were not absolute. "Perhaps citizens are under the impression that freedom of speech and expression is an absolute right, without any restrictions," the bench said. Chandrachud, however, said Holey was not under such impression. The court will hear Holey on the issue of quashing the FIRs on September 29. It also directed the state to file its reply to Holey's plea by then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/freedom-of-speech-and-expression-not-an-absolute-right-hc-885927.html
11-09-2020||West||Ajit Pawar calls for smooth functioning of jumbo Covid-19 hospitals||Calling for smooth functioning of jumbo hospitals in Pune, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday warned officials of strict action in case of negligence with regard to bed availability and treatment of Covid-19 patients in the district. Pawar, who is also the guardian minister of Pune district, reviewed the Covid-19 situation there. The functioning of the jumbo Covid-19 facility at COEP came under the scanner after lapses were found in the overall management of the facility following the death of a 42-year-old reporter of Marathi news channel earlier this month. "It is important to ensure smooth functioning of jumbo hospitals to gain people's trust. Hence, strict action will be taken if any negligence is found with regard to bed availability and treatment of Covid-19 patients," he said. Pawar also asked divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao to ensure that all districts in Pune division that includes Sangli, Satara, Solapur, Kolhapur and Pune don't face any shortage of oxygen. He also directed the administration to install sirens on tankers that carry oxygen so that the transportation is not affected. In a bid to contain the viral spread, the state government is going to start a campaign 'my family, my responsibility' and asked the administration to create awareness among masses. The jumbo facilities, one at College of Engineering in Pune, ground and another in Pimpri Chinchwad area, have a capacity of 800 beds each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ajit-pawar-calls-for-smooth-functioning-of-jumbo-covid-19-hospitals-885947.html
11-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: 206 villages in Aurangabad become Covid-19-free||At least 206 out of 341 coronavirus-affected villages in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra have managed to beat the disease and have zero patients as on Friday, an official said. Monitoring of containment zones and constant checks on elderly villagers has helped in controlling the spread of infection, Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Mangesh Gondavale said. Out of 1,368 villages in the district, 341 had reported cases of Covid-19, of which 206 have managed to contain the outbreak, he said. As many as 67 villages have not had a single patient in the last 28 days, no cases were detected in 63 villages in 14 days and 76 other areas don't have a patient as on Friday, the official said. Among the 341 coronavirus-affected villages, 289 had recorded one to 10 cases, while 39 had detected 10 to 50 infections and 13 villages had more than 50 patients each, he said. "We have continuously monitored residents of containment zones and kept a watch on senior citizens in buffer zones. This has helped in early detection of cases and kept the death rate comparatively low, the official said. However, the shortage of rapid antigen testing kits has become a key constraint in the rural parts of the district, he said. "We have placed an order for 30,000 testing kits. The supply of antigen kits is limited and so, we sometimes borrow them from other local governing bodies," Gondavale said. Till July 28, there were 3,900 patients in rural Aurangabad and by August 28 the number rose to around 7,700, he said, pointing out that the rise was less compared to other districts. As of now, the recovery rate in the rural areas stands at 77 per cent, he added. There are 22 COVID-19 care centres, which have 2,005 beds, of which 586 are occupied, the official said, adding that there were plans to increase the bed capacity to 6,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-206-villages-in-aurangabad-become-covid-19-free-885963.html
11-09-2020||West||Maharashtra govt orders inquiry into Kangana Ranaut's alleged drug use||The Maharashtra government on Friday asked the Mumbai police to conduct an inquiry into the allegation that Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut used banned substances and narcotics drugs, a senior police official said. The city police received a communication from the state home department in this connection, he said, adding that the crime branch will look into the matter. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had said on Tuesday that the Mumbai police will probe allegations by actor Adhyayan Suman that Ranaut took drugs. Adhyayan, the son of actor Shekhar Suman, was once in a relationship with Ranaut and had made the allegation in an interview, Deshmukh had said. Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik had submitted a letter to the Home Department referring to the allegation in Adhyayan's interview. Taking cognisance of the letter, the department asked the police to conduct an inquiry, the official said. Ranaut is locked in a public spat with the Shiv Sena, which heads the ruling coalition in the state after her statement comparing Mumbai to "Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir" irked the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-orders-inquiry-into-kangana-ranauts-alleged-drug-use-886052.html
11-09-2020||West||Teltumbde challenges NIA charge sheet extension order in HC||Activist and Elgar Parishad- Koregaon Bhima case accused Anand Teltumbde has approached the Bombay High Court challenging the decision of a special court to give an extension of 90 days to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to file its charge sheet against him. His plea came up for hearing on Friday before a single bench presided over by Justice Revati Mohite-Dere, who recused herself from the hearing. It is likely to now come up before another bench of HC next week. In his plea, filed through advocate V Satyanarayan Rao, Teltumbde has challenged the special NIA court order of July 12 granting extension to NIA to file a charge sheet. Teltumbde said, as on July 12, he had already been in judicial custody for 90 days. In his plea, he said, as per law, there must be a compelling reason for granting such extension, and the prosecuting agency should have filed a report indicating it did make some progress in its probe in the 90 days. The plea further said the special court should not have accepted the NIA's submission that it could not file the charge sheet due to the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. Even during the lockdown, lower courts had permitted physical filings and the NIA's investigating officer could have submitted the charge sheet before the in charge magistrate's court, the plea stated. While the NIA is free to continue its probe even after the stipulated period of 90 days, it can't keep an accused in custody indefinitely without filing charge sheet, Teltumbde pointed out in his plea. He further said the NIA had filed charge sheets in 10 cases even during lockdown between March 21 and July 12. He said the special court's order granting an extension to NIA should be quashed and set aside by HC, and he be released on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/teltumbde-challenges-nia-charge-sheet-extension-order-in-hc-886064.html
11-09-2020||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally crosses 10 lakh, toll nears 30,000||Maharashtra's total Covid-19 progressive positive cases crossed the grim 10-lakh mark on Friday. In the last 24 hours, a record high of 24,886 new cases was added to the state's tally, taking it to 10,15,681. Meanwhile, 393 new deaths were reported in the state, taking the toll to 28,724, As many as 14,308 patients were discharged, taking the total recovered patients to 7,15,023. The recovery rate of the state currently stands at 70.4 per cent while the case fatality rate is 2.83 per cent. Out of 50,72,521 laboratory samples, 10,15,681 have tested positive (20%) for Covid-19 until date.  Currently, 16,47,742 people under home quarantine while 38,487 people are in institutional quarantine. The first two cases in Maharashtra were reported in Pune on March 9 when a Pune couple with travel history to Dubai had tested positive. In the financial capital of Mumbai, the progressive cases and deaths stand at 1,65,306 and 8,067 respectively, while for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the figures are 3,87,639 and 13,790 respectively. In Pune, the worst-affected district in India, the total cases stand at 2,23,710 and deaths  4,693.  The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has attributed the recent spike to the increased number of Covid-19 tests – RT-PCR as well as Rapid Antigen tests. In fact, the CM had last month warned that people should not lower their guard to ensure that the state is not hit by the second wave of Covid-19. During the two-day monsoon session of the legislature, leader of the Opposition and ex-Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “The chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) reviews only the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai, while deputy chief minister (Ajit Pawar) is interested in Pune. Don't Aurangabad and Nagpur come under Maharashtra? Have you reviewed the situation there and understood the regions' needs?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-crosses-10-lakh-toll-nears-30000-886140.html
11-09-2020||West||CBI FIR against Vadodara-based firm linked with DPIL for bank fraud||The CBI has registered an FIR against Vadodara-based Mayfair Leisures Ltd and its directors for allegedly cheating the Bank of India to the tune of Rs 54.19 crore. The firm is associated with Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL) whose three directors— Amit Bhatnagar and his two sons Sumit and Suresh— are already facing a CBI investigation for allegedly duping a consortium of 24 banks to the tune of over Rs 3,000 crore. Among those who have been booked by the economic wing of CBI, Gandhinagar, are Madhurilata Suresh Bhatnagar, Mona A Bhatnagar, Richa A Bhatnagar and Namo Narain Bhatnagar. They have been booked for criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust by a public servant, cheating, forgery, criminal misconduct on the part of borrower company Mayfair Leisures Ltd and its director and guarantors. The FIR has been lodged by an official from the Bank of India. The FIR states that “The complainant prima facie reveals that Mayfair Leisures Ltd and its directors/guarantors namely Rajesh Nimkar, Madhurilata Suresh Bhatnagar, Mona A Bhatnagar. Richa A Bhatnagar, Namo Narain Bhatnagar, Sangram Jayraj Barot and Northway Spaces Ltd in connivance with unknown public servants of Bank of India and others have availed bank finance and diverted the bank funds to group companies for unlawful enrichment and wrongful gain to company/its directors/Group companies and thereby causing wrongful loss of Bank of India.” The bank has accused Mayfair of diverting a loan sanctioned to construct a five-star hotel in Vadodara in 2012. The FIR describes that Mayfair had proposed the hotel in Vadodara “to be managed and operated by “Marriott” under its brand name “Courtyard by Marriott.” A total of Rs 112.93 crore loan had been sanctioned. The FIR states that the amount of Rs 54 crore obtained through the bank was illegally diverted to group companies. Meanwhile, the father-sons trio of DPIL is out on bail. Amit Bhatnagar was granted bail on health grounds, while his sons are out on interim bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-fir-against-vadodara-based-firm-linked-with-dpil-for-bank-fraud-886149.html
11-09-2020||West||Shiv Sena workers assault retired Navy officer for forwarding cartoon on Uddhav Thackeray||A 62-year-old retired Navy officer was beaten up by alleged Shiv Sena workers after he forwarded a cartoon on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on WhatsApp on Friday, the police said. The incident took place around 11.30 am in Lokhandwala Complex area in suburban Kandivali, an official said. "Retired Navy officer Madan Sharma had forwarded a cartoon on Thackeray on a WhatsApp group. Some Sena workers went to his house and beat him up. Sharma sustained an eye injury and is being treated at the hospital," he said. A case under IPC section 325 (causing grievous hurt) and provisions related to rioting was registered against six persons though no arrest has been made so far, the official informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-workers-assault-retired-navy-officer-for-forwarding-cartoon-on-uddhav-thackeray-886158.html
