12-09-2020||First Edit||Not much comfort from India-China meeting in Moscow||For the first time in over four months, a faint glimmer of hope has appeared on the Himalayan horizon. During their talks in Moscow on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese State Councillor Wang Yi reached consensus on five points, including directions to border troops to continue to engage in dialogue, quickly disengage and maintain distance, and to abide by pacts to maintain peace on the border. The two sides also agreed on the need for new confidence-building measures. This is a welcome development. The situation along the LAC has been very serious for several months and although several rounds of talks have taken place in recent months between military commanders and diplomatic officials as well as ministers, most of these were unproductive. This was the case with earlier talks between Jaishankar and Wang as well. That their meeting this time around saw them reach consensus on some points is itself a breakthrough of sorts. The meeting also produced a joint statement. The Moscow meeting’s success, limited as it is, signals that there is still scope for diplomatic engagement to defuse tensions along the border. And yet, India must treat the outcome of the Moscow meeting with caution. The consensus points are nothing new. We have heard these words before. The gap in positions persists. In Moscow, the Chinese insisted that India had provoked the tensions and so would have to withdraw its soldiers from flashpoints in Ladakh. This is a ridiculous demand that is unacceptable to India. And although the meeting did produce a joint statement, Beijing apparently has not issued it yet. A statement it did release lays bare the fudging of facts. It says that India does not consider development of Sino-Indian ties to be dependent on settlement of the disputed border, a claim that is at odds with the position that India has reiterated frequently. It is hard to dispel the feeling that the consensus reached in Moscow is superficial, perhaps even momentary. The situation on the ground, too, does not bode well. Over the last 48 hours, the PLA is reported to have mobilised heavily at Pangong Tso. India is not interested in going to war with China. Hence, its diplomats must step up engagement of their Chinese counterparts to fulfil promises made at Moscow. Meanwhile, the Indian military should keep up pressure on China on the ground. That is the only way to make Beijing take diplomacy more seriously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/not-much-comfort-from-india-china-meeting-in-moscow-886244.html
12-09-2020||In Perspective||Hindi, Chini bhai, bhai? A view from China’s train to Tibet||I was a member of an editors’ group that travelled in China for about two weeks in 2006. I represented Deccan Herald, and there were five other editors from other parts of the country. We were invited by the Chinese government to spend some days in Shanghai and Beijing, but the trip was mainly intended to give us an experience of travelling in the Qinghai-Lhasa train, which had been commissioned two months earlier. This was the train that ran on the world’s highest railway track. The rail line was built on the most difficult and inhospitable terrain through mountain passes, gorges, permafrost and other natural barriers, and it was an engineering feat.  We had a briefing at the Chinese embassy in Delhi before we departed. The ambassador explained the history of the railway line and its importance. The train had become very popular within days of its first journey. We were told by the embassy officials that tickets for the train had been fully booked for the next one year. When the embassy tried to book our tickets with the railways, they could not get them, and it had to get them through the foreign ministry in Beijing.  We boarded the train in Lanzhou in North-West China. It was a mechanical marvel and a beauty. It swept through the Gobi desert and started climbing to the ‘roof of the world’, along the steepest ascents, through treacherous mountain passes and the longest tunnels, and on bridges on rivers with sparkling water. As it reached the higher altitudes, it almost became an airplane, with oxygen masks dropping down from above. Outside the windows, the exotic Tibetan plateau unrolled to the horizon. It was a surreal experience, with the bleak landscape unfolding outside the train, and with the occasional sighting of nomadic groups or wild animals. Mountains rose in meditation in the distance, with the snow for matted hair. The clouds shifted shapes like phantoms in Buddhist tales. Villages sped past like sorrows in the cycle of birth and death. Prayer flags fluttered in the timeless air. I wondered whether this train from the future would corrupt this pristine world, much of which is frozen in time.  I took a stroll in the train to talk to some passengers about their experience of it. It was packed to the full. The passengers were all Chinese, and no conversation was possible. But in one compartment, there was a young couple from Europe who spoke English. They had come to China some days ago. When they came to know that there was a train going to Tibet, they were excited, and reached Lanzhou the previous day and boarded the train there. Suddenly, I remembered the embassy officials’ comment about the tickets, and I asked them how they got the tickets. The young man said they went to the ticket counter but were told that no tickets were available. No tickets for any day in the near future, either. Disappointed, they turned away and were preparing to leave. Just then, someone approached them and asked the couple what they wanted. Tickets for Lhasa. How many? Two. For which day? Tomorrow. Can you pay 50 dollars more? Yes. Then wait here. After half an hour, the man returned with two tickets, took the money and left. And here they were now.  I, like most Indians, knew that situation too well, as the scene gets enacted too frequently in our railway stations. Corruption in China had not received as much public attention then as it has now. My idea of China had been shaped by historical narratives, accounts of pre-revolution and modern China by writers like Edgar Snow, Han Suyin and others, and even by descriptions like the odd one about Shanghai as the Orient’s most wicked and cruellest city. Reports about the opening up of China, and a sense of the dialectics between the socialist ethic and the capitalistic spirit had not prepared me for this new idea. It was not unreal, but it was made more human by the picture of a black marketeer in the railway station. I was also comforted by the thought that he may not have been an exception because in a society where the government had a lot of interest in what the citizens were doing, he would not have survived if he were a lone player.  Getting back to my coupe, I told the senior embassy official who accompanied us about the young couple’s experience. You had to get our tickets from the foreign ministry, but here there was a tout selling tickets to your most prestigious train openly in the black market. It is like in India. He laughed and said: Anything that happens in India happens in China, too. That is why we are bhai, bhai!   Outside, the far Himalayan peaks sprawled across the two countries, uniting or dividing them, as the case may be. Though the countries have not yet decided where one ends and the other begins in the mountains, there sure must be a unity of thought and action in the stations of mind from where trains may still start for the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/hindi-chini-bhai-bhai-a-view-from-china-s-train-to-tibet-886246.html
12-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ganja seizure in Kalagi: 4 cops suspended||Superintendent of Police Dr. Simi Mariam George on Saturday suspended Kalagi Police Station’s four police personnel including Circle Inspector Bhojaraj Rathod on charges of their dereliction of duty. The suspended cops failed to unearth an illegal ganja business being run by Chandrakanth Chauhan of Lakshaman Nayak Tanda in Kalagi taluk. A team of police from Sheshadripuram Police station, Bengaluru, raided a sheep and poultry farm near the tanda and had seized 1,352 kg ganja stashed underground in the farm. Other suspended police personnel included Sub Inspector Basavaraj Chitakote, Assistant Sub Inspector Neelakantappa Hebbal, beat police Sharanappa, and constable Anil Bhandari. Based on a tip-off by an autorickshaw driver in Bengaluru, Sheshadripuram police arrested Chandrakanth Chauhan of Kalagi, Naganath of Aurad taluk in Bidar district, and Siddanath Lavate of Almel village of Vijayapura district on charges of illegal ganja trade. The district police department was embarrassed over the seizure of huge ganja from the farm which was located just two km away from Kalagi police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ganja-seizure-in-kalagi-4-cops-suspended-886369.html
12-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bikers drive message for revival of tourism||Biking enthusiasts are on a tour from Bengaluru to KRS Dam, via Mysuru, just to drive the message that ‘Karnataka is now a safe destination, as long as everyone follows Covid-19 guidelines’. To substantiate that tourism is already on a revival path, M Ravi, vice-president of Karnataka Tourism Forum (KTF) said that up to 60% of the rooms in hotels and resorts, at almost all popular tourist destinations, are booked up to October 2, Gandhi Jayanthi. “People are already travelling, which is a good news, and the tourism and hospitality sector is offering good packages and also discounts,” he said. Twenty bikers, all riding luxury mobikes like Indian Motorcycles, mostly members of Indian Motorcycle Riders Group (IMRG) and also from Bangalore’s Pandhis Motorcycle Club (BPMC), started off at Prestige Oakwood, UB City in Bengaluru at 7 am on Saturday. The ride was flagged off by State Principal Secretary for Tourism T K Anil Kumar. Anil Shankar, CEO, Exquisite Moto LLP, who headed the IMRG Group, said, “The bikers stopped at Dhruvathare in Yediyuru of Tumakuru district, for breakfast and joined Srirangapatna, via Nagamagala and Pandavapura towns in Mandya district, to reach Mysuru.” Ravi said, “Following lunch at Hotel Grand Mercure, the bikers will leave for KRS Dam and will stay at Royal Orchid Brindavan Garden Palace and Spa. As the dam is full, it is a sight to behold, now. We want to showcase the KRS Dam and Brindavan Gardens. They will return to Bengaluru on Sunday.” “The bikers have plans to take out rides to other tourist destinations, like Belur-Halebid, Hampi, Pattadakal, Badami, and Gokarna, across Karnataka to create awareness about ‘safe tourism’,” said Anil Shankar. Sunaina Manerkar, general manager of Hotel Grand Mercure, said, “Campaigns such as ‘Let us take care of you’ have been launched by the hospitality industry to make staystations more alluring than they already are.” President of Mysuru Travels Association B S Prasanth asked, how many more days can we be like this? “We have to learn to live with Covid, by following health and cleanliness guidelines. For tourist hotspots like Mysuru, tourism is vital for the economy. Almost 80% of the people in Mysuru are either directly or indirectly related to tourism. Even farmers are affected, if tourism dips, as their produce like vegetables and fruits are used in the hospitality industry. Even though Dasara celebrations have been scaled down this year, there is a need to invest on marketing and to keep the tempo, for the next year,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bikers-drive-message-for-revival-of-tourism-886647.html
12-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||CM directs officials to concentrate more on tackling Covid-19||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed the officials to concentrate more on tackling the spread of Covid-19. The CM was addressing district-level officials via video conference in Hassan city on Saturday. The CM said that measures should be taken to check the death rate, due to Covid. Yediyurappa directed the officials to repair roads and bridges that are damaged due to rainfall. “The government will release funds to take up emergency works and the officials must utilise it on necessary works. The officials should issue compensation to farmers,” he said. Chief Secretary T M Vijaya Bhaskar directed the officials to conduct more Covid tests and suggested to identify primary contacts of infected persons. DC R Girish explained about the measures taken to manage Covid, rainfall and crop loss, due to rain. ZP CEO B A Paramesh and Additional Deputy Commissioner Kavitha Rajaram were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-directs-officials-to-concentrate-more-on-tackling-covid-19-886648.html
12-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||No politics in drug scam, says Suresh Kumar||Chamarajanagar District In-charge Minister, also Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, S Suresh Kumar on Saturday said that no one should play politics in connection with the drug scandal in the state. Speaking to reporters here, he said, “Drugs destroy youths and the citizens must raise voice against drugs. The government has taken suitable decision to eradicate drugs.” Denying opposition party leader Siddaramaiah’s remarks that the government is misleading the investigation, Suresh Kumar said, “The government has given free hands to the police to probe the drug scam. The investigation agency will conduct a thorough probe.” When asked about former chief minister, also JD(S) leader, H D Kumaraswamy’s visit to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Suresh Kumar said that the CM himself has clarified that there was no politics in the meeting. “Is there anything wrong in the meeting? Any party leaders can meet the CM,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-politics-in-drug-scam-says-suresh-kumar-886650.html
12-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tourism industry thanks CM for opening borders||M Ravi, vice-president of Karnataka Tourism Forum (KTF) thanked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for opening the borders of Karnataka for travellers, including tourists. He said that the tourism industry is maximum hit by Covid-19 pandemic. “Now that the borders are open, with need for neither travel e-pass nor quarantine, tourists from all states of India and also from abroad, are welcome to enjoy the exotic tourist destinations of Karnataka. Except for snowfall, Karnataka has everything else for tourists,” he said. Pointing out that the government usually exempts inter-state motor vehicle tax, for a month, during Dasara, to encourage tourism, Ravi said, "This year, as a special case, due to the Covid crisis, the exemption should be extended across the state and up to March 31, 2021." It has to be noted that the inter-state motor vehicle tax is payable under Karnataka Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1957, for vehicles registered in states other than Karnataka, covered by special permits issued under Sub-Section 8 of Section 88 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. President of Mysuru Travels Association B S Prasanth said that the government should look beyond taxing vehicles at the borders. “A small car is levied a tax of Rs 300 in the border. This turns down tourists. If they are allowed free entry, by just checking for any illegality, they will spend money on accommodation, food, shopping and other needs. This actually brings more revenue, than the inter-state tax,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tourism-industry-thanks-cm-for-opening-borders-886653.html
12-09-2020||Main Article||Television news: The impunity of irrelevance||Some are born irrelevant, some achieve irrelevance and some have it thrust upon them. To say that our TV channels have reached the height of irrelevance is to state the obvious. What is more galling is the impunity with which they peddle their junk 24/7 and the affront to the common sense of the audience. More about that later.    There is one more gifted category. The one that raises irrelevance to an art form. The discourse of our Prime Minister in his Mann ki Baat belongs to this rare class. It is so charmingly disarming that it comes wafting across from the Himalayas with a sense of Nirvana untouched by the reality of here and now. On August 30, the Prime Minister waxed eloquent about ‘Sophie’ and ‘Vida’ -- two trained dogs of the Indian Army that had been bestowed the Chief of Staff’s ‘commendation cards’ for their exceptional duty in protecting the country. He then exhorted the countrymen to adopt Indian breed dogs such as the ‘Mudhol hound’ or the ‘Himachali hound’, ‘Rajapalyam Kanni,’ etc. If you are wondering where the PM was going with this, it should be quickly added that aatmanirbharta (self-reliance) was his focus. Nevertheless, how the adoption of an Indian dog would make either the dog or his master aatmanirbhar was lost on the innocent listener.   Before that, the PM had dwelt at length on the merits of our indigenous toy industry and how India could become a ‘toy hub’ for the world and capture a sizeable market share. This was again a pitch for Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Buy more Indian toys, he exhorted. Last year, the Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries acquired the British toy-maker Hamleys for around Rs 620 crore.  Any coincidence was entirely unintended. However, the Prime Minister’s touching concern for our struggling toy industry seemed a tad out of sync with reality when the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy had revealed, a few weeks earlier, that 12.2 crore workers in the MSMEs and daily-wage earners had lost their jobs in April 2020. That was the period of the Great Lockdown. That was toying with whatever little aatmanirbharta they had in their lives. Soon, when GDP numbers for the first quarter were announced, the country learnt that its economic growth had dived into negative territory of unheard depths to reach -24%. The International Labour Organisation had a grim warning. It said that “about 400 million people working in the informal sector in India are at risk of falling deeper into poverty due to the coronavirus, which is having ‘catastrophic consequences.’” But let us not get distracted. Reality is so boring! Mann ki Baat is so soothing and calming. As the title suggests, it is straight from The Heart of the Great Leader to millions of little hearts. He is in the ‘Guru’ mode -- teaching, guiding, cajoling and persuading the listener. The pace of his words and the voice modulation are so intended as to transport the audience into a make-believe world away from their humdrum worries, such as loss of jobs and incomes, inability to pay rents or school fees or the EMIs for a scooter loan or home loan. Of course, all that can wait but listen to the Great Leader. There is a Talisman for everyone. Aatmanirbharta. Now buddy, you are on your own.  If you still don’t get it and are burdened by your problems, switch on the TV. There is 24/7 coverage of a fascinating suicide/murder mystery of a Bollywood actor. Every twist and turn in the investigation is revealed by the agencies to TV channels that provide a ‘Breaking News’ every hour. And this has been on for over 100 days and counting. What else does the nation want to know? Poor Indira Gandhi had to censor the media, after declaring Emergency in 1975. That looks so gross and medieval now. Today, ‘someone’ has to simply throw a  juicy bone to the media and they run after it like ‘Sophie’ and ‘Vida’, tripping one another on the way. If distraction and irrelevance is right in your face 24/7 and on such a mega scale, the little man feels lost and out of sync with reality, especially when he cannot take part in the one and only national pastime. The little man without a job and income starts to wonder whether he belongs to the same country. Every four minutes someone in this country ends life. Last year, 129,000 people ended their lives. Who cares? But there is one suicide that keeps the nation glued to the TV, or at least that’s what the managers of media believe and we, the people, have to consume whatever rubbish they offer.   If one starlet is arrested, then add another’s story – Kangana Ranaut compares Mumbai to ‘Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir’. This angers the ruling Shiv Sena. Her ‘illegally constructed’ office is razed to the ground by the Municipal Council. She takes on Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, and another media circus begins.  What is unfolding here is that neither Rhea Chakraborty nor Kangana Ranaut matter. It is the circus that matters, and that must go on. The question is, who is the ringmaster? We don’t know, but the rules of the game are clear. Don’t talk about the economy. And don’t even mention China. Our electronic media has finally realised its mission in life. That it should always remain, first and foremost, a source of entertainment. The State cannot give you bread but surely, the media can give you a circus. The idiot-box has conquered us all. The idiot is not in the box but outside. (The writer, a former Cabinet Secretariat official, is a Visiting Fellow at the ORF, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/television-news-the-impunity-of-irrelevance-886245.html
12-09-2020||National||Sharad Pawar demands detailed presentation on India-China border situation||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat on Friday appeared before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence, amid rising tension on the India-China border, during which senior NCP leader Sharad Pawar sought a detailed presentation on the situation. The attendance of Gen Rawat was seen as significant amid the stand-off though the agenda of the meeting was a briefing by top officials about the "provision and monitoring of the quality of ration and livery items to the Defence forces, especially in border areas". Sources said Pawar raised the issue at the meeting chaired by panel head Jual Oram, a senior BJP MP, and sought a detailed presentation on the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). To this, the officials said they have noted the request. The NCP chief's demand for a detailed presentation comes days ahead of the start of Monsoon Session of Parliament and is seen as an attempt by the Opposition to raise the pitch on the issue. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who is also a member of the Defence panel and attended the meeting, has also been questioning the government's handling of the situation. While Rahul is learnt to have not raised the issue in the meeting, he tweeted later, "the only 'talk' to have with China is about the restoration of 'status quo ante' as of March 2020. (The) PM (Prime Minister) and GOI (Government of India) refuse to take responsibility for pushing China out of our land. All other 'talk' is worthless." Before the meeting, Pawar told reporters that there should be a presentation by the government on the situation, as "we are all worried about what is happening on the India-China border, particularly in the Ladakh region". Asked whether the government was hiding information, he said he was not going to make any allegation as he does not have any such information. He acknowledged that the situation at the border is a "very sensitive" issue involving national security and nobody should indulge in any kind of blame game. Last week, Pawar and his party MPs had met former foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale and retired Air Marshal Bhushan Gohakle and discussed issues related to China. In the Parliamentary panel meet, sources said the MPs raised questions about the issue of ration and supplies to soldiers. To a question by Rahul why there was a difference in food for jawans and officers, Gen Rawat said that there was no compromise on the quality and quantity of food served to them. He said the difference is because of food habits and cited that soldiers prefer rotis while officers go for bread. He also said soldiers from rural areas prefer desi ghee while officers prefer cheese.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharad-pawar-demands-detailed-presentation-on-india-china-border-situation-886218.html
12-09-2020||National||DCGI orders Serum Institute of India to suspend recruitment for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trials||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has directed Serum Institute of India to suspend till further orders new recruitment in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the backdrop of pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing the trials in other countries. In an order, a copy of which has been accessed by PTI, DCGI Dr V G Somani on Friday also directed Serum Institute of India (SII) to increase the safety monitoring of the subjects already vaccinated as part of the trial, and submit the plan and report. Somani also asked the firm to submit clearance from Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) in the UK as well as in India to obtain clearance from his office (DCGI) prior to resumption of future recruitment in the trial.  The central drug regulator DCGI had issued a show-cause notice to SII on September 9 for not informing it about AstraZeneca pausing clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in other countries and also for not submitting casualty analysis of the "reported serious adverse events". Following which the Pune-based firm, which has partnered with the British-Swedish biopharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine candidate, on Thursday said it is pausing the clinical trials in India.  Earlier this week, AstraZeneca said it had paused the trials because of 'an unexplained illness' in a participant in the study.  "We are reviewing the situation and pausing India trials till AstraZeneca restarts the trials," SII said in a statement on Thursday.   According to the DCGI's order issued on Friday, the SII in its reply stated that DSMB has noted no safety concerns from the Indian study (part 1-phase-2 study) with the first dose and seven days post vaccination safety data.  In its reply, SII also stated that DSMB further recommended "to pause further enrolment into the study until ongoing investigations of SAE reported in the UK study is completed and the sponsor and the UK DSMB are satisfied that it doesn't pose any safety concerns". "In the view of the above, I Dr V G Somani, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Licensing Authority, after careful examination of your reply and the recommendations of the DSMB in India, in exercise of the powers vested under Rule 30 of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, direct to you suspend any new recruitment in the phase 2 and 3 clinical trial till further orders," the order read. "Increase the safety monitoring of the subjects already vaccinated with the vaccine under trial and submit the plan and report," the order further stated. On August 2, the DCGI had granted permission to the Pune-based SII to conduct Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the coronavirus vaccine candidate. AstraZeneca, the biopharmaceutical giant in a tie-up with the Oxford University to produce the vaccine, described the pause of trials as a "routine" one following what was "an unexplained illness".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-orders-serum-institute-of-india-to-suspend-recruitment-for-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-trials-886249.html
12-09-2020||National||India, US hold 2 plus 2 inter-sessional meeting; discuss ties, regional developments||India and the US on Friday held a bilateral 2+2 inter-sessional meeting at the official level during which the two sides exchanged views about regional developments and agreed to pursue their quest for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. At the meeting held virtually, the Indian delegation was led jointly by Vani Rao, Joint Secretary (Americas) in the Ministry of External Affairs, and Somnath Ghosh, Joint Secretary (International Cooperation) in the Ministry of Defence. The US delegation was led jointly by Dean Thompson, Senior Bureau Official, Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs in the US Department of State, and David Helvey, Acting Assistant Secretary for Indo-Pacific Security Affairs in the US Department of Defense. Both sides reviewed the progress and developments in bilateral ties in defence, security, and foreign policy areas since the last 2+2 ministerial meeting held on December 18, 2019 in Washington DC, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. They explored opportunities for enhancing ongoing cooperation in these fields based on mutual interest, the MEA said. "They also exchanged views about regional developments, and agreed to pursue their quest for a free, open, inclusive, peaceful and prosperous Indo-Pacific," the statement said. The inter-sessional meeting mechanism was set up pursuant to the 2+2 ministerial. The two sides agreed to continue these discussions in the future, MEA said. The meeting comes amid a border standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-hold-2-plus-2-inter-sessional-meeting-discuss-ties-regional-developments-886265.html
12-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 12||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 46 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.    On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 47,44,705 as of September 12 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 78,501 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 36,24,196  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-12-886269.html
12-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Rafale jets: 'We took great care for this India-specific feature. Happy?'||In a clear reference to China over the tense border row in eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the induction of five French-made multirole Rafale jets into the Indian Air Force is a "big and stern" message to those eyeing India's sovereignty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rafale-jets-we-took-great-care-for-this-india-specific-feature-happy-886270.html
12-09-2020||National||Only four officers from Kashmir are administrative secretaries||With Jammu & Kashmir coming under the AGMUT cadre after its reorganisation as a union territory (UT), only four Kashmiri officers are administrative secretaries in the current bureaucratic set-up of the UT. Of the four, who arepresently administrative heads of government departments, two are Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers while the remaining two are from Kashmir Administrative Service (KAS). Sources in the Civil Secretariat said that halt on induction from KAS to IAS and retirement of local officers in the past five years is responsible for diminishing representation of local officers in top bureaucracy. “There has been no induction of local officers in IAS for the last several years. More than 20 local officers, who were holding key positions, have attained superannuation in these years,” they said. At present several non-local IAS officers are holding additional charge of one or more departments. According to the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act 2019, while the existing IAS, IPS and IFS officers of the J&K cadre would continue in the same cadre, fresh UPSC recruits would be assigned the Assam-Goa-Mizoram-Union Territory (AGMUT). The Centre has also decided to lower the quota from existing 50% to 33% for local officers from state services to IAS, IPS and IFS in J&K. Earlier norms allowed the erstwhile state to enjoy 50:50 formula for the three all India services - IAS, IPS and IFS. Under the earlier arrangement, 50% of the total posts in these services were to be manned by those selected through direct recruitment mode, on the basis of civil services examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), and the rest 50% posts were to be filled through the promotion of native officers belonging to State services to IAS, IPS and the IFoS. A senior local IAS officer said the new rules could pose challenges for governance in J&K. “KAS officers who are promoted to the IAS have a nuanced understanding of governance. Kashmir is a place where local residents are more likely to pose their faith in local officers as opposed to officers who come from the outside,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-four-officers-from-kashmir-are-administrative-secretaries-886339.html
12-09-2020||National||Odisha govt to provide free transportation, accommodation for NEET aspirants||The Odisha government has made elaborate arrangements to facilitate free transportation and accommodation for candidates appearing for the NEET examination on Sunday in 83 centres across seven cities in the state, an official said. A total of 37,459 candidates will appear for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test in Odisha. "The state government has made arrangements for free transportation and lodging facilities for candidates and their guardians," NEET state nodal officer Polly Patnaik said. State-run buses will be available to facilitate free movement of candidates and their guardians from different districts to the examination centres, she said. The examinations will be conducted from 11 am to 5 pm in strict adherence to health safety protocols to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. Patnaik said candidates will have to undergo thermal screening before entering the centres in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Angul, Berhampur, Rourkela, Balasore and Sambalpur. The East Coast Railway will also run special trains for NEET aspirants, an official said. "The trains will run from Khariar Road to Sambalpur via Titlagarh, Rayagada to Sambalpur, Bhadrak to Bhubaneswar via Cuttack and Keonjhar to Bhubaneswar via Cuttack," he said. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has arranged accommodation for NEET candidates and their parents at five engineering colleges here. Medical teams will be deployed at the colleges where students and their guardians will stay before the examination, BMC Commissioner P C Chaudhury said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-govt-to-provide-free-transportation-accommodation-for-neet-aspirants-886342.html
12-09-2020||National||Record spike of 97,570 infections pushes India's Covid-19 caseload to 46,59,984||India's Covid-19 caseload raced past 46 lakh with a record 97,570 infections being reported in a day, while 36,24,196 people have recuperated so far taking the national recovery rate to 77.77 per cent on Saturday, according to Union health ministry data. The total number of coronavirus cases has mounted to 46,59,984, while the death toll climbed to 77,472 with 1,201 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further dropped to 1.66 per cent. There are 9,58,316 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.56 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. The country has registered over 95,000 cases for the third consecutive day. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 5,51,89,226 samples have been tested up to September 11 with 10,91,251 samples being tested on Friday. Of the 1,201 new deaths, 442 were reported from Maharashtra, 130 from Karnataka, 77 each from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, 76 from Uttar Pradesh, 63 from Punjab, 57 from West Bengal, 30 from Madhya Pradesh, 26 from Chhattisgarh, 25 from Haryana, 21 from Delhi, 16 each from Assam and Gujarat, 15 each from Jharkhand and Rajasthan and 14 each from Kerala and Odisha. Twelve fatalities each have been reported from Bihar and Puducherry, 11 from Uttarakhand, 10 from Telangana, nine each from Jammu and Kashmir and Tripura, eight from Goa, five from Himachal Pradesh, four from Meghalaya, three from Chandigarh, two from Ladakh while Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim have registered one fatality each. Of the total 77,472 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the highest at 28,724 followed by 8,231 in Tamil Nadu, 7,067 in Karnataka, 4,779 in Andhra Pradesh, 4,687 in Delhi, 4,282 in Uttar Pradesh, 3,828 in West Bengal, 3,180 in Gujarat and 2,212 in Punjab. So far, 1,691 people have died of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, 1,207 in Rajasthan, 950 in Telangana, 932 in Haryana, 854 in Jammu and Kashmir, 797 in Bihar, 605 in Odisha, 532 in Jharkhand, 519 in Chhattisgarh, 430 in Assam, 410 in Kerala and 388 in Uttarakhand. Puducherry has registered 365 fatalities, Goa 276, Tripura 182, Chandigarh 86, Himachal Pradesh 71, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 51, Manipur 44, Ladakh 38, Meghalaya 24, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh 10 each, Sikkim eight and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-spike-of-97570-infections-pushes-indias-covid-19-caseload-to-4659984-886345.html
12-09-2020||National||India votes in favour of UN General Assembly resolution, calling for multilateral cooperation to combat Covid-19||India, along with 168 nations, voted in favour of a Covid-19 resolution in the UN General Assembly that reaffirms international cooperation to respond to “one of the greatest global challenges” and acknowledges the World Health Organisation’s “key leadership role” in responding to the outbreak, a reference the US objected to as it opposed the resolution. The Omnibus Resolution on Comprehensive and Coordinated Response to the Covid-19 Pandemic was overwhelmingly adopted by the 193-member General Assembly Friday, with 169 nations voting in favour of the resolution that recognised the Covid-19 pandemic as “one of the greatest global challenges in the history of the United Nations”. The US and Israel voted against the resolution and Ukraine and Hungary abstained. India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador K Nagaraj Naidu tweeted "India votes in favour of the #Covid-19 omnibus resolution in the General Assembly recognising the pandemic as one of the greatest global challenges that calls for a global response based on unity, solidarity and multilateral cooperation.” The resolution “reaffirms its commitment to international cooperation, multilateralism and solidarity at all levels and as the only way for the world to effectively respond to global crises such as the Covid-19 pandemic and their consequences, and acknowledges the key leadership role of the World Health Organisation and the fundamental role of the United Nations system in catalysing and coordinating the comprehensive global response to the Covid-19 pandemic.” Afghanistan’s UN envoy Adela Raz and Croatian Ambassador Ivan Simonovic were co-coordinators of the extensive and wide-ranging resolution, the third adopted by the General Assembly this year on the pandemic that has killed over 900,000 people and infected 28.3 million globally. The resolution is not legally binding. General Assembly President Tijjani Muhammad-Bande said the omnibus resolution is a “powerful and ambitious text and it reflects the collective will of Member States to overcome this unprecedented challenge as nations, united. Negotiations were intense but cooperation prevailed.” The resolution urged member states to "enable all countries to have unhindered timely access to quality, safe, efficacious and affordable diagnosis, therapeutics, medicines and vaccines, and essential health technologies for the Covid-19 response” and recognised the “role of extensive immunisation against Covid-19 as a global public good for health in preventing, containing and stopping transmission in order to bring the pandemic to an end, once safe, quality, efficacious, effective, accessible and affordable vaccines are available.” It supported Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’ appeal for an immediate global ceasefire, including to help create “corridors for life-saving aid, open windows for diplomacy of dialogue.” It called upon political and religious leaders to promote inclusion and unity in response to the pandemic and to prevent and take strong action against racism, xenophobia, hate speech, violence, discrimination, including on the basis of age and stigmatisation. The resolution also calls upon Member States “to advance, with determination, bold and concerted actions to address the immediate social and economic impacts of the pandemic, while striving to get back on track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by designing recovery strategies out of the crisis to accelerate progress towards the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda.” In its explanation of vote, the US said it “does not concur” with the references to the World Health Organisation in the resolution and criticised China for hiding the truth about the outbreak that originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. “Unfortunately, we might never know for certain how much of the pain and suffering caused by Covid-19 could have been avoided if the Chinese Communist Party had behaved like a responsible government and immediately warned the rest of the world of the virus that they uncovered in Wuhan,” the US Mission to the UN said. “Not only did they fail the world, but the World Health Organisation’s failures in the early days of the pandemic also contributed to needless suffering and the worsening of this pandemic. The WHO needs to reform, including by demonstrating its independence from the Chinese Communist Party,” the US Mission said. It added that Washington voted against the resolution as it “cannot allow the resolution to be hijacked by several themes that are not pertinent to the discussion.” In a tweet, the US Mission said it “cannot, in good conscience,” support a resolution including unrelated language supporting the advancement of Chinese Communist Party propaganda, abortion, and language against sanctions that are designed to constrain bad actors including removing unilateral economic and trade sanctions. The US said the text “attempts to undermine the international community’s ability to respond to acts that are offensive to international norms. Economic sanctions are a legitimate means to achieve foreign policy, security, and other national and international objectives, and the United States is not alone in that view or in that practice.” The resolution emphasised that illicit financial flows, in particular those caused by tax evasion, corruption and transnational organised crime, reduce the availability of vital resources for responding to and recovering from Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-votes-in-favour-of-un-general-assembly-resolution-calling-for-multilateral-cooperation-to-combat-covid-19-886347.html
12-09-2020||National||Govt's well-planned fight against Covid-19 has put India in abyss of GDP reduction: Rahul Gandhi||Taking a dig at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said its "well-planned fight" against coronavirus has allegedly put India in an "abyss" of GDP reduction of 24 per cent, 12 crore job losses, 15.5 lakh crore additional stressed loans and globally highest daily Covid-19 cases and deaths. The Congress has accused the Modi government of not handling the Covid-19 pandemic effectively. The government has dismissed all such claims in the past. "Modi Govt’s ‘well-planned fight’ against Covid has put India in an abyss of: 1. Historic GDP reduction of 24% 2. 12 crore jobs lost 3. 15.5 lac crores additional stressed loans 4. Globally highest daily Covid cases & deaths," Gandhi said in a tweet. कोविड के ख़िलाफ़ मोदी सरकार की 'सुनियोजित लड़ाई' ने भारत को मुसीबतों की खाई में धकेल दिया: 1. GDP में 24% की ऐतिहासिक कमी2. 12 करोड़ नौकरियाँ खोयीं3. 15.5 लाख करोड़ अतिरिक्त तनावग्रस्त क़र्ज़4. विश्व में कोविड के सर्वाधिक दैनिक केस-मौतें लेकिन GOI व मीडिया कहें ‘सब चंगा सी’। But for the government of India and the media "sab changa si (all is well)", the former Congress chief said. India's Covid-19 caseload has gone past 46 lakh, while 36,24,196 people have recuperated so far taking the national recovery rate to 77.77 per cent on Saturday, according to Union health ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-well-planned-fight-against-covid-19-has-put-india-in-abyss-of-gdp-reduction-rahul-gandhi-886361.html
12-09-2020||National||We need to strengthen poor to end poverty: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for strengthening the poor in order to remove poverty. He said the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) is aimed at empowering the poor. Modi was speaking at the virtual housewarming ceremony of 1.75 houses built in rural parts of Madhya Pradesh under the PMAY. "To remove poverty, we have to strengthen poor and this scheme is aimed at empowering them only," he said. Modi also interacted with some of the beneficiaries of the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-need-to-strengthen-poor-to-end-poverty-pm-narendra-modi-886374.html
12-09-2020||National||Will suspend flight for 2 weeks if anyone is found doing photography inside it: DGCA||Cracking the whip, the civil aviation regulator on Saturday warned airlines that a repeat of the mid-air chaos witnessed on the Chandigarh-Mumbai IndiGo flight could lead to suspension of operations on the sector for two weeks. "...it has been decided that from now on any such violation occurs on any such scheduled passenger aircraft – the schedule of the flight for that particular route shall be suspended for a period of two weeks ... and shall be restored only after the airline has taken all the necessary punitive action against those responsible for the violation," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said in an order. The DGCA had issued a notice to IndiGo airlines for the unruly scenes onboard the Chandigarh-Mumbai flight on Wednesday that ferried actor Kangana Ranaut and a posse of media personnel. IndiGo had responded to the DGCA that its cabin crew on the aircraft in question had followed all the requisite protocols and documented the matter in the post-flight report. However, the DGCA reminded the airlines of Rule 13 of the Aircraft Rules that state “no person shall take any photograph except in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of permission in writing granted by the Director-General, a Joint Director General, a Deputy Director-General or the Director of Regulations and Information of the Civil Aviation Department.” “In spite of these regulations, it has been noted that at times, the Airlines have failed to follow these stipulations primarily because of lack of diligence on their part. Needless to say that such deviations result in a compromise in maintaining the highest standards of safety and therefore, is not allowed,” the DGCA said. In the videos on social media, reporters and camerapersons were seen making videos inside the flight where Ranaut was seated in one of the front rows. Most of the reporters were without masks, which are a prerequisite during the entire duration of the flight in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-suspend-flight-for-2-weeks-if-anyone-is-found-doing-photography-inside-it-dgca-886384.html
12-09-2020||National||CM Nitish Kumar, JP Nadda hold seat-sharing talks for Bihar Assembly polls||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday held a crucial meeting with BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda on seat-sharing among the NDA alliance partners for the assembly elections in the state. Nadda, who was accompanied by party colleagues like Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, national general secretary and state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav and state president Sanjay Jaiswal, called on Kumar at his official residence 1, Anney Marg. The JD(U) national president, who was accompanied by key party aide Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan, accorded a warm welcome to Nadda, who hails from Himachal Pradesh but was born and brought up in Patna. At the meeting which lasted for more than half an hour, the leaders of the two parties are understood to have discussed the key issue of seat-sharing among alliance partners in the NDA, which also includes Ram Vilas Paswans Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The BJP leadership is also understood to have assured Kumar that it will intervene and iron out the differences that have of late cropped up between the JD(U) and the LJP on account of the belligerent stance adopted by the latters young president Chirag Paswan. The schedule for assembly elections in the state is likely to be announced shortly. The Election Commission has indicated that it would like to conclude the exercise before end of term of the present house on November 29. On the previous evening at a press conference here, the BJP's election in-charge for Bihar assembly Devendra Fadnavis had sought to make light of the acrimony between JD(U) and LJP and remarked "nobody is going to leave the NDA, though many may join us". The former Maharashtra chief minister had also attributed the sharp differences that have emerged between the two parties to "diverse ideologies a reason why we all are separate political parties, though united in purpose". Nadda, who arrived here on the previous evening on a two-day tour of Bihar, began his day by offering prayers at the famous Patan Devi temple in the old city, after which the Bihar capital is named. After the meeting with the chief minister, his itinerary includes launch of "Atmanirbhar Bihar Abhiyan" at the party's state headquarters followed by a visit to Muzaffarpur district where he will interact with women farmers and litchi cultivators at the village named after the legendary "Kisan Chachi", whose efforts at promoting entrepreneurship among rural women have earned her a Padma award. Nadda is thereafter scheduled to visit Darbhanga, and interact with farmers involved in fisheries and production of makhana (fox nuts), both of which are found in abundance in the Mithila region of north Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-nitish-kumar-jp-nadda-hold-seat-sharing-talks-for-bihar-assembly-polls-886385.html
12-09-2020||National||China's PLA hands over 5 missing Arunachal youths to Indian Army||The People's Liberation Army (PLA) of China handed over five youths from Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday morning to the Indian army, 10 days after they "inadvertently crossed over to their side" in Upper Subansiri district.  Lt. Col. Harshwardhan Pande, the public relations officer (defence), posted at Army's 4 Corps headquarters at Tezpur in neighbouring Assam told DH that the five youths were handed over to the Indian army at Kibithu in Arunachal Pradesh's Anjaw district. "They will now be quarantined for 14 days as per Covid-19 protocol and will thereafter be handed over to their family members," he said. Kibithu, situated atop 4,070 feet is a border trijunction with China on its North and Myanmar on the east. It is about 800-km east of the place where the youths had reportedly gone missing on September 2. Pande had earlier said the five hunters had inadvertently crossed over to the other side on September 2. A Chinese government spokesperson, however, had on September 7 denied having any information about them but the next day PLA confirmed to Indian army that the youths were in their side. The matter came to light after Prakash Ringling, brother of Prasad Ringling, one of the youths, posted in Facebook on September 4 that five persons including his brother from Nacho circle in Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh were abducted by troops of PLA from a remote location called Sera-7.  The McMahon Line between India and China is about 100km from Sera 7, a remote location having no road and telephone network. Pande said following the reports, Indian Army approached PLA on the hotline to trace and return them. On September 8, response on the hotline confirmed that the missing individuals had been traced, he said. Pande further sais this was the third such incident this year so far reported from Upper Subansiri and West Siang district. "All such individuals were brought back home safely after consistent efforts and coordination by Indian Army," Pande said. The McMahon Line demarcates the boundary between the Tibet autonomous region of China and Arunachal Pradesh, which Beijing claims as its own. The McMahon Line is not properly demarcated and small cement pillars erected on the Indian side often get covered under jungles thereby resulting in confusion and tension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-pla-hands-over-5-missing-arunachal-youths-to-indian-army-886390.html
12-09-2020||National||Goa government, AAP spar over 'Delhi model' of Covid-19 management||Covid-19 management appears to have emerged as the new battleground for the ruling BJP and a resurgent AAP in Goa, with leaders from both parties trading blows over the efficacy of the 'Delhi model' of pandemic management. A day after Chief Minister Pramod Sawant obliquely criticised the Aam Aadmi Party government in the national capital, for failing to deal with the pandemic and relying on support from the National Democratic Alliance government, AAP Goa spokesperson Surel Tilve hit back on Saturday. "If that was the case, why haven't Amit Shah and the Health Minister made any efforts to rein in the pandemic in Goa, which has assumed severe proportions," Tilve told a press conference in Panaji. The AAP in Goa has kept petitioning the BJP-led coalition government to emulate the 'Delhi model' of Covid-19 management, amid a sustained and severe spike in Covid-19 related cases. Goa has a total of 23,445 confirmed Covid-19 cases, including the 5,104 active cases. 276 persons in the coastal state have died after testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-government-aap-spar-over-delhi-model-of-covid-19-management-886417.html
12-09-2020||National||No carelessness till medicine is developed: PM Narendra Modi on Covid-19||Cautioning people against lowering their guard till an effective anti-coronavirus medicine is developed, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday came up with a slogan in Hindi to drive home his point. He said, 'Jab tak dawai nahi, tab tak dhilai nahi' (No carelessness till a medicine is found). Modi gave this slogan while addressing the virtual housewarming ceremony of 1.75 lakh houses built in rural parts of Madhya Pradesh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). "Jab tak dawai nahi, tab tak dhilai nahi. Do gaj ki doori, mask hai jaroori (Face mask and maintainting distance of two yards is necessary)," he said. Till Friday night, 83,619 people have tested coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh, while 1,691 have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-carelessness-till-medicine-is-developed-pm-narendra-modi-on-covid-19-886421.html
12-09-2020||National||UP Police suspends 3 constables after 2 prisoners escape from Covid-19 hospital||Three constables, from whose custody two prisoners escaped from a Covid-19 hospital here, have been suspended, police said on Saturday. Undertrials Rajju Yadav and Brijlal, who are accused in a rape case, were admitted to the hospital in Koh on September 7. On Thursday early morning, they escaped by breaking the windows of the hospital’s toilet. Brijlal was apprehended late on Thursday night. “Police constables Ashish Kumar, Deepak Kumar and Vijaypal have been suspended prime facie for laxity in connection with the escape of two prisoners from Koh's COVID-19 hospital,” Superintendent of Police, Chitrakoot, Ankit Mittal said on Saturday. He said that a letter has also been written to the Home Guard commandant to initiate action against Home Guard jawan Jainarayan. Mittal said that Brijlal was arrested on Thursday late night, while Yadav is still absconding, and efforts are on to nab him. They were arrested in the rape case on September 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-police-suspends-3-constables-after-2-prisoners-escape-from-covid-19-hospital-886422.html
12-09-2020||National||Over 18 lakh rural houses build during Covid-19 pandemic period: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that a total of 18 lakh houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) have been built during Covid-19 pandemic. He was speaking during the virtual housewarming ceremony of 1.75 lakh houses built in rural parts of Madhya Pradesh under the PMAY-Gramin scheme. The PM also said that the average time of building a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY-Gramin) reduced to 45 to 60 days during the pandemic from 125 days as migrants who returned home during the lockdown, also contributed towards it. Further, PM said that under Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan Rs 23,000 crore have been spent on infrastructure and other works which helped the rural economy. Criticising the previous government for failing to build houses to the poor , he said, "Construction of houses under the community development programmes began post-Independence. But the target of providing houses to the poor could not be achieved." Earlier, everything related to houses for the poor was centralised in Delhi and the beneficiaries were nowhere involved in the process, Modi said adding that now everything was transparent and beneficiary involvement was more in the scheme. The PM alleged that in the past, the quality of houses used to be poor and they lacked basic amenities, which is why people did not move into them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-18-lakh-rural-houses-build-during-covid-19-pandemic-period-pm-narendra-modi-886426.html
12-09-2020||National||Govt to introduce bill to make law banning manual scavenging more stringent||The government plans to make the law banning manual scavenging more stringent by introducing a bill in the Monsoon Session of Parliament, which is scheduled to begin from Monday. The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, also proposes to completely mechanise sewer cleaning and provide better protection at work and compensation in case of accidents, officials said. Currently, engaging any person for hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks by any person or agency is punishable with imprisonment of up to five years or a fine up of to Rs 5 lakh or both. The bill proposes to make the law banning manual scavenging more stringent by increasing the imprisonment term and the fine amount, the officials said. The bill is among the 23 bills to be tabled in Parliament during the Monsoon Session. The amendment bill comes amid an increasing number of deaths during cleaning and maintenance of sewers in the country. The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 prohibits construction or maintenance of insanitary latrines and employment of any person for manual scavenging or hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks. The bill comes under the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry's National Action Plan which aims at complete elimination of hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks, a more serious, stringent and focused strategy framework. The plan aims to modernise existing sewage system and coverage of non-sewered areas; setting up of faecal sludge and septage management system for mechanised cleaning of septic tanks, transportation and treatment of faecal sludge; equipping the municipalities, and setting up of Sanitation Response Units with helplines, according to a document by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-introduce-bill-to-make-law-banning-manual-scavenging-more-stringent-886431.html
12-09-2020||National||Over 36 lakh Indians have recovered from Covid-19, 60% of them from 5 states||With a record 81,533 people recuperating from Covid-19 in a day, India's total recoveries on Saturday surged to 36,24,196 of which 60 per cent of the cases are from five states, including Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. India's Covid-19 case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.66 per cent while the recovery rate has risen to 77.77 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry. Sixty per cent of the total recovered cases are being reported from five states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, the ministry said on Saturday. Maharashtra has alone contributed more than 14,000 and Karnataka has contributed over 12,000 to the new single-day recoveries, it highlighted. Also, 60 per cent of the total cases are reported from only five states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. "These states have also reported the maximum new recoveries in the past 24 hours," the ministry underlined.   "With its focussed strategies and measures, India has been continuously reporting a high number of recoveries. The highest ever single-day recoveries of 81,533 have been registered in 24 hours," the ministry said. Of the 97,570 new cases added in a span of 24 hours in the country, Maharashtra has contributed to more than 24,000 of the additional cases. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka both have contributed to over 9,000 infections, it said. n a span of 24 hours, 1,201 deaths have been registered with 36 per cent of deaths reported on Friday are from Maharashtra with 442 deaths, followed by Karnataka with 130 deaths. Of the total deaths, 69 per cent fatalities are concentrated in five states and union territories of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 46,59,984 with a record 97,570 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 77,472 with 1,201 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-36-lakh-indians-have-recovered-from-covid-19-60-of-them-from-5-states-886433.html
12-09-2020||National||More ration can help children who missed mid-day meals during lockdown compensate for nutrients: UN WFP||Introducing fortified staples, focussing on fulfilling nutritional requirements and increasing the ration size can help mitigate the nutrition loss suffered by children who could not get mid-day meals during the Covid-19 induced lockdown, UN World Food Programme (WFP) country director to India Bishow Parajuli said. In an interview to PTI, Parajuli said India runs the largest school-feeding programme of the mid-day meal scheme but the Covid-19 crisis has rolled back some of the progress that was made in reducing malnutrition and is aggravating existing challenges. Introducing fortified staples in the food baskets distributed to schoolchildren, focussing on fulfilling nutritional requirements of children rather than just providing food and increasing the ration size beyond the existing one as the food given is usually distributed within the family were among a few measures suggested by Parajuli to mitigate the nutrition loss incurred by children due to the absence of mid-day meals during the lockdown. "We know that it has been challenging for schools to reopen and operate in the current circumstance as the pandemic numbers continue to rise. Even as mid-day meal is the best route to food and nutrition security for children, the government is issuing extra food rations for the next five months to families under the PMGKY (Pradhan Mantri Gramodaya Yojana) during the Covid-19 lockdown and this will be helpful to meet children's food needs," he said. The mid-day meal (MDM) scheme is a flagship programme of the government of India wherein hot cooked meals are provided to schoolchildren in classes 1 to 8 (aged 6-14 years) across all government and government-aided schools and aims at enhancing enrolment, retention, attendance and simultaneously improving nutritional levels among schoolchildren. The United Nations WFP's country director to India lauded the Centre and state governments action to ensure availability of school meal entitlements to children through various modalities both during lockdown and summer vacations. The government issued guidance to all states and union territories to provide mid-day meals either as dry rations or food security allowances, wherein the cost of food grains and cost should be transferred to the beneficiary accounts. The government also asked states and union territories to continue provision of mid-day meal or food security allowance comprising food grains and its cooking cost in order to fulfil nutritional requirements of eligible children even during the summer break to safeguard their immunity. However, he noted that the scheme has not been effectively implemented and could not reach all children as schools remain shut and home delivery-based implementation of the scheme varied from one state to another. "Therefore, the probability of children succumbing to child labour to sustain themselves and their families has once again increased. "The socio-economic impact of the pandemic on children and their families along with the limited access to nutritious meals would mean a rise in malnutrition; therefore, immediate and holistic action across the country to address this challenge is the need of the hour," he said. Parajuli further said that the main focus of the UN WFP work in India is to improve the efficiency and nutritional effectiveness of the government's food-based safety nets, which includes WFP support to the mid-day meal programme.  "The WFP has worked in the mid-day meal scheme to integrate fortified staples such as rice and wheat flour, capacity building of cook cum helpers of the MDM in aspects of food safety and nutrition, supply chain optimisation, setting up of model kitchens," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-ration-can-help-children-who-missed-mid-day-meals-during-lockdown-compensate-for-nutrients-un-wfp-886438.html
12-09-2020||National||Social activists, political leaders pay last respects to Swami Agnivesh||Political leaders, rights activists and the general public on Saturday paid their last respects to Swami Agnivesh, and remembered him as a "truly secular" person, who fought for bonded labourers' and women's rights. Social activist Agnivesh, who was suffering from liver cirrhosis for a long time, died of multi-organ failure at a Delhi hospital on Friday. He was 80. His last rites will be performed on Saturday at the Agnilok Ashram in Behelpa, Gurgaon at 4 pm. Before that, his body was kept at his office at 7, Jantar Mantar Road for people to pay their last respects. "He was a great friend of the entire Left movement. He used to call me comrade and I also addressed him as comrade Swami. He never hesitated in identifying himself with progressive forces fighting for the poor,” CPI leader D Raja said. "Despite his saffron dress, he was secular to the core. He was a champion of bonded laborers in the country,” he said. Top leaders of the DMK and the PMK, M K Stalin and S Ramadoss, condoled the death of Agnivesh. "Despite being attacked by communal forces many times, he remained steadfast on his policies," Stalin said in a statement. PMK founder S Ramadoss mourned the death of his 'friend', Swami Agnivesh and said he was supportive of the party's stand against alcohol and smoking. Political activist Yogendra Yadav said Swami Agnivesh was a representative of the Hindu principle of tolerance and respect for every religion -- “Sarva Dharma Sambhava”. "He respected every religion the way he venerated his own… He made us understand the real meaning of 'dharma' … which is not being in a temple or an ashram, but being among the poor and serving them,” he said. Lawyer Mehmood Pracha said Swami Agnivesh fought for bonded labourers, women and child rights and the fight will continue even after his demise. “Recently, he was attacked on many occasions by people belonging to certain groups who were against his ideology,” he said. Those who came to pay last respects wore masks and followed Covid-19 protocols. Agnivesh was critically ill and admitted to an ICU of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, and was on ventilatory support since Tuesday. He was suffering from liver cirrhosis. He died due to multi-organ failure, doctors said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/social-activists-political-leaders-pay-last-respects-to-swami-agnivesh-886446.html
12-09-2020||National||Jaishankar attends meeting on Afghan peace process||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said the Afghan peace process must respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. In a virtual address on Afghan peace negotiations at Doha, Jaishankar said the peace process must promote human rights and democracy, ensure the interest of minorities, women, and the vulnerable sections, and "effectively" address violence across the country. Giving a gist of his address in a series of tweets, Jaishankar also reaffirmed India's long-held position that the peace process should be "Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled". "The friendship of our peoples is a testimony to our history with Afghanistan. No part of Afghanistan is untouched by our 400-plus development projects. Confident that this civilizational relationship will continue to grow," he said. Last month, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani agreed to release 400 Taliban prisoners, paving the way for the beginning of the long-awaited peace process aimed at ending nearly two decades of conflict in the war-torn country. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned, and Afghan-controlled. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation after the US inked a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war in the country. The US has lost over 2,400 soldiers in Afghanistan since late 2001. India has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. India has been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-attends-meeting-on-afghan-peace-process-886455.html
12-09-2020||National||Amid standoff with China, IAF to carry out activities in border areas||Amid the ongoing standoff with China along the LAC, Central Air Command chief, Air Marshal Rajesh Kumar met Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to seek land for setting up facilities that will help the IAF carry out its activities in the border areas. The Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC-in-C), Central Air Command, during his meeting with Rawat on Friday also discussed the availability of land for installing air defense radars and advance landing ground in the hilly areas of the state due to their strategic significance, an official release said. Uttarakhand shares its borders with China and Nepal. Setting up facilities like air defense radars and an advance landing ground in Uttarakhand's hilly districts of Chamoli, Pithoragarh, and Uttarkashi will be of great help to the air force as they are in the country's northeast, the AOC-in-C said. The Air Marshal also requested for expansion of Pantnagar, Jollygrant, and Pitgoragarh airports besides seeking allocation of land for an airport in Chaukhutiya. The chief minister said land will be made available to the IAF on a priority basis to conduct its activities and immediately ordered the appointment of a nodal officer in the administration to identify suitable land for the purpose. Rawat apprised the AOC-in-C about the steps being taken by the state government to develop Pantnagar airport as a greenfield airport and upgrade facilities at the Jollygrant airport to international standards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-standoff-with-china-iaf-to-carry-out-activities-in-border-areas-886457.html
12-09-2020||National||SC for Advance Tax Ruling system to reduce tax disputes||The Supreme Court has recommended to the Central government to consider the efficacy of the Advance Tax Ruling system and make it more comprehensive, as a tool for settlement of disputes rather than battling it through different tiers in cases involving private or public sectors. It said a council for Advance Tax Ruling based on the Swedish model and the New Zealand system may be a possible way forward. In view of  "ever-increasing and backbreaking dockets", a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Indu Malhotra said, in order to make the dispute resolution system function effectively, it may be appropriate to have a committee of legal experts presided by a retired judge to give their imprimatur to the settlement. The court's recommendation came in a judgement dealing with a 44-year-old dispute between the National Co-operative Development Corporation and the Income Tax department. "Which pocket of the government should be enriched has taken 44 years to decide – a classic case of what ought not to be!" the bench said. "It is our pious hope that a serious thought would be given to the aspect of dispute resolution amicably, more so in the post-Covid period," the bench added. The court said in most countries, mediation has proved to be an efficacious remedy. India is now a signatory to the Singapore Convention on Mediation and we understand that serious thought is being given to bring forth comprehensive legislation to institutionalise mediation, in furtherance of this function to which India has committed itself. One of the largest areas of litigation for the government is taxation matters. The petition rate of the tax department before the Supreme Court is at 87%, it said. "An Advance Ruling System can facilitate not only such resolution of a dispute between the government and its departments but also avoid the tiers of litigation which such cases go through as in the present case," the court said.  It directed to send a copy of its judgment to the Ministries of Finance and Law and Justice, having noted the recent announcement of putting in place a "tax-friendly face-less regime". The court pointed out the Indian legal system is reeling under a docket explosion. The government and public authorities are active contributors to this deluge. To top it, a number of litigations arise inter se the government and its bodies. Though the Central government and the state authorities repeatedly emphasised on evolving a litigation policy, our experience is that it is observed more in breach. The approach is one of bringing everything to the highest level before this court so that there is no responsibility in the decision-making process – an unfortunate situation which creates an unnecessary burden on the judicial system, the court said. With an aim to reduce litigation, a national litigation policy was formulated in 2010 and revised in 2015, 28 years after a recommendation made by the Law Commission in the 126th report. However, one of the main impediments to resolution of disputes between the Central Public Sector Enterprise and government is that the bureaucrats are reluctant to accept responsibility of taking such decisions, apprehending consequences in future, the court rued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-for-advance-tax-ruling-system-to-reduce-tax-disputes-886463.html
12-09-2020||National||KG Basin an excellent source of methane fuel: Study||The Krishna-Godavari (KG) Basin holds a massive reserve of methane hydrate, a rich source of clean fuel, according to a recent study conducted at the Agharkar Research Institute, which works under the government’s Department of Science and Technology. The study, accepted for publishing in the journal 'Marine genomics', says methane is a clean and economical fuel and it is estimated that “one cubic meter of methane hydrate contains 160-180 cubic meters of methane,”. “Even the lowest estimate of Methane present in the Methane hydrates in KG Basin is twice that of all fossil fuel reserves available worldwide,” said the study by the Pune-based ARI. Methane's clean burning process makes it a very attractive fuel. When burnt in the presence of Oxygen, its one molecule releases two molecules of water and one of Carbon Dioxide. The KG basin is known to be a rich source of hydrocarbons. The study was conducted as a part of the DST-SERB (Science and Engineering Research Board) young scientist project titled 'Elucidating the community structure of methanogenic archaea in methane hydrate'. According to the study, the ARI team has further identified the methanogens that produced the biogenic methane trapped as methane hydrate, which can be a significant source of energy. Methane hydrate is formed when hydrogen-bonded water and methane gas come into contact at high pressures and low temperatures in oceans. “The massive methane hydrate deposits of biogenic origin in the Krishna-Godavari (KG) basin and near the coast of Andaman and Mahanadi make it necessary to study the associated methanogenic community,” said Vikram B Lanjekar, the principal investigator of the study. According to the ARI team, until recently, there have been only a few investigations of the methanogenic communities associated with methane hydrate-bearing sediments. This study has shown that methanogens under these elevated pressure and temperature conditions are well adapted to these conditions and are different in methane-producing activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kg-basin-an-excellent-source-of-methane-fuel-study-886465.html
12-09-2020||National||BJP MP-led Parliamentary panel wants IT Department to be politically neutral amid allegations of motivated raids||Amid allegations that the Income Tax Department is being used by the Narendra Modi government against its rivals, a Parliamentary panel headed by a senior BJP MP has asked the Department to conduct its activities in a way that no one could accuse them of working under political pressure. The Parliamentary Standing Committee headed by senior BJP MP Bhupender Yadav also warned the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) against "techno-utopianism”, saying over-dependence on technology could lead to new modes of corruption like digital bribery and blackmail using data, amid the government’s push to ensure minimum human interface to avoid harassment of taxpayers. Acknowledging that all governments at the Centre face allegations that the IT Department is conducting raids on people considered close to the ruling regimes' opponents, the panel on personnel, public grievances, law and justice said in its report that the bureaucracy succumbing to political pressures would undermine the very fundamentals of democracy. It is "often heard and alleged" by the Opposition that the IT Department was "politically being misused as a ‘revengeful’ arm of those in power" to target political opponents, especially during the elections, the 'Effectiveness of Vigilance Administration in Certain Revenue and Banking Institutions and Selected CPSEs' report said. While the panel did not refer to any specific incident, the Opposition in recent times had raised concerns about the raids against Karnataka Congress chief D K Shivakumar and people close to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, when he was waging an inner-party struggle against Sachin Pilot. The issue of IT Department raids was raised in a meeting of the panel on January 10 this year during which an MP said that there was an "impression in the country" that search operations or notices issued by it had a "political slant". Another MP felt that the IT officials are "just pawns in the hands of those in power" and suggested a law that prohibits them from being rewarded with political or bureaucratic offices post-retirement. "The Committee is of the opinion that CBDT should always conduct its work in a neutral, non-partisan and non-discriminatory manner so that the Department could gain respect in the eyes of the general masses for its political neutrality and no one could accuse them of working under political pressures," the report said. The working of enforcement agencies "under the pressure of those in power creates a crisis for institutional autonomy and against the very spirit of the concept of political neutrality" of bureaucracy which may endanger the very fundamentals of democracy, the report said. The panel also had a word of warning to the CBDT on using technology, saying over-dependence on technological tools give rise to new forms of corruption which do not require in-person interaction such as digital bribery, blackmail on the basis of data, unauthorised access to digital information of taxpayers that corrupt tax officials may have. Modi had on August 13 launched 'Transparent Taxation - Honouring the Honest' platform that aims to make the tax system "seamless, painless and faceless". As per the plan, a faceless appeal will be available across the country from September 25. Expressing apprehensions that technology may also lead to complexity of official procedures and processes, the panel said officials and tax evaders who understand technology and systems may exploit it to their "evil design". "Lack of digital literacy or technological illiteracy also brings in middlemen having technological know-how to use the vulnerabilities of the service seekers to extort bribes. The Committee, therefore, feels that the CBDT should not fall prey to techno-utopianism as technology is merely an advanced tool and is not a final solution to eradicate corruption...it is not always true that if human interference is reduced, corruption might go down as it is human beings only who operate these technological tools who on occasions may turn fallible," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-led-parliamentary-panel-wants-it-department-to-be-politically-neutral-amid-allegations-of-motivated-raids-886480.html
12-09-2020||National||Court issues arrest warrant against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini||A Mohali court on Saturday issued an arrest warrant against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case. The court has directed the police to produce Saini by September 25, according to the order. Saini, the former Punjab director general of police, continues to remain elusive despite the special investigation team of the Punjab Police conducting raids at several places to nab him. Saini, whose whereabouts were still unknown, was booked in May in connection with the disappearance of Multani in 1991 when he was working as a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation. The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday had dismissed Saini's anticipatory bail plea in this matter. The high court had also dismissed Saini's second petition that sought quashing of an FIR in the case or the transfer of investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). A Mohali court had dismissed his bail plea on September 1. Last month, the police had added murder charge under Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR in Multani disappearance case after two former Chandigarh Police personnel -- former UT police Inspector Jagir Singh and former ASI Kuldeep Singh who are also co-accused -- turned approver in the disappearance case. The Punjab Police on September 3 had claimed that Saini “absconded” while leaving behind the Z plus security allotted to him. Saini had left his Chandigarh residence without Punjab Police security personnel and security vehicles, including a jammer vehicle. Balwant Multani, who was a resident of Mohali, was picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991. However, the police had later claimed that Balwant Multani had escaped from custody of Qadian Police in Gurdaspur. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani's brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar. The case was registered against them under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-886482.html
12-09-2020||National||Government lines up 23 Bills for Monsoon session||Government has lined up a heavy Legislative agenda for the Monsoon session beginning on Monday that includes Bills to cut the salaries of Parliamentarians by 30% for one year to meet Covid-19 exigencies, agricultural reforms and to punish assault on Covid Warriors with a jail term. Of the 23 Bills listed for the Monsoon session by the government, 11 are to replace Ordinances that were issued during the inter-session period. The Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to reduce the salary of MPs by 30% for a year beginning April 1, 2020. A second key Bill will replace the Epidemic Diseases Amendment Ordinance which provides preventive measures against violence on healthcare personnel and damage of property. Aggressors will be liable to a jail term ranging from three months to seven years plus fine ranging between Rs 50,000 and Rs five lakh. The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation of Certain Provisions) Bill seeks to address the challenges faced by taxpayers due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government and the opposition are set for a face-off on the two agriculture reform ordinances that allow farmers to sell their farm produce beyond the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) and enter into farming agreements with agri-business firms. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 seeks to provide an ecosystem wherein farmers/traders can pick markets for sale and purchase, while the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Prices Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 for a national framework on farming agreements to empower farmers to engage with agro-business firms. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks to empower the Centre to control production, supply, distribution, trade and commerce in certain commodities. Among the economic bills, The Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Second) Amendment Bill seeks to temporarily suspend initiation of the corporate insolvency resolution process, the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority to separate NPS Trust from the Authority and the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation of Certain Provisions) to address the challenges faced by taxpayers in the meeting statutory and regulatory compliance due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-lines-up-23-bills-for-monsoon-session-886485.html
12-09-2020||National||Amid Covid-19 precautions, nearly 16 lakh students to appear for NEET||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions to medical and dental courses is being held on Sunday with students being asked not to wear light clothes with long sleeves and shoes to exam centres. Nearly 16 lakh students have registered for NEET – a pen-and-paper test unlike the JEE – which will be held across 3,843 centres under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26, and then to September 13. The information bulletin issued for the NEET-2020 test prescribes a dress code for students. “Light clothes with long sleeves are not permitted. However in case, candidates come in cultural/customary dress at the Examination Centre, they should report at least an hour before the last reporting time i.e. 12.30 pm so that there is enough time for proper frisking without any inconvenience to the candidate while maintaining the sanctity of the examination,” the guidelines said. It said that slippers, sandals with low heels were permitted but shoes are not permitted in exam centres. For ensuring social distancing outside examination halls, a staggered entry and exit of candidates has been planned. Adequate arrangements have also been made outside examination centres to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing while waiting,” a senior NTA official said. The testing agency has also changed centres for a few candidates this week in compliance with social distancing norms and Covid-19 restrictions. However, the city of the exam centre hasn’t been changed for any candidate. Making hand sanitisers available at the entrance of the examination centre and inside the exam hall at all times, replacing the process of checking the admit cards of candidates with barcode readers, increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the steps the NTA has taken. "While all the candidates will be asked to come to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, once they enter the centre, they will have to use the masks provided by the examination authority. "Each candidate will be offered a three-ply mask at the time of entry and are expected to wear the same during the examination in order to avoid any form of unfair means at the time of examination," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-precautions-nearly-16-lakh-students-to-appear-for-neet-886499.html
12-09-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh govt enhances tax on natural gas by 10%||Citing the fall in revenues due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday enhanced the tax rate on natural gas by 10 per cent, estimating that it could fetch an additional revenue of about Rs 300 crore per annum. Less than a month ago, the government revised the tax structure on petrol and diesel to earn an additional Rs 600 crore per annum. Special Chief Secretary (Revenue) Rajat Bhargava issued a notification enhancing the tax on natural gas from 14.5 per cent to 24.5 per cent under Schedule-V of the AP Value Added Tax Act. "Presently, only natural gas is left to be taxed under Schedule-V of the APVAT Act after subsuming all other goods in GST," he said. "Considering the fact that the revenues of the state are plummeting on one hand and the requirement for finances to implement the pro-poor schemes is escalating on the other, it has become imperative to augment the revenues," Rajat Bhargava said. The Special Chief Secretary said the government took all factors into consideration and decided to increase the tax rate on natural gas. The hike would come into force with immediate effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-govt-enhances-tax-on-natural-gas-by-10-886500.html
12-09-2020||National||The reinvention of Kangana Ranaut: From acting to politics||In real life, the petite actor who played the brave Rani of Jhansi now needs highly trained commandos to protect her. TV anchors raved breathlessly as she landed at Mumbai airport on Wednesday. The Karni Sena rushed in droves to protect her, while Shiv Sainiks protested. Posters of her popular film show her leading the troops, sword in hand. Life, however, did not imitate art in this case. Twitter was the new battlefield and you only needed crude verbal weapons.  At some point, Ms Ranaut switched track from a person sympathetic to the suicide of fellow actor Sushant Singh Rajput (and even willing to help in the probe, provided she got protection), to a sort of leader of the Opposition mode in Maharashtra.  Before she took on this role in full measure, she was tweeting about drug abuse in Bollywood and how “it is quiet (sic) evident Sushanth knew some dirty secrets that's why he has been killed.”  Soon after, she trained her Twitter guns on the Mumbai police saying she was scared of them, then Mumbai city was called Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir and finally she dubbed the country’s richest municipal corporation “Babar ki army”. For the Shiv Sena, an attack on Mumbai and its police, even a verbal one, is a battle cry. Sanjay Raut, Sena MP, countered it, calling her treacherous as she had eaten the salt of Mumbai (on those lines). Like a true paper tiger, the Sena-run Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai tried to demolish the actor’s office in Pali Hill. Ms Ranaut hit back calling it the death of democracy and screamed that it was akin to demolishing the Ram Mandir. She approached the Bombay High Court which stayed the demolition.  For her continuing heroics, she trended on Twitter, and her uncritical followers posted unflattering pictures of Uddhav Thackeray as Babar in full Mughal regalia, which is beyond irony. To cap all this, she sent a video message to Thackeray saying that she now understood the pain of Kashmiri Pandits, and she has given a pledge to this “desh” that she will make a film not only on Ayodhya, but also on Kashmiri Pandits.  What is eerily relevant is that her outbursts and need for protection were not ignored. She was granted ‘Y-plus’ category security, at a time when the Centre is pruning this rather wasteful expenditure, and this must give us pause. Also, her pitch-perfect proclamation of the Shiv Sena as “Sonia Sena”, can’t really be treated as an angry rant alone. While the BJP has distanced itself from Kangana’s outbursts about the city and its police, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has asked the government to fight Covid, not Kangana! As the country hits new highs in daily Covid-19 cases, it is incumbent on us as conscientious citizens to wait in breathless anticipation for the screen Jhansi’s next move. (Meena Menon is an independent journalist and author based in Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-reinvention-of-kangana-ranaut-from-acting-to-politics-886511.html
12-09-2020||National||There will be 'flood' of pending cases post-Covid-19, mediation needs to be emphasised: CJI||Chief Justice of India S A Bobde on Saturday said that the Covid-19 pandemic would present a “huge pendency of cases” in courts and a lot of emphasis has to be placed on utilising mediation for resolving many of these matters. The CJI also stressed on the need to focus on mental health and referred to the “uncomfortable prediction” that there might be a suicide pandemic following the Covid crisis. “This Covid pandemic is going to present us with huge pendency of cases. I do not see any way out of it. We have to decide cases,” the CJI said during a virtual event where he launched the book - ‘Judiciary, Judges and the Administration of Justice’ - authored by former top court judge Justice R Banumathi. The CJI said he believes that this is the time when a lot of emphasis has to be placed on utilising mediation, pre-litigation and post-litigation mediation to resolve many matters. “I am not suggesting every matter can be, but when the pandemic goes away and the lockdowns are all lifted, we are going to face a flood of cases which I do not know how we are going to decide if we go in the usual way of following the detailed procedure and this is something which we all have to put in our minds together to deal with,” he said. Addressing the gathering, Justice N V Ramana said judges are now being construed as soft targets for criticism and are becoming "victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social media posting”. Justice Ramana, the senior-most judge of the apex court after the CJI, said that judges have to balance their social life in order to be independent. “It is completely upon the judge to maintain a distance. Judges themselves restrain from speaking in their own defence and they are now being construed as soft targets for criticism. This issue is further complicated by the proliferation of social media and technology. Judges are becoming victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social media posting,” he said. Raising the issue of mental health, the CJI said it requires serious attention as there is a very “uncomfortable prediction” about a suicide pandemic. "I don't believe and sincerely hope that it does not happen,” he said, adding that pandemic has brought two things amongst people which is very troublesome -- depressive tendency and unnecessary aggression. “It is high time that we devote energy to mental health,” he said, adding that the Supreme Court has taken an initiative to deal with the mental health issue and provide professional mental health advice, which the secretary general of the top court would soon announce. He said the judiciary belongs to the nation and its achievements are the result of “unflinching dedication” and commitment of numerous individuals on and off the bench. The CJI said that for judges and consequently for the judiciary, the biggest challenge is to ensure that the nation inches towards the goal set in the Constitution. He said that an independent judiciary is ‘sine qua non’ (essential condition) to achieve the same. “It is not for the personal benefit of the judges but for the effective exercise of the power vested in the judiciary,” he said, adding, “In fact, even the freedom of speech of judges is curtailed by the same laws which prevent people from saying whatever they feel like, adverse to the independence of the judiciary.” Justice Ramana said there is a misunderstanding that judges lead a life of “luxury in their ivory towers”. “From my own experience, I can state that the life of a judge is not better than others. There seems to be a misunderstanding that judges lead a life of luxury in their ivory towers. However, the reality is quite different and it is difficult for others to comprehend,” he said. The CJI said that the book authored by Justice (retd) Banumathi is “unique” in the sense that it provides valuable insight into the functioning of the colossal institution of the judiciary. Speaking on the occasion, apex court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud referred to the dedication of Justice (retd) Banumathi towards the cause of justice and legal profession. Justice Chandrachud referred to the work done by the Supreme Court E-committee, of which he is the chairperson, and also provided data of cases at the district level during the pandemic. He said around 28.66 lakh cases were registered at the district level in the pandemic period out of which 12.69 lakh matters were disposed of. He also referred to the data uploaded on the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG) and said around 3.39 crore cases are pending. Justice Chandrachud said data of around 9.91 crore disposed of cases is available on NJDG along with around 12.53 crore orders and judgements. Justice (retd) Banumathi said the book highlights the various essential facets of judgeship and also gives a comprehensive view of accomplishments of the E-court project. She said the book impresses upon the judges and lawyers for the smart use of technology to make the judicial process more transparent and efficient. Supreme Court judge Justice Indu Malhotra and Chief Justice of Delhi High Court Justice D N Patel also addressed the gathering which was attended by several other judges of the apex court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-will-be-flood-of-pending-cases-post-covid-19-mediation-needs-to-be-emphasised-cji-886512.html
12-09-2020||National||Searches for sports jobs grow 11%, postings dip by 25%: Report||Job searches for sports-related opportunities like personal trainer, sports centre manager and nutritionist have risen steadily in the country but postings for such positions have been gradually declining over the years, according to a report. Searches for jobs related to sports have gone up by 11 per cent during August 2019 to August 2020 while postings for these jobs went down by 25 per cent in the period, according to a report by global job site Indeed. The report is based on data of sports-related job searches and postings, including sports league manager, football coach, personal trainer, nutritionist, sports centre manager among others during August 2019-2020, compared with August 2018 till August 2019 on Indeed platform. Further, the report revealed that, in terms of searches, job seekers in the age group of 21-25 years showed the most interest in sports-related jobs, making up almost half (45 per cent) of all clicks in the category. Indeed's data also revealed that New Delhi is the leading region for jobs in sports, hosting 24 per cent of all postings in the country, followed by Maharashtra and Karnataka, with 20 per cent and 15 per cent of postings, respectively. While Maharashtra maintains its spot on the list, New Delhi has overtaken last year's leader Karnataka to take the top spot this year, it observed. Telangana and Tamil Nadu make up 8 per cent of postings each, rounding off the top five regions for sports-related jobs for this year. "Despite the dampener that the pandemic has thrown over sporting events in general, what has remained undiminished is the passion for sports among avid enthusiasts, as is evidenced from the kind of job postings we are still seeing on the Indeed platform,” Indeed India Managing Director Sashi Kumar said. Job roles like sports league manager are still open to takers, and Indeed expects to see renewed job seeker interest in the field once things start getting back to normal, he noted. "While large scale events might not be feasible in the near future, there remain ample avenues for sports enthusiasts to explore safely even during these challenging times," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/searches-for-sports-jobs-grow-11-postings-dip-by-25-report-886527.html
12-09-2020||National||Arvind Kejriwal says AAP's campaign to check oxygen levels can save lives||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) `Oximitra' campaign can save lives directly amid the coronavirus pandemic. The AAP leader addressed his party's workers here through video confence, the Mumbai unit of the party said in a statement. "AAP volunteers have served people by feeding the poor and helping migrants...Through Oximitra campaign we can save lives directly. If we can warn a person whose oxygen levels are low to immediately seek help, then we can save a life," he said. According to the party, its workers are going door to door and offer to check people's oxygen levels. Falling blood oxygen level is one of the symptoms of coronavirus infection of the lungs. "It may be a drop in the ocean but this is our way of augmenting the efforts of the government and other agencies. In Delhi everyone has come together to fight the pandemic and that is what we must do in Mumbai too," Kejriwal said further. The party claimed that in the last two weeks its volunteers met around 10,000 people in Mumbai, mostly in low- income, high-density areas, and advised them on social distancing methods that can be deployed in small spaces. Kejriwal said he wanted `Oximitra Kendra (center)' of the party in every polling booth area in Mumbai. The AAP plans to contest the next municipal elections and the cadre will implement his advise to build the organization in the city, Mumbai AAP leader Preeti Sharma Menon said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arvind-kejriwal-says-aaps-campaign-to-check-oxygen-levels-can-save-lives-886539.html
12-09-2020||National||Covid-19 had already reduced our earnings, resumption of metro hit it further: Auto-rickshaw drivers||Already reeling under a financial crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic, auto-rickshaw drivers in the national capital say the resumption of metro services has hit their earnings further. They say their business was slow as a large number of people have been working from home, and things have not improved even after a gradual reopening of offices as commuters are taking the metro for their travels. Waiting outside an exit gate of the busy Rajiv Chowk metro station, Jai Mangal, who returned from his village in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur on September 7, said auto-rickshaw drivers have been struggling to find passengers. Mangal says he starts his day around 7 am but, on Saturday, got only three passengers in the seven-eight hours. “It has become difficult to even pay the rent for the auto-rickshaw -- Rs 250 a day,” he said. "We hardly have any work these days. Now that metro services have resumed, it is even more difficult to find passengers. All I have earned today is Rs 300. “Of this Rs 300, I need to pay Rs 250 as rent for the vehicle. I hardly have anything left at the end of the day," he said. Mangal, the only bread-earner in his family, has a rented accommodation on the Asif Ali Marg and he pays Rs 3,500 for it. “When the lockdown was announced, I had nothing to eat for three days. So, I left for my village along with others. It took us nearly three days to reach there. I didn't want to return, but I had to, since I'm the only bread-earner in my family," he said. Another auto-rickshaw driver, Shailesh Kumar, a resident of Khajuri Khas, said the re-opening of metro services have hit their earnings severely. "At least earlier, we got passengers since there were no other mode of transportation. People were hardly stepping outside due to the pandemic. But when offices started re-opening, we started getting passengers from Connaught Place here as they opted to commute via autos over buses for various reasons. “So, if our income was not very handsome, we at least had a decent earning from them. But now that metros have started again, people are opting the metro," he said, adding he has hardly got any passenger during the day. Another auto-rickshaw driver, Shyam Prakash, a resident of Karawal Nagar, said that at least during lockdown, passengers preferred auto for long-distance rides but now with metro back, they hardly get five-six passengers a day. In a hope to find another passenger at Connaught place, Amrit Kumar, a resident of Seelampur, said he has rented the autorickshaw for Rs. 250 per day and all that he has earned since morning is Rs 60 from his first ride to Karol Bagh. "It's been extremely tough for us. We wait for hours here only to get passengers but we hardly find any. All I have earned since morning is Rs.60 but as the day progress, we hope to find more passengers but then most of the passengers prefer autos for short-distance rides," he said. Mohan Kumar Singh, another auto-rickshaw driver said that even though markets have re-opened, eateries and shops are functional, there is not much business happening since they don't have customers. "Unless people step out for shopping or sightseeing, how will their business run? Connaught Place used to be crowded at one point of time especially during weekends. Now, with metro services in place, people have slowly started stepping out but then our earnings have gone for a toss because of the metro," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-had-already-reduced-our-earnings-resumption-of-metro-hit-it-further-auto-rickshaw-drivers-886541.html
12-09-2020||National||Judges are being made soft targets for criticism: N V Ramana||A Supreme Court judge, Justice N V Ramana on Saturday expressed his concern over the growing trend to make judges soft target for criticism as they have to observe self-restraint and cannot go on to defend themselves. "As judges are self-restrained from speaking out in their own defense, they are now being construed as soft targets for criticism. The proliferation of social media and technology has further complicated this trend," he said. Ramana, next in line to be the Chief Justice of India, said judges have become subject to juicy gossip. He said, "There seems to be a misunderstanding that judges lead a life of luxury in their ivory towers. That is not true. Judges have to balance their social lives in order to be independent." Justice Ramana was speaking here in a virtual function, held at the launch of a book 'Judiciary, Judges Administration of Justice' by former SC judge, Justice R Banumathi.  His remarks were supported by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, who said that freedom of speech of the judges is curtailed by the same laws that uphold the freedom for others who use it to criticise the judiciary and judges. "All judges right from the district judiciary, do the same job - deliver justice. And it is not an easy job. Judges are called upon to do things that others avoid doing," Justice Bobde said, referring to David Pannick, a leading barrister in the United Kingdom.  The CJI also announced that the Supreme Court has taken an initiative for helping restore mental health and provide advice.  He said Covid-19 pandemic has brought forth uncomfortable prediction about the suicide pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judges-are-being-made-soft-targets-for-criticism-n-v-ramana-886544.html
12-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Lalu Prasad, Hemant Soren to fight Bihar polls together; DGCA warns airlines against repeating mid-air chaos||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, DGCA warns airlines against repeating mid-air chaos; ahead of NEET exam, a 19-year-old medical aspirant died of alleged suicide; Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren meets RJD president Lalu Prasad and said they will fight Bihar polls together.    Here are the top news of today, Saturday: September 12, 2020: Cracking the whip, the civil aviation regulator on Saturday warned airlines that a repeat of the mid-air chaos witnessed on the Chandigarh-Mumbai IndiGo flight could lead to suspension of operations on the sector for two weeks. "...it has been decided that from now on any such violation occurs on any such scheduled passenger aircraft – the schedule of the flight for that particular route shall be suspended for a period of two weeks ... and shall be restored only after the airline has taken all the necessary punitive action against those responsible for the violation," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said in an order. The DGCA had issued a notice to IndiGo airlines for the unruly scenes onboard the Chandigarh-Mumbai flight on Wednesday that ferried actor Kangana Ranaut and a posse of media personnel. IndiGo had responded to the DGCA that its cabin crew on the aircraft in question had followed all the requisite protocols and documented the matter in the post-flight report. However, the DGCA reminded the airlines of Rule 13 of the Aircraft Rules that state “no person shall take any photograph except in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of permission in writing granted by the Director-General, a Joint Director General, a Deputy Director-General or the Director of Regulations and Information of the Civil Aviation Department.”   Kerala on Saturday witnessed widespread violent protests by various opposition parties and their youth wings demanding the resignation of state Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel who was quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate officials on Friday. Several workers, including BJP state spokesperson B Gopalakrishnan, were injured in police action against the protests in front of the state secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram. Protest marches were staged in all districts by Congress, Youth Congress, BJP and Yuva Morcha workers. While Jaleel is maintaining a silence over the row, the opposition parties came up with fresh allegations. Congress alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is protecting Jaleel as he could have also received illegal benefits through Jaleel. Hence the government has lost moral responsibility to continue to be in power, said the Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala   A 19-year-old medical aspirant died of alleged suicide here on Saturday, apparently 'apprehensive' over the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET), police said. The victim, identified as Jothisri Durga, was found hanging at her residence and a purported suicide note left behind by her said she was 'apprehensive' though others had high 'hopes' on her, they said. The death, which comes days after another medical aspirant in Ariyalur in the state also allegedly committed suicide, drew sharp responses from Tamil Nadu political parties opposed to NEET, even as Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam of the ruling AIADMK expressed shock over the incident. DMK President M K Stalin said NEET "is not an exam at all." Taking to Twitter, Palaniswami expressed grief over the "sad" incident and said students have many avenues to taste success and them resorting to such extreme steps was distressing. Over 15 lakh candidates are expected to appear in medical entrance exam NEET on Sunday which will be conducted amid strict precautions in view of the COVID1-9 pandemic, according to officials of the National Testing Agency (NTA). In order to maintain social distancing, the NTA has increased the number of exam centres from originally-planned 2,546 to 3,843, while the number of candidates per room has been reduced from earlier 24 to 12.   The crucial National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), which is a pen and paper based test unlike engineering entrance exam JEE, has already been deferred twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26, and then to September 13. A total of 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the exam.   Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren met RJD president Lalu Prasad in RIMS here Saturday and said they will fight Bihar polls together. Soren spent more than an hour with Prasad at RIMS Director's bungalow, where the RJD leader is staying. Coming out of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Soren told reporters, "we will fight Bihar elections together." He said the former Bihar chief minister's health is better now. RJD is a partner in the coalition government headed by Soren in Jharkhand. Besides JMM, the Congress is also part of the government in the state. Asked on how many seats the JMM will field its candidates in Bihar where polls are due in October-November, Soren said "wait for some more time to know who will enter the poll fray from where." It may be noted that JMM had recently demanded 12 seats in Bihar under Grand Alliance. But, the RJD which heads the opposition grouping there, had indicated that it would spare not more than 2-3 seats to the Jharkhand based regional party.  Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday held a crucial meeting with BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda on seat-sharing among the NDA alliance partners for the assembly elections in the state. Nadda, who was accompanied by party colleagues like Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, national general secretary and state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav and state president Sanjay Jaiswal, called on Kumar at his official residence 1, Anney Marg. The JD(U) national president, who was accompanied by key party aide Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan, accorded a warm welcome to Nadda, who hails from Himachal Pradesh but was born and brought up in Patna. At the meeting which lasted for more than half an hour, the leaders of the two parties are understood to have discussed the key issue of seat-sharing among alliance partners in the NDA, which also includes Ram Vilas Paswans Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The BJP leadership is also understood to have assured Kumar that it will intervene and iron out the differences that have of late cropped up between the JD(U) and the LJP on account of the belligerent stance adopted by the latters young president Chirag Paswan.   Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-lalu-prasad-hemant-soren-to-fight-bihar-polls-together-dgca-warns-airlines-against-repeating-mid-air-chaos-886545.html
12-09-2020||National||Kolkata youth poses as a member of Dawood's gang, threatens Maharashtra's top political leaders||The recent threat calls to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut had set the police and security forces to a tizzy. However, now it has emerged that all the calls were made by a Kolkata-based youth Palash Bose, a gym instructor, who threatened the leaders posing as a member of the Dawood Ibrahim syndicate. He has been arrested by the Anti-Terrorism Squad of Maharashtra in an operation with the help of Kolkata police and is being brought to Mumbai on a transit remand. The operation was carried out by a team of officers and men led by police inspector Daya  Nayak of ATS Juhu Unit and comprised assistant police inspectors Dashrath Vitkar and Sachin Patil, and police constable Dhiraj  Rane. “On the basis of information, the team conducted a  discreet operation with the help of  Kolkata Police and arrested the accused.  He was found in possession of two mobile handsets,  one Indian SIM, and three international SIM cards. During the preliminary interrogation, the accused has admitted to have committed the said offence,” ATS officials said. The accused is a science graduate and was working in Dubai for more than 15 years. “His linkages are being enquired into. He has also admitted to have issued similar threats using the overseas mobile SIM crads to the landline telephone numbers of Thackeray, Pawar, Deshmukh and Raut,” the officials said. After these calls, Deshmukh has asked the Maharashtra police to filter out the source of these calls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-youth-poses-as-a-member-of-dawoods-gang-threatens-maharashtras-top-political-leaders-886565.html
12-09-2020||National||India, ASEAN review strategic ties; adopt new five-year plan of action||India and the 10-nation ASEAN on Saturday carried out a comprehensive review of their strategic partnership in a range of areas, including maritime cooperation, and adopted a new five-year plan of action to further boost overall ties. The two sides also exchanged views on important regional and international developments and discussed ways to strengthen cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, at an ASEAN-India virtual meeting, officials said. It was co-chaired by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Thai counterpart Don Pramudwinai. Foreign ministers of all ASEAN member countries attend the meeting, the Ministry of External Affairs said. The 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is considered one of the most influential groupings in the region, and India and several other countries including the US, China, Japan and Australia are its dialogue partners. The meeting took place at a time when China is expanding its military aggressiveness in the South China Sea and is locked in a bitter border row with India in eastern Ladakh. It is not immediately known whether these issues figured in the deliberations or not. A number of ASEAN member countries are engaged in territorial disputes with Beijing in the South China Sea. "The meeting reviewed the status of ASEAN-India strategic partnership in several areas including maritime cooperation, connectivity, education & capacity building and people-to-people contacts," the MEA said. It said the meeting also reviewed the progress in implementation of the ASEAN-India plan of action (2016-2020) and adopted a new plan of action for the next five years. The plan of action provides for deepening cooperation in an array of areas including trade, investment and people-to-people contact. "The meeting also reviewed the preparations for the upcoming 17th ASEAN-India summit and also the progress in the implementation of key decisions of the leaders of ASEAN member states and India arrived at the 16th ASEAN-India Summit held in Bangkok in November 2019 and the previous summits," the MEA said. It said the ministers discussed ways to strengthen cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and exchanged views on important regional and international developments. The ties between India and ASEAN have been on an upswing. The ASEAN region along with India together comprises a combined population of 1.85 billion people, which is one-fourth of the global population, and their combined GDP has been estimated at over USD 3.8 trillion. Investment from ASEAN to Indian has been over USD 70 billion in the last 17 years accounting for more than 17 per cent of India's total FDI. ASEAN member countries are Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asean-review-strategic-ties-adopt-new-five-year-plan-of-action-886567.html
12-09-2020||National||5 Delhi boys score 100 percentile in JEE-Main||Five students from the national capital have scored 100 percentile in the JEE-Mains exam which was conducted earlier this month after being postponed twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The result for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Mains was declared late night on Friday. The top scorers from Delhi are Chirag Falor, Gurkirat Singh, Laksh Gupta, Nishant Aggarwal and Tushar Sethi. They are among the 24 candidates who have scored 100 percentile in the crucial exam. Laksh Gupta, who wants to study at IIT Delhi, said the delay in the exam due to coronavirus made him anxious. "The multiple rescheduling of the exam made me anxious but it also gave me time to prepare more. Rescheduling exams any further would have proved to be disturbing for aspirants," Gupta said. Chirag Falor, who scored 99.98 percentile in the January attempt at JEE, has scored 100 percentile this time. "My preparations were completely through. The delay did make me anxious but I would have been demotivated if the year had gone to waste due to the virus," he said. Laksh Gupta, who wants to study at IIT Bombay and then join administrative services, said, "I want to give my hundred per cent to whatever I do. I definitely got more opportunity to strengthen concepts and practice more as exams were getting delayed." The exam for admission to engineering colleges was conducted from September 1 to 6, amid stringent precautions and social distancing measures due to Covid-19. Staggered entry and exit for candidates, sanitisers at the gate, distribution of masks and maintaining distance as candidates queued up, were among the scenes witnessed at the exam centres across the country. A total of 8.58 lakh candidates registered for the JEE-Mains exam for admission to engineering courses in IITs, NITs and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs) while only 74 per cent of them appeared for the exam. Increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit were among the steps taken by the National Testing Agency for safely conducting the crucial exam. Based on the results of the JEE-Mains Paper 1 and Paper 2, the top 2.45 lakh candidates will be eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam, which is a one-stop exam to get admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). JEE-Advanced is scheduled to take place on September 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-delhi-boys-score-100-percentile-in-jee-main-886586.html
12-09-2020||National||NGT directs CPCB to fine Amazon, Flipkart, other companies for excessive plastic packaging||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to conduct environmental audit and recover fine from e-commerce firms Amazon, Flipkart and some beverages firms for violation of environmental norms in handling plastic waste generated by them. The Principal Bench of Green Tribunal headed by its chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel observed that  the statutory regulators were not taking coercive measures, including invoking of “polluter pays” principle for enforcing the statutory norms against the e-commerce firms. The green panel passed this order after hearing a petition filed by 16-year-old boy Aditya Dubey, who has approached the tribunal to stop e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart from excessive plastic use in their packaging. Dubey, through his legal guardian, has pleaded the NGT to direct Amazon and Flipkart to stop excessive use of plastic in packaging the goods delivered by the firms. While asking the member secretary, CPCB to present during the hearing on the next date through video conferencing the bench said, “A report has been filed by the CPCB, which again mentions one or other reasons for not enforcing the law but does not mention the coercive measures adopted either directly by the CPCB or in coordination with the state pollution control boards." “The CPCB can also consider ordering environmental audit against the concerned entities and assess and recover compensation for violation of environmental norms, following due process of law,” the bench said. The tribunal sought an action taken report in the matter before October 14, the next date by email. The CPCB has earlier told the NGT that e-commerce giants need to fulfil their extended producer responsibility under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, and need to establish a system for collecting back the plastic waste generated due to the packaging of their products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-cpcb-to-fine-amazon-flipkart-other-companies-for-excessive-plastic-packaging-886587.html
12-09-2020||National||Indian transport vehicles to have more safety features||Aiming to provide international standards of safety measures in transport vehicles, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways is in the process of finalising the implementation of standards for Electronic Stability Control systems (ESC) and brake assist systems for cars by next two years. "The notification of ESC for buses has been issued last year. A draft notification has also been issued for electronic stability control systems for buses, which is likely to be brought into force by April 2023. The government working on to implement a higher level of safety for all categories of vehicles, " said a statement from the Ministry. ESC and Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB) are safety features which can prevent an accident. ESC is an anti-skid technology that corrects the slide by reducing engine torque and braking individual wheels. AEB will continuously monitor the road and automatically applies the brakes if the driver fails to do in a possible crash situation. The Ministry also said it has identified certain priority areas for international standardisation in this field. These include the tyre pressure monitoring system, if fitted for certain categories of vehicles, which is likely to come into force by October, the statement added. The standards for vehicle dimensions and safety of construction equipment vehicles have been notified. Similarly, notifications have already been issued for side stands, footrests and external projections of two-wheelers. These will come into force soon, the statement added. The Ministry has already notified a number of regulations for upgrading emission and safety features in Indian automobiles. These include the draft notifications for anti-lock braking systems, airbags, speed alert systems, reverse parking assist and crash standards, the statement added. To reduce the fatalities in road accidents, the government has been implementing more safety features in vehicles. With India on an average witnessing about 5 lakh road accidents per annum in which about 1.5 lakh people die and about 3 lakh are crippled, there is a pressure on the government to take steps to reduce the accidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-transport-vehicles-to-have-more-safety-features-886589.html
12-09-2020||National||Ensure Covid-19 patients not denied beds, get prompt treatment: Health ministry to private hospitals||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday urged private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment to ensure that patients, afflicted with the viral disease, are not denied beds and they get prompt care. The ministry, in collaboration with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and AIIMS, New Delhi, at a virtual conclave with private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment emphasised the collective goal must be to have a health system that is available, affordable and accessible to all. During the meeting, the importance of timely treatment of comorbid patients to reduce fatality was stressed upon. Hospitals were encouraged to protect healthcare workers by adopting all practices on infection prevention and control and keep the staff motivated, the health ministry said. Hospitals were also asked to ensure seamless admission of patients. The importance of evidence-based treatment protocols and reducing heterogeneity in treatment of Covid-19 patients was also underscored, it said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan inaugurated the virtual conference. "He reiterated the government's resolve to ensure that Covid-19 patients must not be denied beds and must be provided prompt treatment," the health ministry said. "The collective goal must be to have a health system that is available, affordable and accessible to all. He highlighted that the aim of the Centre along with the states and Union Territories is to achieve a mortality rate of less than one per cent," the ministry said. The conclave was organised to provide a platform for discussion on clinical protocols and best practices in Covid-19 management towards reducing avoidable deaths. According to the ministry, while Covid-19 has posed unprecedented challenges to the country's healthcare systems, there have been proactive responses from the government as well as the private industry. "The conclave was organised to share the best practices and effective treatment modules being implemented by the public and private sector hospitals in the country." The health ministry also encouraged the hospital representatives to share their key concerns and challenges being faced while managing Covid-19 in their facilities. The best practices included discussion of the teleconsultation sessions conducted by AIIMS, New Delhi, through the e-ICU, Centers of Excellence (CoE) and clinical grand rounds to enhance the clinical management capacities of the ICU doctors in various states and union territories, the ministry said. This, supplemented by various other focussed strategies of containment, prevention, early identification, has resulted in higher recoveries and steadily declining mortality. At the meeting, senior doctors from private hospitals also shared their experiences and challenges about their battle against Covid-19. Concerns about the delayed referral of patients from smaller facilities and financial stress owing to the lack of health insurance were also discussed. The conclave was attended by more than 150 hospital representatives, senior doctors and clinicians from across the country, the ministry said. ICMR Director General Prof Balram Bhargava, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal, FICCI President and Apollo Hospitals Enterprises JMD Dr Sangita Reddy, Chair, FICCI Health Services Committee and Chairman, Medica Group of Hospitals Dr Alok Roy were also present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-covid-19-patients-not-denied-beds-get-prompt-treatment-health-ministry-to-private-hospitals-886597.html
12-09-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan asks SC to allow intra-court appeal in contempt cases||Activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan on Saturday filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking a right of intra-court appeal for a person convicted for criminal contempt by the top court, before a larger and different bench. In a writ petition, Bhushan, who himself was convicted of criminal contempt and fined Re one for his "false, malicious and scurrilous tweets", asked the court to issue directions for framing rules and guidelines in this regard or allow hearing of review petition in case of conviction before open court by a different bench. "As there is an inherent unavoidable conflict of interest and liberty of the alleged contemnor is at stake, it is of utmost importance that certain basic safeguards are designed which would reduce, though not obviate, chances of arbitrary, vengeful and high handed decisions," he said. Bhushan pointed out contempt proceedings are one in which the injured party, i.e. Supreme Court, acts as the prosecutor, the witness and the judge, thereby raising fear of inherent bias.  "As a judge, the power of the Supreme Court to convict and sentence the accused is unlimited and arbitrary. No one can be at once a suitor and a judge. Thus, there is a need for an intra-court appeal," he said. Among other grounds, he said the right of appeal is a fundamental right guaranteed under the Constitution and is also provided under international law.  "This would act as a vital safeguard against wrongful conviction and would truly enable the provision of truth as a defense," his plea said. The lawyer said it would be in the spirit of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 to lay down such a procedure, as in the past, the court framed special rules to deal with cases concerning the death penalty and has also devised special remedy in the nature of ‘curative petition’ against a final judgment of the Supreme Court on certain limited grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-asks-sc-to-allow-intra-court-appeal-in-contempt-cases-886607.html
12-09-2020||National||Ex-Navy officer who was assaulted seeks Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray's apology to him, India||A day after he was assaulted by suspected Shiv Sainiks for allegedly forwarding a cartoon lampooning Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the retired Navy officer on Saturday demanded the CM apologise to him and the country. The retired officer, Madan Sharma, also said Thackeray should quit his post if he was unable to uphold law and order in the state. Sharma was roughed up and slapped at his residential complex in suburban Kandivali on Friday morning. The six accused, who were charged under section 325 of the Indian Penal Code for causing grievous hurt as well as rioting sections, were given bail on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Sharma said, "If something happens to me or my family, I will blame Uddhav Thackeray." Thackeray should quit if he cannot handle the law and order situation in the state, Sharma added. Meanwhile, Sharma got support from the opposition BJP, with senior leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis calling the assault "state-sponsored terrorism". "The chief minister should stop this goonda raj. Due to pressure, the accused were let off in ten minutes," alleged Fadnavis. He was speaking to reporters in Patna in Bihar. Incidentally, joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil had, earlier in the day, refuted allegations of political interference and said the accused were given bail due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. BJP leader Ashish Shelar said his party would protest till the accused are booked under stringent, non-bailable sections of the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-navy-officer-who-was-assaulted-seeks-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackerays-apology-to-him-india-886611.html
12-09-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi leaves for medical check up abroad with Rahul||A day after the AICC reshuffle, Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday left for her annual medical check-up abroad along with her son Rahul Gandhi. Gandhi, 73, is likely to miss out on the entire monsoon session of Parliament that begins on Monday.  Rahul is expected to return after five days to attend Parliament, while Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be by her mother's side. The Congress President is expected to be away for two weeks.   Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi is travelling today onwards for a routine follow up & medical check up, which was deferred due to the pandemic. She is accompanied by Sh. Rahul Gandhi. We take this opportunity to thank everyone for their concern & good wishes. On Friday, Gandhi had re-constitute the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and set up a six-member panel to assist her in the day-to-day functioning of the party. Senior leaders A K Antony, Ahmed Patel, Mukul Wasnik, Ambika Soni, K C Venugopal and Randeep Singh Surjewala are members of the committee. In 2011, Gandhi had undergone surgery for an undisclosed illness at New York's Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Centre. She has been going abroad at regular intervals for a medical check-up since then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-leaves-for-medical-check-up-abroad-with-rahul-886615.html
12-09-2020||National||While Covid-19 cases pile up, people's lack of caution worries government||With India at the door of registering 100,000 fresh cases daily and a million active cases, a big worry for the government is the fatigue among the people in wearing masks and following other safety norms. Opening metro networks and expanding flights and trains have brought more people on the road in Unlock 4.0 as the government allowed more social and economic activities. But a significant number of people have stopped wearing masks and given up on the practice of avoiding crowds. Experts said it was natural for the people to be fatigued after five months of restrictions, but the administration should have anticipated this and prepared IEC (information, education and communication) campaign to tackle such an issue as the benefits of wearing a mask, observing hand hygiene and maintaining a distance from another person are well established.  “IEC is the most neglected part in the Covid-19 campaign. The government should have roped in community-based networks to supplement the mass media as well as to educate and monitor the people,” K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India told DH. Scientific evidence from 10 studies involving 2,647 participants has found benefits of face masks in reducing the transmission risks. The risk of infection or transmission when wearing a mask was 3% as against 17% without a mask. The evidence on face masks is part of a meta-analysis of 170 studies that looked at the importance of behavioural interventions to reduce the risk of the pandemic. Keeping a distance of at least one metre from other people as well as wearing face coverings and eye protection, in and outside of health-care settings, could be the best way to reduce the chance of viral infection or transmission of Covid-19, according to the meta-analysis published in The Lancet in June. “In highly populated areas that have high infection rates— such as USA, India, Brazil, or South Africa— use of masks will probably outweigh any potential downsides,” said another study in Lancet Respiratory Medicine last month. On Saturday, India recorded 97,570 fresh cases taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases to 46.59 lakh. The death toll is 77,472 out of which 1201 was added in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/while-covid-19-cases-pile-up-peoples-lack-of-caution-worries-government-886618.html
12-09-2020||National||India sounds note of caution as Afghanistan Govt starts talks with Taliban in Doha||As the Afghan Government on Saturday formally started negotiations with Taliban, New Delhi sounded a note of caution, stating that the peace-process might not result in reversal of the progress made by the war-torn nation to turn itself into a democratic republic since 2001. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar virtually participated in the ceremony held in Doha to mark the beginning of the formal negotiations between President Ashraf Ghani’s Government in Kabul and the Taliban – notwithstanding growing concerns in New Delhi that the peace-process might result in a strategic advantage for Pakistan.   Jaishankar reiterated India’s position that any peace process in Afghanistan must be “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled” and must respect the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. He also said that the peace-process must preserve the progress made in the establishment of a democratic Islamic Republic in Afghanistan after the fall of Taliban in 2001. The interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society must be preserved, a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi quoted him saying while attending the ceremony virtually. India also sent out a tacit message to Pakistan. The External Affairs Minister saying that peace-process must effectively address “the issue of violence” across conflict-ravaged country and its neighbourhood. New Delhi has been blaming Pakistan of sponsoring terrorism in Afghanistan and India. The terrorists backed by the Pakistan Army targeted India’s interests in Afghanistan. Jaishankar wished for the success of the Intra-Afghan negotiations in delivering to the people of Afghanistan what they have longed for – a peaceful and prosperous future in an independent and sovereign nation. A delegation led by senior diplomat J P Singh, who heads the PAI (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) division at the MEA headquarters, represented the Government of India in the ceremony that marked the beginning of talks in Doha on Saturday. The External Affairs Minister participated in the ceremony on an invitation from Qatar’s Foreign Minister Mohammad bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani. Jaishankar referred to the millennia-old relationship between India and Afghanistan, which, according to him, had withstood the test of time. He highlighted India’s role as a major development partner of Afghanistan with over 400 projects completed in all the 34 provinces of the conflict-ravaged country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sounds-note-of-caution-as-afghanistan-govt-starts-talks-with-taliban-in-doha-886626.html
12-09-2020||National||Video of Sushant Singh Rajput, Rhea Chakraborty smoking goes viral||The death of Sushant Singh Rajput and the subsequent controversy surrounding it have been the talk of the town for quite some time. His live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau for alleged procurement and consumption of drugs. When someone asks Sushant whether the substance they are smoking is Charas or not, the late actor replies that it is 'VFX', indicating the technology used to create visual special effects in films. Rhea explains that it is a 'rolled cigarette'. The person who is shooting the video can be heard saying that they are smoking herbal sticks, and again Sushant jokingly replies that it is 'VFX'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-of-sushant-singh-rajput-rhea-chakraborty-smoking-goes-viral-886637.html
12-09-2020||National||Covid-19: PMO asks Health Ministry for district-level health action plan||The Prime Minister’s Office on Saturday asked the Union Health Ministry to prepare “district-level health action” plans for Covid-19 as the possibility of the coronavirus spreading to the countryside looms large. For long, public health specialists have asked the government to focus on the districts as scientific understanding of the transmission of the epidemic there is the key to contain the pandemic in rural India. But the districts remain neglected. At a high-level review meeting, Principal Secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, PK Mishra flagged the need for “district health action plans” for long term management of various aspects of Covid-19. The PMO official asked all departments to work out a detailed action plan on the Covid-19 front for the coming months with scientific evidence mounting that the coronavirus is here to stay for some time. “The need for continuously upgrading and augmenting human resources, getting the right mix of testing for effective case management, contact tracing and isolation, uninterrupted oxygen supply and other medical equipment, were all discussed at length,” said a statement issued by the Health Ministry.  Availability of oxygen has emerged as a critical issue last week with the demand overtaking supply and some of the states issuing orders preventing medical oxygen manufacturers to stop supplying the life-saving gas outside the state. With more than 35,000 Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen in various hospitals, the Union Health Secretary wrote to the state governments requesting them not to stop the inter-state movement of medical oxygen. “Medical oxygen constitutes an Essential Public Health Commodity and any impediment in the supplies of medical oxygen in the country may critically impact the management of patients suffering from Covid-19 disease in other parts of the country. Moreover, some of the major oxygen manufacturers/supplies already have existing supply agreements with hospitals in various states with a legal obligation to fulfil such agreements,” he wrote. Earlier this week, the Maharashtra government issued an order stopping the supply of medical oxygen to Madhya Pradesh. Mishra reminded the departments the need for continuous focus on informing the people of the need to maintain two-meter distance, use of mask and handwash.  “A behaviour change campaign will again be taken up to re-emphasize that unlocking does not mean lowering our guard against infection.  The need to unlock, work and still follow the non-pharmacological preventive measures was strongly recommended,” the Ministry statement noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pmo-asks-health-ministry-for-district-level-health-action-plan-886649.html
12-09-2020||National||Will resume Covid-19 vaccine trials after DCGI nod: Serum Institute||Serum Institute of India will resume clinical trials of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine candidate after getting the permission from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), the Pune-based vaccine maker said on Saturday. Pharma giant AstraZeneca on Saturday said that clinical trials for the AstraZeneca Oxford coronavirus vaccine, AZD1222, have resumed in the UK following confirmation by the Medicines Health Regulatory Authority (MHRA) that the trials were safe. "Once DCGI will give us the permission to restart the trials in India, we will resume the trials," Serum Institute of India (SII) said in a statement. In a tweet, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said: "As I'd mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events is a clear example why we should not bias the process and should respect the process till the end. Good news, @UniofOxford." The human trials resumed days after a pause had been announced in the trials after an adverse reaction in one of the participants. Following the suspension, the DCGI directed Serum Institute of India to suspend till further orders new recruitment in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the vaccine candidate. AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, as the trial sponsor, on Saturday said that they cannot disclose further medical information but confirmed that independent investigations concluded that the trials were safe to restart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-resume-covid-19-vaccine-trials-after-dcgi-nod-serum-institute-886657.html
12-09-2020||National||Bar Association of India seeks speedy access to justice, legal aid package||The Bar Association of India on Saturday said that more than five months of raging Covid-19 pandemic has put the justice delivery system under severe strain, warranting special measures for speedy access to justice and legal aid package. It passed a resolution, saying that prevailing economic distress has severely impacted the financial capacity of citizens to avail legal remedies.  "As such it is an immediate need of the hour that a special access to justice and legal aid package is devised and implemented. Such a package should allot legal aid cases to lawyers undergoing financial distress due to the pandemic," Honorary General Secretary Anandita Pujari informed in a statement. The resolution also noted that the limited functioning of courts has imposed grave restrictions on the meaningful exercise of legal and fundamental rights of the citizens. "A robust and fully functional justice delivery system is the bedrock of democratic governance and lies at the foundation of the Rule of Law. At the same time restoration of full functioning of courts at various levels requires immediate attention," it said. Meanwhile, results of the election of the office bearers of Executive Committee of Bar Association of India for 2020 – 2022 were announced on Saturday. Advocate Prashant Kumar was elected as President and senior advocates Gopal Subramanium, Shyam Divan, S S Nagananda, A S Chandhiok and Mohan V Katarki among others as Vice Presidents. The annual general meeting of the 21st Governing Council of the Bar Association of India was held on virtual platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bar-association-of-india-seeks-speedy-access-to-justice-legal-aid-package-886660.html
12-09-2020||National||Process to elect next party president set in motion: Cong||The Congress on Saturday said that Sonia Gandhi has made organisational changes after authorisation from the party's working committee and has set in motion the process of election of the next party president by constituting an election authority. Asked about the organisational changes made by Gandhi and the subsequent reported statements by some leaders who had written to her over party reforms, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said he had not seen a single statement by any Congress leader on the issue and cannot comment on that. On whether the organisational changes had Rahul Gandhi's imprint, he said Rahul Gandhi was unanimously elected in an AICC session, but post the 2019 verdict he chose to take moral responsibility and resigned. "Crores and crores of Congress workers and unanimously all leaders including the ones that you mentioned in the meeting of the CWC expressed complete confidence in the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and in fact some of them urged him to take over as Congress president," he said at an online press conference. However, he said, it was not for him to comment on the issue at this juncture "for Congress president Sonia Gandhi has constituted an election authority and has set the process of election of the President in motion". On being pressed further on the issue, Surjewala recalled Sonia Gandhi's remarks where she had said that "'our job is to fight the Modi government and its anti-people policies and not fight with each other' and all of us are working towards that single minded goal, like Arjuna used to only look at the eye of the fish". To queries on the organisational changes made by Sonia Gandhi, he said change is part of a continuous process and in one voice the Congress Working Committee had decided that she should make all organisational changes afresh, based on which she made these changes. "A lot of new people have got a chance, many old people of the party have got a chance, a lot of colleagues who were already there have got more strength to continue serving the organisation," he said. In a major organisational reshuffle, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday dropped Ghulam Nabi Azad, Motilal Vora, Ambika Soni and Mallikarjun Kharge as AICC general secretaries, reconstituted the CWC and appointed P Chidambaram, Randeep Surjewala, Tariq Anwar and Jitendra Singh as its regular members. Gandhi also formed a six-member special committee to assist her in organisational matters, apart from reconstituting the central election authority of the AICC with Madhusudan Mistry as its chairman, Rajesh Misra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely as its members. Gandhi, 73, left for the United States on Saturday for a routine medical check-up, sources close to her said. She would return in the last week of September and would miss more than half of the Monsoon Session of Parliament. She is accompanied by Rahul Gandhi, who is expected to return within a week, they said. Her medical check-up was overdue and was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the sources said. She had cleared the Congress' organisational restructuring before departing for her medical check-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/process-to-elect-next-party-president-set-in-motion-cong-886661.html
12-09-2020||National||Media more focused on TRP ratings, less bothered about facts: Legal experts||The influence of the Indian news media on criminal investigations and trials was on Saturday severely criticised by legal experts, most of whom said that the fourth estate was more focused on gaining TRP ratings and revenue, and less bothered about facts of a case. However, one of the experts while agreeing that there were many cons to media trial of cases, said this situation has arisen due to the public's lack of faith in the other three estates of the society -- legislature, executive and the judiciary. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Harish Salve and Abhishek Manu Singhvi were of the view that the media was more focused on sensationalising an event and less bothered about distortion of facts and how it influences an investigation or trial of a case. While agreeing with his colleagues that rules and limits of sub judice have been crossed by the media, senior advocate C A Sundaram said that the public was accepting the fourth estate and following it as the people had lost faith in the other three estates. "I want to play the devil's advocate. I heard everyone on how the media should behave. What about the other three estates? The point I want to make today is who is responsible for this?  "If you had the first, second and third estates (legislature, executive and judiciary) behaving perfectly, the fourth estate would not be able to convert public opinion. Public opinion is listening to the fourth estate because of the failure of the other estates," Sundaram said. He said that if the other institutions are improved, then the media will not be able to portray itself as the court of public opinion as it is doing now. All four of the senior advocates were speaking at the 1st Ram Jethmalani Memorial Lecture, organised by NewsX, where the topic of discussion was 'Pros and Cons of Media Trials'. Speaking at the event via video conference, Sibal said the media looks at discovery of facts as a way to earn TRPs and to gain more audience, and they bother less about credibility and source. He said he believed the problem lies in the fact that most of the media houses are controlled by business people with deep economic interest in the society and is of the opinion that media houses should be standalone businesses. Sibal, who claimed that the investigating agencies are already working in tandem with the government, said the media try to sensationalise the event, even if they take to distorting the facts and can make a hero turn into a villain in no time at all. He said media influences the investigators which has been seen happening recently in Mumbai, in an apparent reference to the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, with respect to certain people in Bollywood being now persecuted and prosecuted by agencies. He said with the entry of social media, the situation has nosedived further and today the media has reincarnated itself into a public court. Salve also referred to the ongoing media coverage in Sushant Singh's death case and said it would scare anybody who has practiced law, who is familiar with how the criminal justice system works and who is concerned about how the criminal justice system should be. Salve said the atmosphere today is not conducive to the rule of law and it is the single biggest impediment to India's growth story and has also become one of the biggest negatives of Indian democracy. He said in cases where justice fails because of political interference or poor evidence or police apathy,the media takes up the cause and renders great service to the rule of law. However, the problem is when the media becomes a parallel system of rule of noise and when the rule of noise starts displacing the rule of law. "Indian criminal justice system in high profile cases has become a circus... and I don't think the media believes in any such thing called the law of evidence," he said, adding that trial by a judge through rule of evidence has been replaced by trial of embarrassment. "In India nobody is willing to have a hard look as to what ails our system. The media is baying for blood because there is an allegation of wrongdoing. So what does the investigating agency do, they give media false leaks, the accused is arrested, the bloodletting stops and the case falls," he said. He also criticised court-monitored investigations, saying they have completely destroyed the rule of law in India. Singhvi, in his speech, said, "Indian news has plummeted in the wrong direction of the equation between sense and sensationalism, between news and noise, between civility and chaos, and I would say between balance and extremism". He said the time may not be too far off when we would have to "invent new offences of verbal terrorism, visual extremism, content fundamentalism". "Undoubtedly, this has a lot to do with the toxic triangle of viewership, ratings gained and revenue," he said. He claimed that "many (journalists) have mortgaged their calling, their training, and their consciousness to the lure of temporary wealth, power and property". "They have done this by becoming spokespersons of ideologies, of viewpoints, of persons, of authorities, of vested interest lobbies. But by and large this disease has not become the rule and remains the exception," he said. He further said that the media plays the role of a judge, jury, prosecutor and persecutor all rolled into one, because this is the best way to whip up a frenzy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-more-focused-on-trp-ratings-less-bothered-about-facts-legal-experts-886683.html
12-09-2020||National||Rajnath Singh speaks to ex-Navy officer who was attacked in Mumbai||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said he spoke to the retired naval officer who was attacked by "hooligans" in Mumbai, and termed the incident as "completely unacceptable and deplorable". Madan Sharma, the former Indian Navy officer, was assaulted on Friday in the Kandivali area of Mumbai allegedly by a group of workers of Maharashtra's ruling Shiv Sena for forwarding on social media a cartoon mocking Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. "Spoke to retired naval officer, Shri Madan Sharma who was attacked by hooligans in Mumbai and enquired about his health. Such attacks on Ex-Servicemen are completely unacceptable and deplorable. I wish Madanji a speedy recovery," the defence minister tweeted. Six persons were arrested in the case and later granted bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-speaks-to-ex-navy-officer-who-was-attacked-in-mumbai-886690.html
12-09-2020||National Politics||Congress launches campaign for Madhya Pradesh assembly bypolls||The Congress in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday kicked off its campaign for 27 Assembly bypolls with state unit president Kamal Nath offering prayers at famous Baglamukhi temple at Nalkheda in Agar Malwa district. Nath was accompanied by MLAs Sajjan Singh Verma and Jaivardhan Singh, who had earlier served as ministers in the erstwhile Congress-led government. "We opened our campaign by offering prayers at the temple for prosperous Madhya Pradesh," said state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta. Nath also addressed a public meeting in support of Congress nominee from Agar (SC) constituency, Vipin Wankhede. The Agar byelection became necessary due to the death of sitting BJP MLA Manohar Untwal who had defeated Wankhede in the 2018 assembly elections. The Congress had on Friday announced names of 15 candidates for the bypolls, whose schedule is yet to be announced. Meanwhile, the ruling BJP said it would launch campaign once the Election Commission announces a formal schedule for the bypolls. "We are going to announce our candidates and formally launch our election campaign after the schedule for the 27 seats is announced," said Madhya Pradesh chief BJP spokesman Dipak Vijayvargiya. The 27 seats fell vacant following resignation of 25 MLAs of the Congress over the last five months and the death of two legislators earlier. While 22 of the 25 legislators exited then Kamal Nath government and joined the BJP in March this year under the leadership of Jyotiraditya Scindia, leading to its collapse, three more MLAs resigned later and joined the saffron party. Two seats had fallen vacant after deaths of sitting MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-launches-campaign-for-madhya-pradesh-assembly-bypolls-886450.html
12-09-2020||National Politics||Hemant Soren meets Lalu Prasad Yadav, says will fight Bihar Assembly polls together||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren met RJD president Lalu Prasad in RIMS here Saturday and said they will fight Bihar polls together. Soren spent more than an hour with Prasad at RIMS Director's bungalow, where the RJD leader is staying. Coming out of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Soren told reporters, "we will fight Bihar elections together." He said the former Bihar Chief Minister's health is better now. RJD is a partner in the coalition government headed by Soren in Jharkhand. Besides JMM, the Congress is also part of the government in the state. Asked on how many seats the JMM will field its candidates in Bihar where polls are due in October-November, Soren said "wait for some more time to know who will enter the poll fray from where." It may be noted that JMM had recently demanded 12 seats in Bihar under Grand Alliance. But, the RJD which heads the opposition grouping there, had indicated that it would spare not more than 2-3 seats to the Jharkhand based regional party. The Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) in Bihar consists of RJD, Congress, RLSP of former union minister Upendra Kushwaha and VIP of Bollywood setdesigner Mukesh Sahani. The RJD supremo who is convicted in four cases of multi crore rupees fodder scam in Bihar is lodged in jail in Ranchi. On health ground he was shifted to RIMS. Recently in the wake of his attendants testing positive, Prasad was moved to the Director's bungalow from the private ward of the state-run hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hemant-soren-meets-lalu-prasad-yadav-says-will-fight-bihar-assembly-polls-together-886497.html
12-09-2020||National Politics||Digvijaya Singh, Salman Khurshid and Tariq Anwar: The comeback men in Congress rejig||With the Congress effecting a major rejig ahead of internal polls for a new chief, political pundits feel the entire exercise is as much about stamping Rahul Gandhi's authority as it is about a careful balancing act done through the return of stalwarts like Digvijaya Singh, Salman Khurshid and Tariq Anwar along with cutting down to the size of several dissenting voices. Political observers also feel these organisational changes may not quell the simmering dissent completely and it remains to be seen whether the country's grand-old party eventually heads for a split, as those having sought large-scale reforms have been craftily divided -- a few have been co-opted, some have been given time to make up their minds and the rest have been left out in the cold. Several leaders and observers are of the opinion that some old-timers might have been brought back in the organisational fold to counter the 'Group of 23', who had written to interim president Sonia Gandhi seeking urgent organisational overhaul, including an active and full-time leadership. But, not many of them were not willing to be quoted for their views, citing the 'sensitivity' involved in talking about 'the family' matters. The massive organisational shake-up is also being seen as having a dominant Rahul Gandhi imprint with Randeep Singh Surjewala and Jitendra Singh, both considered to be close to the former party chief, becoming new general secretaries along with the veteran Anwar. Even the reconstituted 'Central Election Authority' has a Rahul Gandhi stamp on it with his loyalist Madhusudan Mistry heading it and Krishna Byre Gowda and S Jothimani becoming its members. Though several leaders such as Pawan Kumar Bansal and Rajeev Shukla, who are former Union ministers but did not have any significant assignments in the party till recently, have also made a comeback of sorts as AICC in-charges, the party watchers feel the big comeback has been of Singh, Anwar and Khurshid. Singh, once considered a close confidante of Rahul Gandhi, was dropped by him from the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party's highest decision-making body, in 2018 ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. Singh, who has been brought back into the CWC as a permanent invitee, seems to have won back the confidence of Gandhis in the aftermath of Jyotiraditya Scindia's exit from the party. He had also openly backed Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi amid rumblings over the leadership issue. Another interesting inclusion is that of Khurshid as a permanent invitee in the CWC along with that of Jairam Ramesh, who was recently appointed convenor of a five-member committee formed to discuss and formulate the party's stand on key ordinances promulgated by the government. Khurshid, known to be among leaders considered close to the Gandhi family, did not have any significant party assignment after his Lok Sabha poll defeat from Farrukhabad. However, his steadfast support for the Gandhi family's leadership seems to have worked in his favour. Asserting that there was no urgency to have an elected Congress president, Khurshid had recently told PTI that he "can't see the heavens falling" for the need of a party chief as Sonia Gandhi was still at the helm and should be the one to decide on the leadership issue. Khurshid had also said he would not have signed the letter even if he was approached by the group of 23 letter writers. He was also named in the party's manifesto committee for Uttar Pradesh earlier this week. Another dramatic comeback to the top echelons of AICC is of Anwar, who has been made general secretary in-charge of Kerala and Lakshdweep. In 1999, Anwar had raised the banner of revolt against Sonia Gandhi along with party stalwarts Sharad Pawar and PA Sangma on the issue of her foreign origin. Nineteen years later, Anwar returned to the Congress in 2018 after being with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) all along. After about two years of his return, Anwar has returned to AICC headquarters where he wielded enormous power in the 1990s. Rasheed Kidwai, senior journalist and writer of the book "24 Akbar Road", said the three leaders seem to have been brought in as a counterbalance to the letter writers. "It has been a very crafty act (by Sonia Gandhi). With a single stroke, she has dismantled this whole group of dissenters. The letter writers are now divided into three categories -- those who have been co-opted, those who have been given time to make up their minds and the ones who have been left out in the cold," Kidwai he told PTI. She has comprehensively outmaneuvered the dissenters, Kidwai said. Sanjay Kumar, Director at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, also echoed Kidwai's views, saying that Singh, Khurshid and Anwar have benefitted from the letter issue. "At least two of them -- Singh and Khurshid -- are very strong Gandhi family loyalists. They (Gandhis) would not like to take a chance after the letter and, therefore, have brought in these loyalists whose loyalty cannot be questioned," he told PTI. Kumar, however, opined that the move to bring about organisational changes may not quell the dissent completely and Congress was likely to head for a split. While there are some comebacks in the rejig, a careful balancing act and striking of a conciliatory note is also visible. On one hand, Azad has been stripped of his post of general secretary, on the other he along with Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada have retained their CWC spots. Prasada and Wasnik have also got a leg up in terms of responsibilities with the former having been made AICC in-charge of West Bengal and the latter being named to the six-member special committee to assist Sonia Gandhi in organisational matters. However, many of the 23 letter writers seem to have been ignored and their future remains uncertain. The likes of Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and M Veerappa Moily have not been given any assignment, though they many within the party and outside feel these leaders have a wealth of talent and experience behind them and have held charge of important ministries during the UPA rule at the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/digvijaya-singh-salman-khurshid-and-tariq-anwar-the-comeback-men-in-congress-rejig-886498.html
12-09-2020||National Politics||BJP confident of blunting opposition attack on govt during monsoon session of Parliament||Ahead of Parliament's monsoon session, the ruling BJP-led NDA is confident of blunting the opposition's expected attack on the government over issues like the border row with China and the Centre's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, and it believes that a division among its rivals is likely to be visible during debates. BJP sources pointed out as to how Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's aggression against the Modi government over the tense border situation has found "little" support from other opposition parties. "The way the government has strongly defended the country's interests at the border is there for all to see. We are sure that the Congress will be isolated during any debate over the issue," a party leader said, claiming that even most non-NDA parties have backed the Modi dispensation over the issue. The uneasiness in the Congress, a BJP leader claimed referring to the group of 23 Congress leaders who have sought organisational overhaul, can come to fore in Parliament. Opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress and the DMK, are planning a joint offensive against the government to corner it in Parliament on issues of national security like the border situation with China, handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, economy and GST compensation to states.  The BJP will also be armed with its own set of charges against the opposition, especially the Congress, as the top party brass, including its president J P Nadda, has pursued the issue of alleged donations to foundations linked to the Gandhi family from the Chinese government.  While opposition parties are likely to highlight the continuing surge in Covid-19 cases in India to aim at the government, the ruling party leaders believe that the country's low fatality rate coupled with its relatively fewer cases per million population compared to other seriously-hit countries are points in their favour. A BJP leader noted that some of the worst hit states, like Maharashtra, are ruled by its rivals. The National Democratic Alliance will also depend on the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package of Rs 1.70 lakh crore, which was announced by the government to help the more vulnerable sections of society to dean with financial impact of the nationwide lockdown, and Prime Minister Narenda Modi's announcement of free ration to over 80 crore people till November to highlight its "pro-people" sensibilities. The 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) agenda is also likely to be a handy issue for the BJP to highlight the government's nationalist credentials. The session begins from September 14 and will continue for 18 straight days till October 1. The coronavirus pandemic has resulted in several changes, including no Question Hour, staggered seating arrangements and curtailment of hours allotted to daily businesses of both the Houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-confident-of-blunting-opposition-attack-on-govt-during-monsoon-session-of-parliament-886513.html
12-09-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi consolidates Rahul Gandhi's position with Congress overhaul||Sweeping organisational changes in the Congress party are being seen by many leaders as heralding the beginning of a generational shift in the grand old political organisation and several of them said the revamp will consolidate former party president Rahul Gandhi's position in the party. An overwhelming number of new appointees across the party's organisational structure -- from the highest decision-making body CWC (Congress Working Committee) to the special committee formed to assist interim party chief Sonia Gandhi -- are known as Rahul Gandhi's confidantes.   The revamp exercise is also a clear signal to the party dissenters that the high-command will not act under pressure, several leaders said. While Sonia accommodated three of the 23 ginger group members who recently wrote to her seeking large-scale organisational changes, she literally snubbed the main demand of the dissenters regarding elections to the CWC. The only letter-signatory to have found a major role in the party is Mukul Wasnik, named one of the six members who will assist the Congress president till the next AICC session takes place. While Wasnik remains a general secretary, several top leaders from the letter-writing group -- Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari -- have been left high and dry. Azad has been dropped as general secretary but retained in the CWC as a regular member along with Sharma. Party insiders see the latest reorganisation as a move to lay the ground for the return of Rahul Gandhi to the helm of AICC as and when the next session is held. At least 11 of the 26 permanent invitees to the CWC are known within the party as Rahul Gandhi's aides. Among the 22 regular CWC members also, the presence of KC Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala, Ajay Maken, Jitendra Singh and RS Meena will serve to strengthen Rahul Gandhi's hands. Of the nine special invitees to the CWC, seven are seen as Rahul Gandhi loyalists, while 13 of the 17 in-charges appointed for various states are known as his close associates. Even among the nine general secretaries, Surjewala, Singh, Venugopal, Maken are known as members of Rahul Gandhi's group. Some party leaders feel Sonia Gandhi has also used the experience of the old guard and the talent of the young brigade in the new organisational structure. Former union minister Ashwani Kumar said the organisational changes in the Congress bear the quintessential Sonia Gandhi imprint. "The announcement signals a balancing of experience, loyalty and youthful energy and a roadmap for generational change. In retaining some of the letter writers in important roles, the leadership has sought to give a quietus to internal dissent while asserting authority," he told PTI. Kumar said the appointments indicate the shape of the future leadership of the party and the limited duration of the special committee's tenure indicates the possibility of a new leadership structure in the near future. "An overwhelming acceptance by the partymen of the changes shows that the practice of nominations to party posts through a consultative process has found acceptance in the party," he said. "The litmus test for Congress, however, is to accurately assess public mood on vital issues and where necessary to change public perceptions in a show of transformative leadership. The future will depend upon the party’s ability to catch the imagination of the people through transformative leadership," Kumar said. Another leader said, "Sonia Gandhi has done the balancing act of listening to all voices, yet carrying out a generational shift in the party".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-consolidates-rahul-gandhis-position-with-congress-overhaul-886616.html
12-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition MPs give notices in Parliament seeking discussion on India-China standoff||Several opposition MPs have given notices in Parliament seeking a discussion on the India-China standoff at the LAC, sources said on Saturday. They said the opposition leaders are expected to raise this issue during the meeting of floor leaders of both houses of Parliament called by presiding officers. The parliament is scheduled to start from Monday and will conclude on October 1. The business advisory committee meeting of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha is scheduled to be held on Sunday. The Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a tense standoff in multiple areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May. Shots were fired across the LAC on Monday for the first time in 45 years with the two sides accusing each other of firing in the air.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-mps-give-notices-in-parliament-seeking-discussion-on-india-china-standoff-886675.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro to resume full services from Saturday||With the Delhi Metro set to resume full services from Saturday, DMRC chief Mangu Singh appealed to commuters to follow staggered timings for travelling to break the peak hour rush and ensure social distancing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Airport Express Line will resume services on Saturday as part of the third stage of the graded reopening of the Delhi Metro. With this, all lines of the urban transporter will become operational throughout the day. Under stage one, Rapid Metro, Yellow, Blue, Pink, Red, Violet and Green lines were made operational with restricted service hours. The second stage began on Friday with Magenta and Grey lines also opening their doors to commuters and service hours being extended. With the third stage, the Delhi Metro will follow its regular timings, from 6 AM to 11 PM. In a video message posted on the Twitter handle of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Friday, Singh said, "Delhi Metro will resume full services from tomorrow as it was during normal days. We appeal to people to stagger the time of their journeys to break the peak hour rush so that more passengers can be carried by the system." "I also appeal to employers to allow their employees to come to work following a staggered time schedule so that they can travel in metro accordingly. This will ensure social distancing at work and also during travel in metro. Those who are working from home should continue to do so," the DMRC chief said. The frequency of trains during non-peak hours will be the same as peak hours so people can follow staggered timings for their journeys and still avail metro services, he added. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the rapid transport only if urgently needed. On Monday, the Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operations on the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro. Blue and Pink lines resumed services on Wednesday; Red, Violet and Green lines were made operational on Thursday; and Magenta and Grey lines on Friday. Metro services in Delhi and the National Capital Region were closed on March 22 to check the spread of coronavirus. "With services available on most of the metro lines now, the total ridership recorded in today's operational hours (from 7 AM to 1 PM) in the morning and then from 4 PM till 07:30 PM was nearly 1,28,886," the DMRC said in a statement. On regular days, the average daily ridership of DMRC is over 26 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-to-resume-full-services-from-saturday-886258.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro resumes full services; Airport Line reopens||Delhi Metro resumed its full services on Saturday with the Airport Express Line reopening after a hiatus of over 170 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic. All corridors of the Metro network are now in operation and the timing of services will follow the pre-Covid-19 schedule of 6 am to 11 pm. "With the resumption of service on the Airport Express Line, all lines of the Delhi Metro network are now open! Remember to follow the guidelines when travelling. #MetroBackOnTrack," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted. On Monday, the Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operation of the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro. The Metro services were shut on March 22 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours. Stage two kicked in from Friday with extended service hours, and stage three came into effect from Saturday onwards with Metro services going back to pre-Covid-19 time schedule of 6 AM to 11 PM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-resumes-full-services-airport-line-reopens-886287.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out at plastic factory in Delhi's Inderlok, no casualty||A fire broke out in a plastic factory at Shahzada Bagh in Delhi's Inderlok area on Saturday morning, a Delhi Fire Service official said. No casualty was reported, he said. The building comprises ground plus three floors, according to the fire department. A call about the fire was received at around 9.20 am and nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Service. The blaze has been brought under control, he said, adding that the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-plastic-factory-in-delhis-inderlok-no-casualty-886344.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Low production, quality may mar Kashmir’s apple industry||Kashmir’s Rs 8,000 crore apple industry continues to face a crisis as production and quality this year has witnessed a dip. Last year the apple export witnessed a dip of around one lakh metric tonnes, in wake of the communication blockade, restrictions, and protests after August 5, when the special status of J&K under Article 370 was revoked. The crisis for fruit growers worsened on November 7 when foliage-laden trees got uprooted or cracked under the weight of three to five-feet snow. “The apple industry witnessed heavy losses last year. We had high hopes that we can recover the losses this year but unfortunately, the production has declined this time,” Abdul Rahim Rather, a fruit grower from north Kashmir’s Sopore area told DH. He estimated that the production was 30-40% low this season as compared to previous years. Rather blamed the use of substandard pesticides as one of the reasons for lesser production. “Not only lower production but the quality of apples this season is not up to the mark,” he rued. His views were echoed by Bilal Ahmad, an apple trader working at Shopian fruit mandi in south Kashmir. “The production of A-grade stock is very low since the 80% stock collected isn’t what businessmen in the market look for,” he said. He said that it takes a lot of money and effort from a farmer but the burden of banks and other liabilities is crushing them with each passing day. The apple growers in Kashmir for years have been demanding implementation of a crop insurance scheme as changing climatic conditions has adversely affected the production. However, Aijaz Ahmad Bhat, director, horticulture, Kashmir,  said implementation of the scheme got delayed because the insurance companies were demanding a premium, which was neither acceptable to the government nor to the apple growers. “We are working on the crop insurance scheme,” he said. According to government figures, Kashmir exports around 20 lakh metric tons of apple every year, and the horticulture industry is pegged to be worth around 8000 to 9000 crore including the employment it generates. Kashmir produces 75% of the total apple production in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/low-production-quality-may-mar-kashmir-s-apple-industry-886351.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||NGT directs CPCB to recover fine from Amazon, Flipkart for excessive plastic packaging||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to conduct environmental audit and recover fine from Amazon and Flipkart for violation of environmental norms. The green panel observed that the statutory regulators were not taking coercive measures, including invoking of "polluter pays" principle for enforcing the statutory norms against the ecommerce firms. "A report has been filed by the CPCB, which again mentions one or other reasons for not enforcing the law but does not mention the coercive measures adopted either directly by the CPCB or in coordination with the state pollution control boards," a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said. "The CPCB can also consider ordering environmental audit against the concerned entities and assess and recover compensation for violation of environmental norms, following due process of law," the bench said. The tribunal sought an action taken report in the matter before October 14, the next date by e-mail. The member secretary, CPCB may remain present in person during the hearing on the next date through video conferencing, it said. The CPCB has earlier told the NGT that e-commerce giants need to fulfil their extended producer responsibility under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, and need to establish a system for collecting back the plastic waste generated due to the packaging of their products, the CPCB had earlier told the NGT. The apex pollution monitoring body had told the NGT that as per provisions 9(2) of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, "Primary responsibility for collection of used multi-layered plastic sachet or pouches or packaging is of producers, importers and brand owners who introduce the products in the market." The submission came in response to a plea filed by a 16-year-old boy who has approached the tribunal to stop ecommerce giants Amazon and Flipkart from excessive plastic use in their packaging. Aditya Dubey, through his legal guardian, has pleaded the NGT to direct Amazon and Flipkart to stop excessive use of plastic in packaging the goods delivered by the firms. "The e-commerce companies are covered under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. But due to a lack of monitoring and implementation, the respondents continue to use excessive amounts of plastic in wrapping and packaging their sold items," said the plea, filed through advocate Meenesh Dubey. Dubey's plea had contended that the companies deliver items in cardboard boxes, which are too large as compared to the size of the items being delivered. "To ensure that the sold items do not move around in the outsized boxes, they wrap the items in multiple layers of plastic sheets and plastic bubble wraps and thereafter fill the large empty spaces in the boxes with additional sheets of single-use plastic," it had said. Once goods are delivered, the plastic waste is thrown away in garbage and it ends up at landfill sites, leading to a burden on the earth and damaging the environment, it said. "Single-use plastic has emerged as one of the biggest environmental challenges for our planet. It is cheap, useful, ubiquitous and very deadly.  "The fact that it's non-biodegradable and is recycled in very small percentages means that our planet with passage of time is becoming a big dumping ground for single-use plastic, which breaks down into smaller fragments known as microplastics and then contaminates soil and water," the petition had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-cpcb-to-recover-fine-from-amazon-flipkart-for-excessive-plastic-packaging-886367.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||5 Delhi boys score 100% in JEE-Main exam||Five students from the national capital have scored 100 percentile in the JEE-Main exam, which was conducted earlier this month after being postponed twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The result for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main was declared late night on Friday. The top scorers from Delhi include Chirag Falor, Gurkirat Singh, Laksh Gupta, Nishant Aggarwal and Tushar Sethi. They are among the 24 candidates who have scored 100 percentile in the crucial exam. The exam for admission to engineering colleges was conducted from September 1 to 6, amid stringent precautions and social distancing measures due to Covid-19. Staggered entry and exit for candidates, sanitisers at the gate, distribution of masks and maintaining distance as candidates queued up, were among the scenes witnessed at the exam centres across the country. A total of 8.58 lakh candidates had registered for the JEE-Mains exam for admission to engineering courses in IITs, NITs and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs) while only 74 per cent of them had appeared for the exam. Increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit were among the steps taken by the National Testing Agency for safely conducting the crucial exam. Based on the results of the JEE-Mains Paper 1 and Paper 2, the top 2.45 lakh candidates will be eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam, which is a one-stop exam to get admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). JEE-Advanced is scheduled to take place on September 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-delhi-boys-score-100-in-jee-main-exam-886370.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||BSF recovers cache of arms near Indo-Pak border in Punjab's Ferozepur||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday recovered a cache of arms and ammunition, including three AK-47 and two M-16 rifles, from a field along the Indo-Pak border in Punjab's Ferozepur district. During the search operation, the BSF troops recovered the arms and ammunition from a bag which was found lying on a field near the border around 7:00 am, a BSF official said. Six magazines of AK-47 and 91 rounds, four magazines of M-16 rifles and 57 rounds, two pistols with four magazines and 20 rounds were also recovered, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-recovers-cache-of-arms-near-indo-pak-border-in-punjabs-ferozepur-886380.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court reduces number of benches holding physical hearings as Covid-19 cases rise||The Delhi High Court on Saturday said it has reduced the number of benches that would be holding physical hearings due to the "alarming" rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital and majority of lawyers preferring virtual hearings. According to a note issued by the office of Registrar General Manoj Jain, a full court of the judges of the Delhi High Court deliberated on continuing with physical hearings, which were started from September 1, and decided not to discontinue them completely. The full court decided that physical hearings would be conducted each day, from September 15 onwards, by one division bench and two single judge benches on rotation. Till now, two division benches and three single judge benches were holding physical courts on rotational basis. The decision was taken on the basis of statistics, submitted before the full court by the Registry, which indicated that around 94 per cent of the advocates had indicated their preferred mode of hearing as 'virtual' mode on the designated mentioning link/e-filing module of the High Court. "Most of the advocates, whose matters were listed before the benches constituted for physical hearing, expressed their inability, reluctance or unwillingness to appear physically and that requests, in large number, were received for taking up the matters through video conferencing. "The physical appearances were largely before the single benches, exercising criminal jurisdiction whereas the appearance before the other benches was relatively low," the note said. It also said that the full court "also noted that the number of Covid-19 cases has been rising alarmingly in the NCT of Delhi". It further said that regular medical camps were organised in the high court as well as district courts for testing and the results revealed that 45 officials of the high court (including contractual and outsourced staff) and 192 officers/officials of district courts have already contracted Covid-19. "The UCO Bank situated in the high court building had been shut down recently as its three bank officials tested positive," it added. Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel had recently said, during a hearing, that physical hearings would not be stopped completely and would be continued slowly. "Once things have started in this high court, they are not going to be stopped. We will not start and close like the other high courts," the chief justice had said. His comments came after some counsels in a case before his bench sought that their matter be listed on a date when virtual hearings are held. The high court, according to the note, had decided to commence physical hearings "in view of persistent requests" by the various bar associations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-reduces-number-of-benches-holding-physical-hearings-as-covid-19-cases-rise-886389.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Hateful content: Delhi Assembly panel summons Facebook India's MD Ajit Mohan||A Delhi Assembly committee has asked Facebook India Vice President and Managing Director Ajit Mohan to appear before it seeking an explanation from the social media giant after it felt that it should be impleaded as "co-accused" in Delhi riots in February. The Committee on Peace and Harmony headed by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha has started a probe against Facebook following allegations that it did not adhere to its own policy of taking down hate posts by some BJP supporters fearing that it will anger the ruling party and will have an adverse impact on business. Mohan has been asked to appear before the panel next Tuesday. "Summons were issued on the basis of scathing depositions of the key witnesses as well as incriminating material submitted by them on record. Having regards to the compelling evidence brought forth by the witnesses, the committee is of the belief that Facebook should be impleaded as co-accused in the Delhi riots investigations," Chadha said. The panel had examined witnesses, co-author of ‘The Real Face of Facebook in India’ Paranjoy Thakurtha, journalists Awesh Tiwari and Kunal Purohit and digital rights activist Nikhil Pahwa. "All the witnesses so far have strongly agreed that an independent probe must be carried out against the alleged role and complicity of Facebook in the orchestration and aggravation of Delhi riots," Chadha said. Facebook could not be reached for comments. The committee has also urged the need of an independent investigation leading to the filing of a supplementary charge sheet in the ongoing cases related to Delhi riots on the basis of supportive and corroborative material during the course of the purported investigation. Chadha had earlier said the witnesses who deposed have spoken about an "unholy nexus" between Facebook and the BJP and the committee will further probe the allegations ranging from the role of Facebook in the riots in Delhi and other places. During his deposition, Guha said that Facebook is not content-neutral as it claims to be and there were sufficient circumstantial evidences which show an unholy nexus between the ruling dispensation and Facebook. He also highlighted the complicity of Facebook in forwarding a certain narrative at the cost of suppressing contrasting narratives, thus reducing the visibility of the content critical of the ruling dispensation. The community standard guidelines, which is a comprehensive set of rules claimed to be uniformly applied by Facebook globally, have allegedly not been applied in India, he claimed. He also alleged that Facebook as well as WhatsApp has a massive role in aggravating riot situations happening in the country including riots of Muzaffarnagar, Bengaluru and north-east Delhi. The witnesses also alleged that Das along with some other Facebook officials have close links with the government and it must be investigated. Facebook is deliberately and intentionally hindering free and fair elections in our country by actively colluding with the current ruling dispensation, the witnesses were quoted in an official statement as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hateful-content-delhi-assembly-panel-summons-facebook-indias-md-ajit-mohan-886393.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||2 Army officers killed in a road accident on the Bikaner-Jaipur highway||Two Army officers were killed when the vehicle in which they were travelling met with an accident on the Bikaner-Jaipur National Highway in Bikaner district on Saturday, police said. Two soldiers injured in the incident are being treated at a hospital, they said. The victims were travelling in an Army vehicle when it overturned on the highway due to a tyre burst, they said.  Defence spokesperson said that Col Manish Singh Chauhan and Major Neeraj Sharma suffered fatal injuries in the accident. Arun Kumar, SHO of Seruna Police Station, said that victims were taken to the PBM government hospital where doctors declared both the officers brought dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-army-officers-killed-in-a-road-accident-on-the-bikaner-jaipur-highway-886402.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Post-retirement, Army officer trains Jammu and Kashmir youth aspiring to join armed forces||Hundreds of youth turn up in a vast ground in this town near the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir to undergo rigorous training under a 57-year-old retired Army officer who is voluntarily providing his services twice a day to prepare them for recruitment in the armed forces. Captain Sher Singh, a resident of Satrayan border village in Suchetgarh sector, started his “mission training” for the local youth in 2011, the year when he retired after over 31 years of service in the Army. Barring four months of coronavirus-driven lockdown, the training is going on smoothly in the early morning and late evening hours with active assistance from the Jammu district administration which has also engaged a school teacher to help the aspiring candidates to crack the written examination for their recruitment in the belt forces to serve the nation. “The first priority for the border youth is to join the army or any other force and I am happy that over 3600 of my students including dozens of girls got recruited and achieved their dreams over the past nine years,” Singh, who joined Jammu and Kashmir Rifles in 1980 and rose to the position of Captain, told PTI. A well-experienced instructor who had himself undergone various courses including commando training during his service in the Army, Singh said when he came back to his village on pension he was pained to notice that the youth were roaming around aimlessly and some even taking drugs. “Our youth are highly talented and very hardworking, and if they get the right motivation, they are second to none,” he said, adding he started with a few boys and the number crossed 1000 as the time passed. Singh, who had spent nearly half of his service in different areas of Jammu and Kashmir including Tangdhar and Machil sectors along the line of Control (LoC) in frontier Kupwara district during the peak of militancy in the early 1990s and had come face to face with militants on several occasions, said his new found endeavor had helped him to maintain his fitness as well. “I used to run 12-kms with the trainees before the outbreak of the pandemic in March. Now after we resumed our training in July, I have lowered the distance to four-kms,” he said. Singh said he had himself remained an enthusiastic runner throughout his Army career and had trained thousands of youth in Kerala during his two-year posting there. In the first five years, he said he was training the youth only in the evening and once a week in the morning. After noticing the numbers growing and the enthusiasm of the youth, he decided to train them in groups in the mornings and evenings. “At one time in 2016, the then deputy commissioner noticed my group running and came forward with government assistance for the youth. I also sought a teacher for preparing them for written examination and it was also met,” Singh said, adding the teacher trains the youth for one or two hours daily. He said he is doing it without charging any money from the youth. “I have had enough for me as I am getting a handsome pension which is higher than the last monthly pay which I had received as a captain. I have only one son who was born after my retirement and is just nine years old,” Singh said. Happy Singh, one of the trainees, said he is hopeful to pass the recruitment test for the armed forces. “I am fully confident of getting the first position in the physical test,” he said. Happy said his instructor’s effort has made him popular among the Punjab youth who have rented homes or staying with their relatives to undergo the training capsule. Another trainee Gorav Choudhary said they are getting both physical and academic training which would help them in their recruitment drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/post-retirement-army-officer-trains-jammu-and-kashmir-youth-aspiring-to-join-armed-forces-886424.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||SP district unit chief, two others booked for trying to grab land from Dalit woman||A case has been registered against three persons, including the district unit chief of the Samajwadi Party, for allegedly trying to grab the land of a Dalit woman, police said on Saturday. A statement issued by the office of the Superintendent of Police here said, "In a video, which went viral on the social media, complainant Gayatri Harijan has alleged that district unit chief of Samajwadi Party Chhavinath Yadav, his personal security person and others reached her residence with the intention to grab her land and beat up two youths of her family, injuring them severely." Later on a written complaint of Harijan, a case was registered against three persons, including the district unit chief of the Samajwadi Party and his personal security guard, under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code, it said. Circle Officer of Kunda has been asked to probe the matter, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-district-unit-chief-two-others-booked-for-trying-to-grab-land-from-dalit-woman-886430.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Various teams set up to speed up four-laning work on Jammu-Srinagar NH: Officials||Authorities in the Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir have constituted various teams of officers to remove all bottlenecks hindering the progress of four-laning construction work on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway, officials said on Saturday. The widening work on the 270-km highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, started in 2011 and is likely to be completed by the end of next year after missing several deadlines. District Development Commissioner, Ramban, Nazim Zai Khan constituted various teams of officers to remove all bottlenecks hindering the progress of construction work during a meeting which was among others attended by officers of the revenue department and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), the officials said. Reviewing section wise progress on the four-laning of the highway, especially in the most problematic zones, especially Nashri-Banihal section, Khan discussed issues related to land acquisition, removal of structures and felling of trees in Right of Way (RoW) and shifting of power transmission towers in detail. He expressed concern over delay in the process of shifting of towers and felling of trees causing unnecessary hindrances in the smooth progress of work. With regard to progress on additional land acquisition cases process, the DDC asked collector land to expedite the process so that the land falling in the alignment of the project is handed over to NHAI at the earliest to undertake construction works. Khan also instructed the NHAI and the construction agencies associated with the highway four-laning project to ensure the maintenance of the existing road to avoid traffic disruption. He asked those concerned to take all measures to keep the road traffic-worthy, the officials said. The district development commissioner also directed the agencies to adhere to the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal and conditions of the contract agreement to avoid criminal proceedings. Agencies were also directed to enhance water sprinkling on the road to minimise the dust besides dumping the muck at only identified dumping yards, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/various-teams-set-up-to-speed-up-four-laning-work-on-jammu-srinagar-nh-officials-886436.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Three held for cheating people of crores in loan racket in Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh police have arrested three persons, including two women, from Noida for allegedly running a fake call centre and duping people of roughly Rs 10 crore by offering them soft loans, an official said on Saturday. The police on Friday arrested the leader of the racket David Kumar Jatav (21), a B. Com graduate and a website designer, and two of his accomplices Manisha Bhatt (27) and her sister Neha (23), inspector general of police (Bhopal zone) Upendra Jain told PTI. "We are going to produce the accused in a Bhopal court to seek their remand," the official said. According to the police, Jatav hails from Ghaziabad, while Manisha and Neha are BA graduates from Uttarakhand. The accused created several websites and have been trapping people since 2018 by promising them loans with low-interest rates, an official said, adding that a manhunt has been launched for another member of the racket. The accused have allegedly cheated close to 10,000 people to the tune of Rs 10 crore, the official said. As many as six laptops, 25 mobile phones, 21 pen drives, eight active SIM cards among other things have been recovered from the accused, he said. The state police started its investigations after one Padmesh Singh lodged a complaint stating that he had been cheated by a website www.swiftfinance.in, in December 2019, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-held-for-cheating-people-of-crores-in-loan-racket-in-madhya-pradesh-886439.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||ATM robbery bid foiled in Noida, one held after encounter with police||The Gautam Buddh Nagar Police thwarted an ATM loot bid early on Saturday and arrested a man after a gunfight, officials said. Four men were at an ATM in Noida's Raipur village, under Expressway police station limits, around 4 am and trying to cut open the machine when a local police team confronted them, the officials said. "Soon the men fled from the spot in their Hyundai Santro but later they were intercepted at the Pusta by more police personnel, including those from Sector 49 police station, after which a gunfight broke out," Noida Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Ranvijay Singh said. "Three of them managed to escape taking refuge in the bushes, while one of them got surrounded by policemen and he opened fire on them, hoping to escape. He got injured in the retaliatory firing and was held," Singh said. The accused was then taken to a hospital for treatment, the officer said. According to police, the arrested man has been identified as Tahir Hussain, a native of Mewat in Haryana. He and his partners have been involved in robberies at ATMs in the past also, they said. An illegal firearm was seized from his possession, while a gas cutter and other equipment recovered from his car which has been impounded, the police said. Additional DCP Singh said police have got the names and other details of Hussain's partners who escaped and searches have been launched to nab them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/atm-robbery-bid-foiled-in-noida-one-held-after-encounter-with-police-886442.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Discoms' liquidity package set for hike at Rs 1.2 lakh crore for September||The Rs 90,000-crore liquidity package for DISCOMS to help them pay their dues till the month of March would soon be enhanced to Rs 1.2 lakh crore factoring in these utilities' outstanding till June, said a senior official. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May announced a Rs 90,000 crore liquidity infusion into cash-strapped DISCOMS for payment of their dues till March 2020. DISCOMS have been facing demand slump due to the lockdown to contain Covid-19. Participating in a webinar on 'Innovation in Renewable Energy' organised by PHDCCI, Power Secretary S N Sahai said the liquidity package would cover the outstanding dues of DISCOMS for the months from April to June also and it would be enhanced to Rs 1.2 lakh crore. While announcing the package, the government had said, "At present DISCOMS have a total outstanding of Rs 94,000 crore towards power generation firms (gencos)." However, later states demanded that the package be extended to include outstanding dues towards power generation and transmission firms for the month of April and May as well. A source said that an official communication in this regard has already been sent to the implementing state owned non-banking finance firms Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and REC by the Ministry of Power. The source further said now the respective boards of REC and PFC will approve the hike in liquidity package to around Rs 1.2 lakh crore covering a period of dues till June this year, by the end of September. As much as Rs 68,000 crore has been sanctioned and around Rs 25,000 crore is disbursed to DISCOMS under the package so far. The source further revealed that more states would avail the credit facility under the package after the REC and PFC boards' decision to hike the package. PFC and REC would apprise states about the hike in the package after their boards' decision in this regard. Some of the DISCOMS were not eligible for getting loans under the package because they were not meeting working capital limit norms under Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY). Earlier in August, the Union Cabinet relaxed the working capital limit norms for DISCOMS under UDAY to get loans as part of the liquidity infusion scheme. Under UDAY, banks and financial institutions are restricted to lend working capital up to 25 per cent of a discom’s revenue in the previous year. The restriction was part of UDAY, which was approved in November 2015 by the Union Cabinet for revival of debt-laden utilities. Besides, DISCOMS can get loan under the package against the receivables from state governments to clear their dues. But some of the DISCOMS did not have headroom under both the provisions. Thus the power ministry had proposed to relax working capital limit norms so that these DISCOMS can avail loans under the package to clear their dues. Sahai also stressed on the need to honour contractual obligation under power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by DISCOMS or states to safeguard investors especially in the case of renewable energy. In past, there have been cases when some of the states' utilities refused to honour PPAs in view of the falling tariff of clean energy. Sahai also made an assurance that the government is pretty much aware about the hydrogen as a source of energy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/discoms-liquidity-package-set-for-hike-at-rs-12-lakh-crore-for-september-886443.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||4 including 2 suspended police officers booked for attempt to murder in Uttar Pradesh||A case of attempt to murder was registered against four people including a suspended Superintendent of Police and SHO following a police complaint lodged by the brother of the victim, police said on Saturday. Circle Officer Rajkumar Pandey on Saturday said, "Stone trader Indrakant Tripathi was injured after he was allegedly shot at under mysterious circumstances." "On the police complaint lodged by Ravikant, brother of Indrakant, a case has been registered against former SP Mani Lal Patidar, former SHO of Kabrai Police Station Devendra Shukla, Suresh Soni and Brahmadutt under various sections of the IPC including an attempt to murder (307) and Prevention of Corruption Act," he said. The FIR was registered on Friday and a probe has begun, Pandey said refusing to elaborate further. Talking to PTI on Saturday, Ravikant Tripathi said his brother was found injured in his car on the Banda-Kabrai road at around 2.30 pm on Tuesday. "He is currently undergoing medical treatment in Kanpur. A bullet had hit him on the neck and his condition is extremely critical," he said. Ravikant Tripathi alleged that the suspended SP had demanded a bribe of Rs 6 lakh from his brother and threatened to kill him or send him to jail in case of non-payment. "My brother uploaded a video on social media on September 7 and 8... after a few hours on Tuesday (September 8), he was found with a bullet injury," he said. Ravikant Tripathi also claimed that his family is living in constant fear and not venturing out of their house. "Police have not given any security to us and my brother is fighting for his life at the hospital," he said. On September 9, Patidar, the then Mahoba SP, was suspended with immediate effect by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on corruption charges. The chief minister also ordered a vigilance probe into the properties of Patidar. Ballast transporters had accused the SP of demanding money from them for allowing the transportation of material. "SP Mani Lal Patidar had been illegally demanding money for the running of vehicles engaged in ballast transportation. When his demand was not met, vehicle owners were harassed through the police," said UP Additional Home Secretary Awanish Awasthi in an official statement. "Patidar is a member of the All India Service and member of a disciplined force. His work did not only tarnish the image of police administration, but the credibility of the government too was put at stake," the statement said. The action was taken against Patidar after Indrakant Tripathi sustained a bullet injury during an attack. In a video, the businessman had said that if he was attacked or killed, Patidar and Suresh Soni should be held responsible. Patidar has been attached to the office of the UP's director general of police for the period of his suspension. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Police Arun Kumar Srivastava from Lucknow police commissionerate has been posted as the new Mahoba SP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-including-2-suspended-police-officers-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-in-uttar-pradesh-886444.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||UP man claims his hand was chopped off in Panipat by locals when he went in search for job||A 28-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh has claimed that his right hand was chopped off by some locals in Haryana's Panipat where he had gone in search of a job, police said on Saturday. However, a family has filed a complaint against the man, identified as Ikhlaq from Nanauta in Saharanpur district, that he allegedly sodomised a seven-year-old boy, they said. A four-member special investigation team has been formed to investigate the matter, police said. According to the complaint filed by Ikhlaq with the police, he had gone to Panipat last month in search of a job. He had taken rest in a park in the Kishanpur area on the intervening night of August 23 and 24. At around 1:30 am, he knocked on the doors of a nearby house for water and four to five people came out and thrashed him with sticks and took him inside the house where his hand was chopped off with a saw. He was later dumped near the railway track, police said quoting the complainant. The family of Ikhlaq had claimed that his hand was severed after the assailants saw '786' tattooed on it. As per the complaint filed with the police by the family of the seven-year-old boy, Ikhlaq sodomised him on the intervening night of August 23 and 24, police said. The family rescued the boy but Ikhlaq managed to escape and ran towards the railway track, according to the complaint. Police said they were informed by the Government Railway Police that a man with his hand severed was found near a railway track. He was first admitted to Panipat civil hospital from where he was referred to Rohtak's Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, they said. Police said they have registered a case under relevant sections including 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of Ikhlaq. On the basis of the complaint filed by the boy's family, a case under relevant sections of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act has been registered against Ikhlaq, police said. Both the cases were registered on September 7, they added. Police said Ikhlaq has gone back to his home in Uttar Pradesh. A team of the Haryana police had been sent there for further investigation, they added. Deputy Superintendent of Police (headquarters), Panipat, Satish Kumar said investigation in the matter was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-claims-his-hand-was-chopped-off-in-panipat-by-locals-when-he-went-in-search-for-job-886456.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||3 killed, 5 injured as vehicle falls into gorge in Jammu and Kashmir||Three persons, including a 26-year-old woman and her newborn, were killed and five persons injured on Saturday when a van skidded off the road and fell into a gorge in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district, police said. The accident took place near Dhanas village and it is suspected that the driver lost control over the vehicle at a blind curve, a police official said. The vehicle was coming from Chenani, he said. The injured persons were rescued and hospitalised, the official said, adding that the condition of two of them has been stated as serious. The woman, Shaanu Devi, and her child died on the spot, while a 50-year-old person succumbed during treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-killed-5-injured-as-vehicle-falls-into-gorge-in-jammu-and-kashmir-886467.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||70-year-old woman raped, beaten up by man in UP's Ballia||A 70-year-old woman was allegedly raped and beaten up by a man in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia on Saturday following which the accused was arrested, police said. The 25-year-old man forcibly entered the woman's house around 4 am and allegedly raped her, SHO of Haldi police station Satyendra Rai said. The accused, who used to work in a house near the elderly woman's residence, also hurled abuses at the woman and thrashed her, he said. A case was registered against him on the basis of a police complaint lodged by the nephew of the 70-year-old woman and the accused was arrested, the SHO said. The woman was sent for a medical examination, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/70-year-old-woman-raped-beaten-up-by-man-in-ups-ballia-886487.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Pilot writes to Gehlot over 5% reservation to Gurjars, others in govt recruitment in Rajasthan||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot has written a letter to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot over the issue of five per cent reservation to Gurjars and other communities, claiming that it is not being applied to several recruitments in the state. Pilot said it has been brought to his notice that the people in the MBC (More Backward Classes) category are not being given the benefits of the 5% reservation rule in government recruitments. There are five castes or communities, including Gurjars, in the category. Pilot, who was sacked from the posts of deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president in July after he rebelled against Gehlot's leadership, is from the Gurjar community. In the letter written to Gehlot on September 2 and issued to the media on Saturday, Pilot has said it was mentioned in the Congress's manifesto for the 2018 state Assembly polls and the party's government had also promised in 2011 that four per cent shadow posts will be reserved for the SBC (Special Backward Classes) category. He claimed that the 5% reservation rule was not applied to constable recruitment-2018, REET recruitment-2018, Panchayti raj LDC recruitment-2013, technical helper recruitment-2018, nursing recruitment 2013 and 2018, jail guards recruitment-2018, Asha supervisor recruitment-2016, commercial assistant recruitment-2018, second-grade teachers recruitment-2018 and others. Pilot also mentioned in the letter that the development works under the Devnarayan scheme, a welfare scheme meant for the Gurjars, are almost stalled which, he said, is painful. "People meet me personally to demand proper implementation of the schemes," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pilot-writes-to-gehlot-over-5-reservation-to-gurjars-others-in-govt-recruitment-in-rajasthan-886501.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||International passengers can opt for Covid-19 test, waiting lounge at Delhi airport for Rs 5,000||Delhi airport on Saturday started its on-arrival Covid-19 testing facility wherein an international passenger can pay Rs 5,000 to avail an RT-PCR test and also use the waiting lounge, said senior officials of its operator DIAL. The Civil Aviation Ministry had on September 2 said that international passengers, who have to take connecting domestic flights after landing in India, will have the option of getting themselves tested for Covid-19 at the entry airports. Passengers who opt for the test will have to wait in a specified lounge in the airport or a designated hotel in the city till their results come, the ministry noted. If found negative, they will be exempted from mandatory institutional quarantine and can take the connecting flight. "The Covid-19 test at the airport will cost Rs 2,400. The waiting lounge charges are Rs 2,600," said an official of the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL). Results of the RT-PCR test will be declared within 4-6 hours after collecting the sample, the official noted. Currently, the specified waiting lounge established at the Delhi airport has a capacity to handle 100 passengers at a time, said another DIAL official. All seats have been arranged in the waiting lounge keeping in mind the social distancing criteria. "This capacity can easily be expanded whenever the number of arriving international passengers rise," the official stated. Currently, the Delhi airport handles 7,000-8,000 arriving international passengers per day, the official noted. The DIAL started the Covid-19 testing facility on Saturday at the multi-level car parking area of Terminal 3 in collaboration with Genestrings Diagnostic Centre. In a statement, the DIAL said passengers will have to provide their name, contact details and valid identity proof in their online application for the Covid-19 test at the Delhi airport. "They will also have an option to modify the slot in case they are not able to reach at the scheduled appointment time. Besides, passengers belonging to the same family can book a single slot all together online," the press release stated. As per the government rules, all arriving international passengers have to undergo mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven-day home quarantine.  However, if an arriving international passenger has a Covid-negative certificate from a RT-PCR test done 96 hours prior to the journey, he or she is exempted from mandatory institutional quarantine. In case an arriving international passenger - who has to take a connecting domestic flight - does not have such a Covid-negative certificate, he or she has the option of getting himself or herself tested at the Covid-19 testing facility of the entry airport. If the result is negative, the passenger will be allowed to go and board his or her connecting domestic flight. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/international-passengers-can-opt-for-covid-19-test-waiting-lounge-at-delhi-airport-for-rs-5000-886505.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||UP: Villagers hold crocodile 'hostage', demand Rs 50 thousand ransom from forest officials||One often hears about people being held hostage and demand of ransom for their release. But who knew that a crocodile would also encounter the same fate? In an Uttar Pradesh district, a crocodile was held 'hostage' and its 'kidnappers' demanded a ransom of Rs 50 thousand for its 'release'. How and why did it happen? The bizarre incident happened at Midaniya village in Lakhimpur Kheri district, which is about 120 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the reports, a crocodile, which was washed away by the strong current of floodwaters, entered a swollen pond in the village a few days back. Panicked villagers informed the forest officials about it and asked them to catch the crocodile immediately as it was a threat to their livestock and the residents. As no forest department official reached the village despite their repeated requests, the local residents themselves rescued it. However, they held the animal hostage and refused to hand it over to the forest officials. ''The villagers said that many of the residents risked their lives in rescuing the crocodile and so they will release it only after payment of Rs 50 thousand,'' said a forest official in the district. Taken aback by the ransom demand, the forest officials tried their best to convince the residents to release the crocodile and told them there is no provision to pay 'ransom'. As the villagers remained adamant, the officials had to threaten them with police action. As per reports, the crocodile was ultimately handed over to the officials and was later released in the river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-villagers-hold-crocodile-hostage-demand-rs-50-thousand-ransom-from-forest-officials-886509.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Sikhs start signature campaign for inclusion of Punjabi in official languages list in Jammu and Kashmir||A Sikh organisation on Saturday launched a signature campaign here to press for the inclusion of Punjabi in the list of official languages in Jammu and Kashmir. The campaign by Sikh Youth Sewa Trust started outside a gurdwara in Gandhi Nagar as part of its efforts to mobilize support for the fulfillment of their demand. The Union Cabinet on September 2 approved a bill under which Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, apart from the existing Urdu and English, will be the official languages in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The bill is likely to be tabled in Parliament during the Monsoon Session next week. "We have started this campaign to mobilize support and press the government to include Punjabi in the list of official languages in J-K," chairman of the trust Tajinder Pal Singh said. He said it is unfortunate that the Centre has not responded to their demand despite support from all sections of society. "It is a democracy and it is our right to raise our voice against any kind of discrimination," he said, adding that the Sikhs will continue their peaceful protest in support of their demands. Besides Sikhs, Gojri and Pahari-speaking people have also expressed their resentment over the exclusion of their languages and are also demanding official status to both the languages. "Till 1981, Punjabi language was a compulsory subject like Urdu in J-K. It was a part and parcel of the (erstwhile) constitution of Jammu and Kashmir before the abrogation of its special status. Punjabi is popular among a large population of Jammu and Kashmir," Pal said. By excluding the Punjabi language, he said the central government has taken an "extreme step" which has caused resentment among minorities not only in Jammu and Kashmir, but among all Punjabi-speaking people across the country. Seeking intervention of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, Singh said the signature campaign has been initiated with an aim to bring the Punjabi-speaking people under the banner for inclusion of Punjabi language in the J-K Official Language Bill 2020. The trust members also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to review the "discriminatory move" and ensure inclusion of Punjabi as one of the official languages of the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sikhs-start-signature-campaign-for-inclusion-of-punjabi-in-official-languages-list-in-jammu-and-kashmir-886518.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||UP Assembly polls: Congress attempts to woo Brahmin community||The promotion of four Brahmin leaders from Uttar Pradesh in Saturday's organisational rejig was indicative of Congress' attempts to woo the influential community ahead of the next Assembly polls in the state. The most significant part was the inclusion of senior party leader and former MP Rajesh Mishra, who hails from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi, in Congress' Central Election Committee. The only other leader from Varanasi to have found a place in the committee is former union minister Kamalapati Tripathi. Mishra's elevation is being seen in the political circles in Lucknow as an attempt to send a positive message to the Brahmin community of the eastern UP region. Another senior party leader Pramod Tewari, a nine-time MLA and former Rajya Sabha member has been made a permanent member of the Congress Central Working Committee.  Jitin Prasada is another Brahmin leader from the state who has been made a special invitee to the CWC. He has been also appointed as the in-charge of West Bengal, which would go to Assembly polls next year. Incidentally, Prasada was one of the leaders, who had written a letter to the Congress chief Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational changes in the grand old party. A section of the party leaders had recently demanded action against Prasada, who had undertaken 'Brahmin Chetna Yatra' in the state during which he visited the Brahmin families, whose members have been murdered in the past few months. ''It is an attempt to woo the Brahmins ahead of the UP assembly polls....the promoted brahmin leaders command considerable respect in their respective home district,'' said a senior UP Congress leader. Brahmins, who formed around ten per cent of the electorate in the state, were a deciding factor on around a dozen Lok Sabha and over 50 Assembly seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-assembly-polls-congress-attempts-to-woo-brahmin-community-886532.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Delhiites can now avail doorstep delivery of 100 public services||Delhiites can now avail the doorstep delivery of services such as those related to income certificates, driving license and new water connections, as the AAP government has restarted its ambitious scheme, which was in suspension for nearly five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the government, people wanting to avail the listed services at their doorstep can call 1076 or book online, besides visiting one of the 46 centres for spot-booking. "We have started the doorstep delivery scheme. It will take some time to stabilise since it was suspended for a considerable time during the lockdown. "Currently, all the 100 services are available, but people do not have proper information about it. We will launch a publicity campaign next week," Delhi Revenue Minister Kailash Gahlot told PTI. The 100 services to be provided at the doorstep of Delhiites include issuance of caste certificates, domicile certificates and marriage certificates, sewer connections, duplicate ration cards, learner's license, duplicate vehicle registration certificates and renewal of driving license. The government has already hired a private company through which its services will be provided at the doorstep of the citizens and the company has hired "mobile sahayaks" (facilitators). A "mobile sahayak" will be equipped with all necessary equipment such as biometric devices and a camera. If a person wants to apply for a driving licence, he will have to call 1076 and give the details. Thereafter, the agency will assign a "mobile sahayak", who will visit the applicant's residence and get the required details and documents. The applicant has to pay Rs 50 more to avail the doorstep delivery of public services. The government has also set up a feedback system for the citizens availing the doorstep delivery of public services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhiites-can-now-avail-doorstep-delivery-of-100-public-services-886540.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Junior engineer in Varanasi suspended for derogatory Facebook post against PM||A junior engineer posted in Varanasi has been suspended for allegedly posting derogatory comments against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and criticising government policies on Facebook. Junior Engineer (Technical) Praveen Kumar, posted in Nalkoop division of Varanasi, had "made adverse comments against the prime minister on his Facebook wall using derogatory language and also shared pictures presenting himself as the future MLA", an official release issued here said. He had also criticised the policies of the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government and had been missing from work since August 26 without informing, the release said. Kumar has been suspended with immediate effect on the recommendation of chief engineer Nalkoop division and the district magistrate, Varanasi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/junior-engineer-in-varanasi-suspended-for-derogatory-facebook-post-against-pm-886566.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh CM initiates many steps to improve police functioning in state||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to establish an office of additional superintendent of police at Nurpur in Kangra district due to rise in crime in its areas bordering Punjab, Chief Minister Jairam Thakur said here on Saturday. Thakur also said the state’s deputy inspector general of police would operate from Dharamshala for the effective functioning of the police department. In addition to these two measures to improve the police functioning amid the increase in cybercrime and narcotics cases, he said the government has also decided to shift the armed police and training headquarter to Palampur from Shimla. Thakur made these announcements while addressing police personnel after taking the salute at a passing out parade for the 12th batch of probationer deputy superintendents of police and eighth batch of probationer sub-inspectors at Himachal Pradesh Police Training College at Daroh in Kangra district. While congratulating the trainee officers and their parents on the occasion, the chief minister also hoped that the probationer officers “would serve the state and its people with utmost dedication and help in making Himachal a 'Dev Bhumi' in a real sense”. He said the young officers should become role models for the society and the younger generation. He said working in the police force can be challenging but it is also a rewarding career with a lot of chances to make a difference within the community. The chief minister also lauded the state police in their fight against Covid-19 pandemic and said “as frontline warriors, the police ensured proper checking of persons entering the state and ensured that no one entered the state without proper tests and without following guidelines”. Reminding police personnel that Himachal Pradesh is a tourist state visited by lakhs of tourists every year, the chief minister said, “The police must be courteous to tourists so that they carry good memories of the state and police personnel become its brand ambassadors.” Thakur said the state government has also accorded approval for filling up of 1,000 posts of police constables, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the recruitment process has been delayed. He said the process would be resumed soon and expedited. The chief minister also announced a grant of Rs 10 crore per year for the next five years for the Police Training College, Daroh for developing and strengthening its infrastructure/ He also announced a grant of Rs 1,37,80,650 from the Disaster Management Fund to the police force for undertaking required works and activities. He also announced that the road leading to the in-house helipad would be metalled at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-cm-initiates-many-steps-to-improve-police-functioning-in-state-886599.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Police name Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, Jayati Ghosh, Apoorvanand in chargesheet||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, economist Jayati Ghosh, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand and documentary film-maker Rahul Roy have been named by Delhi Police as "big leaders" and others who attended public protests to "provoke and mobilise crowds" for the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests that led to Delhi riots earlier this year. In what is seen as an attempt to cement its claims that the Delhi riots was part of a "deep rooted controversy", the names of Yechury and others were mentioned in a supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi Police in the riots between February 23 and 26, which claimed 53 lives and 581 injured. Responding to his name appearing in the chargesheet, Yechury said the Delhi Police is under the Centre and Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and its "illegitimate, illegal actions are a direct outcome" of the politics of BJP’s top leadership. "They are scared of legitimate peaceful protests by mainstream political parties & are misusing state power to target the Opposition. BJP's illegal intimidation won't stop people from opposing discriminatory laws like CAA. To assert that all Indians are equal irrespective of their religion, caste, colour, creed, region, gender & political affiliations is not only our Right but our Duty. We will exercise it," he tweeted.  यह मोदी सरकार न सिर्फ़ संसद में सवालों से डरती है, यह प्रेस कॉन्फ़्रेन्स करने से घबराती है और RTI का जवाब देने से - वो मोदी का निजी Fund हो या अपनी degree दिखाने की बात। इस सरकार की सभी असंवैधानिक नीतियों और असंवैधानिक क़दमों का विरोध जारी रहेगा। He said the hate speech videos by those who instigated violence which led to the riots are on record and the person who led violent mobs in JNU is also on video. "The BJP government and Delhi Police under it, can’t see those because it is hell-bent upon destroying our democracy," he added. However, the Delhi Police later "clarified that Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav and Jayati Ghosh have not been arraigned as accused in the supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi Police." It is clarified that Shri Sitaram Yechury, Shri Yogendra Yadav and Smt Jayati Ghosh have not been arraigned as accused in the supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi Police. The chargesheet against women’s collective Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, and Gulfisha Fathima of Jamia Milia Islamia claimed that the students were tasked with making the anti-CAA protesters go to "any extreme", spreading discontent in the community by calling CAA/NRC anti-Muslim and organise demonstrations to “malign the image of the Government of India”. The police used the interrogation of Fathima to pin the blame on Yechury, Yadav, Bhim Army chief Chandrasekhar Azad and Umar Khalid among others and referred to a public meeting on January 15. "The crowd had started growing and according to the plan, big leaders and lawyers started coming in to provoke and mobilize this crowd, including Omar Khalid, Chancier Sekhar Ravan, Yogendar Yadav, Sitaram Yechury, and lawyer Mahmood Pracha, Chaudhary Matin (Ahmed) etc., the lawyer, Mahmood Pracha, said that the sitting in demonstration is your democratic right and the rest of the leaders filled the feeling of discontent in the community by calling CAA/NRC anti-Muslim," the chargesheet said. The surfacing of the chargesheet in public domain came just two days ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament. Their identically-worded disclosure statements – mentioned in the charge sheet -- claim the two JNU students said they organised the Daryaganj protest in December and the Jafrafad protest on February 22 at the behest of Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Roy. "In the month of December after passing CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) Jaidi (sic) Ghosh, Prof Apurva Nand (sic), Rahul Roy had explained that we have to protest against CAA/ NRC for which we can go any extreme due to which we can through the Govt and Umar Khalid had also given some tips for doing protest against CAA/NRC," the chargesheet quoted Kalita as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-police-name-sitaram-yechury-yogendra-yadav-jayati-ghosh-apoorvanand-in-chargesheet-886608.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports record daily jump of 4,321 Covid-19 cases||Delhi recorded its biggest single-day jump of 4,321 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the city's tally to over 2.14 lakh, authorities said. This is the fourth successive day when over 4,000 fresh cases have been recorded in Delhi. The total number of coronavirus cases has climbed to 2,14,069, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The city recorded 28 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 4,715, the bulletin said. On Friday, the death toll due to Covid-19 stood at 4,687 in the city. The number of active cases rose to 28,059 on Saturday from 26,907 the previous day. The Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported from August 30-September 11 are: 14,389 (1,358); 20,437 (2,024); 24,198 (2,312); 28,835 (2,509); 32,834 (2,737); 36,219 (2,914) 38,895 (2,973), 36,046 (3,256); 22,954 (2,077); 45,797 (3,609); 54,517 (4,039) and 58,340 (4,308); and 60,580 (4,266). On Saturday again, over 4,000 cases were recorded for 60,076 tests conducted the previous day. As many as 50,894 Rapid Antigen Tests and 9,182 RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests were conducted on Friday, totalling to 60,076, according to the bulletin. As on Saturday, the number of tests done per million stands at over 1.09 lakh, while the total number of tests stands at 20,82,776. The positivity rate stood at 7.19 per cent on Saturday and the recovery rate was over 84 per cent, the bulletin said, adding that the case fatality rate was 2.2 per cent. The number of containment zones in Delhi jumped to 1,383 from 1,329 the previous day. Health Minister Satyendar Jain also held a meeting with medical directors and superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing.  Since August 18, daily cases in the city have again been coming in a four-figure count. According to the bulletin, 8,096 beds in Covid-19 hospitals are vacant. Also, 3,293 beds in Covid Care Centres are occupied by people under quarantine, including travellers who returned under the Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights, the bulletin said. So far, 1,81,295 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated, it said. The number of people in home isolation stands at 15,371.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-record-daily-jump-of-4321-covid-19-cases-886624.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu: Boy dies after falling off roof, tests positive for Covid-19||A four-year-old boy who died at a hospital here on Saturday after falling from the roof of his house tested positive for Covid-19, officials said. After the boy's death at the hospital, his family members protested alleging that there was negligence during treatment, they said. The boy fell down from the roof of his house at Janipur locality of the city and was rushed to a nearby hospital in Sarwal, from where he was referred to Government Medical College (GMC), the officials said. As the boy had tested positive for the Covid-19, his body was not handed over to his family who protested outside the hospital building for several hours, alleging that no ventilator was available at the hospital. The family also claimed that the boy did not show any Covid-related symptom and was in good health before he fell from the roof while playing cricket. The body of the deceased was later laid to rest at a Sarwal graveyard following the set Covid-19 protocol, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-boy-dies-after-falling-off-roof-tests-positive-for-covid-19-886639.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||India-China tension: Senior military commanders to meet next week||Easing tension on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso (lake) is likely to be the priority for the senior military commanders of India and China when they restart talks next week. Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army is likely to hold the sixth round of talks with his counterpart Maj. Gen. Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Chushul-Moldo point on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector.     The senior commanders of the Indian Army and Chinese PLA did not hold any meeting since they held the fifth round of talks on August 2. But they are now likely to restart negotiations, as agreed upon by the two sides during the meeting between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on the sideline of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Moscow. Lt. Gen. Singh and Maj. Gen. Liu are likely to focus on defusing tension on the banks of Pangong Tso, where the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA are at present engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation, a source in New Delhi said. Since the Indian Army carried out an operation on the south bank of Pangong Tso on August 29-30 night to pre-empt a move by the Chinese PLA to push the LAC westwards, tension escalated further in the region. The local brigade commanders of both the armies have been regularly holding meetings over the past few days, including one on Saturday. They could not make much headway, but the meetings did keep the channels of communication open even as tension ran high with the soldiers of the two nations positioned hardly 200-300 meters away from each other. While the senior military commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA are mandated to discuss ways to resolve the stand-off all along the LAC, they are expected to immediately focus on reaching an understanding on pulling back front-line troops on both banks of Pangong Tso, as the situation around the lake is very grave, the source told the DH. The fate of the talks between Lt Gen Singh and Maj Gen Liu would depend much on the response of the Chinese PLA to the Indian Army’s demand for complete restoration of the status quo ante on the northern bank of Pangong Tso. The Indian Army’s preemptive operation on the south bank of the lake came weeks after the Chinese PLA dug in its heels on its northern bank and declined to withdraw troops to restore the status quo in the area. The senior military commanders of the two sides did not have any meeting after the fifth on August 2, as the “disengagement process” they agreed upon was stalled after the PLA declined to completely withdraw troops from several face-off scenes along the LAC – like Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and of course the northern bank of Pangong Tso.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-tension-senior-military-commanders-to-meet-next-week-886667.html
12-09-2020||North and Central||Hospitalised with no heartbeat after electricity shock, boy regains consciousness after 36 hours||A 16-year-old boy who was rushed to a city hospital with no heartbeat following a severe electric shock from a high-voltage live wire, regained consciousness after 36 hours, thanks to quick response by doctors. The boy came in contact with the live wire that had fallen on an iron railing at his shop in the old quarters of Delhi on August 1 following heavy rains. He was found stuck motionless to the railing with electricity still running through his body, doctors said. He could be rescued after 10 minutes when the electricity supply was cut from the powerhouse of that area. The boy was rushed to Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals and admitted to the emergency department, they said. Dr Priyadarshini Pal, Emergency Head, Emergency and Critical Care, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals said the patient had no heartbeat, an absent pulse rate and progressively falling blood pressure owing to the damage caused by a continuous flow of electricity through his body. "Upon evaluation, it was discovered that due to the severe and prolonged electric shock he suffered a cardiac arrest. He had exceptionally low chances of survival. But doctors at the Emergency and Critical Care unit quickly responded to his critical condition. "We immediately gave him CPR. The process was extremely critical because any delay in CPR after a cardiac arrest could have led to possible irreversible brain damage. We were able to revive the patient after CPR that lasted for an unusual time of almost 45 minutes," Dr Pal said. The doctor said with timely treatment, the boy regained consciousness after 36 hours and was discharged on August 5. Dr Sudheer Tyagi, senior consultant, Neurology, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said that such cases are very critical and any slight delay can cause irreparable damage to the patient's brain. "Had this patient not given CPR immediately it could have led to a condition of decrease in the flow of oxygen to the brain. That could have manifested brain damage in the form of severe neurological deficit-delayed or complete inability of the patient to regain consciousness and weakness/numbness in different parts of the body" he said. Even if the patient had regained consciousness, there was a possibility that his cognitive brain functions like memory, responsiveness and recognition would be adversely affected, Dr Tyagi said. "Timely treatment and quick response to his deteriorating condition are what saved the patient's life." Expressing his gratitude to the doctors the patient's brother said, "We had lost hope when initially the doctors informed us that chances of my brother's survival were slim. But Dr Pal and her team put in all their efforts and brought him back from the jaws of death."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hospitalised-with-no-heartbeat-after-electricity-shock-boy-regains-consciousness-after-36-hours-886673.html
12-09-2020||Opinion||Remembering the presidency of Donald Trump||By Roger Cohen My memory is also returning, a mixed blessing as it turns to familiar obsessions, like Donald Trump’s ego. You know that ego could not resist 18 interviews with Bob Woodward, just as you know that he spent some of those interviews detailing his lies to the American people about the virus (he preferred “to always play it down”), just as you know that he said in 2018 that the Aisne-Marne American cemetery in France he declined to visit was “filled with losers,” just as you know that in 2017 he said Haitians “all have AIDS” and Nigerian immigrants wouldn’t ever “go back to their huts.” You know because the President’s personality is consistent: a mix of coward, racist, liar, con artist, narcissist, grifter and blowhard, with uncanny antennae for the worst instincts of humanity, and for how to use the media to channel insecurity and hatred into a mass political movement galvanised by his fiendish energy. Yes, you just know with Trump. You know he insisted that Sean Spicer say his inauguration was “the largest audience to ever witness” the ceremony, and that former senior White House counsellor Kellyanne Conway used the Trump playbook when she said the statement was not false but “just alternative facts,” and that when Trump started insisting (falsely) that there had been voter fraud in the election he had won, he was laying the groundwork for real voter suppression in November 2020, and that downplaying the virus was about getting the Dow to 30,000 so he would not suffer an impossible defeat in the coming election. Alternative facts have been the diet of Americans for 44 months now. No democracy, built on accountability and law, can survive such an onslaught indefinitely. That is why Joe Biden’s most effective slogan is a simple one: “You deserve a president who tells you the truth.” Biden has a fight on his hands. Millions of Americans have lost their jobs. Militarized police confront angry mobs. Insecurity is rampant, as is racial tension. A plague stalks the land. These are near perfect conditions for a proto-fascist like Trump who seeks a disoriented populace. You just know, and the knowledge is that cloying glob of sludge that can never quite be washed off in the Trump era, however hard you scrub. It permeates existence. You know he doesn’t believe climate change is a threat, that he has done his best to eviscerate the Environmental Protection Agency, that he does not believe in science, that he thought “disinfectant” might knock out the virus “in a minute,” that he has hobbled the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, that he couldn’t care less about transgender people, that he loathes immigrants he has described as “animals” and that he authorized the separation of thousands of immigrant children from their parents at the border. You know that, in textbook totalitarian fashion, he calls a free press “the enemy of the American people.” Yes, you know, and you also know that Trump wants you to know all this so well, and so relentlessly, that you don’t care. He has always gotten away with it. He has no reason to believe he will not continue to bat 1.000. “The fact is, we’re here, and they’re not,” he taunted his opponents at the White House last month. It is a fact, alterable only through an immense summoning of American character and will. You know Trump thought there were “very fine people on both sides” at the 2017 neo-Nazi Charlottesville, Virginia, rally, and that he thinks any Jew who votes for a Democrat shows “great disloyalty,” and that he winks daily at millions of Americans who believe he is their saviour from a takeover by Black and brown people, Jewish finance, cosmopolitans and leftist radicals. You know Trump is “very much behind” President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi of Egypt because he has yet to meet a dictator he does not dream of emulating. You know Trump must be compromised with President Vladimir Putin to the point of ignoring Russian bounties on American troops in Afghanistan. American deaths, as this year’s virus death toll has shown, are a matter of indifference to a president who believes empathy, like patriotic sacrifice, is for suckers. It’s important not just to know, to be aware, but to remember. It’s hard to remember. It’s like looking for the way out of a labyrinth in the mist. It’s important to remember that Trump believes he has done more for Black Americans than any president since Abraham Lincoln and that he claims he will preserve coverage for preexisting conditions even as he is asking the Supreme Court to destroy Obamacare. Because Trump is delusional and a world already on the brink of an armed Chinese-American confrontation may not survive a second Trump term without disaster. Nor will the oldest democracy on Earth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/remembering-the-presidency-of-donald-trump-886288.html
12-09-2020||Opinion||So, when are BJP leaders going to revolt against their leadership?||Finally, some Congress leaders have begun a ‘revolt’ against the party leadership, aka, ‘High Command’. One group wrote a letter, fairly respectfully, seeking elections and internal democracy. Another group was blunt, telling Sonia Gandhi to “look beyond family” and to the party’s health and survival. No one thought this was possible in a party of sycophants, most of whom have practised the art for decades. But it has happened, and that’s good for Congress and good for the country. The question is, when are BJP leaders going to summon the gumption to even ask questions of their leadership, let alone ‘revolt’ against it? Koi mai ka lal hain? For years, BJP leaders have shouted and screamed that Rahul Gandhi was a dynast, a ‘Shehzaada’, a ‘Clown Prince’, Pappu, even spread canards through WhatsApp that he was a ‘drug addict’, etc., and asked indignantly, “Congress wants to thrust Rahul Gandhi on the nation as PM? Do they have no patriotism or care for the country?!” Alright, let’s assume that Rahul Gandhi as PM would have been a disaster for India. But what has Modi, the Yoga-practising, fully sober, Bharat Mata Ki Jai and Vande Mataram-shouting patriot, international genius and global visionary, done to the country in these six years? Are you better off today or do you have an expectation that you will be better off in 2024 than you were in 2014? Do you have an expectation that your children’s future will be better than yours? So, again, when are the ultra-patriotic leaders of the BJP, who were so concerned about what would happen to the country under Rahul Gandhi, revolt against their leadership, given what it has reduced India to? Here are some reasons why they must, but, of course, the question is, koi mai ka lal hain? Congress, it was alleged and widely believed, was corrupt and collected election funds from industrialists and handed them favours. But under Congress, large, anonymous donations to the party were still illegal and the party could be called out, quid pro quos investigated. Indeed, wasn’t that what Modi promised to do — root out political corruption? What did he do instead? He made it perfectly legal to collect political donations anonymously via Electoral Bonds. Now, even as the economy has sunk, GDP has shrunk by a quarter, and industry is in doldrums, the BJP is cash-rich and grows richer by the day. Rs 7,000 crore and counting. And the country does not know who’s giving it all this money (more than 90% of the contributions are in Rs 1 crore and higher bond denominations, so it can’t be people like you and me). And we will never know because it has been written into law. What you could question Congress for and what was still illegal then is now legal, indeed the BJP’s preferred method of fund collection. We don’t know whether the funds are coming from favoured industrialists or from the ISI or the CIA or from Chinese intelligence. Are BJP MPs aware where they are getting all this money from? Or has the BJP’s “conscience-keeper”, the RSS Sarsanghchalak, been told? Do BJP leaders consider the Electoral Bonds scheme an act of patriotism or even constitutionally right? Or, are they OK with it so long as Modi-Shah can win elections for the party, as the Nehru-Gandhis did for Congress, and keep them all in power and profit? Is it considered an act of great honesty and integrity and patriotism in the BJP that the PM-CARES fund is not under RTI and so we, the citizens, cannot ask or know who the donors are (except, of course, one highly publicised donor – the PM himself), what the money is being used for, whether the ventilators apparently bought with the money are working, and why the money is being used to build large, make-shift Covid-19 hospitals only in Bihar, just as elections are due there? For years, BJP leaders made fun of Manmohan Singh, saying that his UPA-2 government suffered from policy paralysis (for which much credit should go to the BJP for stalling Parliament for three years). Now, under Modi, since 8 pm, November 8, 2016, the whole country and economy has been progressively paralysed. Is it acceptable in the BJP for the PM to shut down currency and country at will, with a four-hour notice whenever he feels like it? Is it part of BJP patriotism not to ask their leadership questions or make it known to them that India is not anybody’s personal fiefdom to do as he pleases? Did any BJP MP or minister feel for the millions of migrant workers who walked hundreds of miles to go back to their homes, denied food and shelter and harassed by police? Did anybody ask the PM why those millions had to undergo such a treatment in their own country? Or, why indeed it was necessary to shut down a country of 1.38 billion people with a four-hour notice and what we have gained from it? BJP MPs shout ‘Modi, Modi’ inside Parliament. Is it considered patriotism in today’s BJP to do so? For years, they have been calling Congress leaders sycophants. What are they? Well, some Congress leaders have now gathered the gumption to question their leadership. Anyone in the BJP who has the guts to stand up and prevent what Indira Gandhi did to Congress from happening to the BJP? Koi desh-premi mai ka lal hain?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/so-when-are-bjp-leaders-going-to-revolt-against-their-leadership-886692.html
12-09-2020||Opinion||A country without cairns||Like for many, the pandemic upended all my best-laid plans. Travel featured prominently, and mine were to destinations that aren’t exactly aspirational. One trip that I had the buy-in to do from my eye-rolling crew of two was to Bihar. Since Covid-19 struck, I set aside all such plans and set my sights on simply getting through to the other side. ‘Destinations’ now reeked of disinfectant, disease, and death; hospitality seemed as hostile as a hospital bed. And who knew that Bihar would come home, like an uninvited house guest, perpetually squatting in our lounge, in our phones, high on a 59-gm joint, refusing to leave? When I realised that the only way through this interminable tunnel is now via Bihar, I decided to abrogate all fears and leave for faraway Kashmir. And like that, in an unintended consequence, with all due genuflection to the double-barreled history mightier mortals made on August 5, with 11 others, I made a teensy bit of history myself. By all accounts, we may have been one of this and the last seasons’ first organised trekking groups to India’s newest Union Territory. Two negative Covid-19 tests and we were making our way to make almond eyes at the almost-shaped Tarsar Lake, set high at 3,750 meters. Trekking is no walk through Lutyens lawns. There are no pliant, posy peacocks, although walking sticks, not ‘lathis’, do come very handy. Trekking is pure physiology and physicality. It involves several vanity-vanishing indignities. For me, the closest corollary to trekking is childbirth. You forget how it all actually feels — to be underslept, underfed, unwashed, achy — and therefore, sometimes, you go for it again, and then it all comes back, in waves of discomfort, elation, and pain. Gratefully, once you’re on the move, there’s not a lot to think about, and frankly, little need to. Strapped with a reasonably furnished backpack, and gaining height, you cannot but leave ordinary, everyday, sea-level worries like India’s plunging GDP, its joblessness, its hunger, its poverty, its wars, within and without, and such like, behind. At high altitudes, the only GDP you care to track is, well, your equivalent of the cow’s output that Akshay Kumar drinks. There are ways to soften hard landings, but no one can help you put one foot in front of the other. But a good guide certainly helps. We had Tausif. In my experience, there are three things a mountain guide must be and must do. First, the guide must know the route, right up till the destination, like the back of their hand, even in their sleep. They must also know several alternate routes, not just to the destination but out of it, in every kind of weather, glorious to ghastly, safely to safety. A good guide will never race ahead to be with those who are familiar with the terrain, the fittest, fastest, and the best. They walk with the stragglers right at the back, setting a steady pace, never shaming a nervous first-timer, always ready with a firm clasp, need-based. They know that success is when every trekker reaches the destination, delighted and in one piece. A good guide is willing to be vulnerable. Because we compressed a trek that is typically done in six days into four, there were sections when all I could conjure up was my next breath and my step. River crossings, and this trek offered plenty, made me particularly wobbly. Tausif’s empathy for my fears got me across, shaking but never soaking. With him, mountains of scree, miles of slippery sludge, mild-looking but mighty meadows, boulder walks littered with crevasse falls, in perennially pivoting weather, became a cakewalk. I bid Tausif adieu in Srinagar, with its lake-fulls of shuttered houseboats, and I could not but think that the trek India now needs to make is destined for disaster. With their sight only ever extending up to their nose, or the next election, our guides have led us inside a dense white-out. We have lost our way. We are an uncared-for country, with an unaudited PM-CARES. We have also demolished all cairns, and no Tausif can help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-country-without-cairns-886694.html
12-09-2020||Opinion||Where did Direct Beneficiary Transfer money go?||Long-starved of gold medals in international games, our soccer and hockey teams could learn a thing or two from our bureaucracy which is quite aatmanirbhar in the art of blocking and tackling requests for even mundane information. For four months now, I have tried to seek public access to micro-level data about the monetary relief granted to 20.5 crore women under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), without any success. Babus lobbed the RTI application back and forth several times to dodge the responsibility of putting all information on a website within everybody’s reach. This data appears to be as closely guarded a ‘sarkari secret’ as the details of the Chinese intrusions in Ladakh. In June this year, the Centre claimed that it had distributed a whopping Rs 20,300 crore to women, at the rate of Rs 500 per month for three months, to help them tide over the household financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 lockdown. At that time, the government acknowledged that less than 50% of them had withdrawn this money from their PM Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) bank accounts. My RTI application sent to the Finance Ministry sought not the beneficiaries’ names, but publicdisclosure of state and district-wise data about withdrawals and the number of Jan Dhan accounts which had become inoperative, due to which the Covid-19 period direct benefit transfer (DBT) had failed.A couple of other queries were related to the assistance that Bank Mitras provided to women for withdrawing these funds, including any doorstepservices offered. In June, a gut-wrenching video of a 60-year-old woman in Naupara, Odisha, dragging a charpoy on which her 100-year-old mother lay, all the way to the bank, to convince its manager that she was alive, had gone viral. The RBI’s instructions that such elderly people and those with disabilities must be serviced at their homes must be lying in some dusty file which neither woman could have accessed. In true bureaucratic style, the Department of Financial Services (DFS) shunted my RTI application to the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) within four days. They, in turn, threw it at the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) the next day. DEA passed it back to, believe it or not, the DFS which lobbed it back again at MoRD — all actions taken at lightning speed, within 24 hours, thanks to the power of the government’s IT infrastructure. The impact of ‘Digital India’ was well demonstrated. MoRD had little option left but to pass the buck internally as its extramural actions had scored a self-goal. The RTI application reached two public information officers (PIO) – one dealing with the implementation of the MGNREGA programme and the other responsible for implementing the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) under which widows, elderly persons and persons with disabilities are given monthly pensions. The first PIO washed her hands off as the information sought was not related to her mandate; the second replied that Rs 2,814.50 crore had been released in two instalments of Rs 500 each to 2.82 crore beneficiaries. This assistance, no doubt, is also part of the PMGKY package announced on March 26, but it is different from the DBT package meant for 20.5 crore PMJDY women. MoRD’s First Appellate Authority upheld the PIO’s reply, ignoring my plea that he was not competent to provide answers to the RTI queries, instead they should have been sent back to the Finance Ministry as the PMJDY is its baby. To top it all, the artificially intelligent Online RTI filing facility, through which this entire game was played, refused to allow lodging of a first appeal against the Finance Ministry simply because they had chucked the RTI out of their office twice. Now, it is the turn of the Central Information Commission to umpire the correctness of all these actions. That is not likely to happen for at least another year, given their case-pendency which is inching towards the 36,000 mark. By then, the information will be obsolete. On September 28, transparency advocates around the world will celebrate ‘International Right to Know Day’. Two weeks later, India’s RTI Act will enter its 16th year of implementation. Whether it will be ‘sweet 16’ or a rebellious teen for the Jan-Gan’s “Quest for Transparency,” highlighted on the PMO website, is not too difficult to guess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/where-did-direct-beneficiary-transfer-money-go-886695.html
12-09-2020||Opinion||India-China row: Let’s not put our hopes in the Moscow plan||On September 10, the foreign ministers of India and China agreed to ease tensions on the borders after “frank and constructive discussion” on the side lines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting in Moscow. The five-point agreement could usher in normalcy at the border — a good thing even if it is only a temporary reprieve at best. Scaling drastically down from Beijing’s coercive diplomatic statements since May, when the standoff at Pangong Tso in Eastern Ladakh began, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi stated in Moscow that “right now, [both countries need] cooperation, not confrontation” and that they should “immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions.” Wang also said it is “important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed.” Did he mean it equally for China? Wang invoked the SCO Asthana Summit discussion in 2017 between Modi and Xi in which the two leaders agreed “not to allow differences to become disputes”, never mind the 4-month-long and continuing border standoff in Ladakh, the 20 Indian soldiers who were killed on June 15, and the shots that were fired for the first time in decades. While India insisted on border stability as the key factor in bilateral relations, China harped on “development partnership” and expanding trade relations. The contrast in positions have been around since the late 1980s, now heightened by the recent curbs on Chinese investments, apps, visas and Confucius Institutes. Secondly, the Moscow agreement suggested to “continue dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions.” However, in falling back on the same local commander-level meetings that were held at Moldo and Chushul that yielded no major or quick positive outcomes on disengagement and de-escalation, the prospect of easing tensions appears bleak, or perhaps the Moscow meeting itself was designed merely to buy time for further military preparations. Thirdly, the foreign ministers agreed to evolve new confidence building measures to cope with the fresh changes on the ground. New CBMs have been talked about since the Doklam standoff in 2017. But, as the 1993, 1996, 2013 and other CBMs were thrown to the winds during the current stand-off, it is not clear how any new CBMs would help keep the peace on the borders. Strangely, while the meeting reiterated the Special Representative mechanism to resolve the boundary dispute, no timeline for the resolution was arrived at. In the absence of this roadmap, it is inconceivable that there will be stability in the bilateral relations. This is precisely at the root of the security problems between India and China. Fourthly, there was no mention about any restoration of status quo ante to the April 2020 ground level positions – a key demand of India as China began encroaching land in Pangong Tso from Finger 8 to Finger 5, Hot Springs, and more significantly in the Depsang Plains. India, of course, regained the five major hill tops on the south bank of Pangong Tso on August 29-30, by pre-empting a build-up of Chinese forces there. If this pattern is to become the new normal, then many fronts across the 3,488-long border could light up in the coming weeks and months. Fifthly, all this while, the apologists of asymmetry in power relations had argued that with China’s much bigger economy and military budget, conventional and strategic weapons, and the ability to goad Pakistan into creating another front against India, New Delhi has no chance but to acquiesce to China’s demands. However, with the Indian Army now in control of key heights and the way our troops have stood up to bullying by China’s army at Galwan, Pangong Tso, Naku La and elsewhere, it’s China that must be having second thoughts. What’s more, the Indian demonstration of holding off China provides a beacon to other nations that have been threatened by an assertive China of late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-china-row-let-s-not-put-our-hopes-in-the-moscow-plan-886696.html
12-09-2020||Right in the Middle||What's in a name? The origins of names of storms and places||In the middle of the global pandemic, our part of the world was hit earlier this year by the cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal. Some other storms we have weathered in the past are Kyar, Maha, Vayu, Hikka, Fani and so on. The unique and distinctive name given to these storms is a recent phenomenon.  Several hundred years back, storms and hurricanes were identified by their latitude-longitude and the year in which they occurred. Over time it was felt that naming the storms with short and easily remembered names would help in faster communications and cutting down human errors, especially in exchanging information between hundreds of coastal bases and ships at sea.  In the early days, the storms were named after places or celebratory days on which they occur, like ‘hurricane Saint Ana’ which struck Puerto Rico in 1825. The usage of personal names for storms and cyclones was introduced by Clement Lindsey Wragge, the celebrated Australian meteorologist. It is said that he used feminine names for gentle storms and politicians’ names, who denied him promotion or funding, for severe unpleasant storms.  Of course, the locals did not let him have the naming privileges exclusively. Clement Wragge himself was named “Inclement Wragge” for a couple of reasons. The weather conditions in the mountains of Australia were appalling and the poor man was often forecasting inclement weather.  When the European settlers stepped onto the shores of Van Dieman’s island (present-day Tasmania) in the 1800s, naming of the places was left to local administrators. In the capital Hobart region, there are a few places named after Indian cities. I was curiously surprised to see the names on the signboards giving directions to Mangalore and Howrah from Hobart. Apparently a lot of early surveyors and road builders in Tasmania were ex-Indian officers of British origin who were favourably inclined to bestow Indian names. A suburb of Hobart situated along the shores of the Derwent River is known as Howrah. A retired army officer named his property built on these plains as ‘Howrah house’ in the year 1830. Later the whole region was named after that house as Howrah. There are three towns named after ‘Namma Mangaluru’ in Australia, one in Queensland, another in Victoria and a third in Tasmania. Incidentally, Mangalore of Tasmania is situated between the townships of Bagdad and Brighton!  Bagdad is the town named by the explorer Hugh Germain, a Sergeant in the Royal Marines. He was known to carry two books in his saddlebags while travelling, the Bible and the Arabian Nights for his naming inspiration. Thus, today one finds Jerusalem, Jericho, River Jordan, Lake Tiberius and Bagdad within close proximity to Hobart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/whats-in-a-name-the-origins-of-names-of-storms-and-places-886247.html
12-09-2020||Second Edit||There are no shortcuts to Covid-19 vaccine||The halting of the trial of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine that was under development may have caused disappointment among large numbers of people who were waiting for it. It was considered to hold the most promise for efficacy and for early delivery among the more than 150 vaccine candidates on which research is going on in various countries. Though Russia has announced that its vaccine, Sputnik-V, is almost ready, the world has not accepted it as reliable. There was a lot of hope riding on the AstraZeneca vaccine, and the third and final stage trials were being conducted in four countries. In India, the trials were being conducted by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. There was so much confidence about the success of the vaccine, which had cleared all tests and trials done till now, that its production had already started.  The trials were suspended because a participant in the United Kingdom developed an unexplained illness. Only one adverse event, in the form of a spinal cord problem, has been noticed but that is enough to suspend the trials because the most important consideration in vaccine trials is the safety of the participants. The problem may not have been caused by the vaccine but till the time the cause is established, the trial had to be paused. There is no surprise in this, and it is as it should be. It is not known why Serum Institute did not pause the trials when they were stopped in other countries and had to be prodded by the Drugs Controller-General of India (DCGI) to do so. It should be noted that in July also, the trials were stopped in the UK as another patient had developed a different problem, but it was later found out to be unrelated to the vaccine.  Such problems have arisen during the trials of all vaccines that have been developed. That is why it has sometimes taken years to develop a vaccine. In the case of the coronavirus, the efforts were expedited because of the urgency in developing a vaccine or a drug, but that does not mean that there should be any relaxation of safety standards. In fact, there should be special and more than normal attention to safety in the case of Covid-19 because the largest number of people in history, potentially the entire world population, have to be vaccinated with it in the shortest possible time. So, there is a need for patience. There is hope that the trials will resume soon, and also that the work on other vaccines will also be successful. Dropping standards or advancing deadlines seldom work in research. Neither should be done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/there-are-no-shortcuts-to-covid-19-vaccine-886243.html
12-09-2020||South||Telangana sees 2,278 new Covid-19 cases; tally at 1.54 lakh cases||Telangana registered 2,278 fresh Covid-19 cases and 10 related fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 1.54 lakh in the state. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 331, followed by Rangareddy 184, Medchal Malkajgiri 150 and Nalgonda 126 districts, a government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 pm on September 11. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1.21 lakh while 32,005 are under treatment. As many as 62,234 samples were tested on September 11. Cumulatively, 20.78 lakh samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 55,989, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.61 per cent, while it was 1.66 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 78.7 per cent, while it was 77.5 per cent in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-sees-2278-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-154-lakh-cases-886332.html
12-09-2020||South||Two students die by suicide in Tamil Nadu over NEET fear||“All of you have so many expectations from me. I am sorry. If I do not get a (medical) seat in a college, all your hard work for me will go in vain. I am sorry. I am tired.” These were the last words of a 19-year-old medical aspirant, who was preparing to appear for her second attempt in NEET scheduled on Sunday, from Madurai. A day before she was to appear for the entrance test, Jothi Sri Durga was found hanging from a ceiling fan at her home in Madurai, 465 km from here, on Saturday. Hours after Durga was found dead, another student who was to appear for NEET, Adithya, also died by suicide. He was found dead by his parents at their home in Dharmapuri on Saturday evening. Durga, who completed her plus-2 last year, took a year-long break to prepare exclusively for NEET to realize her childhood dream of becoming a doctor. However, the pressure to perform in the NEET exam seems to have demotivated her, leading the teenager to take the extreme step of taking her own life. A 7-page hand-written letter and an audio message recorded by Durga is now in the public domain. In the letter addressed to her family members, Durga spoke about how her extended family also treated her “like your own daughter” and thanked them for the love showered on her. The teenager said she feared the NEET exam though she was scoring good marks in the mock tests and asked her parents to forget and forgive her. The suicide of Durga, daughter of a sub-inspector of police, and Adithya is the fourth in Tamil Nadu in the past one-month over NEET. A 19-year-old girl from Coimbatore and another 19-year-old boy from Ariyalur also took their life due to fear of NEET. Political leaders, including Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, asked students not to take extreme steps as there were several avenues to make it big in life. DMK President M K Stalin said the party would scrap NEET if it came to power in 2021 and ensure that medical admissions are made based on plus-two marks. Students in Tamil Nadu, especially from rural areas, find taking NEET exams as they feel it does not create a level-playing field as they are forced to compete with students from urban areas and those who study in the CBSE stream. The state government says it is against NEET, but two legislations passed by the Assembly seeking exemption from the national-level entrance test have been rejected by the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-students-die-by-suicide-in-tamil-nadu-over-neet-fear-886349.html
12-09-2020||South||Telangana doctors perform India's first double lung transplant on Covid-19 patient||Doctors at a hospital in Telangana claimed to have successfully performed the country's first double lung transplant surgery on a 32-year-old Covid-19 patient, who was suffering from sarcoidosis that affected his lungs. The team of doctors led by Dr Sandeep Attawar performed the complex procedure on the man from Chandigarh, a release from Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) here said. After recovery, the patient was discharged on Friday. The man was suffering from sarcoidosis, which affected his lungs. His condition deteriorated rapidly and a double lung transplant was the only permanent option for cure, it said. The situation worsened when the man contracted coronavirus while awaiting the transplant. The patient's oxygen requirement increased from 15 liters per minute to 50 liters per min for the past eight weeks, the release added. He received lungs from a brain-dead person in Kolkata. "The patient was a severe case of lung sarcoidosis, and Covid-19 virus only complicated the precarious lung condition. Fortunately, a match to his lungs was found in a person declared brain dead in Kolkata, and the harvested lungs were airlifted to Hyderabad to save the life of the patient," Dr Sandeep Attawar said. "The procedure was complex and had little scope for errors; and only a timely transplant of lungs helped save the patient," he was quoted as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-doctors-perform-indias-first-double-lung-transplant-on-covid-19-patient-886353.html
12-09-2020||South||Andaman and Nicobar Islands reports 29 new Covid-19 cases; tally at 3,494||At least 29 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, raising the tally in the Union Territory to 3,494, a senior official said on Saturday. The new cases were detected during contact tracing. Thirty six people were discharged from hospitals since Friday, taking the number of recoveries in the archipelago to 3,157, the official said. The Union Territory currently has 286 active cases, while 51 people have succumbed to the infection. A total of 43,680 samples have been been sent for Covid-19 examination so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andaman-and-nicobar-islands-reports-29-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-3494-886372.html
12-09-2020||South||ED attaches properties worth Rs 89 crore of DMK MP Jagathrakshakan in money laundering case||The Enforrcement Directorate (ED) has attached properties worth Rs 89 crore of DMK MP Jagathrakshakan in a money laundering case.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-attaches-properties-worth-rs-89-crore-of-dmk-mp-jagathrakshakan-in-money-laundering-case-886404.html
12-09-2020||South||Kerala bags 'Top Performer' honour in States' Startup Ranking 2019||Kerala has bagged the "Top Performer" honour for developing a strong start-up ecosystem for the second consecutive year in the States' Startup Ranking 2019, announced by the Centre, recognising the state as a leader across all pillars of startup ecosystem. While four states were adjudged as the top performers last year, only Kerala and Karnataka have been selected this year, a press release said. The ranking was declared in the presence of Railways and Commerce minister, Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Civil Aviation, Housing and Urban Affairs, Hardeep Singh Puri and Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash. The States' Startup Ranking Framework 2019, prepared by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, recognized Electronics and Information Technology Department of the state government as an institutional leader, regulatory change champion, procurement leader, incubation hub, seeding innovation leader, and scaling innovations leader. Kerala has taken several exemplary initiatives in establishing institutional support for women-led startups, including pre-incubation support, special subsidies and seed funding. Initiatives like robust venture funding mechanism for start-ups are being implemented through the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), the nodal agency for entrepreneurship development and incubation activities in the state. It was noted on the occasion that Kerala and Karnataka have displayed visionary leadership and taken strategic initiatives to strengthen innovative entrepreneurship of the ecosystem. These states have exhibited unwavering commitment to the growth of start-up ecosystems by taking dedicated and focussed initiatives across all pillars of start-ups ranking exercise. It also recognised Dr Saji Gopinath, CEO Kerala Startup Mission and Ashok Kurian Panjikaran, Head, Business Development of KSUM, as "Startup Champions of the State." Gopinath said the recognition for the second consecutive year will encourage more young entrepreneurs to make use of the state's robust startup ecosystem. The States' Startup Ranking Framework 2019 was done across seven specific dimensions: Institutional Support, Easing Compliances, Relaxation in Public Procurement norms, Incubation Support, Seed Funding Support, Venture Funding Support, and Awareness and Outreach. The key objective of the exercise is capacity building, and to further the spirit of entrepreneurship in the Indian Startup Ecosystem. The 'State/UT Startup Ranking Framework' 2019 is spread across seven areas of intervention with a total of 30 action points, as compared to the 38 action points in the Previous Year State Ranking Framework. The framework provides the guidelines to support implementation of action points along with good practices against each action point. The State Ranking Framework aims to evaluate States/UTs in a balanced and transparent manner and has thus made documentary evidence of compliance on action points by the State/UT Government a pre- requisite for collection of feedback. Scoring was then done on the basis of the feedback received.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bags-top-performer-honour-in-states-startup-ranking-2019-886418.html
12-09-2020||South||ED orders seizure of properties worth about Rs 89 crore belonging to DMK MP S Jagathrakshakan, family||Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday issued orders to attach properties worth Rs 89.19 crores, including agricultural lands, plots, and houses, belonging to DMK MP S Jagathrakshagan and his family members under Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The action against Jagathrakshagan, Lok Sabha MP from Arakkonam constituency in north Tamil Nadu, comes after intense questioning of him and some of his family members in the past few months. The attachment of properties owned by the DMK MP comes close on the heels of the Income Tax department issuing notices to attach properties owned by jailed AIADMK leader V K Sasikala through her benamis. Jagathrakshagan and his son Sundeep Aanand are accused of subscribing to 70,00,000 and 20,00,000 shares respectively of Silver Park International Pte. Ltd., Singapore, without obtaining the approval of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).  “Further, these unauthorized acquired shares were transferred by S Jagathrakshagan to his family members in contravention of Section 4 of FEMA read with Regulation 3 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Foreign Security) Regulations, 2004,” the ED said in a statement. As any foreign exchange outside India in contravention of section 4 of FEMA warrants seizure of properties to the equivalent value, immovable properties in the form of agricultural lands, plots and houses in Tamil Nadu and movable properties in the form of balances in bank accounts and shares totalling to Rs 89.19 Crores held by the MP and his family members were seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-orders-seizure-of-properties-worth-about-rs-89-crore-belonging-to-dmk-mp-s-jagathrakshakan-family-886459.html
12-09-2020||South||Engineer in quarantine found dead with throat slit||A 30-year-old engineer, who had returned from Kuwait and was in quarantine here, was found dead with his throat slit, police said on Saturday. T V Sharath was staying in an outhouse adjacent to his residence. When a relative went to give Sharath breakfast, the latter was found dead, the police said. A pair of scissors was recovered from near the body, they said. It is suspected he had died by suicide following mental stress, they said. The investigation is on, they said adding that the man had returned from abroad last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/engineer-in-quarantine-found-dead-with-throat-slit-886460.html
12-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt against NEET, says Education Minister||The Tamil Nadu government is against the National Eligibility-cum-EntranceTest (NEET) and has been urging the Centre to exempt the state from the test, School Education Minister K A Sengottiyan said on Saturday. The Minister's statement comes on a day when a 19-year- old girl died by alleged suicide in Madurai, apparently 'apprehensive' over NEET. Speaking to reporters at Gobichettipalayam, where he distributed old age pension orders, the Minister said Chief Minister K Palaniswami has requested the central government to exempt students from the state from writing the exam. Despite the opposition from the government, the NEET would be conducted on September 13 in 238 centres and 1,17,990 candidates are appearing for the test, he said. The Minister was responding to a query on NEET issue. The girl's death comes days after a young medical aspirant in Ariyalur district died by 'suicide,' drawing sharp response from political parties opposed to the entrance test. On the new national educational policy, the Minister said, "Tamil Nadu is only for a two-language formula." Asked about the response to the admission of students in government and government-aided schools, he said it has been encouraging as 13.84 lakh students have so far joined the schools. He said the admission would go on till this month-end and the number of students enrollment was more than those admitted in previous years. The Minister also said there was no possibility of re- opening schools now on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-against-neet-says-education-minister-886466.html
12-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly issues new notices to Stalin, DMK legislators in gutka sachets issue||The Tamil Nadu Assembly Privilege Committee has issued fresh notices to Leader of Opposition and DMK president M K Stalin and his legislators on the issue of display of banned gutkha sachets in the House in 2017, seeking their response by Monday. Incidentally, the House will meet for a brief three-day session starting September 14. The privilege notice was initially served by the Assembly Speaker P Dhanapal in 2017 against 21 DMK lawmakers-- two died during the pendency of the case-- on the ground that "prohibited items" were brought into the Assembly by them. Gutkha (chewing tobacco) has been banned in Tamil Nadu since 2013. The notices that have been issued anew about three days ago sought response from the members by September 14. Deploring the issuance of the notices, DMK said the move was aimed at preventing the party MLAs from taking part in the ensuing session of the Assembly, which is all set to commence on Monday at Kalaivanar auditorium. Stalin and the DMK members have filed writ petitions against the fresh notice, a party statement said. It recalled that the Madras High Court had last month set aside an earlier privilege notice against Stalin and the other MLAs, after they challenged it. "Following this, the Assembly Privilege Committee met on September 7, 2020, again and discussed the events of July 19, 2017 with the Secretary to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, and issued notices to the MLAs,"it said. The notices were issued on the eve of the Assembly session and the MLAs have been asked to respond by September 14. "The purpose of this new notice is clear. It is to prevent our MLAs from participating in the forthcoming Assembly session, and raising the issue of government's mismanagement on coronavirus," DMK claimed. Hence, the DMK members have filed a fresh writ petition in the High Court challenging the new notices. On August 25, the Madras High Court, while making its observation, had left it to the Privilege Committee to deliberate on the issue further and examine whether the conduct would amount to a breach of privilege, particularly since the legality of a conduct does not necessarily mean that it is not a breach of privilege. The first bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthil Kumar Ramamoorthy had granted liberty to authorities for initiation of the privilege proceedings afresh. After examining the various offences set out in the May 2017 notification, the High Court ruled that the display of Gutkha sachets by the MLAs on the Assembly Floor, with the intent of highlighting its availability despite the ban, did not constitute an offence under the law banning Gutkha in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-issues-new-notices-to-stalin-dmk-legislators-in-gutka-sachets-issue-886468.html
12-09-2020||South||Widespread violent protests in Kerala demanding K T Jaleel's resignation||Kerala on Saturday witnessed widespread violent protests by various opposition parties and their youth wings demanding the resignation of state Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel who was quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate officials on Friday. Several workers, including BJP state spokesperson B Gopalakrishnan, were injured in police action against the protests in front of the state secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram. Protest marches were staged in all districts by Congress, Youth Congress, BJP and Yuva Morcha workers. While Jaleel is maintaining a silence over the row, the opposition parties came up with fresh allegations. Congress alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is protecting Jaleel as he could have also received illegal benefits through Jaleel. Hence the government has lost moral responsibility to continue to be in power, said the Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. BJP state president K Surendran alleged that various religious outfits received foreign contributions after the Kerala floods and natural calamities and Jaleel also benefited from it. The ED was learnt to have quizzed Jaleel in connection with the acceptance of Ramadan relief food kits and Quran from the UAE consulate in Kerala for distribution in the state. Around 300 packets containing Qurans were received through diplomatic baggage. It came to light during the investigation of customs into the gold smuggling using diplomatic baggage which involved UAE consulate former employees. Sources said that prima facie Jaleel's act amounted to the violation of the foreign exchange regulations and protocol norms. Hence his statement on the allegations has been taken. The quizzing that lasted for around two hours mainly pertained to his association with the UAE consulate employees and the circumstances for accepting the food kits and Quran. It was also being ascertained whether similar offers were received from the consulate earlier. After verifying the statements and facts, ED would take further steps. Jaleel might be quizzed once again for clarification. The External Affairs Ministry is also learnt to have received complaints against the minister. The Kerala Lok Ayukta has also sent a notice to the minister in a petition related to this allegation. Though Jaleel on Friday told a section of media that he was not summoned by ED, later top officials of ED confirmed that Jaleel's statement has been recorded. He is learnt to have gone to the ED office in a friend's car in order to evade the attention of media and public. While Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has not reacted to the opposition's demand for Jaleel's resignation yet, state Tourism Minister and CPM leaders Kadakampally Surendran maintained that the ED has only collected statements from the minister and it need not be considered as a major issue. Even former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy was quizzed by a judicial commission for hours, he said. As the protests mounted, Jaleel made a social media post on Friday night, saying that the truth will be the ultimate victor even if the entire world is against it. On Saturday he also performed the first rice eating ceremony of a CPM worker's child at his house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/widespread-violent-protests-in-kerala-demanding-k-t-jaleels-resignation-886490.html
12-09-2020||South||NEET: Pondy CM V Narayanasamy says people will teach BJP a 'lesson' during polls||Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Saturday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government which he said was playing with the lives of the youth by holding the NEET (National Eligibility-cum Entrance Test) despite protests. Addressing a virtual press conference here, he said the people of Puducherry would teach the BJP a lesson in the forthcoming Assembly polls for sticking to its guns to hold the NEET. Assembly poll is due in 2021 as the present Ministry which was installed in office in June 2016 would complete its five- year term. The Chief Minister said he had written several letters to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to drop the NEET-based selection of the students. He said NEET, designed on the basis of the CBSE syllabus, would be tough to crack as students here have been following state board syllabus. So, he said, NEET should be done away with in the interest of the students in Puducherry. Narayanasamy expressed grief over students in recent days n ending their lives by suicide out of fear and anxiety caused allegedly by the Centre's decision to hold NEET for admission to medical courses. He said the system of selecting students for professional courses by the Puducherry government through centralised admission committee (CENTAC) on the basis of marks obtained in the Plus-two public examination was helpful and did not cause any hardship. Referring to the Covid-19 norms and alleged police harassment of two-wheeler riders for not wearing masks, the Chief Minister asked the law enforcers not to mete out such treatment. "Police should not harass the people, instead should act as their friends," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neet-pondy-cm-v-narayanasamy-says-people-will-teach-bjp-a-lesson-during-polls-886568.html
12-09-2020||South||Kerala reports 2,885 Covid-19 cases; toll mounts to 425 with 15 deaths||Kerala reported 2,885 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,05,139 as 75,848 people have recovered so far from the infection, Health minister K K Shailaja said. The state had crossed the grim milestone of one lakh cases on Friday after 2,988 people tested positive. With 15 deaths being confirmed over the past few days, including that of a 101-year-old man from Kalady in Ernakulam district, the toll has climbed to 425. Of the positive cases, 2,640 were infected through contact and the source of infection of 287 persons was not known. Forty two people had come from abroad and 137 from other states, the minister said. While Thiruvananthapuram reported 566 cases, Malappuram accounted for 310. Over 200 cases were reported today from Kozhikode, Kollam and Kannur. As many as 1,944 people were discharged today after their samples turned negative, following which 28,802 are presently under treatment. While 2.03 lakh people are under observationin various districts, 22,177 are in hospitals, including 2576 admitted today. In the last 24 hours, 43,954 samples have been sent fortesting and so far 20,99,549 samples have been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-2885-covid-19-cases-toll-mounts-to-425-with-15-deaths-886570.html
12-09-2020||South||Over 1 lakh cancer patients treated since March: Tamil Nadu govt||The Tamil Nadu government has helped provide cancer-related medical treatment to over 1.30 lakh people in government hospitals and government medical college hospitals across the state since March, Health Minister Dr C Vijaya Baskar said on Saturday. Also, about 250 cancer patients, who had tested positive for Covid-19, were treated, he said. Of the total 1,31,352 cancer patients who were provided treatment till date, 48,647 were admitted to hospitals. In a press release here, the Minister said efforts were being taken to provide uninterrupted medical care to cancer patients during the Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 2,191 patients underwent surgery, including for breast cancer. While 27,721 people underwent chemotherapy, 11,678 took radiation therapy, and 6,664 received treatment through pain and palliative care units. The state government's 102 vehicle service was utilised to shift patients from their homes to the hospitals and back after treatment during the Covid-19 lockdown. "This has facilitated uninterrupted treatment for the patients during the lockdown period. About 1,396 patients benefited through the vehicle service from March till date," the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-1-lakh-cancer-patients-treated-since-march-tamil-nadu-govt-886593.html
12-09-2020||South||Covid-19 patients must not delay visit to hospital: Puducherry Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner||People with any symptoms of Covid-19 should visit a hospital without delay so that their lives can be saved, Puducherry Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner A Anbarasu said on Saturday. There were instances of patients going to hospitals at the last minute and dying despite the treatment given to them, he told reporters. Stating that government and privately-run medical college hospitals were equipped with necessary infrastructure and manpower to treat coronavirus patients, he said that with the increase in testing facilities, more than 3,700 samples were tested on Friday leading to the identification of 419 positive cases. Anbarasu, who is also the Development Commissioner, said primary health centres and also sub-centres in rural areas had been geared up with facilities to test samples. Each of the sub-centres would collect 100 samples a day and test them. While rural areas had 15 such centres there were six centres in urban areas. He said 25 mobile units were also pressed into service and 20 more such units would be introduced soon to collect samples. In addition to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital, the ICMR-sponsored Vector Control Research Centre and JIPMER and most of the private medical college hospitals were also doing the testing and Puducherry had set a record of doing more examination of samples, Anbarasu said. The number of beds were also being increased in government hospitals and in private institutions. While government hospitals would have more than 2,100 beds additionally, private colleges would have five more beds soon. "We are providing the best food to Covid-19 patients taking treatment in government institutions," he added. Oxygen beds were also adequately available. Anbarasu said to keep a track on those resorting to self-medication the government had asked the medical shops to collect names and phone numbers of people purchasing anti- fever medicines. Doctors practising privately should also refer patients approaching them with complaints of fever, cold and other complications to hospitals as they might be potential Covid-19 patients. The government was inclined to bring down the positivity rate as much as possible. Health Secretary T Arun said door-to-door surveillance with the participation of the members of self-help groups in rural areas was part of efforts to assess the health condition of residents and to protect them from the pandemic. He said the late arrival of patients for treatment at hospitals was the cause of people dying. The government had taken steps to purchase 50,000 more RT-PCR equipment, he added. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar was also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-patients-must-not-delay-visit-to-hospital-puducherry-relief-and-rehabilitation-commissioner-886601.html
12-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu petrol pumps to remain open till 10 pm||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday extended the working hours of petrol pumps by two hours from 8 pm in order to avoid crowding at the retail outlets and also make the fuel available without difficulty. The state government had extended the lockdown till this month-end with certain restrictions and various relaxations. It permitted the petrol pumps to function from 6 am to 8 pm. And now the present move to extend the timing will enable the pumps to operate till 10 pm. Following a request from the Indian Oil Corporation, the Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection department requested the government to permit the petrol pumps to function upto 10 pm to serve the customers and to avoid crowding at the retail outlets which shut at 8 pm. Accepting the proposal, the state government amended the earlier order of the Revenue and Disaster Management department dated August 31 to permit fuel outlets to function from 6 am to 10 pm, as per the amendment to the notification issued by state chief secretary K Shanmugam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-petrol-pumps-to-remain-open-till-10-pm-886604.html
12-09-2020||South||Kerala govt files appeal in SC against CBI probe into Kasargod twin murder||Triggering a political row, the left-front government in Kerala has decided to move the Supreme Court against an order of the Kerala High Court for CBI probe into the murder of two Youth Congress workers at Kasargod district in North Kerala in February 2019 in which CPI(M) local leaders and workers were the accused. The CPI(M)-led government had already faced criticisms of spending public money of around Rs 85 lakh for hiring senior lawyers to oppose the plea of the families of the deceased, Kripesh and Sarathlal, for CBI probe as the accused were CPI(M) local leaders. The Crime Branch that probed the case initially had arraigned 14 persons, including local leaders of the CPI(M), but concluded that personal rivalry led to the murder and it was not a political murder. A division bench of the CBI on August 25 ordered CBI probe. A single bench of the HC had also earlier ordered CBI probe pointing out lapses in the Crime Branch probe. Even then the CBI had informed that they were unable to take over the probe as the Kerala police was not handing over the case diary and details citing the pending appeal. Reacting to the fresh move of the left-front government to file an appeal in the SC, families of the deceased said the government was having no regard for the common people but was trying to protect party workers only. Sarathlal's father Sathyan said that he would fight to any extent to ensure deserving punishment to the culprits. Congress senior leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said that the left-front government had once again made it clear that the common people would not get any justice from the government. The government already spent Rs 88 lakh to hire senior lawyers for opposing plea for CBI probe and would spend more public money to protect murder case accused, he said. Congress MP Rajmohan Unnithan, who represents Kasargod, said that it was almost certain that the CPI(M) would go to any extent to protect the murder accused party workers. The state government's stand was that the Crime Branch probe had almost finished and the HC did not point out any specific flaws in the Crime Branch investigation. The twin murder of the Youth Congress workers was a major issue during the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. The Congress had used it to accuse the CPI(M) of promoting political murder in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-files-appeal-in-sc-against-cbi-probe-into-kasargod-twin-murder-886606.html
12-09-2020||State||Minister issues compensation to family of murdered priests||Minister of Muzrai, Kota Srinivas Poojary visited Sri Arkeshwara Temple at Gottalu extension in the city where three priests of the temple were brutally murdered with lethal weapons on the temple premises on Thursday night. The deceased are Ganesh (45), Prakash (52) and Anand (33), residents of Gottalu were murdered. The Minister issued compensation of Rs 5 lakh to kin of each family. The Minister, Endowment Commissioner Rohini Sinduri, and others visited the temple and also gathered information about the murder of the priests. The thieves bludgeoned the priests, who also served as security guards, when they were asleep, before looting the offering boxes (hundis).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-issues-compensation-to-family-of-murdered-priests-886420.html
12-09-2020||State||No let-up in rain in coastal districts, Malnad||Heavy showers continued to pound the coastal districts and Malnad region for the third consecutive day on Saturday. Udupi district witnessed intense spells of rain through the day with Balkuru in Kundapur taluk recording a whopping 20.9 cm (209 mm) of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Saturday). Koni and Kambadakone in the taluk saw 19.6 cm and 16.7 cm of rain respectively. Several houses have been damaged due to the persistent wet weather in Baindoor taluk. Dakshina Kannada continued to take a battering from relentless showers. On Saturday, the district received 5.8 cm of rain. A huge boulder fell on a house at Nityananda Nagar at Deralakatte while a compound wall of a house caved in at Gundeer Gudde near Moodbidri's Tenkamijaaru. However, no casualties were reported in both the incidents. The unrelenting showers have resulted in copious inflows into Cauvery river and several rivulets in Kodagu. The water level in Triveni Sangama at Bhagamandala and Harangi reservoir has gone up considerably. The overcast condition, coupled with intermittent rains, has brought down the day temperature in the hilly district, significantly. Kottigehara and Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru district have been experiencing torrential rain for the past two days. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy rain for the coast and Malnad for the next two days. The weather department has issued orange alert for Shivamogga, Kodagu, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi for Sunday and Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-let-up-in-rain-in-coastal-districts-malnad-886629.html
12-09-2020||State||Marijuana seizure in Kalagi: 5 cops suspended||Superintendent of Police Dr Simi Mariam Gorge on Saturday suspended five police personnel, including Circle Inspector Bhojaraj Rathod of Kalagi circle, on the charge of dereliction of duty in unearthing about 1,352 kg cannabis stashed underground in a sheep and poultry farm at Lakshman Nayak Tanda near Kalagi. Other suspended cops are sub-inspector Basavaraj Chitakote, assistant sub-inspector Neelakantappa Hebbal, beat police Sharanappa and constable Anil Bhandari. Based on a tip-off by an autorickshaw driver in Bengaluru, Seshadripuram (Bengaluru) police had arrested Chandrakanth Chauhan of Kalagi, Naganath of Aurad taluk in Bidar district and Siddanath Lavate of Almel village of Vijayapura district on the charges of illegal cannabis trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/marijuana-seizure-in-kalagi-5-cops-suspended-886630.html
12-09-2020||State||Karnataka High Court quashes poll code violation case against CM BS Yediyurappa||The Karnataka High Court has quashed the order of cognizance issued by a Gokak Principal JMFC Court against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for violation of election code of conduct during the Gokak Constituency bye-election in 2019. The court made several observations while quashing the order, including that an action for violation under Section 123 of Representation of Peoples Act (RP Act) 1951 would only be initiated against the candidate and not against any other person authorised by him. Laxman Allapur, Executive Engineer of Karnataka Niravari Nigama, was deputed on election duty as a Flying Squad for the by-elections. He had filed a complaint that on November 23, 2019, during an election rally, B S Yediyurappa in his speech said that Veerashaiva Lingayat community votes must be consolidated and that they should not be divided. The Gokak police had filed a ‘B’ report in the case, which the magistrate court rejected and took suo motu cognizance and summoned Yediyurappa. Justice Suraj Govindraj said that a magistrate cannot suo moto reject the ‘B’ report without notice being ordered on the complainant, Flying Squad officer in this case. The bench said that rejecting a ‘B’ report without anyone objecting “is neither contemplated nor sanctioned under the provisions of Criminal Procedure Code,” the bench said. The high court bench observed that there was no allegation as regards the promotion of enmity in the said complaint. “In the present case at the most the allegations can be said to come under section 125 thereof, which require the establishment of promotion of enmity or hatred as a sine qua non, which has not been so done,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-high-court-quashes-poll-code-violation-case-against-cm-bs-yediyurappa-886631.html
12-09-2020||State||Political parties stack up their plans for Sira bypoll||Political activities have picked up steam with all three parties gearing up to fight the by-election to the Sira Assembly constituency located in Tumakuru district.  The bypoll was necessitated following the death of JD(S) legislator B Sathyanarayana last month. The bypoll is yet to be announced, but political strategies are being drawn up.  On Friday, JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy met party workers to discuss the Sira bypoll. “Sira has been a JD(S) stronghold and we have a formidable base there,” he said. “We will work on our shortcomings and starting September 14, our workers will fan out across villages to drum up support for the party.”  It is said that the JD(S) would consider fielding someone from Sathyanarayana’s family in order to gain sympathy of the voters.  Sira has witnessed a direct fight between the JD(S) and the Congress. With Sathyanarayana as its candidate, the JD(S) won Sira twice in the last four elections - 2004 and 2018 - whereas the Congress won in 2008 and 2013 with former minister T B Jayachandra as its candidate.  According to sources, the Congress is planning to form a committee to strategize for the Sira bypoll. It is said that the party might consider fielding Jayachandra once again. He was a sitting minister when he lost in 2018, which is attributed to the consolidation of Vokkaliga votes against the Congress. Apparently, former Madhugiri legislator K N Rajanna is also a ticket aspirant, given that he claims to have some clout in the Tumakuru district.  Since 2004, the vote share of both the Congress and the JD(S) ranges between 30-45%.  The vote share of the ruling BJP has been shrinking with each election. The saffron party bagged 18.6% of the votes in 2004, which dropped to 17.79% in 2008, 11.84% in 2013 and 9.41% in 2018. Unlike the Congress and the JD(S), the BJP is seen as lacking a leader in this constituency: It fielded Badeeranna B K in 2004, B K Manjunath in 2008 and 2013, S R Gowda in 2018.  According to poll managers, Sira’s electoral profile comprises some 55,000 SC, 45,000 Gollas, 40,000 Vokkaligas, 12,000 Muslims and 10,000 Kurubas. A loss will not make a difference for the BJP, but it will look to field a surprise candidate to ensure a 3-way contest, which it hopes will split the votes leading to electoral gains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/political-parties-stack-up-their-plans-for-sira-bypoll-886633.html
12-09-2020||State||HC tells govt to reconsider Rangaswamy's name for VC post||The Karnataka High Court has directed the state government and the search committee to reconsider the candidature of Dr A Rangaswamy for the posts of vice chancellor to Karnataka Rajya Dr Gangubai Hanagal Sangeetha Mattu Pradarshaka Kalegala Vishwavidyalaya, Mysuru, and Gulbarga University, Kalaburgi. The High Court directed the respondents to reconsider the candidature independently on merit without being influenced by the remarks made by Dr Lingaraja Gandhi, the then Registrar of Karnataka State Open University Mysore (KSOU). The petitioner A Rangaswamy claimed that he was an aspirant for the posts of vice-chancellor to Karnataka Rajya Dr Gangubai Hanagal Sangeetha Mattu Pradarshaka Kalegala Vishwavidyalaya and Gulbarga University, Kalaburgi. He claimed that he was the senior-most professor and chairman of the Department of Studies and Research in Kannada at KSOU. He has held several posts in various universities.  The petitioner's contention is that instead of forwarding his application for the posts, the then registrar of KSOU, Dr Lingaraja Gandhi, stated in a covering letter that a departmental enquiry against A Rangaswamy is pending. The petitioner claimed that no committee was formed at that time and that no enquiry was pending against him. Justice Michael D Cunha observed that there was nothing on record to show that the vice-chancellor of KSOU had taken any conscious decision to initiate disciplinary enquiry against A Rangaswamy. A show-cause notice was issued as per the recommendation of the vice-chancellor three months after the submission of the application by A Rangaswamy. The bench said that a deliberate attempt has been made by Dr Lingaraja Gandhi to mislead the selection committee by concocting false documents to show that A Rangaswamy was facing an enquiry as on the date filing of the application for the posts. The court said since Dr Lingaraja Gandhi was also a contender to the same posts, there was more than meets the eye. The bench held that remarks made by Dr Lingaraja Gandhi on the covering letter while forwarding the applications filed by A Rangaswamy was unauthorised. The bench further directed the state government to reconsider the application filed by A Rangaswamy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-tells-govt-to-reconsider-rangaswamys-name-for-vc-post-886643.html
12-09-2020||State||Karnataka adds 9,140 fresh Covid-19 cases, 94 deaths take toll to 7,161||Karnataka on Saturday reported 9,140 new coronavirus cases taking the total number of infections to 4,49,551 while the death toll touched 7,161 with 94 fatalities, the Health department said. The total infections comprised 3,44,556 discharges including 9,557 on Saturday whereas there were 97,815 active cases in the state including 795 in the ICU, the department said in a statement. The spike in cases was led by Bengaluru Urban district, which recorded 3,552 fresh infections and 21 deaths. The city has cumulatively reported 1,67,183 cases and 2,391 deaths due to the coronavirus. There were 40,929 active cases including 278 in the ICU. There were cumulatively 1,23,862 discharges in the city including 3,538 on Saturday. Mysuru was the second biggest contributor after Bengaluru Urban. The city reported 637 fresh cases and 14 deaths on Saturday. Cumulatively, 25,086 coronavirus cases and 576 deaths have been reported here since the outbreak of the disease. According to the bulletin, 401 fresh cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada district, 366 in Ballari, 324 in Hassan, 304 in Tumakuru, 267 in Davangere, 239 in Dharwad, 222 in Kalaburagi, 213 in Haveri, 211 in Bengaluru Rural district and 201 in Belagavi. Cases were also reported in Bagalkote, Bidar, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Mandya, Raichur, Koppal and other districts. The department said on Saturday nine deaths were reported in Dharwad, eight in Ballari, five each in Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga, four each in Chitradurga and Koppal and three in Kalaburagi, apart from other districts.  While a majority of those who died of the coronavirus were above 50 years of age, there were young people who succumbed to the infection. There was a seven-year-old boy from Bengaluru who succumbed to the virus in a private hospital. Among the dead, two in their twenties, four in their thirties and 11 in their forties on Saturday. Most of those who died of coronavirus had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness or the Influenza-Like Illness. The department said as on Saturday, over five lakh people were home quarantined whereas in the past 14 days, 5. 97 lakh primary contacts and 5.4 lakh secondary contacts have been traced. As many as 427 passengers were screened at the airports, taking the number of those screened so far to 2.14 lakh. There were as many as 63,583 tests done on Saturday taking the total so far to 37.14 lakh, the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-adds-9140-fresh-covid-19-cases-94-deaths-take-toll-to-7161-886644.html
12-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kumaraswamy slams Congress MLA for his 'Colombo' remark||Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday hit out at Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, whose name is allegedly linked to the drugs case, for his remark that JD(S) leaders had been to Colombo and said the latter has made statements of unrelated events which occurred in 2014. Facing allegations over his presence at a casino in Colombo where Kannada film actress Sanjjanaa Galrani, who is now arrested in a drug case, was allegedly present, Khan sought to know what was wrong in going there. He told a news channel on Saturday that not only he but also JD(S) MLAs and other senior party functionaries along with their leader H D Kumaraswamy had been to Colombo. Taking serious note of the statement, Kumaraswamy said "It is true that JDS travelled to Colombo, Sri Lanka, with lawmakers, MPs, former legislators and key leaders to discuss the JDS party's confidential agenda and future political strategies. However, it was not a clandestine 'Colombo trip'," Kumaraswamy tweeted. Referring to Khan, who was earlier in the JDS before joining the Congress, the former chief minister said a politician who was in his party has made statements of unrelated events. "In June 2014, I had openly told the media that I would be travelling to Colombo to discuss the party organisation in detail, and released to the media video footage of the debate with lawmakers there. There was no secret in it," he tweeted. Underlining that the trip to Colombo was not expensive, Kumaraswamy said he had spoken to the media before going to and returning from the neighbouring country. He even claimed that his trip to the capital of Sri Lanka was his first and the last. The drugs case gained momentum with the Narcotics Control Bureau arresting three people in Bengaluru for allegedly supplying drugs to Kannada film stars and singers. Soon after the arrest, the City police too started investigation. Besides the Central crime branch, the Enforcement Directorate has also started probing the financial aspects of the drugs scandal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kumaraswamy-slams-congress-mla-for-his-colombo-remark-886581.html
12-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: KPCC President DK Shivakumar under one-week home quarantine||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, who just recovered from Covid-19, said on Saturday that he would be under home quarantine for an entire week. “Yesterday (Friday), I came back from Covid hospital. I’m healthy and I look recovered, thanks to your wishes and blessings,” Shivakumar said. “But doctors have advised me not to meet anyone for another week. So, I need to be under home quarantine. Please don’t come home to meet me, because my staff won’t allow that,” he told party workers and supporters. On August 24, the 58-year-old Congress leader was admitted to Suguna Hospital in Rajajinagar for Covid-19 treatment. He was discharged on August 31 after he “responded well to the treatment,” the hospital had said in a statement. However, Shivakumar was admitted to Apollo Hospital in Jayanagar last week as fever relapsed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-kpcc-president-dk-shivakumar-under-one-week-home-quarantine-886600.html
12-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to launch website for queries related to industries||The Karnataka government will soon launch a website to answer all the queries of prospective entrepreneurs relating to industries, Major and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Saturday. Inaugurating the Karnataka Chapter of the Foreign Investor Council, the minister said the state government with the aim of attracting more investments in the industries sector and setting up more industries in the state was giving special attention to this sector. "It is a matter of pride that Karnataka has become the first state in the country to amend Industries (Facilitation) Act for Small, Medium and Large-Scale industries," he added. Shettar said to enable ease of doing business and attract investments in the industrial sector the Government has taken several steps such as a single window for investors and simplified processes. The single-point website will answer all queries relating to industries, he added. Representatives of Foreign Investors Forum, Foreign Investors Council and Deputy Consul General of Japan in Karnataka participated in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-launch-website-for-queries-related-to-industries-886627.html
12-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Rs 500 fine for not wearing face mask in Thane city||In view of the rising coronavirus positive cases, those not wearing face masks in Thane city of Maharashtra will be fined Rs 500. Thane Municipal Commissioner Vipin Sharma issued an order to this effect on Friday night. The step is necessary in view of the rapid increase in positive cases in the city, the order said. Till Friday night, Thane city has recorded 29,463 coronavirus positive cases and 885 deaths. Other municipal corporations in Thane district have issued similar orders recently. The administration of neighbouring Palghar district has also instructed the people to use face masks. Those flouting the order will be penalised on the spot, a senior district official has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-rs-500-fine-for-not-wearing-face-mask-in-thane-city-886336.html
12-09-2020||West||Man gets 7 years rigorous imprisonment for robbing, assaulting woman in Maharashtra||A court in Thane district of Maharashtra has sentenced a man to seven years of rigorous imprisonment for robbing a 60-year-old woman and assaulting her after breaking into her apartment in Mira Road area over two years ago. Sessions court judge R V Tamhanekar convicted Shrikant Keshav Wakode (32) of Ghoddev Gaon in Bhayandar earlier this week and also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on him. Additional public prosecutor Sandhya Mhatre told the court that the incident took place on March 10, 2018. "When the victim's son returned home from work that day, he was shocked to find the household articles scattered on the floor. He found his mother bleeding profusely. She told him that a man had entered the home through the window of their bathroom after cutting its grill," Mhatre said. "When the victim confronted the intruder, he hit her on her head with a hammer. Thereafter, he took away Rs 1,000 cash, four debit cards, a mobile phone and escaped through the same window," she added. During the probe, it came to light that the man had attempted robbery in two other houses in the same housing society. Wakode was later arrested by the police. The court held him guilty under IPC sections 394 (robbery), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-gets-7-years-rigorous-imprisonment-for-robbing-assaulting-woman-in-maharashtra-886348.html
12-09-2020||West||Drugs probe: Narcotics Control Bureau conducts raids in Mumbai and Goa, nabs six||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing the drug angle in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, on Saturday conducted raids at various locations in Mumbai and Goa and nabbed six persons, an official said. The sleuths raided certain locations in central Mumbai and western suburbs on specific information, he said, adding that one Karam Jeet Singh Anand (23) was picked up in connection with the drug angle probe. Banned substances like ganja, charas etc. were seized from Anand, he said. The NCB team also took into custody one Dywan Anthony Fernandes, a suspected supplier of cannabis, and two others from Dadar, the official said, adding that 500 gm cannabis was recovered from the trio. Simultaneously, one Ankush Arenja (29) was nabbed from suburban Powai, he said. Arenjaused to receive the contraband from Karam Jeet Singh Anand and used to supply it to one of the accused, Anuj Keshwani, who was arrested earlier by the NCB's SIT in its drug link probe. NCB officials recovered 42 gm charas and Rs 1,12,400 from Aneja, the official added. In another raid, Chris Costa was apprehended by NCB from Goa. The raids were led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede, the official said. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the NCB is probing the drugs case in which actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, late actor Sushant Singh Rajput,s manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant and others have been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-probe-narcotics-control-bureau-conducts-raids-in-mumbai-and-goa-nabs-six-886411.html
12-09-2020||West||Dabbawalas urge Maharashtra govt to permit them local train travel||Mumbai's dabbawalas or lunch-box carriers have urged the Maharashtra government to permit them to travel in local trains, which are currently running in a restricted manner in light of the Covid-19 outbreak, an official said on Saturday. Access to local trains will enable dabbawalas to resume their business with full capacity, said Subhash Talekar, president of Mumbai Dabbawala Association. At present, only people employed in essential services are allowed to travel in suburban trains. "Dabbawalas are also part of essential services are they deliver food to Mumbaikars. And since most officers are now functioning with reduced capacity, people have been asking us to deliver their meals," Talekar said. Currently, dabbawalas who can reach south Mumbai area on their cycles are able to deliver food to offices, he said, adding that meals are being delivered in keeping with all Covid-19 safety norms. "We have been demanding financial assistance of Rs 5,000 per dabbawala from the state government, similar to what the construction workers had received," Talekar said, adding that the proposal was discussed in the state cabinet and was still on paper. There are about 4,500 to 5,000 dabbawalas who deliver two lakh tiffins every day from suburban areas to the heart of the city. "Never before in the 130-year-old history of the tiffin services, has there been a six-month break. We ensure that office-goers get their meals on time and take the empty lunch boxes back to their homes," he said. In the last six months, social organisations and volunteers have supported the association financially, because of which dabbawalas, who have been out of work, were given money and essentials during the lockdown period, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dabbawalas-urge-maharashtra-govt-to-permit-them-local-train-travel-886453.html
12-09-2020||West||Bollywood legends have never been ungrateful to Mumbai, Maharashtra: Shiv Sena||In a strong statement in the wake of the controversy involving Kangana Ranaut, the Shiv Sena on Saturday said that the Bollywood legends have never been ungrateful to Mumbai and Maharashtra. “People from all over came to try their fate in Mumbai’s cine-world, first lived in hovels or on pavements, but after luck smiled on them, went onto build palatial homes in Juhu, Pali Hill or Malabar Hill… But they were never ungrateful to Mumbai-Maharashtra… and in no way they were dishonest with their ‘karma-bhoomi’ here,” says an editorial that appeared in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana and its Hindi version Dopahar ka Saamana. The founder of Indian cinema, Dadasaheb Phalke never got any award but the “maya nagari” that he crafted has earned Bharat Ratna to many and even Nishaan-e-Pakistan. “It is only the talent that is counted in Bollywood,” according to the editorial. “Several people came to Mumbai and tried their luck. Bollywood is still providing employment to a large number of people,” it stated. Shiv Sena said that several veteran Muslim artistes like Madhubala, Dilip Kumar, Meena Kumari or Sanjay Khan took Hindu names as the industry was ‘secular’ in that era. “Even when Marathi and Punjabi dynasties ruled the roost like the Kapoors, Roshans, Dutts or Shantarams, as many families do today… There were several others with no ‘gharana’ behind them like Rajesh Khanna, Dharmendra or Jeetendra who came up with hard work, and launched their own ‘gharana’ for their children…,” the editorial said. However, it went on to add: “….But none of these legends betrayed Mumbai, they contributed to its growth and progress… They did not create enmity with the crocodile while living in the water or pelt stones at others while living in glass houses… Those who dared were cursed and dug their own grave.” According to Shiv Sena, Mumbai and Maharashtra represent pride and sacrifice. “It is people of Maharashtra who made tombs of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb in Sambhajinagar (Aurangabad) and Afzal Khan in Pratapgarh (in Satara) just as it reveres those who gave up their lives to build this land and state,” it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bollywood-legends-have-never-been-ungrateful-to-mumbai-maharashtra-shiv-sena-886454.html
12-09-2020||West||Former editor-in-chief of Tarun Bharat Digambar Ghumre passes away||Digambar Ghumre alias Mamasaheb, a former editor-in-chief of Marathi daily Tarun Bharat, died here on Saturday due to old age, the district information office said. He was 93. According to the district information office, Ghumre died in his sleep at his residence. He is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters. The Marathi daily is widely seen inclined towards the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-editor-in-chief-of-tarun-bharat-digambar-ghumre-passes-away-886462.html
12-09-2020||West||Maharashtra government to launch statewide campaign to fight Covid-19||Rattled by the ever-rising spike in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government is set to launch a statewide campaign next week in which a massive door-to-door survey would be taken up to cover 2.25 crore families. Titled ‘Majhe Kutumb, Majhi Jababdari’ (My Family, My Responsibility), the campaign would be launched by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on 15 September in Mumbai. The scheme assumes significance as Maharashtra has crossed 10 lakh Covid-19 progressive cases and the death toll is set to cross the 30,000-mark. With the active involvement of several NGOs and people’s representatives to effectively control the pandemic and provide health education to all in the state, volunteers will aim to reach 2.25 crore households twice a month to check their fever and oxygen levels, provide health education and important health messages. The officials would also check on co-morbidities such as diabetes, heart and kidney ailments, and obesity, and would guide them. “A detailed note has been sent to all the divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners and Zilla Parishad chief executive officers,” an official in Mantralaya, the state secretariat said on Saturday. Half a dozen departments including public health and family welfare, medical education and drugs, rural development, urban development, revenue, women and child development are involved in the mega campaign. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope has held a series of meetings to finalise the campaign. “The campaign is very important for combating Covid-19,” State Health Secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said in a note to various departments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-to-launch-statewide-campaign-to-fight-covid-19-886471.html
12-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Oxygen plants in Gujarat asked to ramp up production||Considering the rise in Covid-19 cases, the Gujarat health department has directed oxygen manufacturing units to ramp up production to maximum capacity and ensure that 50 per cent of it is "medical oxygen" meant for hospitals. In a notification dated September 10, the department has directed manufacturing units to divert only up to 50 per cent of oxygen to industrial use, with priority given to hospitals in case need arises. While the need for medical oxygen will increase manifold in the coming days in Gujarat, the opening up of industries in the Unlock period may adversely affect the supply of medical oxygen to hospitals, the notification stated. In view of this, the government has decided to regularise the circulation and supply of oxygen from production units to address the needs of Covid-19 patients, it said. There are around 53 licenced medical oxygen producing units and the notification has been issued as a precautionary measure to ensure that people of Gujarat do not face shortage of oxygen, commissioner of state Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) H M Koshia said. Gujarat produces enough medical and industrial oxygen and even supplies it to other states, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-oxygen-plants-in-gujarat-asked-to-ramp-up-production-886477.html
12-09-2020||West||6 allegedly from Shiv Sena get bail in case of assaulting retired Navy man||Six suspected Shiv Sena workers were granted bail on Saturday in a case of assaulting a retired Navy officer for allegedly forwarding a cartoon of the party president and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on social media, evoking allegations of political pressure from the BJP. Denying any political interference, Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said the bail was granted to the accused in view of the Covid-19 situation. The six persons were arrested after local BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar posted a video of Friday's assault on the retired officer, Madan Sharma (62), on Twitter. A complaint was filed against Sena workers at Kandivali police station. Leader of the Opposition in the state Legislative council Pravin Darekar, Bhatkhalkar and the victim's family members staged an agitation outside the ACP's office in Kandivali. They demanded that the accused be booked under sections 326 (causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons and means), and 452 and 450 (house-trespassing) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which are non-bailable. Nangre Patil, who visited the site of the protest, told the protesters the accused were booked under section 325 of the IPC for causing grievous hurt and rioting sections, which was a bailable offence. "Six persons arrested yesterday under section 325 of the IPC. They were granted bail in view of the Covid-19 situation. There is no political pressure. I don't think section 326 can be invoked since that amounts to the use of sharp weapons. We will see the legal scrutiny of slapping trespassing clauses against them," the police officer said. The Shiv Sena heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation, also comprising the NCP and the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6-allegedly-from-shiv-sena-get-bail-in-case-of-assaulting-retired-navy-man-886486.html
12-09-2020||West||2 booked for 'selling' 1993 blasts convict Yakub Memon's grave||Police have registered a case against two persons for allegedly selling the grave of Yakub Memon, the only convict in the 1993 Mumbai serial bomb blasts case to be hanged, an official said on Saturday. Memon was buried at Marine Lines Bada Kabrastan in south Mumbai on July 30, 2015 after he was hanged in Nagpur central jail. "A relative of Memon had approached the Lokmanya Tilak Marg police station in March with a complaint that his grave has been sold," the official said. "The Memon family has been given total seven 'otthas' (graves) at the cemetery. The complaint said that besides Yakub's, three more graves given to the family were sold at Rs five lakh collectively," he said. Based on the complaint, an offence under IPC sections 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) was registered against two persons on March 19 this year- one of them a trustee and another manager of Juma Masjid of Bombay Trust, under which the Muslim Bada Qabrastan is registered, he said. "Due to the Covid-19 situation, police have launched a probe into the case now," he said. Yakub, a chartered accountant by profession was the younger brother of another 1993 blast accused, Tiger Memon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-booked-for-selling-1993-blasts-convict-yakub-memons-grave-886493.html
12-09-2020||West||Attack on Navy veteran puts Maharashtra government in a spot||The attack on an Indian Navy veteran by Shiv Sena workers for a WhatsApp forward has caused the Maha Vikas Aghadi government a major embarrassment yet again. The WhatsApp message had a cartoon mocking Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, who was shown bowing before Congress president Sonia Gandhi and NCP founder Sharad Pawar. Incidentally, Uddhav’s father and late Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray was himself a cartoonist and founder of Marmik, Saamana and Dopahar ka Saamana. On Friday evening, a group of Shiv Sainiks manhandled Madan Sharma (65), a Navy veteran and a resident of Lokhandwala Complex in Kandivali East. A CCTV clip of the society complex posted by local BJP MLA Atul Bhatkalkar shows the attackers chasing Sharma, dragging him by the collar, pulling his shirt and attacking him.  Sharma had to be taken to hospital for treatment. Later, in a significant development, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Sharma. “Spoke to retired naval officer, Madan Sharma who was attacked by hooligans in Mumbai and enquired about his health. Such attacks on ex-servicemen are completely unacceptable and deplorable. I wish Madan ji a speedy recovery,” he said. Meanwhile, Sharma said: “In our country, everyone has the freedom to express and WhatsApp is a medium to stay connected and share the news. The government should take steps to identify the source of a message, from where did it generate." Brig (retd) Sudhir Sawant, the president of Sainik Federation, said that on Sunday a web meeting would be held to discuss the future course of action. “What has happened is highly condemnable,” he said, adding that he would take up the issue and take it to a logical conclusion. Meanwhile, the Samata Nagar police station arrested four persons including Shiv Sena’s shakha pramukh Kamlesh Kadam. On Friday, Kadam and three others named Sanjay Manjare, Rakesh Belvekar and Pratap Soond were granted bail.  “They have been booked for unlawful assembly and rioting,” said Additional Commissioner of Police (North) Dilip Sawant. Maharashtra’s Leader of Opposition in Assembly and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar have launched a scathing attack on the government. “It is an extremely sad and shocking incident. A Navy veteran got beaten up by goons because of just a WhatsApp forward…please stop this goonda raj,” Fadnavis said and urged Thackeray for strong punishment. “They should not have got bail, the police made a weak case,” added Darekar. Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut has tweeted "shame..." on the incident. Actor and activist Swara Bhaskar said: “The attack on an elderly gentleman by the Shiv Sena for a joke on Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is shocking, shameful & utterly condemnable. Violence of this kind has no place in a civilised democracy & you cannot claim good governance if basic law & order isn’t maintained. Shame!.”  In a tweet, Preity Zinta said: “Goons in Mumbai beat a 62-year-old retired Indian Navy veteran black and blue because he forwarded a political cartoon on WhatsApp. Seriously? What happened to freedom of speech? What happened to respecting our veterans? Very upset and sad to hear this. This is not ok.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/attack-on-navy-veteran-puts-maharashtra-government-in-a-spot-886519.html
12-09-2020||West||Palghar tremors: Audio-video clips released to help villagers||The district administration in Palghar in Maharashtra has issued a series of educative audio and video clips for villagers amid a series of low-intensity tremors that have hit Dahanu and Talasari talukas in region in the past few days. Collector Manik Gursal on Saturday said the clips, in Marathi and in simple terms for the common man to comprehend, have details of what to do and what to avoid during earthquakes. "Besides this initiative, the district's disaster control plan is ready and is being monitored at the collector's level. The local civil defence units have been asked to conduct mock drills in villages to find out preparedness of people," he added. Dahanu tehsildar Rahul Sarang told PTI the local coordination committees at the gram panchayat level, which consists of talathi, sarpanch, village patil among others, met on Friday to discuss the issue of tremors in the region. The district experienced as many as eight tremors on Friday, and over 15 through the week, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-tremors-audio-video-clips-released-to-help-villagers-886535.html
12-09-2020||West||Kangana Ranaut to meet Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari||Mounting pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led alliance government, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut is set to meet Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday. The 33-year-old actor is expected to tell the Governor about the way the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) undertook a demolition of the unauthorized construction and alteration that she had done in her office Manikarnika Films Pvt Ltd in her Pali Hill bungalow. The meeting assumes significance as Koshyari had summoned Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s chief advisor Ajoy Mehta and expressed displeasure over the issue. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and the Congress is under tremendous political pressure. RPI (A) president and Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale too had called on the Governor and sought justice for Kangana and compensation for the damages in the wake of BMC’s demolition. BJP has backed Kangana and condemned the way the Shiv Sena-controlled BMC undertook the demolition. The actor also posted an illustration on Twitter on Saturday showing legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj handing a sword to Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi and Thackeray depicted in the background as 'Ravana'. The Shiv Sena has not reacted to the illustration so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-ranaut-to-meet-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-886595.html
12-09-2020||West||Gujarat Minister Pradipsinh Jadeja gets Z category security||After the revelation of an alleged plot to kill a former minister in a bid to avenge the killing of Muslims in 2002 post-Godhra riots, the Gujarat police on Saturday said that it has enhanced the security of Minister of State for Home (MoS) Pradipsinh Jadeja to 'Z' category.  Jadeja currently has 'Y' category security which was increased following assessment by Intelligence Bureau officials. Police sources said that "Ahmedabad police, under whose jurisdiction Jadeja lives, had requested us to review the threat perception after the plot to kill former MoS Gordhan Zadaphia was foiled by Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) last month."  Last month, ATS arrested a Mumbai resident from a hotel in Ahmedabad who had allegedly come to kill Zadaphia to avenge post-Godhra riots. Zadaphia was then the MoS in the cabinet of then chief minister Narendra Modi. The case prompted the city police to write to the state government proposing to enhance the security of Jadeja. The state government sought a report from the Intelligence Bureau (IB). "Following the report from IB and other details, we have written back to Ahmedabad police permitting them to increase the security to Z category," Director General of Police Ashish Bhatia told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-minister-pradipsinh-jadeja-gets-z-category-security-886614.html
12-09-2020||West||Gujarat Covid-19 tally crosses 1.12 lakh with record 1,365 cases||Gujarat on Saturday reported the highest single-day spike of 1,365 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count of infections to 1,12,336, state health department said. With 15 more people succumbing to the infection, including five in Surat, the total number of fatalities went up to 3,198, it said. While three deaths occurred in Ahmedabad, two patients died each in Rajkot and Bhavnagar. One fatality each was reported from Gandhinagar, Vadodara and Gir Somnath, the department said. A total of 1,335 patients were discharged after treatment in the day, raising the number of recoveries to 92,805, the department said, adding that the case recovery rate in the state now stands at 82.61 per cent. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 16,333, the department said. At 278, Surat reported the highest number of cases in the state in the day, followed by 175 infections in Ahmedabad and 146 cases in Rajkot, the department said. Jamnagar and Vadodara districts each reported over 100 new cases. Among other districts, Mehsana reported 50 new cases, Bhavnagar 41, Junagadh 39, Gandhinagar 37, Patan 31, Panchmahal 29, Morbi 28, Banaskantha 26, Amreli 25, Dahod 20, Bharuch, Tapi and Surendranagar 19 each, Kutch 18, Gir Somnath and Navsari 15 each, Narmada 14, while Botad, Mahisagar, and Sabarkantha each added 10 cases. 74,781 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, at the rate of 1,150.47 tests per day per million population. A total 32,19,983 samples have been tested so far in the state, it said. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,12,336, new cases 1,365, deaths 3,198, discharged 92,805, active cases 16,333, and people tested so far 32,19,983.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-tally-crosses-112-lakh-with-record-1365-cases-886619.html
12-09-2020||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally crosses 10.37 lakh; deaths go past 29,000||Continuing the trend of reporting higher number of Covid-19 infections, Maharashtra on Saturday added 22,084 new cases, taking the total caseload to 10,37,765, state health department said. With 391 more patients succumbing to the infection, the cumulative toll crossed the 29,000 mark and reached 29,115, it said. A total of 13,489 patients were discharged after treatment in the day, raising the number of recoveries to 7,28,512. The state now has 2,79,768 active cases, the department said in a release. The case recovery rate now stands at 70.2 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.81 per cent. Mumbai saw 2,350 new cases in the day, taking its total tally to 1,67,656, it said, adding that the city's death toll rose by 42 to 8,109. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including Mumbai city, reported 5,942 cases and 77 deaths. The total case tally in MMR reached 3,93,581 while the count of fatalities stood at 13,867. While Pune city added 1,971 new cases, its neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad reported 1,294 infections, it said. Nashik city saw a rise of 1,174 patients while Sangli's tally went up by 914 cases, it said. Nagpurcity added 1,495 cases while Aurangabad city reported 914 infections. Among other cities, Amravati added 235 patients, Chandrapur 144 cases and Jalgaon 102 cases. Currently, 16,52,955 people are home quarantined while 38,275 others are placed in institutional quarantine in the state. 51,64,840 samples have been tested in the state until now. The coronavirus tally in Maharashtra is as follows: Positive cases: 10,37,765, deaths: 29,115, recoveries 7,28,512, active cases: 2,79,768, and people tested 51,64,840.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-crosses-1037-lakh-deaths-go-past-29000-886641.html
