13-09-2020||Comment||BBMP bill: Is it the pill to the ill?||The Government of Karnataka came out with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Bill, 2020 (BBMP Bill) in March, 2020. The preamble of the Bill, as placed in Legislature Assembly, clearly mentions that the prevailing Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 is ‘inadequate in administrative and structural matters to govern Bengaluru as it provides for limited flexibility’. Some of the questions emerge out of this. They include: is there a requirement of a law specially for Bengaluru? Does the proposed Bill address all the ills? Is it futuristic? Whether a new administrative set-up would beautify the city, making it sustainable and liveable? Whether only Bengaluru require a new law while other municipalities in the state lag in the development index? In terms of nomenclature, the BBMP Bill does not offer any change in position. Rather, the BBMP has been retained as a ‘Corporation’ as mentioned under the KMC Act. The Bill could have made an attempt to introduce the concept of ‘Metropolitan Municipality’ or ‘Greater City Municipality’ wherein a city of the magnitude of Bengaluru gets a whole new outlook in governance terms.  In the alternative, the government could have considered establishing separate municipalities for each of the municipal areas based on the territorial division of North, South and East Taluks of Bengaluru. This would have furthered decentralisation of powers as intended under the Constitution.  Would it have been appropriate to take some lessons from the Smart Cities Scheme and create a corporate style management structure for BBMP? Another striking change proposed by the Bill is about ‘corporation authorities’, by including ‘zonal commissioner’ and ‘zonal committees’. Firstly, there is no clear reasoning as to why the zones are created. Secondly, the inclusion of zonal commissioner and zonal committees will add on to the hierarchy, thereby complicating the administrative structure. Due to this inclusion, the bureaucratic representation will outweigh the elected representatives, which may tilt the balance towards the executive management of the BBMP. This is clearly against the model enshrined under the Constitution and the KMC Act where the municipality could hold the executive accountable for any action or inaction. The classification of zones not exceeding 15, as provided under Section 13(4), is ambiguous.  The Bill seeks to increase the term of mayor and deputy mayor to two and half years from the existing period of one year, which is a welcome move. This move to increase their term should be extended the to the other areas including the corporations and municipalities. The Draft Karnataka Municipalities Bill, 2019, submitted by the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), moots for this idea to have a uniform tenure to increase from one year to five years. The provision for Standing Committees has been retained without any changes. However, one notable exclusion has been a provision for the creation of ‘Other Committee’ which can serve as ad-hoc committee for various purposes than those mentioned in the proposed Bill. Further, due to the proposed increase in hierarchy and authorities, functioning of Area Sabhas and Ward Committees may be truncated. Among the identified functions for the BBMP in the bill is solid and liquid waste management. Section 150 of the proposed Bill imposes a duty on the municipality for handling different types of waste including bio-medical, plastic and electronic waste. However, alarmingly, construction waste being one of the major categories under which waste is generated, has not been dealt with. As the city is grappling with the issue of waste handling, management and disposal, it is imminent for the government to reconsider the aspect of waste management provisions under the proposed law. For the improvement of aesthetics and protection of heritage, the bill proposes ‘Urban Heritage’ as the responsibility of BBMP by segregating it into four grades - Heritage Grade I, II, III, and Heritage Precincts, with each of these grades having varied importance and requirements of preservation. But the fallacy lies in the failure to address issues of lake rejuvenation and management, forest conservation, tree preservation, sustainable use of resources and other areas of environmental significance. Municipal services Some of the municipal services are presently under the domain of parastatals including that of water supply, disaster management, transport, housing, among others. Both Central and state governments provide financial assistance through schemes like Smart Cities etc for betterment of municipal infrastructure and housing facilities. Considering the operation of various parastatals in the city, the role of BBMP becomes crucial to ensure better coordination and delivery of services to citizens which are unfortunately not addressed in the proposed framework, leading us to question the very purpose of such a Bill. Should a municipality bill address only the powers of an authority or should it mandate the various functions, especially citizen-centric, of the authority required in public interest?  The proposed Bill has several inadequacies which must be addressed including the fixing of liability on officers and members of BBMP for any misapplication or misuse of BBMP funds. The Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA) is the nodal authority for monitoring, overseeing and effective coordination of affairs of municipalities throughout the state except for Bengaluru. In the absence of DMA, the Bill has left it open without addressing who shall be responsible for overseeing, monitoring and effective coordination with neighbouring municipalities, in case they arise.  Despite its limited scope, some progressive provisions in the Bill that must be given due consideration for the governance to permeate to the grassroot level in an effective manner. The present framework depicts a rather tumultuous hotchpotch of overlapping legislations that need remedying through consolidation. Drawing inspiration from the model adopted in Rajasthan, the most appropriate solution hints at a single substantive law for the governance of the whole state. This would require complete transformation by consolidating the Municipalities Act and Municipal Corporations Act into a single, comprehensive legislation for effective, efficient and equitable governance by urban local bodies in Karnataka. (Bhat is Professor of Law and Coordinator, and Parthasarathy is Teaching Associate, Centre for Environmental Law Education, Research and Advocacy, NLSIU)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/bbmp-bill-is-it-the-pill-to-the-ill-887126.html
13-09-2020||First Edit||India-Japan pact, a key strategic step||The Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA) that India and Japan signed last week is an important milestone in India’s efforts to shore up its security. The agreement not only boosts India-Japan bilateral ties but also further concretises the Indo-Pacific co-operative security architecture. The India-Japan pact will increase interoperability between the armed forces of the two countries. It will allow their militaries to access each other’s bases for repair and replenishment of supplies. In effect, this will mean that Japan can have access to strategic Indian ports, including its military facilities in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (ANI). The ANI is located at the mouth of the Strait of Malacca, through which much of the world’s oil, including that headed to Japan and China, traverse. Under the ACSA, Japan could access Indian bases in the ANI should a threat emerge to its trade conducted via the Malacca Straits, for instance, or should India and Japan co-operate in dealing with a threat posed by hostile power. Conversely, India could use Japan’s base at Djibouti. The India-Japan ACSA should not be seen in isolation. Like this pact, India has signed logistical agreements with other countries, including the US, Australia, Singapore, France and South Korea. With the ACSA with Japan, India has signed military logistics agreements with all the ‘Quad countries’; it will facilitate greater military co-operation among them. How India, the US, Japan and Australia choose to take forward this co-operation in the coming weeks and months, especially in the context of rising tension between India and China, remains to be seen. Relations of all four countries vis-à-vis China have frayed seriously in recent months. They have been reticent about coming out in the open about their shared perception of a threat from China. Will that change, should armed conflict erupt along the LAC? The military logistical pacts with Japan and other naval powers have extended India’s naval reach far beyond India’s waters into the Pacific Ocean. It signals India’s growing ambitions as a global power. However, for these ambitions to be realised, India must back the signing of logistics pacts by beefing up and mordernising its maritime and naval infrastructural capacity. With China’s reach into the Indian Ocean growing rapidly near sea lanes of communication vital for India’s trade and at critical choke points, whether through its building of warships, the Belt and Road Initiative or base arrangements with Indian Ocean states, India has a lot of catching up to do. India’s logistical pacts provide a foundation. The hard work of building on these pacts deserve attention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/india-japan-pact-a-key-strategic-step-887129.html
13-09-2020||In Perspective||Will Centre end petroleum subsidy raj?||Currently, the attention of the nation is justifiably zeroed in on when the Covid-19 pandemic will end and the normalcy will return. In this backdrop, a highly deserving historic event has failed to hit the national headlines. During the last few months, spending by the government to subsidise PDS kerosene and residential LPG has fallen to zero - an event much to be celebrated as discussed in the article.  Since World War II, kerosene has been a controlled commodity. In the case of LPG, subsidies were introduced in late 1960 to encourage the use of LPG as a clean cooking fuel. Today, when LPG is a most preferred fuel, one may question why the oil companies had to offer subsidy to the rich and the middle class to shift from kerosene. Once the subsidy genie is out of the box, it is next to impossible to put it back in a democracy.  In recent years, kerosene consumption has dropped from 9.3 million metric tonnes (MT) in 2009-10 to just 2.4 MT last year. This is the result of the Saubhagya scheme to electrify 100% of India and UJJWALA scheme to promote the use of LPG by offering free connections to BPL families. In contrast, LPG consumption has increased from 13.1 MT in 2009-10 to 26.4 MT in 2019-20.  The government doles out subsidies on several activities. Amount spent on kerosene and LPG, though significant, is less in comparison to food security. In 2020-21 budget, amount for food security is Rs 1,15,570 crore, for fertiliser Rs 71,309 crore and for kerosene and LPG Rs 40,915 crore. Still, more attention is paid to the diversion of fuel subsidies rather than the misuse of other subsides. This is because the diversion of fuel subsidies generates a large amount of black. We should recall the sacrifice made by upright officers like IOC’s Manjunath (murdered in 2005 by kerosene mafia), and by district collector Y Sonavane (murdered in 2011). The LPG and kerosene subsidies reached a high of Rs 80,945 crore in 2013-14. Last year, they came down to Rs 24,000 crore. Reasons for such a dramatic drop are many. First is the recent drop in oil price driven by Covid-19 lockdowns. Second, the NDA government initiated the process of decreasing the subsidy by slowly increasing the subsidised kerosene (Rs 0.25 per month) and LPG (first Rs 2 and later by Rs 4 per month) price by small increment excepting when there were assembly elections.   Now with the drop in international LPG price, there has been a significant amount of over-recovery of subsidies which has not been highlighted in the media. In May of this year, the over-recovery was Rs 120 per cylinder.   Initially, the then UPA government tried to take some baby steps to reduce the subsidy burden of LPG first by limiting number of cylinders per family per year to six. However, because of the pressure by Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, it was increased to 12 which failed to have any impact. On average, each family consumes only about 6.3 cylinder per year. Less than 3% use more than 12 cylinders. Thus, putting a cap became meaningless. NDA did not alter this irrational policy.  When Modi urged Indians to voluntarily give up subsidy, an insignificant number opted out. Later, LPG subsidy was cut off to those earning more Rs 10 lakh per year. Currently, out of total number of 280 million LPG consumers, only 20 million do not receive any subsidy. Some 80 million consumers are BPL families who have been given free LPG connection under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY).  Reduction of LPG subsidy has been helped by adapting the direct benefit transfer for LPG (DBTL). This was first started by UPA and later modified by NDA. This has helped reduce diversion of subsidies and also to cut off the bogus LPG connections. It was Aadhaar platform, developed during UPA regime, which has enabled the implementation of DBTL (or PAHAL). If the prices for these twin products do not increase this year, India would save the budgeted amount of Rs 40,915 crore. Since the government has implemented a new initiative to help BPL families (only those covered under PMUY) during the pandemic crisis by giving three free LPG cylinders costing about Rs 13,000 crore, net savings would be around Rs 27,900 crore. Now is the ideal time for the government to end both these subsidies. Since consumers are not getting any subsidy currently, there is unlikely to be any protest either by the consumers or the opposition. At least, the government should seriously consider dropping universal LPG policy and announce a new policy of giving subsidised LPG only to BPL families.  When oil prices increase in future which is most likely, the government will come under pressure to support the poor to continue to buy LPG or kerosene. Instead of supplying LPG cylinders or kerosene below the market price, the government should adapt a modified policy of helping only the BPL families by giving fuel assistance grant when oil prices are above say $75 per barrel. Such a progressive policy will get public support to the government to continue with the liberalised marketing policy. By ending the subsidy raj now, Modi will make history for petroleum sector like former prime minister Narasimha Rao did by liberalising the economy in 1991. (The writer is former governing council member of Manipal Institute of Technology, and an international oil expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/will-centre-end-petroleum-subsidy-raj-887125.html
13-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya: 1 person killed, 10 others injured in road accident||One person was killed and 10 others injured in a series mishap, involving two cars and a motorbike, near Dasanadoddi village, on national highway 209, in Malavalli taluk, on Sunday.  Ganga Joshi (40), of Channapatna town, is deceased.  Ganga Joshi, along with Mashusudhan Joshi and Anushka were on their way to Gaganachukki falls in Shivanasamudra, when it rammed into another car and a motorbike. Two cars were totally damaged. Ten people have been injured in the mishap. The condition of Madhusudhan is said to be critical.  The injured have been admitted to a private hospital in KM Doddi and the town hospital. Rural police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-1-person-killed-10-others-injured-in-road-accident-886866.html
13-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Soldier found carrying live AK-47 round at Belagavi airport; handed over to Army||A soldier was found carrying a live round of AK-47 and one Indian Small Arms System (INSAS) fired empty case at the airport in Belagavi and was handed over to the Army, officials said. The soldier, a Naik Subedar, was handed over to the Maratha Light Infantry Regimental Centre (MLIRC) station headquarters in the district for further inquiry and action. According to officials, the live round and empty case were found with the soldier during frisking by Karnataka State Industrial Security Force (KSISF) personnel at Sambra airport in Belagavi on Saturday. The soldier was on his way to Jammu and Kashmir to report for duty after completing leave in his native village in the district. In a letter to MLIRC station headquarters, Marihal Police Station Inspector under whose jurisdiction the airport is located said he was producing befor them, the soldier, along with one AK-47 live round and one INSAS fired empty case. ..."this is for kind information and further action," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/soldier-found-carrying-live-ak-47-round-at-belagavi-airport-handed-over-to-army-886926.html
13-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Conduct impartial probe into drug scandal: Saleem Ahmed||KPCC Working President Saleem Ahmed alleged that the law and order situation in Karnataka has collapsed and the government has failed to tackle the drug scandal. Instead of issuing statements, the government should conduct an impartial probe into the drug scandal and punish all those who were involved in it, he told mediapersons in Mangaluru. The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting on September 16 will discuss the issues that need to be raised in the upcoming monsoon session of the Karnataka legislature. Already, Congress MLAs and MLCs have sent over 1,300 questions to the government, seeking answers in the session. The issues pertaining to drug scandal, riot at D J Halli, amendment to Land Reforms Act, APMC act, modification of labour laws will be raised in the session, he added. The KPCC  will constitute core committees under presidentship of respective District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents. The core committees will formulate a plan of action on the issues discussed in the DCC working committee. The decision has been taken to strengthen the party at the booth level, Ahmed said and added that the party will be strengthened at 1914 booths in Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/conduct-impartial-probe-into-drug-scandal-saleem-ahmed-886890.html
13-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Amid drugs talk, don't divert focus from key issues, says Opposition||Opposition parties on Sunday alleged that the drug racket cases in the state were being unnecessarily politicised and advised the government against diverting focus from key issues. Speaking to reporters, leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah defended Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan over allegations levelled against him. “Was his visit to Colombo a crime? What is the evidence to claim he was involved in the racket?” Siddaramaiah said. On the issue of Khan being seen in a photograph with Faasil, an accused in the case, he said that a photograph with a criminal did not make one a criminal. “What is important is whether Zameer was involved in the racket, which he has denied,” Siddaramaiah said. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, commenting on JD(S) leaders’ visit to Colombo, said their visit had nothing to do with the ongoing case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/amid-drugs-talk-dont-divert-focus-from-key-issues-says-opposition-887086.html
13-09-2020||National||Government may give states GST relief||With the Opposition preparing to take on the government in a big way on the issue of delayed payment of the GST compensation cess in Parliament beginning Monday, the Centre is expected to soften its stance and promise to pay the entire shortfall of compensation to states gradually. States are asking the Centre to pay their entire GST revenue shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore due since April. But, according to the Centre’s calculation, only Rs 97,000 crore of revenue loss to states is due to GST implementation and the rest is Covid-related shortfall. The position until now is that the Centre has agreed to fully compensate only those losses, which have occurred due to GST implementation and not the Covid-related shortfall in revenues. This has enraged the Opposition-ruled states. A senior Congress party leader told DH they are planning to raise several issues related to the “flawed GST”. Compensation cess is one of them. Why should states borrow money to compensate themselves? “We will demand that the Centre activate the dispute resolution mechanism in the GST Council so that states have legal recourse to the issues they do not agree on.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-may-give-states-gst-relief-886715.html
13-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 13||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 48 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  48,36,676 as of September 12 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  79,612 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 37,02,595  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-13-886725.html
13-09-2020||National||Focus on Covid-19 deaths, not disease spread||For all these pains, India is now sitting atop 47 lakh Covid cases. We are adding an incredible one lakh cases a day. At this rate, in a matter of weeks, India will be crowned the Covid capital of the world. So we clearly got something wrong. Do we give up the fight, and go Ram bharose? Not quite, is the answer from a group of experts. But their advice is radical: Don’t worry about mass testing or large containment zones. It’s too late for all that. Concentrate instead on protecting the vulnerable, and make testing and containment highly focused, letting normal people go about their lives as near normal as possible. “As the virus spreads like wildfire, the strategy needs modification to identify those at risk of having complications,” said Oommen John, a public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health. “We can’t have one blanket strategy for the entire country.” In other words, health services need to target their response towards high-risk individuals, health care workers, elderly people with comorbidities and those going in for surgeries. India’s new mantras in the fight against Covid-19 should be micro-containment, micro-surveillance, targeted testing and death aversion. One way to achieve this is to adequately train frontline health workers to quickly identify hypoxia patients (those with a shortage of oxygen) so that they can be immediately put on supplementary oxygen. Manyof these recommendations are to be found in a recent report released by three prominent public health associations. The most important of the new interventions will need to come in testing. Expanding the testing net indiscriminately in cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai, where lakhs have tested positive and sero-surveillance surveys show exposure of an even larger population, makes little sense. A preoccupation with mass and indiscriminate testing diverts attention from essential, inexpensive and achievable public health measures. “Indiscriminate testing is useless. Since neither the RT-PCR nor the rapid antigen test can pick up all the positive cases [both give significant numbers of false negative results], in a country with 130 crore people, the health system would eventually end up doing only the tests and nothing else….” K Srinath Reddy, President, Public Health Foundation of India told DH. The current benchmarks for adequacy of testing are 140 tests per million population per day, and a sample positivity rate of less than 5%. Indiscriminate testing is aimed at meeting this target. “Testing by itself is not a control strategy. Daily testing of more than one million, mostly ill-defined population, is imposing heavy economic cost without commensurate benefit for control effort. There is a need to relook at the testing strategy in a way that it results in guiding the public health response and effectively limiting the spread of the disease,” the report by the Indian Public Health Association, Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine and Indian Association of Epidemiologists said. Experience from other countries indicates that increased testing does not prevent deaths from Covid-19. Japan and Sri Lanka with one of the lowest testing rates have the lowest fatality. Canada has dramatically reduced community spread with half of the testing capacity of the USA, which is reeling from the pandemic despite having the world’s highest per capita testing rate. “Using testing to prevent transmission of SARS-CoV2 on a large scale is like using the weather report to prevent global warming,” Alexander McAdam of Boston Children’s Hospital and Matthew Pettengill of Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, critics of the mass testing theory, said. Two-pronged approach Public health specialists said testing strategies in densely populated urban areas and rural areas should be different depending on the transmission dynamics. In most cases, by the time the testing is done and the results are made available, the infection has already spread to close contacts. This is more pronounced in rural areas. With two-thirds of India’s population living in villages, where the spread of the disease appears to be limited as of now, the big challenge for the administration is to prevent a rapid spread of the virus in the countryside. Testing and containment may be useful for that purpose if the district administration knows local transmission dynamics. “Unfortunately, such district level monitoring is non-existent in the majority of the 700 plus districts,” said Oommen John.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-on-covid-19-deaths-not-disease-spread-886739.html
13-09-2020||National||Theatre owners urge govt to open cinemas before Dussehra: Report||Cinema halls continue to bear the massive blow triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, and theatre owners have begun to urge the government to reopen these spaces by the Dussehra weekend in October. Various members of the film fraternity, cinema and multiplex owners, and film trade members met with senior officials of the Home, Information, and Broadcasting Ministries and a response has been assured within the next few days on whether these places will be ‘unlocked’ or not. Ever since the implementation of the lockdown, the film industry has been economically impacted as the entire process from production to airing/ screening has been prohibited.  The spaces require a large crew and practicing social distancing and other precautionary measures is not an easy task. Another issue is the release of the films, and according to film trade and exhibition expert Girish Johar, “Even if theatres did reopen, there is no content to play." Producers are choosing online streaming platforms, which could further affect cinema halls. The film industry is hoping for theatres to open up by Dussehra, particularly Diwali. The report added that Katragadda Prasad, President of South India Film Chamber of Commerce, expressed his woes on the huge losses incurred, and is expects cinema halls to reopen by October 1. Akshay Kumar’s Sooryanvanshi is scheduled to release during Diwali in November, probably on big screens. Coronavirus lockdowns are said to have created a dent of Rs 3,000 crore for the movie screening industry, reporting a loss of 12 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/theatre-owners-urge-govt-to-open-cinemas-before-dussehra-report-886778.html
13-09-2020||National||DH Toon | The media circus and 'anchors' dragging TV news to the bottom||The influence of the Indian news media on criminal investigations and trials was on Saturday severely criticised by legal experts, most of whom said that the fourth estate was more focused on gaining TRP ratings and revenue, and less bothered about facts of a case. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Harish Salve and Abhishek Manu Singhvi were of the view that the media was more focused on sensationalising an event and less bothered about distortion of facts and how it influences an investigation or trial of a case. Yes, I’m a vulture,” a top anchor and senior journalist said on a primetime news show this week, priding herself on being compared to a ‘vulture’ (god in Hindi) because according to her, “..In Hinduism, vultures are representative of the God Shani (Saturn) and also a symbol of getting justice (sic).”  And what was the ‘justice’ she was referring to here? The ‘arrest’ of Rhea Chakraborty – as vindication of the ongoing media-led investigation into the untimely death of Sushant Singh Rajput.  Every four minutes someone in this country ends life. Last year, 129,000 people ended their lives. Who cares? But there is one suicide that keeps the nation glued to the TV, or at least that’s what the managers of media believe and we, the people, have to consume whatever rubbish they offer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-the-media-circus-and-anchors-dragging-tv-news-to-the-bottom-886798.html
13-09-2020||National||Covid-19 tally in India breaches 47-lakh mark; 94,372 new cases reported||India's Covid-19 tally of cases sprinted past 47 lakh with 94,372 new infections being reported in a day, while 37,02,595 people have recuperated taking the national recovery rate to 77.88 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 47,54,356, while the death toll climbed to 78,586 with 1,114 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours,  the data updated at 8 am showed.  The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further dropped to 1.65 per cent. There are 9,73,175 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.47 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 5,62,60,928 samples have been tested up to September 12 with 10,71,702 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tally-in-india-breaches-47-lakh-mark-94372-new-cases-reported-886810.html
13-09-2020||National||Iconic masks that will be remembered in a post-Covid-19 world||While masks were initially used only as a protective measure against the novel coronavirus, it has slowly transformed into a style statement — something that speaks for you even when you don’t.   Designer or custom-made made masks — even if not successful in the marketplace — have gained a lot of popularity because of their uniqueness. People want to flaunt colours, patterns, precious stones, trendy colloquial phrases, and their freedom of speech on the armour they use most: their masks Let us take a look at some of the most loved and talked about masks since the pandemic hit the world: 1. A Potterhead? Here's one for you People might not have had enough of the glowing T-shirts, but these ‘magic’ masks have impressed the internet. Why? Because they reveals the ‘Marauder’s map’ when you breathe! A secret code for where to find the Potterheads.  2. A mask that prevents your glasses from getting fogged? You heard it right. If fogged-up glasses have been troubling for you, LG Electronics recently invented a battery-powered filtered face mask designed to reduce problems associated with conventional designs.  The PuriCare Wearable features two fans and high-efficiency particle air filters that clean air coming in and exhaled breath going out. Netizens are loving the innovation and the thought behind it.  3. My precious!  Remember the Pune businessman who got himself a customised gold mask worth Rs 2.89 lakh? Turns out he wasn't the only one who loves precious stones and metals. Impressed by his creativity, a 55-year-old businessman in Odisha had also procured a gold mask that cost him Rs 3.5 lakh. Later, in July, a jeweller in Gujarat came up with the idea of diamond-studded masks after customers asked for something unique. This only proves one point, Indians love their jewels and their health — both equally.  4. Going Gaga  When Lady Gaga said, "Wear a mask, it's a sign of respect," the world heard her. You definitely cannot deny the complete and total takeover of the MTV Video Music Awards 2020 by her. Gaga’s four acceptance speeches were all disarmingly earnest and involved dramatic costume changes, each look with its own couture face mask. 5. Like it? Click it People can't see half your face under the mask but they most certainly can if you get your face printed on it. Photomasks have become popular across states as studios jump into this new venture. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra has already got one for himself.  People also got photos of their most loved icons, including Rahul Gandhi And PM Modi on these. 6. Masks that help one lip-read After face masks left Britain's deaf community struggling to communicate, 45-year-old Claire Cros made about 100 masks with clear panels sewn into them for those with hearing loss to be able to communicate by lip-reading.  7. One for the right cause Apart from him, more and more people are reaching out to local weavers and artisans to source masks that sustain their livelihoods. Ethical ways to protect yourself amid Covid-19, always in fashion. 8. Tying the knot? Not without a bridal mask Meanwhile, Indian weddings have also adapted to the new normal with grooms and brides making sure that they get the perfect mask to go with their outfits.  9. BLM: Speaking through your mask Last but not the least, US Open champion Naomi Osaka's face masks for each of her matches at Flushing Meadows this year — were something more than just a fashion statement. Each of her masks carried the name of a Black American who died after brutal encounters with the US police. Osaka won her third grandslam title and a million hearts with her silent but powerful way to speak for racial injustice in teh United States. -Two US Open titles. -Seven games. -Seven wins. -Seven mask. -One message. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iconic-masks-that-will-be-remembered-in-a-post-covid-19-world-886823.html
13-09-2020||National||NGT raps MoEF for not filing report on plea alleging pollution from import of plastic waste||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pulled up the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) for not taking serious note and filing report on a plea alleging that burning of imported cheap waste paper and road sweep waste at brick kilns is causing air pollution, Hearing a petition on import of huge quantity of plastic waste, the principal bench of the Tribunal headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel observed that there is an absence of a proper mechanism for plastic waste management, including cheap waste paper and imported hazardous road sweep waste. While directing the Ministry to file its response before October 14, the bench said, "No report has been filed by the MoEF nor is anyone present which is happening in several important cases as already noted. The Joint Secretary of MoEF may remain present during the next hearing." The Tribunal was hearing a petition filed by Amit Jain, who alleged that cheap waste paper and road sweep waste is imported from the US, Europe, and other places for burning in brick kilns, causing land and air pollution. "Import of cheap waste paper is hazardous and harmful to the environment. The import was to the extent of 9,00,000 tons of waste which generates hazardous plastic," the petitioner said. The NGT had earlier directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to ensure that no plastic bag less than 50 microns of thickness should be manufactured, stocked, sold and used in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-raps-moef-for-not-filing-report-on-plea-alleging-pollution-from-import-of-plastic-waste-886854.html
13-09-2020||National||Masks, sanitiser and staggered entry: NEET begins amid strict precautions in view of Covid-19||Medical entrance exam NEET began on Sunday amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic at over 3,800 centres across the country with students queuing up as per their designated time slots, adhering to social distancing norms. The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) began at 2 pm, but entry to centres started at 11 am. Students were allotted different slots for entry to ensure there is staggered movement and social distancing is maintained. Over 15 lakh candidates have registered for NEET, which was earlier postponed twice in view of the pandemic. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' wished luck to the candidates appearing for the exam and assured that arrangements are in place for their safety. "I wish luck to candidates appearing for NEET today. I am confident that students will appear for the exam with confidence and follow all guidelines. All states have made required arrangements to ensure hygiene and safety of students as per guidelines," he tweeted. Mohammad Ovais, who came from Moradabad to his exam centre in Dilshad Garden here, said his entry slot was at 11 am. "I left from Moradabad at 5 am. It is not that risky if everybody follows all precautions, the problem arises when people take it casually. There was no crowding at the centres as everybody had designated slots," he said. Vanhika Chaurasia, a resident of Rohini said, "Online exam would have been a better option than a pen and paper-based test but we have no option. More delay in exams would have caused loss of a year". For Yuvraj Kumar, the bigger concern was travelling by public transport. "Thankfully metro services resumed before the exam because I was concerned about that and other modes of public transport are not as safe. We were given separate masks at the centre and we had to dispose of the one we were wearing before," he said. Ajmal Ismail, who is appearing for the exam at a Mayur Vihar centre said, "More than the coronavirus it was the anxiety whether exams are happening or will still be postponed, that caused me more stress. I have done my preparation well and taken all precautions." Till Saturday 5 pm more than 15 lakh of the 15.97 lakh registered candidates downloaded their admit cards. Various state governments had announced free transportation and accommodation, including West Bengal that ran special metro service for candidates. The exam has been postponed twice due to the pandemic and the government decided to go ahead with the exams, despite opposition, to mitigate any further academic loss. The National Testing Agency (NTA) has set in place strict standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of the pandemic, including measures like reducing the number of candidates per room from the earlier 24 to 12. The NTA has also increased the number of centres from 2,546 in 2019 to 3,862 this year to ensure crowd management and staggered entry and exit protocols. Unlike the engineering entrance (JEE), NEET-UG, the medical admission test, is a pen and paper exam and held once a year. Accordingly, the NTA has changed centres for a few candidates this week in compliance with social distancing norms and Covid-19 restrictions. However, the city of the exam centre hasn’t been changed for any candidate. The centres which had more than 900 candidates are distributed into two centres. While all the candidates were asked to go to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, once they entered the centre, they were asked to use the three-ply masks provided by the examination authority. The NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26 and then scheduled for September 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/masks-sanitiser-and-staggered-entry-neet-begins-amid-strict-precautions-in-view-of-covid-19-886865.html
13-09-2020||National||Stress, self-injuries and suicide: India battles mental health crisis as Covid-19 tally spikes||Hemmed inside their homes for months on end as a pandemic raged outside, millions of people are emerging timorously into a world that has drastically changed -- an uneasy adjustment process resulting in a spectrum of mental health issues ranging from depression to that final step, suicide. The dread of contracting the disease combined with the realisation that the incidence of Covid-19 spiralled instead of being contained in the lockdown and that the days of suspending life as they knew it could extend indefinitely has been profoundly disturbing for many. Add to this new normal, ill-health, joblessness, financial crises and the everyday stresses that people anyway had to deal with and the Covid-19 tunnel stretches dark and seemingly endless with no light at the end of it. “This prolonged uncertainty has led people to feel a lot more anxious. So people who were on a mild anxiety spectrum earlier have moved to moderate and severe anxiety. When anxiety gets severe, the kinds of behaviour of self harm increase,” said Arvinder Singh, psychologist, psychotherapist and director of the Ashoka Centre for Well-Being in New Delhi. As India’s Covid-19 tally crossed 47.5 lakh with  94,372 new cases reported on Sunday, Singh’s concerns find echo across the country. The worries are rooted in reports of more people inflicting injuries on themselves, several ending their lives and many complaining of depression and severe anxiety. In Gujarat, for instance, the 108 emergency ambulance service received about 800 cases of "self injuries" and 90 cases of suicide in April, May, June and July, officials said. The numbers began to spike soon after the nationwide lockdown, which came into effect on March 25. Vikas Bihani, 108 service official, said the suicide prevention and counselling helpline usually got around eight to nine calls per month but the numbers have doubled since March. “Between March and August, we got 142 calls from depressed people. A majority of the callers were facing economic, family or mental health related issues and wanted to end their lives,” he said. Some people who test positive for coronavirus inflict injuries on themselves because they cannot tolerate "disappointment", B N Gangadhar, director of the Bangalore-based National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences (NIMHANS), told PTI. His colleague V Senthil Kumar Reddi, coordinator at NIMHANS’ department of psychiatry, said the reasons behind cases of self-inflicting injuries need to be studied.  Gujarat-based psychologist Prashant Bhimani said the economic crisis is fuelling "suicidal thoughts". "There is a 70 per cent increase in the number of patients suffering from depression and obsessive compulsive disorder due to the coronavirus. People are worried about what will happen to them if they contract the coronavirus,” he added. Though there are no exact figures, the anecdotal evidence of people choosing to end their lives is mounting. Just last week, a newly married couple were found hanging in their home in Panipat. Aawed (28) and his wife Nazma (19) had got married barely a month back, according to reports. Aawed was upset at losing his job as a welder during the lockdown and was hoping to get work in the unlock period. But that did not happen and he got increasingly desperate, his brother Jawed was reported as saying.   In Uttar Pradesh, migrant labourers Chutku and Rambabu ended their lives in their village in Banda. Both had no work and were stressed, their family members said. The distress cuts across classes. In Barabanki, 37-year-old Vivek whose business had failed allegedly poisoned his wife and three children before hanging himself at his home. In the national capital, two brothers, both in their 40s, were found hanging in their jewellery shop in Chandni Chowk. They left behind a suicide note, apologising to their families and citing financial crisis as the reason behind the extreme step. And sometimes, it’s just about the disease. A 50-year-old man in Odisha’s Bolangir district, for instance, allegedly killed himself by jumping into a well after his nephew tested positive. He feared he might also have contracted Covid-19. The stories of mounting stress and the inability to handle it are many and from all parts of the country.    “There are common anxiety issues… like whether they have contracted Covid. People feel anxious if they have a common cold or cough. They are also worried about jobs, economy and EMIs. They are worried about the uncertainty of the future." said Samir Parikh, director, Mental Health and Behavioural Science, Fortis Healthcare, The numbers of patients being referred to the psychiatry department of Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University has gone up significantly, said Adarsh Tripathi, additional professor at the department.   "Economic activities came to a halt, businesses shut down. Besides, insecurity about the future, jobs, marriages and education all had a direct psychological impact,” he added. In Tripathi’s view, the 15-25 age group is most vulnerable to self-harm and suicidal ideas.       Kolkata-based psychologist Sanchita Pakrashi said the single most important factor is collective anxiety about the future. "I am getting patients of all ages. Till February, the complaints came mainly from students and young professionals suffering from job stress and personal crisis. Now it is collective crisis which shows no sign of abating," she said. Jaipur-based psychiatrist R K Solanki agreed. He said cases of anxiety disorders, stress and suicidal thoughts have increased in the last three-four months, most related with situations emanating from the lockdown and the spread of the coronavirus. "During lockdown, people were mostly emotionally depressed. Now, worries related to the future are among the main reasons for anxiety and depression in many young patients," Solanki said. The coronavirus pandemic may also impact some children's mental health and emotional well-being and parents should address their needs with compassion and a friendly approach, added S K Mattoo, head of the psychiatry department at PGIMER, Chandigarh. Faced with the escalating mental health crisis, several institutions are conducting programmes for their staff. AIIMS, Patna, has tied up with Medicins San Frontiers to provide training to its medicos and paramedical staff on how to deal with the mentally disturbed or depressed Covid-19 patients at the hospital. About 30 per cent of coronavirus patients at the facility are found to be mentally disturbed, Sanjeev Kumar, the institute’s Covid-19 nodal officer, said. Anand Nadkarni from Mumbai’s Institute of Psychological Health recommends a 30-day crash course on clinical psychology for regular practitioners so they can provide basic support to patients complaining of stress and anxiety. “There is no doubt that the cases of people suffering from stress, anxiety and depression are on the rise. The lockdown has not only led to a relapse in people who were on the recovery path, but also triggered stress and anxiety related disorders among those who earlier never had any symptoms,” Nadkarni said. The Arunachal Pradesh government is also taking measures to reduce stress among Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at various care centres and hospitals. "Besides supportive counselling, treating physicians liaise with psychiatrists and initiate treatment for mild symptoms of anxiety, insomnia, if necessary," state Health Secretary P Parthiban said. Thousands of kilometres away in Kerala, a helpline set up by DISHA, a joint venture by the National Health Mission (NHM) and the Department of Health and Family Welfare, has been receiving hundreds of calls a day.  "We have been receiving hundreds of calls everyday seeking help. Some people seek help after getting frustrated of the lockdown. Some are depressed and worried about the pandemic," a counsellor told PTI. Explaining the protocol, Akhla, a floor manager at DISHA, said, ”We speak to them first, then hand over their case to the respective district mental health programme officers.” It’s a pan India problem that has been growing and evolving through the months. Tabassum Sheikh, clinical psychologist, Apollo TeleHealth, said, "When the lockdown started, the calls were related to people facing issues in handling work stress and the household chores. Ever since July, the calls are more about interpersonal problems." Parikh added that people who are struggling need a support system and friends and family are key. He also said people should feel free to seek help if they are struggling. Advice that must be acted on before it gets too late, stress experts||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stress-self-injuries-and-suicide-india-battles-mental-health-crisis-as-covid-19-tally-spikes-886868.html
13-09-2020||National||Yoga, chyawanprash part of new management protocol for recovered Covid-19 patients||Yogasana, Pranayama, meditation and intake of chyawanprash are among some of the suggestions given by the Union Health Ministry in its new management protocol for patients who have recovered from Covid-19. Calling for a holistic approach for follow up care and well-being of all post-Covid recovered patients, the Health ministry said such patients must continue Covid-appropriate behaviour by use of mask, hand and respiratory hygiene, physical distancing. The protocol provides an approach for managing patients who have recovered from Covid-19 for care at home. However, the procedure is not meant to be seen as preventive or as a curative therapy. “The recovery period is likely to be longer for patients who suffered from more severe form of the disease and those with pre-existing illness,” it said. At individual level, the protocol suggested drinking adequate amount of warm water (if not contra-indicated), taking immunity promoting AYUSH medicine prescribed by a qualified practitioner of AYUSH and if health permits then regular household work to be done. It advised people to resume professional work in a graded manner. Daily practice of Yogasana, Pranayama and meditation, as much as health permits or as prescribed, breathing exercises as prescribed by treating physician and daily morning or evening walk at a comfortable pace as tolerated were among other measures. The protocol also called for self-health monitoring at home of temperature, blood pressure, blood sugar (especially, if diabetic), pulse oximetry etc (if medically advised). "If there is persistent dry cough/sore throat, do saline gargles and take steam inhalation. The addition of herbs/spices for gargling/steam inhalation. Cough medications, should be taken on advice of medical doctor or qualified practitioner of Ayush. Look for early warning signs like high grade fever, breathlessness, unexplained chest pain, new onset of confusion, focal weakness," it said. At the level of community, the ministry said recovered individuals should share their positive experiences with friends and relatives using social media, community leaders, opinion leaders, religious leaders for creating awareness, dispelling myths and stigma. "Take support of community based self-help groups, civil society organizations, and qualified professionals for recovery and rehabilitation process (medical, social, occupational, livelihood). Seek psycho-social support from peers, community health workers, counsellor. If required seek mental health support service," the protocol said. The ministry also advised recovered patients to participate in group sessions of yoga, meditation etc. while taking all due precautions like physical distancing. In healthcare facility setting, the ministry advised the first follow-up visit (physical/telephonic) should be within seven days after discharge, preferably at the hospital where he/she underwent treatment. "Subsequent treatment/follow up visits may be with the nearest qualified allopathic/AYUSH practitioner/medical facility of other systems of medicine. "Poly-therapy is to be avoided due to potential for unknown drug-drug interaction, which may lead to Serious Adverse Events or Adverse Effects," it said. The use of chyawanprash in the morning with luke warm water/milk is highly recommended. Immunity promoting AYUSH medicine like mulethi powder, ayush kwath, Samshamani vati and Ashwagandha powder have also been recommended by the Health Ministry in its protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-chyawanprash-part-of-new-management-protocol-for-recovered-covid-19-patients-886880.html
13-09-2020||National||Pakistan summons senior Indian diplomat over 'ceasefire violations'||Pakistan on Sunday summoned a senior diplomat from the Indian High Commission here to register its protest over the alleged ceasefire violations by the Indian forces along the Line of Control (LoC). The Foreign Office in a statement said that Indian forces resorted to "indiscriminate and unprovoked firing" in the Hotspring and Rakhchikri sectors on Saturday night, resulting in the death of one girl and serious injures to four civilians. The Indian forces "along the LoC and the Working Boundary (WB) have been continuously targeting civilian populated areas with artillery fire, heavy-caliber mortars and automatic weapons," it alleged. It claimed that 18 people have died and 176 injured in 2,225 ceasefire violations this year. Indian side was called upon to respect the 2003 Ceasefire Understanding, investigate this and other such incidents of deliberate ceasefire violations and maintain peace along the LoC and the WB, the Foreign Office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-summons-senior-indian-diplomat-over-ceasefire-violations-886883.html
13-09-2020||National||'Future Is Not Fixed': Virtual art show highlights impact of pandemic||A unique virtual art show, inspired by the lingering sense of uncertainty about the future in the times of coronavirus, is showcasing works of 24 distinguishing artists in what is claimed to be a first of its kind joint presentation by two noted art galleries -- Nature Morte and Vadhera. The art exhibition titled "Future is not Fixed" will showcase several artworks including paintings, digital prints, and sculptures made using building blocks of architecture like frames, doors, windows and furnishings, among others. "Fuelled by a perspective unacquainted, a narrative unknown," the virtual show appeals to the "imagination of the tainted fixtures of the worlds we once lived and sought to live", said the organisers. "This period will go down in history. It will never be forgotten. It will be documented in umpteen ways and interpreted by visual artists in a million more. This show is an attempt to illustrate these feelings as we live through this point in history. This is the reality of today and this is the truth. The future is not fixed. Not at all anymore," said Arjun Sawhney, curator of the show. The show features works of 24 distinguished artists including Bharti Kher, Subodh Gupta, Thukral & Tagra, Dhruvi Acharya, Anju Dodiya, Gigi Scaria, Sudhir Patwardhan, Jitish Kallat and Riyas Komu. So be it Acharya's watercolour titled "Lockdown", which shows a single figure lost amid clouds as words, thoughts, and viruses blur together, creating confusion, anxiety, and fear, or Patwardhan's oil on canvas, "Going back", where he paints an image of a migrant worker trudging back to his village, majority of the artworks are artistic reflections of inner and outer worlds borne by the times unfamiliar. "These compositions are predictive images in some sense, representing a feeling of stuck-ness and an alteration in travelling and general cultures from which we are yet to emerge and then subsequently re-define," said Gigi Scaria of her artwork,"Trail", which shows a traveller or wanderer restricted from pursuing new experiences and connection as human presence and touch and effectively the outside world are avoided. The online exhibition is available on NatureMorte.com and VadehraArt.com till September 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/future-is-not-fixed-virtual-art-show-highlights-impact-of-pandemic-886900.html
13-09-2020||National||Greater acceptance of multipolarity, mutuality key to more settled Sino-India ties: Jaishankar||The key to a more settled Sino-Indian relationship is greater acceptance by both countries of multipolarity and mutuality, building on a larger foundation of global rebalancing, says External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. In his recently-released book "The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World", he also says that India is not the only country focused on coming to terms with China as the entire world is doing so, each nation refashioning its terms of engagement in its own way. The external affairs minister, however, had written this book before the military standoff in eastern Ladakh began in early May. "If there is a common approach, it is of them simultaneously strengthening capacities internally, assessing the external landscape, and seeking understandings with China. In this overall exercise, India will occupy a special place by virtue of its size, location, potential, history, and culture," Jaishankar writes. He says this book, published by HarperCollins India, was developed in the course of the last two years through a series of events and lectures given at think tanks, conferences or business forums form its core. According to Jaishankar, much has changed, mostly to India's disadvantage, since November 1950, when Sardar Patel and Jawaharlal Nehru had a famous exchange of views on how to approach China. "The key issues - realism versus optimism and bilateralism versus globalism - remain as relevant today as then. Striking a judicious balance is not necessarily easier with the passage of time. But the past also tells us that there is always room for strategy and vision if we are to go beyond politics and constraints. More than on any other relationship in the world today, the long view must prevail," he writes. He is of the view that the India-China relationship will always take into account the larger context as they establish an equilibrium. "World events determine not just China's overall attitude but its specific demeanor towards India. Currently, this context is dominated by global frictions and systemic differences. It is, therefore, necessary for India to continuously monitor this larger picture as it calibrates its China relationship," the former diplomat suggests. He believes China's powerful rise is among the multiple factors that have led to a more uncertain world. "As the politics of this era evolves, neither country has an interest in allowing the other to become a card against them. Making sure of that will depend on their own policies. One concern is that unlike in the rest of the world, India's rise has been partly lost on a China that has been growing five times faster," he says. "It is up to India to ensure that its enhanced standing is given due weight," he adds. Jaishankar also says that the future of the Indo-Pacific lies in a complex range of forces interacting on a continuous basis. "For India, it will be an important element of its relationship with China and its partnership with the West. New possibilities could be opened up with Russia, whose maritime interests may grow with the viability of Arctic commerce. The importance of the Indo-Pacific to ties with Japan, ASEAN and Australia clearly cannot be underestimated," he writes. On life after COVID-19, he says India too will be shaped by the broad trends in the global environment that the coronavirus will intensify. "But more than that, it needs to take into account the more direct consequences of the pandemic. Its destructive impact naturally demands a strategy of national revival. And that, in turn, warrants a fundamental rethink about our growth model," Jaishankar says||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/greater-acceptance-of-multipolarity-mutuality-key-to-more-settled-sino-india-ties-jaishankar-886903.html
13-09-2020||National||These 5 states make up for 58% of India's Covid-19 recoveries||A total of 37,02,595 people have recuperated from Covid-19 in the country so far, with 58 per cent of the recovered cases being reported from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, the Centre said on Sunday. The same five states account for 60 per cent of total 9,73,175 active cases in the country. The national recovery rate now stands at 77.88 per cent. While Maharashtra has reported 17.2 per cent recovered cases, Tamil Nadu has 13.1 per cent, Andhra Pradesh 12.2 per cent, Karnataka 7.9 per cent and Uttar Pradesh 7.8 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said. Maharashtra continues to lead with more than 13,000 recoveries while Andhra Pradesh has contributed more than 10,000 to the single-day recoveries, it said.  A total of 78,399 recoveries have been registered in a span of 24 hours in the country, according to the health ministry's data updated at 8 am. Of the 94,372 new infections that have been reported in 24 hours, Maharashtra alone has contributed to more than 22,000 cases followed by Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka with more than 9,000 cases each, the ministry highlighted. "Nearly 57 per cent of the new cases are reported from five states. These are also contributing 58 per cent of the new recovered cases," the ministry underlined. There are 9,73,175 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.47 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.   Maharashtra has more than 2,80,000 cases followed by  Karnataka with more than 97,000 cases, the ministry said. Maharashtra (28.79 per cent), Karnataka (10.05 per cent), Andhra Pradesh (9.84 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (6.98 per cent) and Tamil Nadu (4.84 per cent) account for 60 per cent of total active cases in the country. Also, 1,114 Covid-19 fatalities have been registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of 391 deaths followed by Karnataka with 94 deaths, whereas Tamil Nadu has reported 76 deaths. India's Covid-19 tally of cases mounted to  47,54,356  with 94,372 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 78,586 with 1,114 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-5-states-make-up-for-58-of-indias-covid-19-recoveries-886917.html
13-09-2020||National||Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife records her statement on her complaint against hubby, his kin||The estranged wife of actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Aliya, has recorded her statement in Budhana police station here on her complaint against her husband and his four family members, police said on Sunday. Aliya came to the Budhana police station from Mumbai and recorded her statement, corroborating what she had alleged in her complaint, said SHO Kushalpal Singh. She had lodged her complaint on July 27 at a Mumbai police station, which registered an FIR there and forwarded it to the Budhana police station on the ground that the place of occurrence of the offence fell in the jurisdiction of this police station, said the SHO. He said in her statement she also reiterated her allegation of molestation of a family member in 2012 by the actor’s brother Minhajuddin Siddiqui. She also alleged that she had apprised her in-laws’ family about the molestation incident but they told me to keep quiet and solve the matter within the family. Nawazudfin Siddiqui had returned to his native place at Budhana from Mumbai due to the Covid-19 lockdown and has been living here since then. His family sources, however, said the actor was not present in his residence and was in Dehradun when Aliya came to the police station for recording her statement. “She did not come home to meet anyone of us,” said actor’s family members, while denying her allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nawazuddin-siddiqui-s-wife-records-her-statement-on-her-complaint-against-hubby-his-kin-886927.html
13-09-2020||National||UP records 8 more deaths, Covid-19 tally in state crosses 3 lakh||Eighty more people died from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday as 6,239 fresh cases surfaced, taking the infection figures to 3,12,036 in the state. Briefing reporters here, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said so far, 4,429 people have died from the disease in Uttar Pradesh. The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 68,122, he said, adding that 6,239 cases were reported on Sunday. Till now, 2,39,485 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-records-8-more-deaths-covid-19-tally-in-state-crosses-3-lakh-886932.html
13-09-2020||National||Passing away of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is tragic: President Ram Nath Kovind||Terming the passing away of former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh as tragic, President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday said "Raghuvansh Babu" was a true stalwart with a phenomenal understanding of rural India. The 74-year-old former Union rural development minister died at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) here. “The passing away of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is tragic. An outstanding leader rooted to ground, Raghuvansh Babu was a true stalwart with phenomenal understanding of rural India. With his spartan and sagely lifestyle, he enriched public life. Condolences to his family & followers,”Kovind tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passing-away-of-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-is-tragic-president-ram-nath-kovind-886933.html
13-09-2020||National||A different Parliament for Monsoon Session||Impromptu strategy sessions among opposition ranks to corner the government on legislative matters and ensuring presence of members for a quick vote will be a tough task as Parliament convenes for the Monsoon Session on Monday amid the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic. The charm of Parliament session will be missing this time. Impassioned speeches, sharp rebuttals and quick repartee have been the hallmark of Parliament debates, but with members spread across the chambers of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha and the visitors’ galleries, getting an appreciative nod from colleagues is also likely to be difficult. For the Monsoon Session, the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will meet in separate four-hour shifts unlike the simultaneous sittings in the pre-Covid era. In both the Houses, first three rows of seats will be reserved for the Prime Minister, his council of ministers and leaders of parliamentary parties, while rest will be free seating to be decided by the respective parties. The main Lok Sabha chamber, which can accommodate more than 550 members, will have seats earmarked for 257 members, while arrangements to seat 172 members have been made in visitors’ galleries of the Lower House. Sixty Lok Sabha members will be seated in the main Rajya Sabha chambers, while 51 members will have seats in the visitors’ galleries of the Upper House. “Ensuring coordination among opposition ranks will be challenging in such a situation,” a Rajya Sabha member said. The task of the presiding officers is expected to be challenging as they will have to keep an eye on four different enclosures where members will be seated and ensure everyone gets an opportunity to speak in the House. The customary all-party meeting convened by the Parliamentary Affairs Minister and deliberations by opposition leaders on the eve of the Parliament session too have not happened. “These are extraordinary times. Meetings take place in different ways. If the Prime Minister can meet Chief Ministers virtually, surely opposition parties can also meet virtually,” senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said. Only members of the parliament will be allowed in the parliament premises during the session. Personal assistants, secretaries and security personnel will not be allowed entry in Parliament, while ministers will be permitted to take one person to assist them. The Central Hall of Parliament will be open only for MPs and entry for MLAs, MLCs and former MPs has been restricted. Members have also been asked not to get their family members to Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-different-parliament-for-monsoon-session-886950.html
13-09-2020||National||Opposition demands discussion on standoff at LAC, economic slowdown in Lok Sabha||Opposition parties have sought a discussion in Lok Sabha on the issues of economic slowdown, unemployment and standoff between Indian and Chinese forces during a meeting of floor leaders of the House on Sunday to discuss the agenda for the Monsoon session, DMK leader TR Baalu said. A day before the start of the session, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla chaired the meeting of the business advisory committee (BAC) of the lower house. Opposition leaders have sought discussions on the standoff between India and China at the LAC, unemployment and economic slowdown, Baalu said. The DMK leader said he has also sought a discussion on issues such as revising the creamy layer for OBC and non-payment of states' share of revenue collected under GST. Birla told reporters after the meeting that the leaders of all parties have assured their support for the smooth functioning of the House. He expressed the hope that Lok Sabha will transact a good amount of business. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi along with Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Muraleedharan, ministers of state in the same ministry, also attended the meeting. Joshi said the government is ready for discussion on all issues which will be decided in the BAC. He said the meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere, and floor leaders will again meet on Tuesday to deliberate upon the agenda for the parliament session. Asked whether the government is ready for a discussion on the standoff between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Joshi said it will be decided while keeping in mind national security and the country's strategic interests. According to sources, Lok Sabha will be adjourned briefly on Monday as a mark of respect to former president Pranab Mukherjee and a sitting MP who died recently. And thereafter, sources said, the House may take up discussion on two bills which have already been passed by Rajya Sabha. A discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic can start on Tuesday. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also said on Sunday that his party wants a discussion in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on the situation at the border with China and the state of the economy. He also mentioned “closure of businesses and the state of the MSME industry, the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and other issues like airport privatisation, the draft EIA notification." “We hope the Opposition would get an opportunity to speak and serious national issues would be discussed. We expect the prime minister to be present in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and give a reply to the questions raised by us,” he said at a virtual press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-demands-discussion-on-standoff-at-lac-economic-slowdown-in-lok-sabha-886953.html
13-09-2020||National||Delhi riots: Cong comes out in support of Yechury, slams police||The Congress on Sunday came out in support of Sitaram Yechury and others named in the supplementary charge sheet in the Delhi riots case and accused Delhi police of bringing the criminal justice system to ridicule. The opposition party said the BJP has "stooped to a new low" in its attempt to suppress peaceful dissent against its policies. "Delhi police have brought the criminal justice system to ridicule by naming Mr Sitaram Yechury and many other scholars and activists in a supplementary charge sheet in the Delhi riots case," Congress leader P Chidambaram tweeted. He questioned how "if an accused (Gulfisha Fathima) mentions a name in her statement, that person will be named as an accused in the charge sheet". "Has the Delhi police forgotten that between the Information and Charge Sheet there are important steps called Investigation and Corroboration," he asked. Other than Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, economist Jayati Ghosh and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand figure in the supplementary charge sheet. However, Delhi police have clarified that they have not filed a charge sheet against them and underscored the difference between naming someone as an accused and mentioning a name due to allegations. Chidambaram said he was glad that former police officer Julio Ribeiro has "upbraided" the Delhi police for its "biased handling" of the Delhi riots case. "Will the Delhi police listen to this iconic police officer," he asked. Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said, "The BJP has reached new lows in its attempt to suppress peaceful dissent against its policies which have torn the socio-economic-politico fabric of this nation." "The misuse of Delhi police to choke voices like Sitaram Yechury and others is shameful and highly condemnable," he said. Another Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has said, "This is worse than atrocious. I am in full solidarity with those chargesheeted. They are greater desh bhakts than the fraudulent ones in power now." Party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "If speaking truth to power is a crime, If exposing circle of hate is a crime, If standing up to rioters is a crime, If being righteous & just is a crime, Then, each one of us must be booked, chargesheeted & jailed. Only then will my Country survive. Jai Hind."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-cong-comes-out-in-support-of-yechury-slams-police-886960.html
13-09-2020||National||Flyers can take photos, videos in flights but can't use recording gadgets that create chaos: DGCA||Aviation regulator DGCA "clarified" on Sunday passengers can take photos and videos inside flights but can't use any recording equipment that creates chaos, disrupts flight operations, violates safety norms or is banned by the crew members. On Saturday, the regulator had said that a scheduled flight will be suspended for a period of two weeks if anyone is found taking photographs inside the plane. Two days back, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation had asked IndiGo to take "appropriate action" after it found alleged violation of safety and social distancing protocols by mediapersons in the airline's Chandigarh-Mumbai flight that had actor Kangana Ranaut as a passenger. According to a video of the incident that took place inside the flight on September 9, reporters and cameramen were jostling and bunching up to get a comment from Ranaut, who was sitting in one of the front rows of the plane. The DGCA order on Sunday "clarified that a bona fide passenger travelling in an aircraft engaged in scheduled air transport services may do still and video photography from inside such an aircraft while in flight; take off and landing" as per its circular dated December 9, 2004. "However, this permission does not include use of any recording equipment which imperils or compromises air safety; violates prevalent norms; creates chaos or disruption during operation of flight or expressly prohibited by crew," the order noted. Action may be initiated against those persons found in violation of above guidelines, the order added. The Sunday order is a clarification on top of the Saturday order that said, "It has been decided that from now on, incase any violation (photography) occurs on any scheduled passenger aircraft - the schedule of flight for that particular route shall be suspended for a period of two weeks from the next day (of the incident)." The Saturday order stated that as per Rule 13 of the Aircraft Rules 1937, no person is allowed to take any photographs inside a flight except when permission is granted by the DGCA or the Civil Aviation Ministry. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can put an "unruly passenger" on its "no-fly list" for a certain period of time after an internal enquiry. About the Chandigarh-Mumbai flight incident, a DGCA official had said on Friday that the prominent issues with the incident were related to "photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules 13, violation of Covid-19 protocols and certain actions falling within the purview of unruly behaviour on board". The Shiv Sena, which heads the alliance government in the state, and Ranaut had engaged in a war of words after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and said she feared Mumbai police more than the alleged movie mafia. On September 9 morning, a team of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had demolished the alterations allegedly made without the civic body's approval at Ranaut's bungalow in Pali Hill in Mumbai. Ranaut arrived in Mumbai the same day after the demolition through the aforementioned IndiGo flight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flyers-can-take-photos-videos-in-flights-but-cant-use-recording-gadgets-that-create-chaos-dgca-886963.html
13-09-2020||National||Delhi reports over 4,000 Covid-19 infections for 5th straight day||Delhi recorded 4,235 coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally to over 2.18 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,744 with 29 new fatalities, authorities said. This is the fifth successive day when over 4,000 coronavirus cases were recorded in the national capital. According to a Delhi government health bulletin issued this evening, 29 fresh fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours. A total of 56,656 tests -- 10,116 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 46,540 rapid antigen tests -- were conducted during the period, it said. The positivity rate in the last 24 hours stands at 7.48 per cent, while the cumulative positivity rate stands at 10.20 per cent. The number of active cases stands at 28,812, while 1,84,748 patients have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out of the city. The total number of cases stands at 2,18,304, the bulletin said. The number of containment zones in the city is 1,488. Delhi’s biggest single-day jump was reported on Saturday when 4,321 fresh cases were recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-reports-over-4000-covid-19-infections-for-5th-straight-day-886964.html
13-09-2020||National||Medha Patkar moves SC against Maharashtra govt's decision of not releasing prisoners||Activist Medha Patkar has moved the Supreme Court against the decision of Maharashtra government's high-powered committee of not releasing a large number of people arrested or convicted under the special laws from prisons due to Covid-19 pandemic. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian would consider the matter on Monday. In a special leave petition, Patkar, along with the National Alliance for People's Movement challenged the validity of the Bombay HC's August 5 order upholding the decision on the classification of prisoners for temporary parole as well as interim bail.  The petition filed by advocate Vipin Nair asked the court to direct the high-powered committee to reconsider the cases of 17,642 undertrial prisoners and 11,000 convicted persons lodged in Maharashtra jails pending final hearing of the matter, for temporary release on interim bail and emergency parole, respectively.  On March 23, the top court took suo motu notice of the necessity of maintaining social distancing in the prisons amid Covid-19 pandemic and directed the states to constitute a high-powered committee so as to release the prisoners on interim bail or emergency parole.  The panel in Maharashtra decided that those who are accused or convicted of offences punishable with imprisonment of seven years or less shall be released on interim bail or emergency parole. However, it said that same is not applicable for the prisoners who are accused of or convicted for offences under the Special Acts like MCOCA, PMLA, NDPS, UAPA etc or the serious economic offences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medha-patkar-moves-sc-against-maharashtra-govts-decision-of-not-releasing-prisoners-886970.html
13-09-2020||National||India to become atmanirbhar in fertilizer production by 2023: Sadananda Gowda||India will be self-reliant in the production of fertilizers by 2023, as under atmanirbhar Bharat programme, new fertilizer manufacturing units are being set up with an investment of Rs 40,000 crore to reduce dependency on import, Union Chemicals and Fertilizer Minister D V Sadananda Gowda.  He was addressing a webinar on “Self-Reliant India and Sustainable Agriculture ”organized by IFFCO for the farmers of Karnataka. “As per Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s atmanirbhar Bharat vision to promote indigenous industries, we are converting all fertilizer companies to gas-based technology. Recently we have revived four plants (Ramagundam, Sindhri, Barauni and Gorakhpur) in India. By 2023 we should become self–sufficient in the production of fertilizer," he said. "The government is encouraging the production of organic and nano fertilizers in the country as they are 25 to 30% cheaper and give 18 to 35% higher yield and keep the soil in good health," he said. He lauded the IFFCO’s Nano experiment and called it a game-changer. He informed that nano fertilizers distributed freely to 12,000 farmers and agriculture universities across the country have given positive feedback, he said. Gowda requested farmers to use urea judiciously as excessive use of urea may spoil the quality of the soil. He praised the efforts of IFFCO during the Covid-19 pandemic period for not only keeping a regular supply of fertilizers but also organising campaigns by distributing masks, sanitizers and hand gloves to mitigate the spread of the virus. More than 1500 farmers from Karnataka took part in the webinar. Managing Director of IFFCO U S Awasthi, Marketing Director Yogendra Kumar, IFFCO Karnataka marketing manager Narayanaswamy, agriculture scientists from University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore and others participated in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-become-atmanirbhar-in-fertilizer-production-by-2023-sadananda-gowda-886976.html
13-09-2020||National||CPI(M) to launch nationwide protests against Centre from September 17 to 22||The CPI(M) has called a nationwide campaign against the government on issues related to minorities, democratic rights and civil liberties from September 17 to September 22, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on Sunday. This campaign, he said, will also focus on immediate cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month for the next six months to all families outside the income tax bracket and immediate distribution of free foodgrains of 10 kg per individual every month for the next six months among the needy. “Issues such as the intensification of communal polarisation; targeting of minorities; large-scale attacks on democratic rights and civil liberties of our people; against the mounting brutal attacks on women, Dalits, adivasis and other marginalised sections, loot of national assets through privatisation and scrapping of labour laws will be highlighted…,” Yechury said. The CPI(M) will demanded that the BJP-led central government urgently address the immediate needs of the people, he said. Yechury was briefing the media a day after the party’s politburo met on Saturday. He also said that their demands would include expansion of the MGNREGA to ensure at least 200 days of work a year with enhanced wages. The CPI(M) leader also demanded a promulgation of an Urban Employment Guarantee Act and announcement of an allowance for all unemployed. “The protest would be essentially to safeguard the Constitution and its fundamental guarantees of liberty, equality and fraternity for all citizens,” he said. Yechury also said that during the poitburo meeting a slew of issues were discussed and thee included the state of the economy as well the status of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the CPI(M) is opposed to the 11 ordinances promulgated by the government during the period of lockdown. "Some of these, particularly concerning Indian agriculture, are extremely dangerous and damaging to our farmers, Indian agriculture and India’s economic sovereignty. The CPI(M) has moved a notice for statutory resolutions opposing these ordinances and demanding their withdrawal in both Houses of Parliament,” a statement issued by the party said. The statement comes ahead of the Parliament’s Monsoon Session which is scheduled to begin from Monday. The politburo during its meeting also decided that CPI(M) MPs will insist that major policy decisions like the New Education Policy, National Digital Health Mission and its associated programmes, Environmental Impact Assessment and New Mining Regulations be thoroughly discussed and scrutinised by Parliament before implementation, it said. The politburo noted that during the past six weeks, the government has gone about “aggressively implementing neo-liberal reforms”, among others, according to the statement said. It alleged that there is a complete “subversion of the criminal justice system with blatant misuse” of the agencies under the central government like the Delhi Police, the NIA, the CBI and the ED to demonise political opponents. “The politburo demands immediate stop to arrest of innocent minorities, activists championing the rights of the people, especially the marginalised like the Dalits/tribals, on trumped up charges under draconian laws like the UAPA, NSA and the Sedition Act,” the statement said. The meeting also discussed issues like denial of GST dues to states, status of Jammu and Kashmir and the gravity of the coronavirus situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-to-launch-nationwide-protests-against-centre-from-september-17-to-22-886979.html
13-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS; RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh no more||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh no more; Union Health Ministry issues management protocol for Covid-19 recovered patients and Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS.    Here are the top news of today, Sunday: September 13, 2020: RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, the driving force behind the rural jobs scheme MGNREGA, breathed his last at the AIIMS here on Sunday due to post Covid-19 complications. He was 74. A strong supporter of RJD founder Lalu Prasad, Singh had a fall out with the party a few days back and had shot off his resignation letter from the hospital bed. Lalu Prasad, who is incarcerated in the Ranchi jail, had written back to him rejecting the resignation. Singh had also written a letter to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, which was seen as an attempt to cosy up to the JD(U) ahead of the Bihar assembly elections later this year. A doctorate in mathematics, Singh was linked closely with farmers’ movement in Bihar and had a keen understanding of rural India, an experience that held him in good stead during his stint as Rural Development Minister in the UPA-I government. Singh was regarded as the brain behind MGNREGA which has stood the test of time in creating employment opportunities in villages across the country. A five-term Lok Sabha member, Singh was pushed to the margins of the RJD after incarceration of Lalu Prasad and emergence of Tejashwi Yadav to the forefront of party affairs. Singh contested unsuccessfully from Vaishali parliamentary constituency in 2014 and 2019. “Dear Raghuvansh babu, what have you done. Only the day before yesterday I had said you are going nowhere. And now you have gone so far away. I am speechless. I am sad. You will be remembered a lot,” Lalu Prasad said on Twitter.   Union Home Minister Amit Shah was admitted to AIIMS on Saturday late night, 12 days after he was discharged from the hospital for post-Covid-19 care. He was taken to AIIMS around 11 PM after he complained of having breathing trouble. In a statement, AIIMS said, "as per the advice given at discharge (August 31), he has now been admitted or complete medical check up before the Parliament Session for 1-2 days. There has been speculation about Shah's health for some time. However, neither the government nor he gave any details regarding his health condition except that he was admitted to the hospital when he contracted the coronavirus last month and later for post Covid-19 care. While discharging him on August 31, AIIMS had said that he had fully recovered.   Yogasana, Pranayama, meditation and intake of chyawanprash are among some of the suggestions given by the Union Health Ministry in its new management protocol for patients who have recovered from Covid-19. Calling for a holistic approach for follow up care and well-being of all post-Covid recovered patients, the Health ministry said such patients must continue COVID appropriate behaviour by use of mask, hand and respiratory hygiene, physical distancing. The protocol provides an approach for managing patients who have recovered from Covid-19 for care at home. However, the procedure is not meant to be seen as preventive or as a curative therapy. “The recovery period is likely to be longer for patients who suffered from more severe form of the disease and those with pre-existing illness,” it said. At individual level, the protocol suggested drinking adequate amount of warm water (if not contra-indicated), taking immunity promoting AYUSH medicine prescribed by a qualified practitioner of AYUSH and if health permits then regular household work to be done. It advised people to resume professional work in a graded manner.   The key to a more settled Sino-Indian relationship is a greater acceptance by both countries of multipolarity and mutuality, building on a larger foundation of global rebalancing, says External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. In his recently-released book "The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World", he also says that India is not the only country focused on coming to terms with China as the entire world is doing so, each nation refashioning its terms of engagement in its own way. The external affairs minister, however, had written this book before the military standoff in eastern Ladakh began in early May. "If there is a common approach, it is of them simultaneously strengthening capacities internally, assessing the external landscape and seeking understandings with China. In this overall exercise, India will occupy a special place by virtue of its size, location, potential, history and culture," Jaishankar writes. He says this book, published by HarperCollins India, was developed in the course of the last two years through a series of events and lectures given at think tanks, conferences or business forums form its core. According to Jaishankar, much has changed, mostly to India's disadvantage, since November 1950, when Sardar Patel and Jawaharlal Nehru had a famous exchange of views on how to approach China.   Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-amit-shah-admitted-to-aiims-rjd-leader-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-no-more-886983.html
13-09-2020||National||Participation in digital health ecosystem shall be optional: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said participation in the digital health ecosystem shall be totally optional and shall never be made mandatory for individuals, while asserting that it is a "lie that those who do not become part of the system shall not be allowed to access the hospitals". He said this while answering questions from his social media followers on the "Sunday Samvad" platform. Vardhan said the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) is one of the most ambitious programmes of the government and is set to catapult the country to the position of a global leader in the field of digital health, according to a statement issued by the Union health ministry. "However, there are vested interests that do not want India to succeed and are spearheading a disinformation campaign against the NDHM," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Allaying fears, the minister clarified that it is an utter lie that those who do not become part of the system shall not be allowed to access the hospitals, the statement said. "Those persons or institutions who are not a part of this system shall continue to enjoy access to the healthcare system in exactly the same manner as they are doing now. "Participation in the digital health ecosystem shall be totally optional and shall never be made mandatory for individuals," he underscored. The ambitious NDHM programme was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Independence Day speech on August 15. According to the programme, everyone enrolled for the mission will get a health ID that will ease access to medical services. The National Health Authority (NHA), the apex agency responsible for the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY), has been given the mandate by the government to design, build, roll out and implement the NDHM in the country. The health ID will contain information about medical data, prescriptions and diagnostic reports and summaries of previous discharges from hospitals for ailments. The mission is expected to bring efficiency and transparency in healthcare services in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/participation-in-digital-health-ecosystem-shall-be-optional-harsh-vardhan-887002.html
13-09-2020||National||77-year-old woman moves Supreme Court against Bar Council of India age criterion to study law||Keen to study law, a 77-year-old woman has approached the Supreme Court challenging the 2016 Bar Council of India rules prescribing an upper age limit of 30 for admission to LLB course. Having been denied admission, Rajkumari Tyagi, a resident of Sahibabad in Uttar Pradesh, filed a plea to intervene in a pending case on the BCI rules. The BCI rules prescribed an upper age limit of 20 years for 5-year and 30 years for a three-year LLB course.  The top court had on March 3, 2017 stayed the BCI notification issued on September 17, 2016 in a case of Rishabh Duggal. The plea said that Tyagi developed an interest in law after she was left alone to defend the estate of her late husband. It claimed that the fresh rules violated Articles 14 (equality before the law), 19(1)(g) (Right to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) and 21 (Protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. She asked the court to declare that she has a fundamental right to pursue legal education in a college or institution of her choice and that the right is protected under Article 21 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/77-year-old-woman-moves-supreme-court-against-bar-council-of-india-age-criterion-to-study-law-887004.html
13-09-2020||National||Writer Chetan Bhagat asks Congress MP Shashi Tharoor to praise him using 'big words'; Tharoor doesn't disappoint||When writer Chetan Bhagat asked Congress MP and author Shashi Tharoor to praise him using 'some big words' on Sunday afternoon, he surely was not left disappointed.  Tharoor had responded to Bhagat on microblogging site Twitter for one of his articles by saying, "Superb piece by @chetan_bhagat on all that ails our country & what we should do about it. Chetan’s great virtue is the simplicity and directness of his writing. His message is clear & I hope his fans in the government act on it." In reply to Tharoor's tweet, Bhagat responded saying "Ok I still can’t get over this. The @ShashiTharoor  has praised @chetanbhagat. I am floating. Just one request sir, next time can you use some big words to praise me, like ones that only you can do. Superb is nice but a big one would really make my day!" Taking heed of Bhagat's request, pat came a classic Tharoor response. "Sure, @chetan_bhagat! It’s clear you are not sesquipedalian nor given to rodomontade. Your ideas are unembellished with tortuous convolutions & expressed without ostentation. I appreciate the limpid perspicacity of today’s column," tweeted the MP.  The verbose Tharoor reply made an impressed Bhagat say, "Am framing this."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/writer-chetan-bhagat-asks-congress-mp-shashi-tharoor-to-praise-him-using-big-words-tharoor-doesnt-disappoint-887012.html
13-09-2020||National||Expect Covid-19 vaccine by early next year, will take first shot if any trust deficit: Harsh Vardhan||A Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be available by early next year and the government is considering its emergency authorisation for high-risk settings, Union Minister Harsh Vardhan Sunday said, asserting he will take the first dosage if there is any concern over its safety. According to a Health Ministry statement, he said while no date has been fixed for the launch of a vaccine, it may be ready by the first quarter of 2021, and made available first to those who need it the most, irrespective of their paying capacity, The minister made these remarks during interaction with his social media followers on the ‘Sunday Samvad’ platform. He covered a multitude of queries concerning not only the current Covid-19 situation, but also the government's approach to it, the changes expected in the post Covid world and the steps taken by the Modi dispensation. Vardhan stated the government is taking full precautions in human trials of vaccines and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 under the Chairmanship of Dr V K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog, is drawing up a detailed strategy on how to immunize the majority of the population. “Issues like vaccine security, cost, equity, cold-chain requirements, production timelines etc., are also been discussed intensely," he stated. Further, he said the government is considering emergency authorization of Covid-19 vaccination especially for senior citizens and people working in high-risk settings. “This shall be done after a consensus has been reached," he was quoted as saying the statement. To allay any fear regarding the safety aspect of vaccines, he said he would be happy to take the first dosage “if people have a trust deficit”. On vaccine candidates and their development in the country, he said India is actively partnering with Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and trials of several vaccines at different phases are underway at laboratories (private or public) and hospitals. The Department of Biotechnology and the Indian Council of Medical Research have been proactive in responding to the emerging situation, he said. It is hoped that a consensus will emerge in the next few months over the desired level of protective herd immunity in any community, he said. The minister, however, also noted that a safe and effective vaccine will help in establishing immunity to Covid-19 at a much faster pace as compared to the natural infection, the statement said. Vardhan highlighted how the pandemic became a turning point for Indian manufacturing. “From the time when there were no indigenous manufacturers of PPEs with requisite standards, now there are nearly 110 indigenous manufacturers of PPE with requisite standards. The country is in a position to not only meet its own demands but also export to help out fellow nations”, Vardhan said. Vardhan said the government has directed all states and UTs to fix a reasonable price for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals for making it affordable for the common man. Free coverage up to Rs 5 lakhs for Covid-19 patients for those who are eligible under the Ayushman Bharat PMJAY package was announced, the statement said. He added that the Central government has also asked states and UTs to proactively engage with the private sector health providers and consider pooling in public and private healthcare facilities, as this will help in providing prompt, good quality and reasonable health care to Covid-19 patients. He has himself appealed to the private hospitals to refrain from overcharging Covid patients, the statement stated. The minister said measures have been taken to ensure accessibility and affordability of all drugs and other therapeutics to all, irrespective of their paying capacities. The government has taken cognisance of reports of alleged black-marketing of drugs like Remdesivir and has asked the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to take suitable action along with their state counterparts. Vardhan stated the government is seized of the evolving nature of the infection and emerging evidence of the systemic health complications in those who have been infected. AIIMS and other research institutions have been asked to undertake research to study the long-term impact of Covid-19, he stressed. The ICMR is establishing a National Clinical Registry on Covid-19 that will provide insights into clinical course of Covid-19 disease, its spectrum and outcome of patients. Expert group consultations are already going on to review the emerging evidence and generate own data on organ system specific (respiratory system, renal system, cardiovascular and gastro-intestinal) sequela of Covid-19, he stated. On the recently-launched National Digital Health Mission, he said it is one of the most ambitious missions of the government and is set to catapult India as a global leader in the field of digital health. "However, there are vested interests that do not want India to succeed and are spearheading a disinformation campaign against NDHM," he said. He said it is an “utter lie” that those who do not become part of this system shall not be allowed to access hospitals. “Those persons or institutions who are not a part of this system shall continue to enjoy access to the healthcare system in exactly the same manner as they are doing now. Participation in the digital health ecosystem shall be totally optional and shall never be made mandatory for individuals," he underscored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expect-covid-19-vaccine-by-early-next-year-will-take-first-shot-if-any-trust-deficit-harsh-vardhan-887014.html
13-09-2020||National||Pakistan using underground tunnels to push terrorists, drones to drop arms: J&K DGP||Pakistan is using cross-border underground tunnels to push terrorists into India and drones to drop weapons for them, the chief of Jammu and Kashmir police said Sunday. Director General of Police Dilbag Singh, however, said the anti-infiltration grid is active and anti-tunnelling operations are underway to scuttle "nefarious designs". "Digging of tunnels beneath the IB is part of the nefarious designs of Pakistan to facilitate infiltration of terrorists into this side to step up terrorism," Singh told reporters in Samba district after inspecting the recently discovered 170-metre tunnel at Galar village along the IB. The tunnel with a depth of 20-25 feet and originating from Pakistan was found by a BSF team near the border-fencing on August 28. "I saw this huge tunnel which is almost similar to the one detected in Chanyari in 2013-14. After the Nagrota encounter, we had received specific inputs that infiltration had taken place through a tunnel and was searching for it," the DGP said. Three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists were killed in the encounter in Nagrota in January this year. "The investigation is on but the ground indicators suggest that the tunnel was used by Pakistan in the past to push infiltrators," he said but did not rule out the possibility of more such tunnels. He said BSF and police personnel are searching the area for any other tunnel. On the recent recovery of sophisticated weapons, including an M-16 rifle, from a Kashmir-bound truck near Qazigund, he said the investigation is going on and it is believed that the arms were airdropped using drones in Samba sector. Two overground workers of JeM, who were transporting the weapons in a truck, have identified the place in Samba from where they picked up the consignment for delivery to terrorists active in south Kashmir, officials said. Asked about the possibility of presence of overground workers of terrorists in Jammu, Singh said the region has always been on the radar of Pakistan and it is evident from suicide attacks on military installations in Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts over the years. "We have made adequate deployment and are taking all necessary precautions to frustrate the designs of Pakistan both along the border and in the hinterland," he said. Officials said the DGP reviewed the overall security situation, especially along the IB, in the district during his visit and was also briefed by senior police and BSF officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-using-underground-tunnels-to-push-terrorists-drones-to-drop-arms-jk-dgp-887026.html
13-09-2020||National||Media coverage in Sushant Singh Rajput case opens up a debate on role of press||The death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and subsequent events that played out in media have opened a debate on the role of the press, particularly 24x7 news channels in cases under investigation and pending trial before the court.  Media, which derived its right from the Constitution, enjoyed an exalted status of the fourth pillar in our democracy. However, it can't ignore the fact that its freedom can't be unbridled to broadcast defamatory materials, marked with innuendos, half-truths and irresponsible vilification. This is intended to check violation of the right of accused of fair trial and to avoid any bid to prejudice the court's power of administration of justice. It was seen that lack of statutory body particularly in case of electronic media exacerbated the situation, marred by irresponsible coverage aimed at sensationalism and scandalising events. The News Broadcasting Standards Authority failed to address the concerns raised time and again in numerous cases. About 61 years ago in Express Newspapers Vs Union of India (1959), the Supreme Court exhaustively dealt with freedom of the press and asked it to be restrained in its coverage. It said like other freedoms, press freedom can also suffer reasonable restrictions.  In case of Manu Sharma (Jessica Lal murder case) (2010), the top court has said there is a danger of serious risk of prejudice if the media exercised unrestricted and unregulated freedom such that it published photographs of the suspects or the accused before the identification parades or if the media published statements which outrightly hold the suspect or the accused guilty even before such an order has been passed by the court. In R K Anand case (2009), the court said media should perform the acts of journalism and not as a special agency for the court. In Harijai Vs Vijay Kumar (1996), the Supreme Court said the press or journalists enjoyed no special right of freedom of expression and the guarantee of this freedom was the same as available to every citizen. The press does not enjoy any special privilege or immunity from the law. It is important to note that the right to free speech in the United States is absolute and no restraint order against publication is possible unless there is a clear danger to the right itself. However, the position in India is different. The right to free speech is not absolute as in the US. But it is conditional and restricted by Article 19(2) (reasonable restrictions) of the Constitution. The Law Commission, in its 200th report in 2006 on 'trial by media, free speech and fair trial', said the freedom of the media not being absolute, media persons connected with the print and electronic media have to be equipped with sufficient inputs as to the width of the right under Art 19(1)(a) and about what is not permitted to be published under Art 19(2).  "Aspects of constitutional law, human rights, protection of life and liberty, law relating to defamation and Contempt of Court are important from the media point of view. It is necessary that the syllabus in Journalism should cover the various aspects of law. It is also necessary to have Diploma and Degree Course in Journalism and the Law for the media persons,” it said. In case of Sahara India Real Estate Corpn Ltd Vs SEBI, (2012), the Constitution bench propounded the concept of postponement of publication or publicity in cases, having a real and substantial risk of prejudice to the proper administration of justice or to the fairness of a trial, in balancing of the rights of the press and public interest. However, this was rarely applied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-coverage-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-opens-up-a-debate-on-role-of-press-887031.html
13-09-2020||National||7 big states urge to ensure adequate oxygen availability in all healthcare facilities||The Centre on Sunday urged Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh to ensure adequate oxygen availability in all healthcare facilities and unrestricted intra- and inter-state movement of oxygen cylinders because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Union Health Ministry held a virtual meeting where Union Health Secretary, Secretary DPIIT and Secretary Pharmaceuticals participated. State Health Secretaries and Industries Secretaries of the seven states also participated in the meeting and discussed ways to ensure adequate oxygen availability in all healthcare facilities and unrestricted intra- and inter-state movement of oxygen, the statement stated. Union Minister for Commerce and Industry and Railways Piyush Goyal addressed them. The states were advised to ensure facility wise/hospital wise oxygen inventory management and advance planning for replenishment so that there are no stockout, the health ministry said in a statement. They were urged to ensure that no restriction is imposed on the movement of medical oxygen between states and UTs, and provision of “green corridor” for Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) Tankers within the cities. Hospitals and institutions have long-term tender/contract agreement for supply of oxygen with manufacturers, which need to be honoured. Hence, states must not impose restrictions on free movement of oxygen, the statement underlined. Timely payment of dues to the manufacturers and suppliers to maintain an uninterrupted supply of oxygen was stressed. States were urged to improve power supply infrastructure and ensure uninterrupted supply to Oxygen Manufacturing Units, ensure proper disinfection of oxygen cylinders as per protocols while sending cylinders to fillers of oxygen. They were also urged to ensure effective coordination with steel plants for oxygen procurement since steel plants provide approx. 550 MT/day oxygen in addition to oxygen manufacturers who provide 6,400 MT/day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-big-states-urge-to-ensure-adequate-oxygen-availability-in-all-healthcare-facilities-887033.html
13-09-2020||National||Power engineers' body writes to MPs against Electricity Amendment Bill||A national power engineers’ organisation has urged all political parties to block the passage of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020 in Parliament in the current, according to an officer-bearer of the UP unit of the body. V P Singh, president of the UP Rajya Vidyut Abhiyant Sangh, here on Sunday said their national body All-India Power Engineers’ Federation has written to all MPs of both houses of Parliament, urging them to press for sending the Bill to the standing committee on energy. “For a detailed discussion with stakeholders, the ministry of power may be requested to circulate the copy of the draft bill with amendments,” said V P Singh, referring to the letter. He said since objections raised by several states have not been incorporated in the draft Bill, the only course left is to block its passage in the present form. A detailed discussion on it has become necessary since chief ministers of 13 states have already written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union power minister, expressing their reservations on it, he said. V P Singh said through a letter by AIPEF chairman Shailendra Dubey to all MPs, the gravity of the Bill has been presented. He said though the Centre intends to introduce the Bill in the monsoon session of Parliament, a press statement of the Minister of Power says several key issues like the direct benefit transfer (DBT) are still under discussion and yet to be finalised. Quoting from the letter to the MPs, Prabhat Singh, general secretary of the UP power engineers’ body, said according to the Constitution, electricity is a concurrent subject with equal rights on legislative matters to states and the Centre. However, the legislation is an attempt by the Union government to impose its will, he said. The letter says the worst part of the Bill is a proposal to eliminate subsidy on tariffs, paving a way for unaffordable rates for domestic users and farmers, Prabhat Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-engineers-body-writes-to-mps-against-electricity-amendment-bill-887038.html
13-09-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh, Telangana officials to meet over interstate bus services stand-off||Heads of the State Road Transport Corporations of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana will meet in Hyderabad on Tuesday to thrash out contentious issues that have been hindering the resumption of interstate bus services despite the lifting of Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. Andhra Pradesh has already expressed willingness to cut down its services while asking Telangana to increase its operations so as to bring parity.  In the first phase, AP said it would operate only 72,000 route kilometres and requested Telangana also do the same so that people have access to public transportation. However, Telangana is said to be insisting on signing an interstate agreement first before resuming the services. Telangana also wrote a letter to the APSRTC saying it had no plans to either to purchase new buses or run additional services (to AP). As such, it only insisted that AP reduce its own services to curtail the route kilometres. The main demand from Telangana is that buses be operated on a route-wise, kilometre-wise parity basis. "We are accepting (to bring in) parity but there is a demand from the public (for bus services). Hence we asked them to increase their services while offering to reduce our services to bring parity," Principal Secretary (Transport) M T Krishna Babu, who also holds additional charge as Managing Director of APSRTC, said on Sunday. He pointed out that any interstate agreement for running bus services would be on parity basis only. AP has no objection even if Telangana operates three lakh route kilometres. "We too will run the same. But if they are not ready to increase the services and also want us to cut ours, it is the people who suffer. Private operators will take advantage," the Principal Secretary pointed out. "So far we had two rounds of talks at the executive directors' level and on Tuesday we, the MDs, will be meeting. We will try to reach an amicable solution acceptable to both. We will do our best," Krishna Babu said. He noted that there was public demand and the huge requirement for bus services. "The private operators are naturally taking advantage of the current situation. At least 750 private buses are in operation between AP and Telangana, mainly in the Vijayawada-Hyderabad sector. Most of them are running on court orders. If we cut our operations by 1.1 lakh, as being demanded by Telangana, it could add some 300-400 private buses. That will not be beneficial to either government," Krishna Babu pointed out. Referring to agreements with other states, the principal secretary said they were done with Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. While services to Karnataka were running, Tamil Nadu did not give permission for long-distance services citing a large number of Covid-19 cases. "They are asking us to wait," Krishna Babu said. Another neighbouring state Odisha also did not permit interstate services yet, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-telangana-officials-to-meet-over-interstate-bus-services-stand-off-887043.html
13-09-2020||National||Parliament Monsoon Session: Opposition to target 3 agriculture Ordinances||For the upcoming Monsoon Session, Congress-led Opposition on Sunday drew the red lines for the government, declaring that it would fight tooth and nail against the three agriculture-related Ordinances and another to bring state cooperative banks under the supervision of RBI. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said two Ordinances were related to Agri-marketing reforms and another one amending the Essential Commodities Act that removes commodities such as cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onions and potatoes from the ambit of the law. “We have discussed with different political parties, we are opposed to the three Agri ordinances and to the Banking Regulation Act Ordinance,” Ramesh told reporters here. He said the aim of the opposition parties was to have the four ordinances referred to a select committee for further examination. Opposition parties are also seeking a discussion on the Chinese transgressions in Ladakh, the economic slowdown and rising unemployment. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the final decision on the discussion on the standoff with China would be taken on Tuesday when the government has plans to brief floor leaders about the situation. The Opposition also strongly raised its objections to the government decision to scrap the MP Local Area Development Fund for two years citing exigencies due to the Covid-19 pandemic and setting up of the PM-CARES fund. “We would also raise questions on the proposed expenditure on the Central Vista re-development project at a cost of Rs 25,000 crore at a time when the economy was in disarray,” Ramesh said. Ahead of the Monsoon Session, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu held meetings of the Business Advisory Committee to discuss the agenda for the session. On Monday, Health Minister Harshvardhan is scheduled to make a statement on the Covid-19 pandemic in both the Houses of Parliament. The Rajya Sabha is scheduled to elect its Deputy Chairman when it meets on Monday afternoon. NDA candidate Harivansh is in the fray against RJD leader Manoj Jha, the joint opposition nominee for the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-monsoon-session-opposition-to-target-3-agriculture-ordinances-887045.html
13-09-2020||National||Despite Covid-19, Andhra Pradesh sees spike in tax revenue||Belying fears of an adverse effect on the economy due to coronavirus-prompted lockdown, Andhra Pradesh saw over Rs 4,000 crore spike in its tax revenue in the first four months of the current financial year compared to the corresponding period last year. Accounted figures of the state released by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) showed that Andhra Pradesh earned a tax revenue of Rs 19,114.73 crore from April to July in 2020-21 compared to Rs 15,017.77 crore during the same period a year ago. Citing possible fall in revenues due to Covid-19 lockdown, the state government has enhanced various taxes, including on liquor and petrol and diesel, to mop up additional annual revenue of over Rs 15,300 crore. On top of these, the government mobilised Rs 39,946 crore through borrowing from various sources in the first four months of the fiscal, the CAG data said. The state also received Rs 10,554.21 crore as grants-in-aid and other contributions from the Central government till July as against just Rs 5,164 crore in the corresponding period last year. The non-tax revenue was, however, slightly lower at Rs 787.14 crore during April-July this year compared to Rs 971.75 crore last year, the CAG data showed. While the state borrowed Rs 13,994.90 crore during April-July in 2019-20, the figure touched Rs 39,946.30 crore this year. The state actually set a target of Rs 48,295.58 crore for borrowing during 2020-21 but it has exhausted 82.71 per cent of the limit in the first four months itself. The borrowed money was spent on various freebie schemes being implemented by the state government, official sources said. The interest payment bill itself was Rs 5,608.59 crore this year as against Rs 263.14 crore last year. The state finance department officials, however, disputed the CAGs figure on borrowing. "We borrowed heavily, yes, but Rs 40,000 crore is not correct. The figure is something around Rs 30,000 crore this year," a bureaucrat in the finance department told PTI. Apart from loans, the state government is banking on enhanced taxes and so far has increased various taxes and rates that could fetch an additional revenue of Rs 15,361 crore. On May 4 and 5, the state enhanced prices of liquor by 25 per cent and 50 per cent in quick succession to net a sum of Rs 13,500 crore during the year. In July, the tax structure on petrol and diesel was revised for garnering Rs 600 crore more in revenue. Last month, the land values in urban areas have been hiked by 10 to 30 per cent to realise an additional Rs 800 crore. The profession tax was increased for an additional income of Rs 161 crore and on September 12, the tax on natural gas was enhanced by 10 per cent to net Rs 300 crore more in revenue. Now, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has given his nod for increasing the transport tax rates and user charges on various municipal services in urban local bodies, both of which are expected to rake in additional Rs 2,400 crore per annum. Formal orders on this are expected in a few days, official sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-covid-19-andhra-pradesh-sees-spike-in-tax-revenue-887047.html
13-09-2020||National||Nearly 90% candidates appear for NEET amid strict Covid-19 precautions||Nearly 90 per cent candidates appeared in the medical entrance exam NEET held at over 3,800 centres across the country on Sunday amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) began at 2 PM, but entry to centres started at 11 AM. Students were allotted different slots for staggered movement to ensure social distancing. As many as 15.97 lakh candidates had registered for NEET, which was earlier postponed twice in view of the pandemic. Based on random sampling, the National Testing Agency (NTA) said that the attendance for the exam was between 85-90 per cent. However, the official attendance figures were not available yet. The attendance in 2019 was 92.9 per cent. The candidates who missed the exams after testing positive for Covid-19 will get another opportunity to sit for the test, the date for which will be announced later. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' wished luck to the candidates appearing for the exam and assured that arrangements were in place for their safety. "NTA informed me that around 85-90 per cent students appeared in NEET exam. I sincerely thank all chief ministers and NTA for proper arrangements made to facilitate student participation. NEET participation reflects the tenacity and grit of young," he tweeted. From this year the admissions to MBBS course in the 13 All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER), Puducherry will also be made through NEET following the amendment in National Medical Commission Act, 2019 passed by Parliament last year. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been demanding the exam be postponed following a spike in coronavirus cases, wished students while expressing his sympathies with those who could not take it due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods. "My best wishes to the students appearing for NEET exam and my sympathies to those who couldn't take it due to the Covid pandemic and floods. Wish Modi ji was as concerned about JEE-NEET aspirants and students as he is about his crony capitalist friends," he said on Twitter. The test was offered in 11 languages - English, Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Marathi, Odia, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu this year. Based on the initial report, more than 77 per cent aspirants took the test in English, around 12 per cent in Hindi and 11 per cent in other languages. Till Saturday 5 PM, more than 15 lakh of the 15.97 lakh registered candidates downloaded their admit cards. Free transportation and accommodation were announced by various state governments, including West Bengal that ran a special metro service for the candidates. The exam has been postponed twice due to the pandemic and the government decided to go ahead with it, despite opposition by a section, to mitigate any further academic loss. The National Testing Agency (NTA) has set in place strict standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of the pandemic, including measures like reducing the number of candidates per room from the earlier 24 to 12. The NTA had also increased the number of centres from 2,546 in 2019 to 3,862 this year to ensure crowd management and staggered entry and exit protocols. Unlike the engineering entrance (JEE), NEET-UG, the medical admission test, is a pen and paper exam and held once a year. Accordingly, the NTA has changed centres for a few candidates this week in compliance with social distancing norms and Covid restrictions. However, the city of the exam centre hasn’t been changed for any candidate. The centres which had more than 900 candidates are distributed into two centres. In many places NTA also arranged buses and private vehicles to transfer candidates who arrived at the centres assigned to them earlier instead of the changed one. While all the candidates were asked to go to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, once they entered the centre, they were asked to use the three-ply masks provided by the examination authority. The NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26 and then scheduled for September 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-90-candidates-appear-for-neet-amid-strict-covid-19-precautions-887050.html
13-09-2020||National||Goa extends Rs 50 lakh insurance cover to health workers||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh has been extended to all health workers who are at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19. The insurance cover is provided under the central government's flagship Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. "Insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh has been extended to all health workers in Goa," Sawant tweeted. The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana provides an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per health worker in case of loss of life due to Covid-19 or accidental loss of life on account of coronavirus-related duties, he said. The scheme is funded through the National Disaster Response Fund, operated by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation workers and a few others working in hospitals under the central and state governments will be covered under the insurance scheme, the Union government earlier said. All government health centres, wellness centres and hospitals of the Centre, as well as states, would be covered under this scheme, it said. Private hospital staff treating Covid-19 patients will also be covered under the scheme, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-extends-rs-50-lakh-insurance-cover-to-health-workers-887062.html
13-09-2020||National||13 states submit borrowing option to Centre to fund GST shortfall||As many as 13 states ruled by the BJP and parties that have supported it on various issues have submitted their borrowing options to the Centre to meet the GST revenue shortfall. These 13 states include Bihar, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Meghalaya. Six more states - Goa, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram and Himachal Pradesh - will be giving their option in a day or two, finance ministry sources said. In the current fiscal, the states are staring at a staggering Rs 2.35 lakh crore Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue shortfall. Of this, as per the Centre's calculation, about Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST implementation and rest Rs 1.38 lakh crore is the impact of Covid-19 on states' revenues. The Centre late last month gave two options to the states to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from market and has also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. Of the 13 states, 12 have preferred to opt for borrowing from the special window facilitated by the RBI. These states are AP, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Sikkim,Tripura, UP, Uttarakhand and Odisha. Only Manipur has so far opted for borrowing from the market. However, the non-BJP ruled states are at loggerheads with the Centre over the issue of funding the shortfall. Chief Ministers of six non-BJP ruled states of West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu have written to the Centre opposing the options which require states to borrow to meet shortfall. Sources said a few states instead of expressing their option preference have submitted their views to the Chairperson of the GST Council and are yet to decide on the options. The GST Council in its 41st meeting on August 27, 2020, had given two borrowing options to its member states to enable them to meet their compensation shortfall at “single rate” of interest at the RBI's single window facilitated by the Finance Ministry. Sources said the Council also discussed that in the current economic scenario it may not be possible to increase tax rates or do rate rationalisation to meet up the compensation shortfall. However, borrowing could be an option to address this challenge. The central government is committed to helping the states to the utmost to meet the compensation shortfall through borrowing, they mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-states-submit-borrowing-option-to-centre-to-fund-gst-shortfall-887070.html
13-09-2020||National||Govt plans to leverage power for cooking: R K Singh||The government is mulling to leverage power for cooking in a big way to help the poor, Power Minister R K Singh said on Sunday. The minister said that power will provide poor strata of the society a cheaper option for their day to day requirement, move the nation towards self-reliance and make it independent from imports (petroleum), according to a power ministry statement. The minister rolled out the vision for the government while inaugurating community facilities developed by NTPC at Nabinagar, Barh and Barauni for the convenience of NTPC employees and people of Bihar. "Electricity is the future of India and most of its infrastructure will be powered by electricity," the minister said. The government has envisaged Power Foundation to be formed at the Ministry’s level and objectives include cooking to completely run on electricity, which will allow the Indian economy to be self-reliant and give us independence from imports. This government is for the poor and this move will help the poor strata of the society by giving them access to the cheaper medium of cooking, Singh has said. The minister added that the delivery of various other pro-poor measures like PM Awas Yojna and Har Ghar Bijlee, were accelerated during the lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Singh also lauded various initiatives of NTPC that show the power producer’s unflinching commitment to the nation and its economic growth. "Questions have always been raised on the performance of PSUs, but looking at the performance of NTPC and other Power PSUs, it is clear that they are even better than the private players and have consistently made progress and profit. I thank NTPC for being a partner in the progress for the state of Bihar as well as other states towards nation-building," he added. Speaking during the inauguration function, NTPC CMD Gurdeep Singh said, "NTPC has 3,800 MW of project under construction in Bihar and will keep on contributing to the progress of the state." The construction of new facilities and infrastructure is aimed at providing necessary services to the workers and associates of NTPC and improve the living standard for the people around plant area in the state of Bihar. With a total installed capacity of 62.9 GW, NTPC Group has 70 power stations comprising 24 coal, seven combined cycle gas/liquid fuel, one hydro, 13 renewables along with 25 subsidiary & JV power stations. The group has over 20 GW of capacity under construction, of which 5GW comprises of renewable energy. Singh also laid foundation stone for construction of LILO (line in line out) of Kishenganj-Darbhanga 400kV Transmission Line at Saharsa in Bihar. The project will improve power scenario of the Saharsa along with Supaul, Khagaria and Begusarai districts. The execution agency for the Rs 100-crore project is POWERGRID Ltd, a central PSU under the Ministry of Power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-plans-to-leverage-power-for-cooking-r-k-singh-887073.html
13-09-2020||National||Bengaluru youth, who helped many join ISIS, killed in Syria: Report||Among the Bengaluru youths who travelled to Syria in 2013 and 2014 to join ISIS, is Abdur Rahman, an opthalmologist, who confirmed the death of Masood. Rahman was arrested by NIA in connection with an Islamic State Khorasan Province case. Probes have revealed that Masood was a key contact in Syria for those from Bengaluru who wanted to join ISIS in Syria and Iraq, said the report. Masood is learnt to have left behind his parents, wife and two young children to join the terror outfit. NIA, other central and state agencies who questioned Rahman and a fellow doctor, also from Bengaluru have uncovered that the two of them had met Faiz Masood at Atme, a Syrian border town when they crossed over from a Turkey refugee camp towards the end of 2013. Masood was reportedly killed in an attack on a camp. Both Rahman and the other fellow doctor were 22-year-old medical students at the time. The two returned to India within a few days of making it to Syria seeking financial help from their parents and went on to become doctors, said the report. Another person, a 24-year-old aeronautical engineer told investigators that he had sought help from Masood to join ISIS. He later suffered an injury to his arm and returned to India soon after. He, however, stayed in Syria for much longer than the two doctors, revealed the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-youth-who-helped-many-join-isis-killed-in-syria-report-887074.html
13-09-2020||National||Coronavirus genomes in India have 5.39% mutation similarity with 72 nations: Study||Coronavirus genomes in India have 5.39 per cent mutation similarity with 72 nations, found a study by a group of researchers trying to identify the genetic variability and potential molecular targets in the virus and humans to find the best possible answer for combating Covid-19. Mutations in an organism's genetic material are natural 'errors' in the cell replication process that may give the virus new 'powers' of survival, infectivity, and virulence. It can affect the ability of vaccines and drugs to bind the virus, or to create a specific immune response against it. The study also reveals that the US, the UK and India are the top three nations with a geometric mean of 3.27 per cent, 3.59 per cent, and 5.39 per cent, respectively, of mutation similarity score with other 72 countries. Indrajit Saha, an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering of National Institute of Technical Teachers' Training and Research, Kolkata, and his team have also developed a web-based Covid-Predictor to predict the sequence of viruses online on the basis of machine learning. The scientists are on track to identify the number of virus strains using single nucleotide polymorphism, spot the potential target proteins of the virus and human host based on protein-protein interactions, recognise candidate of synthetic vaccines based on conserved genomic regions that are highly immunogenic and antigenic and detect the virus miRNAs that are also involved in regulating human mRNA. They analysed 566 Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomes separately to find the genetic variability in terms of point mutation and single nucleotide polymorphism. The scientists have mainly found that 57 out of 64 SNPs are present in six coding regions of Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomes, and all are nonsynonymous in nature. This work has already been published in Infection, Genetics, and Evolution journal. They have extended this research for more than 10,000 sequences around the globe and found 20,260, 18,997, and 3514 unique mutation points globally, including India, excluding India and only for India, respectively with the similarity score as mentioned above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-genomes-in-india-have-539-mutation-similarity-with-72-nations-study-887077.html
13-09-2020||National||RSS volunteers should work towards making employment available to labourers: Bhagwat||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Sunday that volunteers of the organisation should work towards making employment available to labourers and also raise awareness among the people about protecting the environment. On the first day of his two-day visit to Lucknow, Bhagwat with the volunteers of the RSS' Awadh unit and was informed about various work done by them so far during the Covid-19 pandemic, the unit's co-incharge of publicity Diwakar Awasthi said. "A large 'sajjan shakti' (power of good people) has emerged in the society. The volunteers of the Sangh should contact such 'sajjan shakti', and work to make employment available to labourers. "Work should be done, to induce a feeling of self-reliance among the labourers in urban areas and farmers in rural areas," the RSS chief said. He also said that in the days to come the organisation will spread awareness among the society on conservation of trees, wastage of water and less usage of plastic items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-volunteers-should-work-towards-making-employment-available-to-labourers-bhagwat-887092.html
13-09-2020||National||India considers emergency authorisation of vaccine as Covid-19 cases surge||India said on Sunday it was considering granting an emergency authorisation for a Covid-19 vaccine, particularly for the elderly and people in high-risk workplaces, as the country's number of reported infections passed 4.75 million. India, which has consistently reported over 1,000 Covid-19 deaths daily this month, has now recorded 78,586 fatalities from the disease. It lags only the United States globally in overall number of infections, but it has been adding more daily cases than the United States since mid-August. "India is considering emergency authorisation of a Covid-19 vaccination," said Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. "If there is a consensus we may go ahead with it, especially in the case of senior citizens and people working in high-risk settings." Vardhan said the timeline on Phase III trials could be shortened by giving emergency authorisation, but stressed no corners would be cut in clinical trials and that a vaccine would only be made available when the government could ensure its safety and efficacy. "A vaccine expert group has been established recently by the government to look into various issues related to the delivery of vaccines to vulnerable populations," The comments came as the Indian health ministry reported 94,372 new Covid-19 cases and 1,114 deaths on Sunday. The government's efforts to kickstart the economy, which saw a 23.9% contraction in the April-June quarter, have been hamstrung by the surge in cases. The western state of Maharashtra, the nation's richest and a key industrial hub, has recorded more than 1.03 million infections. In a briefing on Sunday, the state's chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, urged residents to wear masks, maintain social distancing and avoid crowds, amid growing fatigue over a drawn-out lockdown that has made many people lax about precautions. The state has been easing various restrictions gradually and it recently allowed hotels to operate under certain conditions, though many businesses remain shut. Thackeray said Maharashtra was considering reopening dine-in restaurants and gyms following appeals from business owners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-considers-emergency-authorisation-of-vaccine-as-covid-19-cases-surge-887093.html
13-09-2020||National||20 states report over 10,000 active Covid-19 cases; Delhi sees coronavirus resurgence||Eight months after it began, the Covid-19 pandemic now gallops across the country with 20 states reporting more than 10,000 active cases and a resurgence being seen in Delhi and Mumbai that had witnessed a fall not so long ago. This happens at a time when India stares at one million active and 100,000 daily Covid-19 cases and is on its way to be the world’s number one novel coronavirus affected nation. Out of 9.7 lakh active cases, four big states – Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh account for more than 50% of such cases. The active caseload in another 16 states ranges from 47,000 plus in Tamil Nadu to around 14,500 in Bihar. Even smaller states like Uttarakhand and Tripura are approaching the 10,000 active case mark. Delhi witnessed a resurgence in number within a span of six weeks as the national capital now reports in excess of 4,000 cases on a daily basis after the count dipped to just about 600 in the third week of July.  “It’s not a second wave, but a resurgence of cases in the first wave. In the unlock phase, more and more people have come out without the mask and disobeying social distancing rules. This has led to a rise in Delhi,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. While government hospitals in Delhi have begun to augment their ICU bed capacity, the Arvind Kejriwal government ordered the private hospitals to reserve 80% of their ICU capacity for Covid-19 patients once the occupants are released. “While the good news is that our death rates haven’t been as bad as some of the other countries, but with a population of 1.35 billion people, the absolute numbers are still sobering. And rural India is just beginning to get hit”, tweeted CS Pramesh, director, Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai. Down south in Karnataka, we saw an increase in the mortality rate in the rural districts, C N Manjunath, the state nodal officer for testing, said, describing the situation “worrying.” “The crisis has been heightened by the fact that many rural districts have underdeveloped medical infrastructure incapable of handling a large rise in the number of cases. This is why the fatalities are going up in other districts,” he added. While the Case Fatality Rate is 1.3% in Bengaluru Urban, it is 1.8% in the rest of Karnataka. On Sunday, Bengaluru Urban raced past Mumbai to become the second large metropolis for Covid-19 cases after Delhi. Bangalore Urban now has more than 41,000 active cases as against 30,000 plus in Mumbai. A rise in the Covid-19 number had led to a short supply of oxygen, needed by upwards of 35,000 patients. The Union Health Ministry on Sunday reached out to seven states including Karnataka to ensure adequate availability of the life-saving gas. The states have been asked not to stop the inter-state movement of medical oxygen. Also, green corridors are to be created for quick transport of oxygen. “The celebration in Delhi was early. The real challenge is to protect the rural population while opening up the economy,” said K Srinath Reddy, president, PFHI and a former professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-states-report-over-10000-active-covid-19-cases-delhi-sees-coronavirus-resurgence-887114.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for 'complete medical checkup'||Union Home Minister Amit Shah was admitted to AIIMS on Saturday late night, 12 days after he was discharged from the hospital for post-Covid-19 care. He was taken to AIIMS around 11 PM after he complained of having breathing trouble. In a statement, AIIMS said, "as per the advice given at discharge (August 31), he has now been admitted for complete medical check up before the Parliament Session for 1-2 days. There has been speculation about Shah's health for some time. However, neither the government nor he gave any details regarding his health condition except that he was admitted to the hospital when he contracted the coronavirus last month and later for post Covid-19 care. While discharging him on August 31, AIIMS had said that he had fully recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-admitted-to-aiims-for-complete-medical-checkup-886807.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||RJD leader, MGNREGA architect Raghuvansh Prasad Singh passes away||He was 74. A strong supporter of RJD founder Lalu Prasad, Singh had a fall out with the party a few days back and had shot off his resignation letter from the hospital bed. Lalu Prasad, who is incarcerated in the Ranchi jail, had written back to him rejecting the resignation. Singh had also written a letter to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, which was seen as an attempt to cozy up to the JD(U) ahead of the Bihar assembly elections later this year. A doctorate in mathematics, Singh was linked closely with the farmers’ movement in Bihar and had a keen understanding of rural India, an experience that held him in good stead during his stint as Rural Development Minister in the UPA-I government. Singh was regarded as the brain behind MGNREGA which has stood the test of time in creating employment opportunities in villages across the country. A five-term Lok Sabha member, Singh was pushed to the margins of the RJD after the incarceration of Lalu Prasad and the emergence of Tejashwi Yadav to the forefront of party affairs. Singh contested unsuccessfully from Vaishali parliamentary constituency in 2014 and 2019. “Dear Raghuvansh babu, what have you done. Only the day before yesterday I had said you are going nowhere. And now you have gone so far away. I am speechless. I am sad. You will be remembered a lot,” Lalu Prasad said on Twitter. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh remembered the “mathematician-politician” as a “powerful speaker in Parliament who earned the respect of one and all by his transparent sincerity and integrity”. Ramesh said the MGNREGA was promised by the Congress in its 2004 Lok Sabha manifesto and Singh, as Rural Development Minister, took it forward, giving it final shape and piloting it through the Union Cabinet and Parliament with “great exuberance and skill”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rjd-leader-mgnrega-architect-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-passes-away-886818.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi wishes students appearing for NEET exam||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wished students appearing for the medical entrance exam NEET on Sunday while expressing his sympathies with those who could not take it due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods. He also criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he wished the PM was concerned about the JEE-NEET aspirants. "My best wishes to the students appearing for NEET exam and my sympathies to those who couldn't take it due to the Covid pandemic and floods. "Wish Modi ji was as concerned about JEE-NEET aspirants and students as he is about his crony capitalist friends," he said on Twitter. Gandhi and his Congress party have been demanding postponement of NEET and JEE exams, saying the situation is not conducive for holding these exams due to the pandemic. He has also said holding the exams at such a time is endangering their lives. Over 15 lakh candidates are likely to appear in NEET on Sunday which will be conducted amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which is conducting the exam, said in order to maintain social distancing, it has increased the number of exam centres from originally-planned 2,546 to 3,843, while the number of candidates per room has been reduced from earlier 24 to 12. The crucial National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), which is a pen and paper-based test unlike the engineering entrance exam JEE, has already been deferred twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26, and then to September 13. A total of 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-wishes-students-appearing-for-neet-exam-886853.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi pats Nitish's back for 'sushasan', takes dig at Lalu||Ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday gave Chief Minister Nitish Kumar a pat on his back for ushering in sushasan (good governance) and expressed confidence that the good work will continue under the leadership of the JD(U) chief. Modi dedicated to the nation three petroleum sector projects worth about Rs 900 crore via video conferencing. Without naming the opposition RJD or its leader Lalu Prasad, and the party's ally the Congress, Modi blamed the state's backwardness on a mindset which made them sneer at economic progress and thought lip-service was enough when it came to the betterment of the poor. Bihar has for long been plagued by a peculiar mindset. Road projects were frowned upon and people used to ask what do these have to offer those who walk on foot and do not have vehicles, Modi said in a veiled reference to Prasad, who used to project himself as a luddite in what was viewed as a wily attempt to endear himself to the masses. Such indifference to progress also took its toll on higher education. But the last 15 years have been of sushasan. Infrastructure has improved. New medical and engineering colleges, law institutes and polytechnics have come up. Nitish Kumar has a very important role to play in ensuring that the process continues, he said. The BJP has declared it will contest the assembly polls in Bihar with Kumar as the coalition's chief ministerial face. Referring to the coronavirus pandemic and the large- scale return of migrants that took place during the lockdown, Bihar accounting for a large part of them, Modi said, This crisis has also presented us with opportunities. We can think of new employment generation avenues by setting in motion rapid economic activity. Modi inaugurated the 193 km extension of the LPG pipeline from Durgapur in West Bengal to Banka in Bihar, and two LPG bottling plants in Banka and in East Champaran's Harsiddhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-pats-nitishs-back-for-sushasan-takes-dig-at-lalu-886859.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||Home Minister Amit Shah condoles demise of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday condoled the death of former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and said his dedication towards the welfare of the poor and deprived classes will be remembered forever. Singh died at AIIMS in Delhi on Sunday. बिहार के वरिष्ठ राजनेता रघुवंश बाबू के निधन की सूचना से अत्यंत दुःख हुआ। उनका पूरा जीवन लोहिया जी और कर्पूरी ठाकुर जी के विचारों के प्रति समर्पित रहा। गरीब व वंचित वर्ग के कल्याण के लिए उनका समर्पण सदैव याद किया जायेगा। मैं उनके परिजनों के प्रति संवेदना व्यक्त करता हूँ। ॐ शांति "I am deeply saddened by the death of senior Bihar politician Raghuvansh Babu. His entire life was devoted to the ideas of Lohia ji and Karpoori Thakur ji. "His dedication to the welfare of the poor and deprived class will always be remembered. I express my condolences to his family. Om Shanti," Shah said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/home-minister-amit-shah-condoles-demise-of-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-886863.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||Raghuvansh's death has left deep political void in Bihar, nation: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid a moving tribute to former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, saying his death has left a deep void in Bihar and national politics. Modi described Singh, who died at AIIMS, New Delhi, after prolonged illness, as a grassroots leader with deep understanding of poverty and problems of the poor. He also obliquely referred to "churning" that the departed leader faced in his last days, hinting at his disenchantment with his party the RJD and its leader Lalu Prasad. "An inner 'manthan' (churning) was going on in him during his last days. He remained true to the ideology he believed in..In the recent past, he had been in news. "He was obviously in a state of inner turmoil since it had no longer remained possible for him to be by the side of his old associates. Finally, he gave expression to his feelings through the letters he wrote from the hospital bed, the prime minister said. Modi made the remarks before dedicating to the nation three petroleum projects via video conferencing in Bihar. The Prime Minister recalled his interactions with Singh when the RJD leader was a Union minister and he the chief minister of Gujarat. I had occasions to interact with Raghuvansh babu many times. We used to take part in TV debates long back, putting forth our respective points of view. He used to represent his party while I used to represent the BJP as an office-bearer of the organisation, said the prime minister. "I was worried about his health and often inquired about him," Modi said. The Prime Minister spoke with admiration about Singh's concern for Bihar. बिहार के वरिष्ठ राजनेता रघुवंश बाबू के निधन की सूचना से अत्यंत दुःख हुआ। उनका पूरा जीवन लोहिया जी और कर्पूरी ठाकुर जी के विचारों के प्रति समर्पित रहा। गरीब व वंचित वर्ग के कल्याण के लिए उनका समर्पण सदैव याद किया जायेगा। मैं उनके परिजनों के प्रति संवेदना व्यक्त करता हूँ। ॐ शांति He referred to Singh's letter to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar days before his death where he raised the issue of development of his erstwhile Lok Sabha seat Vaishali. "I will request Nitish Kumar to execute the development projects he wrote about in the letter. Let's together--the state and the Centre--fulfil his wishes," Modi said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raghuvanshs-death-has-left-deep-political-void-in-bihar-nation-pm-modi-886872.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||Raghuvansh will be remembered for role in implementation of MGNREGA: VP Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu condoled the death of former Union minister and veteran politician Raghuvansh Prasad Singh on Sunday, saying he will always be remembered for his role in implementing the rural employment guarantee scheme. Singh died at AIIMS in Delhi on Sunday. The 74-year-old had tested positive for Covid-19 in June and was earlier admitted to AIIMS Patna. The former Union Rural Development Minister was later taken to AIIMS Delhi, where he died due to breathlessness and other complications. "Saddened to learn about the sudden demise of former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. A good parliamentarian and a grassroot level leader, he strove for the upliftment of the poor and rural masses," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. He said Singh will always be remembered for his role in the implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). "My heartfelt condolences to bereaved family members. Om Shanti," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raghuvansh-will-be-remembered-for-role-in-implementation-of-mgnrega-vp-venkaiah-naidu-886877.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||Demise of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh irreparable loss to Indian politics, says Congress||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday paid rich tributes to former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, saying with his demise a strong voice of the village and farmers has been lost. The Congress also termed him as the "beloved son of Bihar" who will be remembered for being the advocate of moral values in politics, and said his demise heralds the end of a chapter in the history of revolution. श्री रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह जी के निधन के साथ ही गाँव व किसान की एक मज़बूत आवाज़ सदा के लिए खो गई है। गाँवों व किसानों के उत्थान के लिए उनकी सेवा और लगन तथा सामाजिक न्याय के लिए उनके संघर्ष को सदा याद रखा जाएगा। "With the demise of Shri Raghuvansh Prasad Singh ji, a strong voice of the village and farmers has been lost forever. His service and dedication for the upliftment of villages and farmers and his struggle for social justice will always be remembered. My heartfelt tributes to him," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.  Rahul has since left for the US along with his mother Sonia Gandhi for her medical check-up. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said his demise is an irreparable loss to Indian politics and he will be remembered for his contribution. "The demise of Shri Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who was a strong voice of the rural areas, farmers and social justice, is an irreparable loss to Indian politics. Raghuvansh ji will always be remembered for his contribution. My heartfelt tribute," she said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress also tweeted, "An advocate of moral values in politics, a strong voice of the underprivileged has turned silent today. Your departure is the end of a chapter in the history of revolution. The Congress family pays its tributes to Bihar's beloved son Shri Raghuvansh Babu." Senior Congress leader and former union minister Jairam Ramesh said he deeply mourns the passing away of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, the mathematician-politician from Bihar who was an outstanding Minister of Rural Development during 2004-09 at a time of UPA-1. Ramesh said while the NAC chaired by Sonia Gandhi gave MGNREGA an initial design, thereafter it was Raghuvansh Prasad Singh who took it forward, giving it final shape and piloting it through the Union Cabinet and Parliament with great exuberance and skill. "He also played a key role in launching new pension schemes for the aged, disabled and widows. He was a powerful speaker in Parliament who earned the respect of one and all by his transparent sincerity and integrity. "As Minister of Rural Development myself, I worked hard to come up to his high standards he had set. I would consult him often and he would treat me with great affection. I salute his accomplishments," Ramesh said while paying tributes to Singh. Singh died at AIIMS in Delhi on Sunday.The 74-year-old had in June tested positive for Covid-19 and was earlier admitted to AIIMS Patna. He was later shifted to AIIMS Delhi and he died around 11 am on Sunday due to breathlessness and other complications||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/demise-of-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-irreparable-loss-to-indian-politics-says-congress-886894.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||‘Criminalising peaceful protests': says CPIM on supplementary Delhi riots charge sheet||The CPI(M) Sunday criticised the government over the reference to its leader Sitaram Yechury and some civil society members in a supplementary charge sheet filed by the Delhi Police which cites statements from some accused to say that they mobilised anti-CAA protestors. "The CPI(M) condemns this obnoxious action by the Delhi Police to further the narrative of its political masters and urges the government to desist from such acts of criminalising peaceful political protests,” the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Politburo said in a statement. The reaction came a day after it was reported that the names of CPI(M) general secretary Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, economist Jayati Ghosh and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand figure in the supplementary charge sheet in the February riots cases, allegedly for "provoking and mobilising" anti-CAA protesters. The Sunday statement by the Politburo said it was "shocked by the brazenness with which the Delhi Police, acting under Home Minister Amit Shah, has tried to implicate prominent political leadership, academics, cultural personalities and activists in connection with the horrific communal violence in North East Delhi in February”. “No condemnation is strong enough for this act of crude partisanship and vengeance,” the statement said. It also alleged that it was clear "the BJP-RSS has gone about portraying Delhi riots being a deep-rooted conspiracy” by anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protesters. “This is in line with the growing pattern of the most blatant abuse of the Police and other central agencies like CBI, NIA, ED to frame prominent opponents and demonise them. “The pattern includes slapping of provisions of draconian NSA, UAPA and Sedition Act to harass and incarcerate those who vigorously oppose such blatant misuse of powers by the government contrary to that as ordained by the Constitution,¨ it said. The CPI(M) also demanded unconditional release of “political prisoners who are incarcerating in cases under trumped up charges”. “The Politburo urges its units all over the country and appeals to all the parties, organisations and individuals who are committed to democracy and values of the Constitution, to protest this dastardly attack on democracy,” the statement said. Delhi Police sources had on Saturday downplayed the entire matter, saying one of accused had disclosed these names in their disclosure statement. The Delhi Police has not filed a charge sheet "against" them, the sources had said. "The disclosure statement has been truthfully recorded as narrated by the accused person. A person is not arraigned as an accused only on the basis of disclosure statement," a police PRO had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/criminalising-peaceful-protests-says-cpim-on-supplementary-delhi-riots-charge-sheet-886909.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||Modi government is hell-bent on destroying our democracy: Sitaram Yechury||The latest supplementary charge sheet in Delhi riots case has triggered a controversy, as it names CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury as well as academicians and activists like Jayati Ghosh, Yogendra Yadav and Apoorvanand. Delhi Police has clarified that none of these people are named as accused and they figure in a disclosure statement by an accused. However, many are not buying this argument and believe it is a precursor to taking action. Yechury spoke to DH's Shemin Joy on this issue. Q. One of the charge sheets on Delhi riots has mentioned you as among the "big leaders" who "provoked and mobilised" crowds during the protests against Citizenship Amendment Act. How do you respond to this? First of all, what is the connection between my address at a peaceful meeting opposing the CAA? It is the stated position of my party that we are opposed to the CAA. Secondly, 56 people have died in the Delhi riots in February. Who is responsible for this? Where are the charge sheets against those people? Thirdly, this is a motivated orchestrated effort to link the anti-CAA protests with the Delhi riots. There is no action against those who gave hate speeches, including Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur and BJP leader Kapil Mishra, which instigated the violence. These are widely documented but no action has been taken. In fact, if there is any cause behind this violence, it is this. Nothing has been done on that. The fourth point is that exercising the right to peaceful protest is the essence of the Indian Constitution. Defending the Constitution, which is what the anti-CAA movement was about, is not only our right, it is also the duty of any political leader. Q. Delhi Police say that you have not been named as accused. How do you respond? How did this charge sheet come into the public domain? Why did the police put this up just days before the convening of the Monsoon Session of Parliament? Delhi Police is brazenly acting under Home Minister Amit Shah to implicate us in connection with the communal violence. Police’s illegitimate, illegal actions are a direct outcome of the politics of BJP’s top leadership. The BJP government is scared of questions in Parliament, in the media and RTI. The Prime Minister cannot hold a press conference or answer RTIs about his private fund or show his degree. They think they can silence political opposition by blatant misuse of State power. We fought the Emergency, we will defeat this too. Q. So, you see a political link to this? Yes, the Delhi Police is working under the directions of Home Minister Amit Shah. It is a political orchestration that the MHA, which means the political leadership in the country, which means the BJP government, is doing. This is an act of crude partisanship and vengeance. The BJP-RSS is scripting its own narrative of organised communal violence. It is clear that the BJP-RSS has gone about to portray Delhi riots being a 'deep-rooted conspiracy' by anti-CAA protesters. Q. You are a vocal critic of the Narendra Modi government, especially on the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the economy. Do you think you have been singled out because of your views? This government has a large number of issues which are inconvenient to them, which I keep raising. What we are raising is in defence of the Indian Constitution and its values. What they are doing is undermining this very Constitution. There are a large number of issues they like to skirt. The Covid-19 pandemic and destruction of the economy is the immediate backdrop on which they want to silence me. They are scared of legitimate peaceful protests by mainstream political parties and are misusing state power to target the Opposition. BJP's illegal intimidation won't stop people from opposing discriminatory laws like CAA. To assert that all Indians are equal irrespective of their religion, caste, colour, creed, region, gender and political affiliations is not only our right but our duty. We will exercise it. Q. Are you suggesting that there is a pattern in this? The charge sheet exposes the current pattern of how the MHA is operating. This is in line with the growing pattern of the most blatant abuse of the police and other central agencies like CBI, NIA, ED to frame prominent opponents and demonise them. Mention the name of somebody in somebody else's charge sheet. Procure an order from the lower court to frame charges against all those who are named and then proceed to register cases against them. This is exactly what they did in the Bhima Koregaon case. All those who are in jail under UAPA in this case, whether it is Varavara Rao, Gautam Navlakha, Sudha Bharadwaj, Anand Teltumbde etc, all were victims of the same pattern. This exactly the same pattern which they used to take action against Harsh Mander. Q. Are you seeing the latest charge sheet as a precursor to preparing the ground to take action against you? Absolutely. This is a political witch-hunt. They want to silence all those who are critical of this government. Q. How do you analyse the Delhi Police investigations into the riots? It is clearly motivated. They are working under the directions of the MHA and BJP. Delhi Police is furthering the narrative of its political masters. You are investigating the riots, which is one-way communal violence. Now, instead of investigating that aspect, you are picking up all those who are involved with anti-CAA protests by orchestrating a connection. They are trying to say that anti-CAA protests are responsible for the riots, which itself is a complete fabrication. Riots were caused by very very obnoxious hate speeches and calls for violence. Hate speech videos by those who instigated violence which led to the death of 56 persons in Delhi are on record. The person who led violent mobs in JNU is also on video. The BJP government and Delhi Police under it, cannot see those because it is hell-bent on destroying our democracy. This is the real 'chehra, charitra, chaal and chintan' of Modi and his BJP. Nothing is being done against those people who gave hate speeches. Instead, all peacefully protesting people are being picked up. Even there, there is communal profiling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-government-is-hell-bent-on-destroying-our-democracy-sitaram-yechury-886939.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||PM Modi’s praise for Nitish Kumar ends NDA rift||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday showered encomium on Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and acknowledged how the JD(U) strongman had put the state on the fast track of development. “Nitish Kumar has played a big role in establishing a new India and new Bihar,” said the PM while doling out more sops for poll-bound Bihar. “Bihar lagged behind in terms of developments for years, be it road connectivity, power or other challenges, but Nitish ji played a big role towards new India and new Bihar,” said Modi. The Prime Minister’s praise for Bihar Chief Minister, who is also the JD(U) president, comes at a time when the internal strife within the NDA is writ large. It is believed that Modi’s whole-hearted support to Nitish will defuse the crisis within the BJP-led alliance and make leaders like LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who questioned Nitish, fall in line. “Chirag has already toned down his tone and tenor. He has clarified to the BJP top brass that he had nothing personal against Nitish and he was with the BJP and would contest the Bihar polls as an NDA ally,” a ruling party source told Deccan Herald here on Sunday. This is a major climbdown by Chirag, who, a couple of days back, had threatened to contest 143 seats out of 243 constituencies in Bihar, besides showing a sign of no-confidence against Nitish, the NDA chief ministerial candidate. “The ball (for ending rift within the NDA) was set rolling by BJP president JP Nadda, who held parleys with Nitish at the latter’s residence in Patna on Saturday,” said the source, refusing to be identified. “Nadda Ji later met BJP leader Sushil Modi and also spoke to other allies, following which Chirag has mellowed down and the new ally Jitan Ram Manjhi too has stopped attacking the LJP chief. Now, all is well. In the next ten days, you will hear the seat-sharing formula for the four NDA allies – JD(U), BJP, LJP and HAM,” the ruling party source added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-s-praise-for-nitish-kumar-ends-nda-rift-886944.html
13-09-2020||National Politics||Left-Cong tie-up to be a game-changer in Bengal; won't let 2021 polls be cakewalk for TMC, BJP: Adhir||Newly appointed state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday said his party, together with the Left, will prove to be a "game-changer" in the 2021 Bengal Assembly elections, and warned the ruling TMC and the BJP that the contest won't be a cakewalk for them. Chowdhury, a bitter critic of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said his focus would be to eat into the vote share of both the TMC and the BJP, and restore secular ethos in the state, which has long been "overshadowed by the sectarian politics" practised by the two parties. He, however, declined to comment when asked whether the Congress would extend support to the TMC if the elections throw up a hung Assembly, and said "hypothetical questions can be answered only when the need arises". The state had last witnessed a hung Assembly during the 1967 polls, when the Bangla Congress and the CPI(M) joined hands to form the government. Holding the "appeasement politics" of the TMC government accountable for the rise of the BJP in Bengal, Chowdhury, the Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, said he would strive to strengthen the party by bringing back old- timers, who have joined opposition camps. "Bengal has always been revered across the country for its secularism. Over the last few years, however, both the TMC and the BJP have pursued the politics of communal polarisation, and eclipsed the secular ideals that the state has always held dear. "I can assure you that the Left Front-Congress tie-up would be a game-changer in Bengal politics. Unlike 2019 Lok Sabha polls, I won't let the 2021 assembly elections be a cakewalk for the TMC and the BJP, Chowdhury told PTI. Maintaining that the state would be encountering a nip-and-tuck fight between three forces in 2021, the senior Congress leader, however, rebuffed the oft-repeated theory that a three-cornered fight usually works in favour of the party in power. "The theory that a three-cornered fight tends to help the ruling party is not right. In politics, two plus two is not always four. We will cut into anti-incumbency vote share, as well as the TMC vote bank. "Many Congress loyalists have shifted their allegiance to other parties over the past few years. We would woo them back. The Left-Congress alliance would fight on the plank of development, corruption-free governance," he asserted. Chowdhury had earlier served as the West Bengal Pradesh Congress (WBPCC) chief from 2014 to 2018. Under his leadership, the party had forged ties with the Left Front and fought the 2016 state elections. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, however, the proposed Congress-CPI (M) alliance fell apart after both the parties were unable to reach an agreement on seat sharing. Claiming that the TMC and the BJP are two sides of a coin, he said the state government deliberately pursued appeasement politics to make way for counter polarisation by the saffron camp. "The TMC has been an ally of the BJP in the past. It was the TMC, which brought the BJP to Bengal in the late nineties. It did nothing for the development of the Muslims, but pursued appeasement politics and destroyed the secular fabric of the state," Chowdhury, a vocal detractor of the Mamata Banerjee-led party, said. The ruling party projected itself as the "messiah of the Muslims", and the BJP as the "protector of the Hindus", and they weakened the secular and democratic forces, such as the Congress and the Left, he claimed. The veteran leader said the "dismal performance" of the BJP government at the Centre on various fronts, such as economy, employment and COVID-19 management, would haunt the saffron party in Bengal during the next assembly polls. "The BJP has nothing to showcase as they have failed miserably when it came to development. And during the assembly polls, they would not have any surgical strike to talk about... Along with a surging anti-incumbency wave against the TMC in the state, the winds are also blowing against the BJP due to its bleak performance, nationally," he said. Admitting that there were some gaps in the Left- Congress alliance during the 2016 polls, as it was forged in haste, he said efforts are underway to fix them. Both the Left and the Congress, following their poor show in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, have been working together -- be it fighting by-polls or organissing any mass movement. "We are on the verge of giving the alliance a final shape. The cadres of both the parties are also in favour of the partnership," he said. The Left-Congress alliance had won 76 seats in the 294-member-strong assembly during the 2016 polls. The TMC bagged 211 seats, the BJP just three. A lot of water, however, has flown under the Howrah Bridge in the last four years, as the BJP made deep inroads and emerged as a prime challenger of the ruling TMC in Bengal, by pushing the traditional opposition parties, the CPI (M) and the Congress, to distant third and fourth positions. The saffron camp reached its all-time high in Bengal politics last year when it stunned pundits by bagging 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the state, four less than the ruling TMC, and with a staggering vote share of 41 per cent votes. The Congress managed to win two seats with around six per cent votes, whereas the CPI(M)-led Left Front drew a blank with just seven per cent votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/left-cong-tie-up-to-be-a-game-changer-in-bengal-wont-let-2021-polls-be-cakewalk-for-tmc-bjp-adhir-886947.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Four more die of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, toll climbs to 43||Four more people died of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, raising the toll in the district to 43, officials said on Sunday. The deceased included a 70-year-old man from Abkari locality, a 40-year-old woman from Kirshanpuri, a 65-year-old man from the New Mandi area and a 45-year-old woman from Meerapur town, they said. On Saturday, the district had recorded 127 new Covid-19 cases. There are 1,075 active coronavirus cases in the district as of now, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-more-die-of-covid-19-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-toll-climbs-to-43-886757.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan kills wife before ending his own life in Jammu||A CRPF personnel allegedly shot dead his wife before taking his own life at the house of his relative on the outskirts of Jammu, police said on Sunday. Constable Madan Singh (38), posted in sector headquarters Jammu, left the camp with his service rifle on Sunday night and went to the house of his sister-in-law at Ragore in Gharota area where his wife Deepti Rani (35) had gone after an argument with him over some issue, a police official said. In a fit of rage, the jawan shot dead his wife when she came out to open the door around 10.30 pm and also injured her sister besides firing some shots at his minor daughter, who escaped unhurt, the official said. Later, Singh shot himself dead near the body of his wife, the official said, adding both the bodies were shifted to hospital for postmortem and other legal formalities while the injured woman was hospitalised. The CRPF has started a departmental inquiry into the incident, an official of the paramilitary force said.  He said the jawan was a local resident of Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-kills-wife-before-ending-his-own-life-in-jammu-886805.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Manoj Tiwari calls for joint meeting of stakeholders over SC order to remove slums along rail tracks||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari has written to Union Railways minister Piyush Goyal for a joint meeting of stakeholders including Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for better planning and coordination for compliance of the Supreme Court order to remove 48,000 slum dwellings along railway tracks in the city. Tiwari has also written a letter to the Delhi chief minister for the rehabilitation of the affected slum dwellers and arrangement of transit accommodation for them. In his letter to the Railways minister, the north east Delhi BJP MP said in view of the urgency and time-bound action ordered by the Supreme Court, it is expedient that there is better communication and coordination in approach and action by all the stakeholders. The Supreme Court in its order on August 31 had ordered the removal of around  48,000 slums along the nearly 140-km railway tracks in Delhi within three months.  Since there are various stakeholders involved in this process. It will take more time if all the stakeholders are to act independently – which will exhaust the time limit of three months which has been specifically ordered by the Supreme Court, Tiwari wrote to Goyal. "You are requested to kindly call a joint meeting with the Chief Minister and the Member of Parliaments (MPs) for better planning and coordination. It will help the stakeholders in complying with the Supreme Court order." The former Delhi BJP president in his letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal stated that it is the "responsibility" of the state government to ensure that the slum dwellers are shifted and given proper accommodation without any risk to their lives in the time of COVID-19 pandemic. Under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), 31,424 flats were constructed between 2007 and 2019 that are available with the Delhi government. Also, there are around 20,000 flats which are under various stages of construction, and likely to be completed by another 90 days, Tiwari said.  "The rehabilitation of the slum dwellers is to be done by Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB). Therefore, I demand that those available flats – which are in ready-to-move condition - be immediately handed over to the slum dwellers," Tiwari demanded in his letter to Kejriwal.  He said for those slum dwellers who can not be accommodated shortly in the flats, transit homes may be temporarily set up by the government.  The slum dwellers are eligible for rehabilitation as per the Delhi Slum and JJ (Rehabilitation and Relocation) Policy, 2015.  Delhi government's agency DUSIB in a letter to the Railways has said that as per the 2015 Policy, land-owning agency has the responsibility of rehabilitating affected slum dwellers. The agency has also said the Railways will have to pay the cost of land, construction and relocation charges if DUSIB is entrusted the rehabilitation work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manoj-tiwari-calls-for-joint-meeting-of-stakeholders-over-sc-order-to-remove-slums-along-rail-tracks-886808.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Srinagar hospital reports first case of Covid-19 reinfection in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir has reported its first case of coronavirus re-infection - a dental surgeon - who first tested positive in July and was discharged upon full recovery. The case of Covid-19 re-infection surfaced at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar for the first time, officials said. While confirming the re-infection case, Director SKIMS Dr AG Ahanger said the clinicians of the hospital gave their report on Saturday morning. “As of now, there is confirmation of one re-infection,” he told DH. The Director said the patient with re-infection was first affected with Covid-19 about six weeks ago. “He had recovered after treatment (but) developed symptoms again. And we have just detected that the same patient has again tested positive. The patient is recovering,” he said and added another patient admitted at the hospital is a suspected re-infection case as of now. The case of re-infection raises worrying questions about controlling and ending the Covid-19 pandemic as cases continue to rise in J&K - which has seen over 1,000 new cases every day for the last 10-days. Cases of Covid-19 re-infection have also been reported from Karnataka, Telangana and Maharashtra in India, and other countries, including Hong Kong, US, Netherlands and Belgium, alarming health experts, as the world continues to battle the highly infectious disease. The first case of Covid-19 re-infection was observed in Hong Kong on August 24, where a 33-year-old man who had recovered tested positive again, four and a half months later. However, scientists within and outside the country have said re-infections are rare and there is no reason for alarm just yet. They believe that it is too early to draw conclusions from the individual re-infection cases and more research needs to be done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-hospital-reports-first-case-of-covid-19-reinfection-in-jammu-and-kashmir-886829.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||J&K govt fails to complete process to prevent 2014 like catastrophe deluge||September 2014 like devastating deluge may hit Kashmir valley again as the J&K government has failed to complete the required process to prevent such a catastrophe in the future. Sources in the region's department of Irrigation and Flood Control (I&FC) department said that the dredging process in river Jhelum that was started in 2015 has not been completed yet. “It was planned that the dredging and desilting of the Jhelum will be completed by March 2019. However, the second and the main phase of the process, which would increase the capacity of the Jhelum, is yet to start,” they revealed. The Rs 280 crore dredging project for phase-I was awarded to Reach Dredging Private Limited, a Kolkata based company, to clear the excessive siltation that had accumulated and drastically reduced the carrying-capacity of river Jhelum. However, in 2018, the department of I&FC had asked the Kolkata based dredging firm to wind up operations after it failed to meet the deadline. While Chief Engineer, I&FC, Iftikhar Kakroo agrees that the second phase of the dredging is yet to start, he is hopeful the process will be initiated this year only. “As of now the department is capable of tackling a middle-level deluge, but we are not yet ready to tackle 2014 like situation,” he said. Kakroo added they were trying to reach there in stages. “At present, the department is not ready to accommodate the 2014 level of flood. But, we are gradually moving towards that,” he said. Experts fear that if the government doesn’t take immediate steps to overhaul the flood control mechanism, Kashmir will witness frequent floods in the coming years. The unabated encroachment of the tributaries and flood channels, and a negligible effort to de-silt the river basin, are pitched as major reasons that led to the overflow of water in 2014. "Kashmir’s geography and climate being what it is, we can’t just wish away extreme flooding. But we can certainly work on devising ways to minimise its potential for destruction - and we must,” says Prof Shakil A Romshoo, who heads the Department of Earth Sciences, Kashmir University. "To avoid floods in Kashmir the government has to work on a major project. Save for a few measures aimed at increasing the drainage capacity of the Jhelum, no concerted effort has been made to devise a strategy for minimising flood risk to people and infrastructure, especially in the Jhelum basin," Romshoo added. In September 2014, Kashmir witnessed disastrous floods across many of its districts caused by torrential rainfall. Nearly 280 people lost their lives while property worth billions was destroyed due to the floods. According to official figures, several thousand villages across the valley had been hit and hundreds of villages had been completely submerged. The damage was made worse by the government's inept disaster management. Many parts of Srinagar city, including the Border Security Force (BSF) Headquarter in Sanat Nagar and Army cantonment in Badamibagh, were inundated, and vital roads were submerged by the floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-fails-to-complete-process-to-prevent-2014-like-catastrophe-deluge-886838.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Reserve 80% of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients: Delhi govt directs 33 private hospitals||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday the city government has instructed 33 big private hospitals in the national capital to reserve 80 per cent of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, amid a shortage of such beds at some facilities. Delhi has been witnessing a surge in novel coronavirus cases from the last week of August. Delhi recorded its biggest single-day jump of 4,321 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the city's tally to over 2.14 lakh, authorities said. It was for the fourth day in a row that over 4,000 fresh cases were recorded in Delhi. "Yesterday, we instructed 33 private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of their ICU beds for coronavirus patients. This has been done since issues were being faced with regards to ICU beds in some private hospitals. I also held a video conference over this and an order has been issued in this regard," he told reporters here. Jain said there are sufficient number of ICU beds in state-run and Centre-run hospitals, and also said there are sufficient number of other beds in hospitals. "We have also instructed hospitals to increase bed strength by 30 per cent for coronavirus patients, in case they want to. More than 50 per cent beds are available in hospitals. Out of the total 14,372 beds available for Covid-19 patients, 7,938 are vacant, according to live status on Delhi Corona app," he added. Asked if there can be another lockdown amid a spurt in coronavirus cases, the Health Minister ruled out the possibility. "The time for enforcing a lockdown has ended. We have gained enough experience through the lockdown and know that wearing masks is an effective way to fight the infection. We are creating awareness to wear masks," he said. Jain said the national capital has ramped up testing, which is why an increase in cases is being observed and stressed that it will help in containing and isolating cases of the infection. On Saturday, over 60,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted. "If you test positive without symptoms, we will be able to isolate you in time and prevent the infection from spreading. The number might be increasing at this point but this will help in containing the virus," he added. Sharing numbers, he said the positivity rate in the national capital is 7.19 per cent while the death rate in the last 10 days has been 0.68 per cent, "which is a good sign". The overall death rate is 2.23 per cent, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reserve-80-of-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients-delhi-govt-directs-33-private-hospitals-886860.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Army jawan detained at Srinagar airport along with two women let off: Officials||An Army personnel who was detained at the airport here along with a woman and a minor girl while on way to Delhi was let off after preliminary questioning as the women said they were travelling with him of their own free will, officials said on Sunday. The soldier, posted in Bandipora district in north Kashmir, was on Saturday detained at the Srinagar airport when he was travelling with two women, one of whom is a minor, to Delhi, they said. The minor girl is a niece of the woman, the officials added. The woman, believed to be in her early twenties, told the police that she and her minor niece were travelling with the soldier of their own free will, they said. The officials said the trio was let off after preliminary questioning. The woman and her niece have been handed over to their families, they added. An Army official said action will be taken against the soldier as per the rules as he was found in violation of the standard operating procedure. In May 2018, Army Major Leetul Gogoi was detained by police along with a local woman at a hotel here. The Army ordered disciplinary action against the Major and a court of inquiry found him accountable for "fraternising with locals in violation of instructions to the contrary" and "being away from the place of duty while in the operational area”. The Major was punished with a reduction in seniority and exit from the Kashmir Valley. Major Gogoi had hit the headlines after he tied a man to a jeep purportedly as a shield against an unruly mob which was hurling stones during a bypoll in Budgam, which forms part of the Srinagar Lok Sabha seat, on April 9, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-detained-at-srinagar-airport-along-with-two-women-let-off-officials-886879.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Seeking to study law at 77, woman challenges BCI rule on fixing age limit for admission||Aspiring to study law, a 77-year old woman has approached the Supreme Court challenging the fresh BCI rules prescribing an upper age limit of 30 for admission. Denied admission to pursue a three-year LL.B course, Rajkumari Tyagi, a resident of Sahibabad in Uttar Pradesh, moved a plea seeking to intervene in a case already pending on the issue wherein the Bar Council of India (BCI) rule has been challenged. The BCI rules prescribe an upper age limit of 20 years for 5-year and 30 years for a three-year LL.B course.  The plea says that Tyagi developed an interest in law after she was left alone to defend the estate of her late husband. It says that she had dealt with legal complications, without having to resort to a lawyer, at every given point when handling the will or identification of records. The plea claims that the fresh rules violate Articles 14 (equality before the law), 19(1)(g) (Right to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) and 21 (Protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. She has urged the court to declare that she has a fundamental right to pursue a legal education in a college or institution of her choice and that the right is protected under Article 21 of the Constitution. "It has been laid down (by the Supreme Court) that Right to Life under Article 21 of the Constitution, is not limited to mere 'animalistic existence' but also includes right to live with dignity which includes facilities for reading and writing and the right to receive instructions in a course/medium of one's choice," the plea says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seeking-to-study-law-at-77-woman-challenges-bci-rule-on-fixing-age-limit-for-admission-886895.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi slum eviction: Coronavirus took away everything, now roof's taken away too, say residents||The Covid-19 pandemic took away her family's livelihood and now 48-year-old Veeramma fears she will lose her roof in the wake of the Supreme Court ordering the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings along railway tracks in Delhi. "My husband was born here. My son was born here. My in-laws breathed their last in this house. This is all we have," said Veeramma as she sat on crushed stones outside her home at a slum cluster alongside a railway track near Jal Vihar in Lajpat Nagar. The 48-year-old, who works as a domestic help, said her employers haven't called her back to work yet. "My husband cannot move. My son is a daily wager, he doesn't have much work, too. We don't have enough ration to feed the family for another week," said Veeramma looking at her two-year-old granddaughter, a third generation to be born in the slum cluster. "We don't have the money for my granddaughter’s milk. Even if we beg, we won’t get anything. The times were never so bad," she said. The Supreme Court had on August 31 ordered the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings along railway tracks in Delhi within three months. As per rough estimates, there are around 2,40,000 people living in slums in Naraina Vihar, Azadpur, Vihar, Shakur Basti, Mayapuri, Sriniwaspuri, Anand Parbat and Okhla among others. The Northern Railways had submitted a report to the apex court which said that mushrooming of slums along railway tracks is acting as hindrance towards keeping them clean. Panchavarna, 55, said her family had moved to Delhi from Chennai. "We know the land belongs to the government, but where will we go? Who will take our responsibility?" she asked. Elumalai, 35, reminded the government's promise of "Jahan jhuggi wahin makan" made before the elections. "We do not say we won't accept the court's order. This land belongs to the railways and they will take it one day, but where will we go? No one cares for us," Elumalai, whose father came to Delhi from Chennai in 1978, said. Interestingly, each household in the slum has got electricity connection, Aadhaar card, voter id, and ration card. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had built community toilets for the slum dwellers last year, so that no one defecates in the open or on the tracks, said 45-year-old Shankar Sarangam, a driver who did not get a salary for three months during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. "The salary has been reduced by half. I have a family to feed. We were thankful to god that we have a roof over our head," he said. "Now the jhuggi will be gone, too. The railways should have at least considered the timing of the move. The impact of the pandemic will linger on for another three years," Sarangam said. In another slum along the railway tracks in Sriniwaspuri, Ramnadhar Mandal, 40, asks, “Why do politicians ask for votes if they cannot rehabilitate us?” “Where do we go – to the footpath?” Mandal, who hails from Bihar’s Katihar district, has two baby girls who are learning to walk. "Think of these children. We will have to spend nights in the open, in rains and winters,” he said, clasping his hands together, as if making a request to the government. Gunodhar Mandal, 60, who came to Delhi from West Bengal’s Malda district 25 years ago is not very hopeful of a “proper rehabilitation”. “I am afraid we will be asked to leave the city and go back to the village. We have nothing left there,” he said. The matter has taken a political tone with the Aam Aadmi Party targeting the Bharatiya Janata Party for eviction notices being issued by the railways. AAP spokesperson and MLA Raghav Chadha on Friday tore eviction notices sent to the residents and said no one could raze their shanties "till Kejriwal is alive". The Delhi BJP has alleged that despite being in power for over five years, the AAP has done little to rehabilitate people living in slums in the city. The Arvind Kejriwal government says the railways cannot demolish the slum clusters along the train tracks without providing alternative accommodation to its inhabitants in accordance with the provisions of Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015. On its part, Railways said it was working in line with the orders of the Supreme Court, but refused to elaborate further on the issue. In a letter to the railways on Thursday, the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), headed by Chief Minister Kejriwal, said that according to the 2015 policy, the rehabilitation work has to be undertaken by the agency which owns the encroached land. However, DUSIB also said it can undertake rehabilitation work but the railways will have to pay for the cost of land and construction as well as relocation charges ranging from Rs 7.55 Lakh to Rs 11.30 Lakh per flat. The agency also provided a list of over 29,000 completed housing units and another 16,600 under construction ones available with the Delhi government. These houses were constructed in different parts of the city including Narela, Bawana, Baprola, Sultanpuri and other places under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) between 2007 and 2019. The DUSIB has said the 29,257 completed flats will be ready to move in by March-April 2021, while the under construction 16600 flats at Tikri and Pooth Khurd will be ready by December 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-slum-eviction-coronavirus-took-away-everything-now-roofs-taken-away-too-say-residents-886905.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Madurai girl's suicide before NEET murder of Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao slogan: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday lashed out at the BJP, saying the suicide by a Tamil Nadu girl student on the eve of NEET was the murder of the "Beti Padhao, Beti Bachao" slogan. The 19-year-old Madurai girl and two other medical aspirants in Tamil Nadu had committed suicide on Saturday, prompting the opposition parties to demand the scrapping of the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET). On Wednesday, the Supreme Court had refused to entertain a batch of pleas seeking deferment or cancellation of exam scheduled for Sunday, saying the authorities will take all necessary steps for conducting it amid the Covid-19. Referring to the girl’s suicide, the SP chief in a tweet asked the BJP who was responsible for her "murder". "The news of suicide by a medical aspirant in Madurai yesterday has shocked every family," he said while paying tributes to the girl. "Heartless BJP should tell who is responsible for this. This is a murder. Along with this, the slogan of 'Beti Padhao, Beti Bachao (teach daughter, save daughter) has also been murdered," he said. Besides the girl, the other two aspirants, aged between 19 and 21, had committed suicide in Dharmapuri and Namakkal districts of Tamil Nadu. They were found hanging in their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madurai-girls-suicide-before-neet-murder-of-beti-bachao-beti-padhao-slogan-akhilesh-886925.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt transfers 5 IAS officers||The Uttar Pradesh government has transferred five IAS officers including two district magistrates, an official said Sunday. The official said Amit Singh Bansal, the district magistrate of Banda, has been made the district magistrate of Mau. Manish Kumar Verma, the district magistrate of Kaushambi, has been made the special secretary (basic education). Amit Kumar Singh, the special secretary in the micro, small and medium enterprises, has been made the new district magistrate of Kaushambi. Anand Kumar Singh, who was the special secretary (basic education), has been made the new district magistrate of Banda. Neha Sharma has been made the ACEO of Noida. Earlier she was the special secretary backward welfare department. Rajesh Kumar Pandey, who was earlier transferred as district magistrate of Mau, has been kept in waiting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-transfers-5-ias-officers-886931.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi slum eviction: Covid-19 took away everything, now roof being taken away, say residents||The Covid-19 pandemic took away her family's livelihood and now 48-year-old Veeramma fears she will lose her roof in the wake of the Supreme Court ordering the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings along railway tracks in Delhi. "My husband was born here. My son was born here. My in-laws breathed their last in this house. This is all we have," said Veeramma as she sat on crushed stones outside her home at a slum cluster alongside a railway track near Jal Vihar in Lajpat Nagar. The 48-year-old, who works as a domestic help, said her employers haven't called her back to work yet. "My husband cannot move. My son is a daily wager, he doesn't have much work, too. We don't have enough ration to feed the family for another week," said Veeramma looking at her two-year-old granddaughter, a third generation to be born in the slum cluster. "We don't have the money for my granddaughter’s milk. Even if we beg, we won’t get anything. The times were never so bad," she said. The Supreme Court had on August 31 ordered the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings along railway tracks in Delhi within three months. As per rough estimates, there are around 2,40,000 people living in slums in Naraina Vihar, Azadpur, Vihar, Shakur Basti, Mayapuri, Sriniwaspuri, Anand Parbat and Okhla among others. The Northern Railways had submitted a report to the apex court which said that mushrooming of slums along railway tracks is acting as hindrance towards keeping them clean. Panchavarna, 55, said her family had moved to Delhi from Chennai. "We know the land belongs to the government, but where will we go? Who will take our responsibility?" she asked. Elumalai, 35, reminded the government's promise of "jahan jhuggi wahin makan" made before the elections. "We do not say we won't accept the court's order. This land belongs to the railways and they will take it one day, but where will we go? No one cares for us," Elumalai, whose father came to Delhi from Chennai in 1978, said. Interestingly, each household in the slum has got electricity connection, Aadhaar card, voter id, and ration card. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had built community toilets for the slum dwellers last year, so that no one defecates in the open or on the tracks, said 45-year-old Shankar Sarangam, a driver who did not get a salary for three months during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. "The salary has been reduced by half. I have a family to feed. We were thankful to god that we have a roof over our head," he said. "Now the jhuggi will be gone, too. The railways should have at least considered the timing of the move. The impact of the pandemic will linger on for another three years," Sarangam said. In another slum along the railway tracks in Sriniwaspuri, Ramnadhar Mandal, 40, asks, “Why do politicians ask for votes if they cannot rehabilitate us?” “Where do we go – to the footpath?” Mandal, who hails from Bihar’s Katihar district, has two baby girls who are learning to walk. "Think of these children. We will have to spend nights in the open, in rains and winters,” he said, clasping his hands together, as if making a request to the government. Gunodhar Mandal, 60, who came to Delhi from West Bengal’s Malda district 25 years ago is not very hopeful of a “proper rehabilitation”. “I am afraid we will be asked to leave the city and go back to the village. We have nothing left there,” he said. The matter has taken a political tone with the Aam Aadmi Party targeting the Bharatiya Janata Party for eviction notices being issued by the railways. AAP spokesperson and MLA Raghav Chadha on Friday tore eviction notices sent to the residents and said no one could raze their shanties "till Kejriwal is alive". The Delhi BJP has alleged that despite being in power for over five years, the AAP has done little to rehabilitate people living in slums in the city. The Arvind Kejriwal government says the railways cannot demolish the slum clusters along the train tracks without providing alternative accommodation to its inhabitants in accordance with the provisions of Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015. On its part, Railways said it was working in line with the orders of the Supreme Court, but refused to elaborate further on the issue. In a letter to the railways on Thursday, the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), headed by Chief Minister Kejriwal, said that according to the 2015 policy, the rehabilitation work has to be undertaken by the agency which owns the encroached land. However, DUSIB also said it can undertake rehabilitation work but the railways will have to pay for the cost of land and construction as well as relocation charges ranging from Rs 7.55 Lakh to Rs 11.30 Lakh per flat. The agency also provided a list of over 29,000 completed housing units and another 16,600 under construction ones available with the Delhi government. These houses were constructed in different parts of the city including Narela, Bawana, Baprola, Sultanpuri and other places under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) between 2007 and 2019. The DUSIB has said the 29,257 completed flats will be ready to move in by March-April 2021, while the under construction 16600 flats at Tikri and Pooth Khurd will be ready by December 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-slum-eviction-covid-19-took-away-everything-now-roof-being-taken-away-say-residents-886936.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Woman's death triggers protest in Jammu; road blocked for several hours||A 23-year-old woman died during treatment at a hospital nearly two weeks after giving birth to a dead child here, triggering protests by her relatives who alleged medical negligence and demanded a probe into her death, officials said on Sunday. The protesters, carrying the body of the deceased, staged a sit-in on the main road at Chatta on the outskirts of the city on Sunday, alleging that she died within 10 minutes after intravenous injection was administered to her, the officials said. After several hours of protest, the officials said the body of the deceased was later cremated by her relatives on the intervention of senior civil administrative officers who rushed to the spot and assured action in the case. Kuljeet Kour, who delivered a dead baby early this month, complained of abdominal pain and breathlessness at home on Friday evening and was subsequently admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here, one of the protesters said. He said the woman, however, died in the hospital on Saturday afternoon but doctors took away all her medical records when the accompanying family members questioned their claim that the deceased was Covid-19 positive and would be cremated as per the set protocol. “She tested negative for the virus on her admission in the hospital. She was sick but was not in a critical condition. We questioned the false claim and after our protest, a re-test was done which turned out negative and the body of the deceased was handed over around 11.30 pm for last rites,” he said. Demanding a fair probe and stern action against doctors for their alleged negligence, he said, “We have given a week's time to the government to complete its inquiry and take necessary action against those involved.” “If justice is denied to us, we will restart our agitation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/womans-death-triggers-protest-in-jammu-road-blocked-for-several-hours-886972.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||My govt waived off loans of 26 lakh farmers, says former Madhya Pradesh CM Kamal Nath||Madhya Pradesh Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath on Sunday said his government had waived off loans of 26 lakh farmers and challenged the current BJP dispensation in the state to prove his claim wrong. He was addressing a public meeting in favour of Congress candidate Premchand Guddu from Sanver in Indore district. Bypolls are needed in 27 Assembly seats in the state, though no date has been announced for them as yet. "My government waived off the loans of 26 Lakh farmers of the state. I openly challenge (MP Chief Minister) Shivraj Singh Chouhan and (Congressman-turned-BJP Rajya Sabha MP) Jyotiraditya Scindia to refute this claim," he said. Hitting out at Scindia, Nath said the former used to praise the farm loan waiver scheme when he was with the Congress but was now criticising it. Scindia's defection to the BJP and the resignation of 22 of his loyalist MLAs brought down the Nath government in March. Accusing Chouhan of making fake announcements as CM, Nath claimed he never did so while he occupied the top post. "I want to ask the public what sin did my government commit by waiving off farm loans, bringing in investment and taking on the mafia?" Nath asked. He said the Chouhan government in the state was harassing and suppressing Congress workers and warned officials "not to roam with BJP badges in their pockets". Accusing the BJP of throttling democracy while bringing down his government, Nath said the architect of the Constitution Babasaheb Ambedkar might never have imagined that such "politics of bargaining" would take place in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-govt-waived-off-loans-of-26-lakh-farmers-says-former-madhya-pradesh-cm-kamal-nath-886986.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Opposition trying to create doubt about farm ordinances: BJP||The ruling BJP in Haryana on Sunday accused the opposition of the bid to create doubt among farmers about the Centre’s agriculture-related ordinances for their political interests. State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar sought to assure farmers that the ordinances will neither have any impact on the existing 'mandis' nor will affect the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism. “To grind their political axe, opposition leaders are trying to create an atmosphere of doubt. These ordinances will neither have any impact on the existing mandi system nor will it in any way affect the MSP mechanism,” Dhankar, a former state agriculture minister, said. Hitting out at the main Opposition Congress, he said they should "stop misleading" farmers on the issue. After the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and other organisations held a protest in Kurukshetra's Pipli against the ordinances recently, Dhankar constituted a three-member panel comprising BJP MPs Dharambir Singh, Brijendra Singh and Nayab Singh Saini to talk farmers. “The BJP has always stood behind farmers and protected their interests,” said Dhankar. He asked farmers to give their views, saying the ordinances will take the shape of law only after their suggestions have been incorporated. State Agriculture Minister J P Dalal on Sunday also attacked the Congress, saying farmers have not forgotten "how their land was snatched for peanuts when the Congress was in power". About the ordinances, Dalal said contrary to the “falsehood” which the opposition is trying to spread, farmers stand to benefit a lot. “The existing mandi system is not going to change and crops will continue to be procured at MSP. But if any farmer gets a higher price outside the mandi system, then he is at liberty to decide where he wants to sell his crops,” he said, asking how it can be anti-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-trying-to-create-doubt-about-farm-ordinances-bjp-886991.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Militants attack security forces in J&K's Pulwama||Militants attacked a team of security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, but there are no reports of any loss of life, police said. "Around 5:45pm, militants fired on a party of Army's Rashtriya Rifles at Parigam in south Kashmir's Pulwama," a police official said. The security forces retaliated forcing the militants to flee, he said. There are no reports of any loss of life or injury, he said. The area has been cordoned off and a search operation has been launched to nab the attackers, the official said, adding details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-attack-security-forces-in-jks-pulwama-886994.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||In fight between couple in Noida, young daughter becomes casualty||A three-year-old girl died in a fight between her parents during which she was allegedly smashed on the floor by her father in Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Sunday, police said. Her mother was also brutally injured in the incident that took place around 9.30 am at their home in Barola village, under Sector 49 police station limits, the police said. “When a local police team reached the spot, the woman was found injured and the child was found dead. They were immediately taken to a hospital, where the woman is undergoing treatment,” Additional Commissioner of Police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh said. “An inquiry from neighbours and other locals revealed that the man was an alcoholic and often fought with his wife. They had a major fight day before yesterday also,” Singh said. The accused, identified as Amit, is a native of Bulandshahr district. He worked here and stayed with his family but is absconding now, according to the police. The accused also informed the family of his wife Renu that the child has died but told them it happened due to some other reason, the police said. “He tried to misinform his in-laws,” the Additional DCP said, adding that it prima facie appears that Amit killed his child and wounded his wife. An FIR has been lodged at the local police station and efforts are on to arrest the man, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-fight-between-couple-in-noida-young-daughter-becomes-casualty-887016.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Man throws dog into Bhopal lake; video goes viral, probe on||A video showing a man throw a dog into Bhopal's Upper Lake went viral on social media on Sunday following which police registered a case. Some of those who shared the video claimed it was shot at Boat Club Road near Van Vihar on the banks of the lake, also called Bada Talab, here. A man, in his twenties, can be seen picking up one of two dogs roaming near him and throwing it into the lake and giggling as he looks at the person shooting the video. A song from Hindi movie Commando 3 can be heard in the background in the video. Bhopal Deputy Inspector General of Police Irshad Wali said cognisance of the video had been taken while Additional Superintendent of Police Ramsanehi Mishra told PTI a case had been registered under Indian Penal Code section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming any animal). He said Shyamla Hills police was probing the case and the location of the accused had been traced, though he refused to share further details. Mishra also said it seems the video was shot at Boat Club Road of Upper Lake. Netizens who have been sharing the clip have been expressing anger at the incident and have sought quick action from police to nab the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-throws-dog-into-bhopal-lake-video-goes-viral-probe-on-887027.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav not accused in Delhi riots case, clarify police||The charge-sheeting on Delhi riots mentioning the names of Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav and Jayati Ghosh among others has triggered a controversy but police on Sunday clarified that none of them have been named as accused in the case. Their names appear in the text of the supplementary charge-sheet against Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and student activist Gulfisha Fatima. Their names have been allegedly mentioned by the three accused during interrogation, according to the chargesheet. Police, however, said CPI(M) General Secretary Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan's Yadav, academician Ghosh, documentary film-maker Rahul Roy and Delhi University Professor Apoorvanand were mentioned in the chargesheet, as the accused had mentioned them in their disclosure statements. However, Natasha and Devanangana had not signed the disclosure statement, which was annexed with the 426-page charge sheet filed in a Delhi court last week. Also, the statements of both Natasha and Devangana are identical in nature containing same grammatical and syntax errors, with critics accusing the police of a "cut-paste" job. Message is spelt as "massage". Jayati Ghosh, a well-known economist is mentioned as "Jaidi Ghosh" at least twice in the chargesheet. Yechury and others are not willing to buy the police's argument and see the mention of their names in the charge sheet as preparing grounds for taking action against the government critics in future. A disclosure statement before a police officer is not admissible as evidence in a court while one before a magistrate is admissible as evidence. In this case, the alleged disclosure was made before the police. Even when it is recorded before a magistrate under CrPC, the magistrate has to be convinced that the statement is not being made under coercion. While the disclosure statement alone will not suffice to charge a person, the police could investigate a person mentioned by an accused and even arrest them. However, the evidence the investigators collect against the particular person will have to stand the test of law. Activists claimed that the police could use this as a pretext to harass anyone. With the charge-sheet itself mentioning that two of the accused have not signed the disclosure statements, experts pointed out that this would not make these reports suspicious. They cite Supreme Court orders to say that just because a disclosure statement was signed, it does not make it inadmissible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sitaram-yechury-yogendra-yadav-not-accused-in-delhi-riots-case-clarify-police-887039.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Lightning strike kills 3 children in UP's Chitrakoot||Three children were killed on Sunday after being struck by lightning in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot district, police said. The incident took place in Chilimal village when the children had gone to the jungle to graze their goats, they said. Superintendent of Police Ankit Mittal said the children, Nanbabu Nishad (12), Gudda Nishad (13) and Radha Devi (8) were struck by lightning around 2 pm. A man, identified as Dharmendra alias Suraj, got injured while seven goats also died in the incident, the SP said. Mittal said the bodies of the deceased have been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lightning-strike-kills-3-children-in-ups-chitrakoot-887054.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Sukhbir Singh Badal's 'U-turn' on farm ordinances cheap gimmick: Punjab CM||A day after the SAD's “climb-down” on the issue of farm ordinances, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday dared opposition party chief, Sukhbir Singh Badal, to quit the BJP-led Centre to prove his party's sincerity in the matter. He also termed Badal's sudden “U-turn” on the farm ordinances as a “cheap gimmick to hoodwink the farming community”. The SAD on Saturday had appealed to the BJP-led Centre not to enact laws on the three farm ordinances until “all reservations” expressed by farmers are “duly addressed.” The SAD’s appeal to the Union government for not tabling the ordinances in Parliament came even as the party had consistently maintained that the Centre had assured that these ordinances would have no bearing on the existing crop procurement policy. The CM on Sunday said as a member of the ruling alliance at the Centre, the Shiromani Akali Dal was party to the ordinances and had supported them unconditionally. In a statement here, Singh slammed Badal over his party's “brazen double standards” on the issue and asked if the Akali leader was ready to vote against the ordinances in Parliament as and when the central government seeks to enact laws on them. He also termed as “total hogwash” the SAD's so-called appeal to the Union government not to present the three ordinances for approval in Parliament until all reservations expressed by farmer organisations were addressed. The CM recalled Badal's assertion during an all-party meet convened by him on the issue in June that the central government had assured the SAD that there would be no tinkering with the minimum support price. It is more than obvious now that the SAD president had “lied” then in a deliberate bid to “mislead” farmers, he said, adding given his track record, nothing that Badal was saying now on the issue could be believed. The “double standards” of the Akalis have become a rule rather than the exception, said the CM, pointing to SAD's stance on the Citizenship Amendment Act, among other major issues concerning the state. “What were they doing when the ordinances were being brought in? Why did they not object? After all, they are part of the central government responsible for these ordinances?” he asked. Singh said the SAD's sudden decision to urge the Centre “not to rush through the Ordinances” reflected their desperation to get back into the good books of farmers' organisations with an eye on the Punjab assembly elections, which were just about 18 months away. After “compromising” the farmers’ interests “so brazenly”, the Akalis were now trying to “cover up their catastrophic blunder” with their latest tactic, he said, adding that the people of Punjab, including the farmers, knew better than to trust Badal. Many farmers' outfits have been holding protests against the three farm ordinances promulgated by the Centre. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the three ordinances would pave the way for dismantling of the MSP system and they would be at the “mercy” of big corporates. They have been demanding rollback of these ordinances. The ordinances are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sukhbir-singh-badals-u-turn-on-farm-ordinances-cheap-gimmick-punjab-cm-887056.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Phase-4 stations will accept ‘One Nation One Card', mobile phones to also work for entry: DMRC chief||The automatic fare collection system in the upcoming Phase-IV lines of the Delhi Metro will be fully compliant with the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC), and commuters will also be able to use a mobile phone to enter or exit a station on its corridors, DMRC chief Mangu Singh has said. Asserting that Delhi Metro is a "modern metro system" comparable to the best in the world, he also said that these two facilities might be rolled out at the Airport Express Line by the end of this year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March 2019 had launched the indigenously-developed NCMC to enable people to pay multiple kinds of transport charges, including for metro and bus services across the country, through a common card. Dubbed as 'One Nation One Card', the inter-operable transport card would allow the holders to also pay their toll taxes, parking charges, retail shopping and even withdraw money. Singh said the facility to use mobile phones to enter or exit automatic fare collection (AFC) gates, are available in major modern systems in various countries, including in the Seoul Metro. "We are working to continuously improve our system, with better technological and other interventions, to improve our rolling stocks and energy efficiency. In Ph-IV, our AFC system will fully accept the national common mobility cards, which can be used in any cities," he told PTI. "Also, a mobile phone will effectively work as a smart card, and riders will be able to use to enter or exit the AFC gates, in Ph-IV lines," Singh said. The managing director of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, however, underlined that e-payment system and technology are fast-evolving and by the time the Ph-IV work is complete, new technologies may emerge. "But, we have been working on it for quite some time, and the facilities of NCMC and entry and exit using mobile phones might be available by the end of this year on the Airport Express Line" he added. Currently, riders on the Airport Express Line can also enter or exit AFC gates using a QR code on the mobile phone that has to be collected from a metro counter, but the future plan is to have a system whereby commuters can generate their own QR codes on phones and enter through AFC gates using that facility, the top official said. The DMRC chief said, these two facilities will be first available on the brand new lines to be built under Ph-IV, and hopefully by the time the construction is over, the corridors to be built under this phase as extensions of existing lines, would "also be upgraded" for compliance. Asked if old smart cards will work in Ph-IV lines, he said, "Yes." The Union Cabinet, in a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister, in March last year had approved three out of the six corridors of the Delhi Metro's proposed phase IV. Under the approved segment of Phase-IV, 61.679-km of new metro lines shall be constructed across three different corridors comprising 45 metro stations. These new sections shall provide interconnectivity among the already operational lines of the Delhi Metro. According to the government, the Mukundpur-Maujpur, R K Ashram-Janakpuri West and Aerocity-Tughlakabad corridors were approved by the Cabinet. The other three proposed corridors of Phase-IV which have not yet been approved by the Union Cabinet are Rithala-Bawana-Narela, Inderlok-Indraprastha and Lajpat Nagar-Saket G Block. After a long wait, work had begun on the construction of Delhi Metro's Phase-IV project with a groundbreaking ceremony held at Haider Badli Mor here on December 30 last year. And, with that piling work had begun for construction of 10 stations of 28.92-km Janakpuri West-R K Ashram Marg corridor, which is an extension of the Magenta Line and will have a total of 22 stations. Asked about the status of construction of stations under Ph-IV, Singh said, tenders have been floated and finalised for all the major elevated sections. The DMRC chief said Ph-IV work has been affected by the COVID-19 situation but the ongoing project will get delayed only by a couple of months and the therefore "won't entail much cost escalation". "Individual projects have longer timelines, so impact wouldn't be much. And, construction work has not been affected really as funding for such projects comes from JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency) loans. Also, 80-90 per cent labourers are back after they had moved back to their native places due to the pandemic," he said. "So, work is going on in full swing now," Singh asserted. On the status of three remaining corridors of Ph-IV, he said, "currently there is a setback to all new projects, as far as central government is concerned, so we expect some delay in getting the sanctions". "If sanction happens in a year's time say, but we are keeping ourselves ready by then with the design and detailing. Also, from time of approval, work will begin in one-and-a-half year time, and completion time likely to be two-and-a-half years from then," he said. The Ph-4 project will see many highs and several firsts for the DMRC, including the first-ever metro bridge over Yamuna to be built using the cantilever construction technique, and the highest point in the DMRC system, at Haiderpur Badli Mor, where the viaduct level is going to be at 28 metre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/phase-4-stations-will-accept-one-nation-one-card-mobile-phones-to-also-work-for-entry-dmrc-chief-887061.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Train accident averted near Ambala Cantt railway station||A railway accident was averted near the Ambala Cantt railway station on Sunday as the loco pilot of an Amritsar–Guwahati parcel train applied emergency brakes on noticing repair works being undertaken on the tracks, officials said. The repair work was on between Kesri and Barara stations, 20 kms from Ambala Cantt railway station, but the team involved had allegedly not informed the authorities concerned, the officials said. The train was detained for one hour before being diverted to another track, they said. Two railway employees supervising the repair works have been suspended for negligence in duty and an inquiry ordered in the matter, the officials said. A railway official said permission should be sought before conducting any repair work on the track, but in this case the team allegedly did not inform the authorities concerned. When the loco pilot of the train noticed that the repair work was being carried out on the rail track, he applied emergency brakes, the official said. Divisional Railway Manager, Northern Railways' Ambala Division, G M Singh said it was a major negligence. A departmental inquiry has been initiated and a report sought within five days, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/train-accident-averted-near-ambala-cantt-railway-station-887063.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah arrives in Delhi to attend his first Parliament session after Jammu and Kashmir special status withdrawn||Lok Sabha MP and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah has arrived here to attend the Monsoon Session which is beginning on Monday, his first Parliament appearance after the abrogation of provisions of Article 370. The National Conference president, who arrived here Sunday, is likely to be in focus since he was under detention during the last two sessions.   On August 5 last year, a bill for re-organisation of Jammu and Kashmir was tabled in Parliament and the 82-year-old was taken into preventive custody. The veteran politician from the Kashmir valley is keen to raise the Jammu and Kashmir issue during this session, party leaders said. The 18-day Monsoon Session, which begins Monday, will last till October 1. The last session was short-terminated on March 25, following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-arrives-in-delhi-to-attend-his-first-parliament-session-after-jammu-and-kashmir-special-status-withdrawn-887065.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Shopkeeper abducted by four men in police uniforms in Bhind||A 28-year-old shopkeeper was abducted by four people wearing police uniforms in Bhind district in Madhya Pradesh, an official said on Sunday. Prem Kishore Gupta was intercepted by the accused while he was on his motorcycle on Saturday evening in the City Kotwali police station area and forced to sit in a four-wheeler, said Chambal Range Inspector General of Police Manoj Sharma. Efforts were on to nab the accused, the IG said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-shopkeeper-abducted-by-four-men-in-police-uniforms-in-bhind-887072.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Man held for raping teen; Madhya Pradesh BJP calls case 'love jihad'||A man has been arrested in Satna in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl over the past two years, the crime taking political overtones with the state BJP calling it a "love jihad" case. Mohammad Atiq Mansuri, in his 40s, has been in custody since Saturday, Kolgawan police station inspector Mohit Saxena said. "The accused befriended the girl, a student of Class XI, at his gymnasium. She told police on Friday he was raping her since 2018. He was arrested within a few hours under relevant IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act sections," Saxena said on Sunday. Satna Superintendent of Police Riyaz Iqbal said a SIT had been formed under City SP Vijay Singh Parihar to probe the case. An SIT member said it was not true that the accused, a divorcee, befriended the girl by introducing himself as 'Sameer Singh' on Facebook. A statement from Satna police said complaints of Mansuri blackmailing women and amassing property fraudulently have come in and they will be probed by the SIT. He is a history-sheeter with three cases in Kotwali police station, and SP Iqbal had sent a proposal to the Satna district collector seeking scrapping of his firearm licence and well as invoking the National Security Act, police said. In a statement, MP BJP chief VD Sharma said "Satna's love jihad case will not be tolerated", adding that Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had taken serious note of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-raping-teen-madhya-pradesh-bjp-calls-case-love-jihad-887091.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh reports 2,281 new coronavirus cases, 34 deaths||Madhya Pradesh on Sunday reported 2,281 fresh coronavirus positive cases, which pushed the state's infection count to 88,247, health officials said. With 34 fatalities, the death toll went up to 1,762, they said. Of them, seven patients died in Indore, three each in Bhopal, Sagar and Shahdol, two each in Gwalior, Jabalpur, Betul, Tikamgarh and Guna and one each in Ujjain, Ratlam, Dhar, Narsinghpur, Satna, Chhatarpur, Chhindwara and Anuppur, officials said. A total of 1,600 patients were discharged during the day, taking the count of recoveries in the state to 65,998. At 351, Indore reported the highest number of infections in the state on Sunday, followed by 242 cases in Bhopal, 196 in Jabalpur and 156 in Gwalior. The number of cases in Indore, which is the worst-hit district in the state, rose to 16,782 with 458 deaths. Bhopal's overall case tally stood at 13,187, including 324 fatalities. The case count in Gwalior and Jabalpur went up to 7,640 and 6,214 respectively. At 5,011, Indore has the highest number of active cases in the state, while Gwalior and Bhopal have 2,085 and 1,796 such cases, respectively, officials said. The state now has 6,487 active containment zones. Meanwhile, state Forest Minister Vijay Shah shared in a tweet on Sunday evening that he has tested positive for coronavirus and being admitted to a hospital in Indore. In September so far, 24,282 new coronavirus cases and 368 fatalities have been reported in Madhya Pradesh. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 88,247, new cases 2,281, death toll 1,762, recovered 65,998, active cases 20,487, total number of tested people 16,80,074.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-reports-2281-new-coronavirus-cases-34-deaths-887100.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan records over 1,700 fresh Covid-19 cases, 15 deaths||Rajasthan on Sunday reported 1,703 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 1,02,408, while 15 more deaths pushed the death toll to 1,236, the state Health Department said. Jodhpur recorded three of the new deaths, Jaipur, Bikaner and Ajmer two each, and Barmer, Churu, Dungarpur, Jhalwara, Sawaimadhopur and Udaipur one each. Jaipur reported the highest number of 330 cases, Jodhpur 243, Kota 149, Alwar 109, Ajmer 102, Sikar 75, Udaipur 70, Nagaur 53 and Pali 52. Bhilwara recorded 47 fresh cases, Bikaner 45, Rajsamand 37,Ganganagar 36, Churu 33, Bundi 29, Banswara and Dausa 28 each, Jhunjhunu 26, Dungarpur 24, Dholpur 21, Chittorgarh 20, Sirohi and Pratapnagar 18 each, Karauli and Barmer 16 each, Baran 14, Hanumangarh 13, Bharatpur 12 among others. A total of 84,518 Covid-19 patients have recovered and the number of active cases in the state at present is 16,654.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-records-over-1700-fresh-covid-19-cases-15-deaths-887105.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Investigating role of all individuals who took part in northeast violence, says Delhi Police||The Delhi Police Sunday said it is investigating the role of all individuals who took part in the February riots and were behind the larger conspiracy of organising violence and inciting communal passion amongst communities. In an official statement, it said various interest groups are using social media platforms and other online portals to raise questions about the fairness of investigation into the northeast Delhi riot cases. It is alleged that anti-CAA protestors, including social activists, academicians and students, are being framed in "false cases", the force said "Some are taking out few lines out of the chargesheets filed in the courts out of context in order to create a controversy and doubt about the investigation. Their assertion is not true and, instead, motivated," the police said in the statement. The statement said the Delhi Police does not consider it appropriate and necessary to reply to them at this stage as the matter is sub-judice. The force said it is for the police to conduct investigation and submit its report to the court to take cognisance in the matter for trial, adding that those raising questions may instead take it up in the court of law at the appropriate time as per established judicial process. The riots in the northeast district between February 23 and 26 had claimed 53 lives and left 581 injured, 97 of them with gunshot wounds. "Delhi Police is investigating into the role of all such individuals who took part in the riot and were part of the larger conspiracy in organising violence in the northeast Delhi and inciting communal passion and hatred amongst communities," it also stated. According to the force, the Delhi Police has registered 751 FIRs in connection with communal riots that took place in the last week of February this year. As far as the investigation is concerned, Delhi Police has meticulously carried out the probe in the most professional manner, it said. After collecting and collating all evidences, the investigation has been finalised in most of the important cases and the charge sheets submitted in the court for trial, the police also said. They said that the riots also caused large scale damage to both private and public properties. In their attempt to prevent violence, 108 police personnel received injuries and 2 succumbed, the statement said. So far, police have arrested 1,575 persons in 751 cases. Over 250 charge sheets have been filed in the riots related cases in which 1,153 accused (571 Hindus and 582 Muslims) have been charge-sheeted. All these cases are pending before the special courts constituted for the trial, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/investigating-role-of-all-individuals-who-took-part-in-northeast-violence-says-delhi-police-887106.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Kashmiri pandits' outfit demands creation of separate UT for their rehabilitation in Valley||The Panun Kashmir, a frontal organisation of migrant Kashmiri Pandits, Sunday reiterated its demand for creation of a separate Union Territory for their rehabilitation in the valley, besides enactment of a law by parliament on the "genocide" the community was allegedly subjected to. The group made the demand on the eve of ‘Balidan Divas’ (Martyr’s day), during a virtual event organised to pay homage to the community members and security forces who laid down their lives fighting terrorism in the Union Territory over the past three decades. They also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to formally “accept that Hindus of Kashmir were subjected to genocide". The group said in a statement, "The participants stressed on the creation of a separate geopolitical dispensation in the form of a Union Territory to the East and North of river Jhelum. "We want to state that the changes in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019 have made the creation of Panun Kashmir East and North of river Jhelum constitutionally possible rather than redundant,” Panun Kashmir chairman Dr Ajay Chrungoo said, “We have no hesitation in stating that internally displaced Hindus of Kashmir are caught up between the forces that continue to perpetrate atrocities on them and the forces of denial of genocide." He said the policies on the return and rehabilitation of internally displaced minority pursued by successive governments in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as well as in the Centre have been the most brazen expressions of "denial of genocide". He said denial of exodus of KPs has not only been destructive to others but has also led to spillover of fundamentalism into rest of India. The Panun Kashmir has already submitted the Panun Kashmir Prevention of Hindu Genocide and Atrocities Bill to government of India, he said. "We earnestly hope that the Bill will be taken up for consideration and adopted as an act in the Parliament of India", he added. Other participants included Panun Kashmir convenor Agnishekhar, eminent lawyer Tito Ganju. The participants said further reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir and creation of Union Territory of Panun Kashmir for sustainable and lasting return of exiled community is a geopolitical imperative if separatism and international intrigues in J&K are to be defeated decisively. "Halfway Separatist Governance, as well as denial of Hindu Genocide, has to be abandoned as policy approaches, otherwise the new changes in Jammu and Kashmir are doomed to fail," the statement read. "We earnestly hope that the Bill will be taken up for consideration and adopted as an act in the Parliament of India,” Ganju, who is also advisor legal affairs of the organization, said. “Unfortunately Kashmiri Hindus were subjected to both genocide as well as denial of genocide,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-pandits-outfit-demands-creation-of-separate-ut-for-their-rehabilitation-in-valley-887112.html
13-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt to set up special security force||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday said a special force will be constituted on the basis of an Allahabad HC, which had expressed its displeasure over the security at civil courts last December. Briefing reporters here, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said, "The state government has given orders for the constitution of a special security force. A roadmap in this regard has been sought from the UP DGP.” “This is a dream project of the UP chief minister. The basis of this force is an order of the High Court, which had ordered that there should be a specialised force for civil courts. In all, there will be 9,919 personnel in the force," he added. Awasthi said five battalions will be constituted in the first phase and it will be headed by an ADG-ranked officer. "Expenses incurred in the first phase will be around Rs 1,747 crore," Awasthi said. On December 18, 2019, the Allahabad High Court had pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government over a shootout at a Bijnor courtroom. Three assailants had on December 17, 2019 opened fire in the court of the Bijnor chief judicial magistrate, killing a murder accused and injuring three others---two policemen and a court employee. A two-judge HC bench had said most incompetent police personnel are being posted at the courts, adding that it will seek the deployment of central forces if the state government is not up to the task.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-set-up-special-security-force-887117.html
13-09-2020||Opinion||You can try what you want, but there’s no escaping English||In recent weeks, disparate events have shown that India takes two steps forward and a few back, so that we may be in the 21st century one moment, and in a bygone era the next. With the Madhya Pradesh government wanting to reserve jobs for locals or the recent AYUSH ministry online meeting where the host insisted on speaking in Hindi, though there were members from many non-Hindi-speaking states, or the National Education Policy 2020 that purports to promote local languages (many see a pro-Hindi hand here) – all these signify the return of a recurring sore. That we’re discussing this, 73 years after Independence, is exasperating. It’s cultural, or linguistic or regional domination, déjà vu. In other words, nativism. Nativism often has economic underpinnings. Indian budgets since 2015 took many leaves out of what many other countries were doing. They’ve nearly ended the chequered era of globalisation, which may have opened opportunities for some, but widened inequity overall. Many nations, not least the US, have circled their wagons. In 2020, huge parts of the world are integrated with nominal internet, while countries are rooting for their “roots” through language, region, community, nationality. That global connectivity clashes with local subjectivity is one of the key cleavages of our age. In India, states are due to promulgate the NEP 2020’s imperatives soon. One of them suggests augmenting the mother tongue, while retaining English. This is again a slapdash treatment of both English and the Indian languages. They call for concrete clarity: Neither are we empowering our languages to the extent that individual futures can be predicated on them, nor are we aiming to become an English language paragon, given the edge we have over it compared to other non-English-speaking nations. Some countries in the Far East have risen by beefing up their own languages, while employing English as an ancillary. That mode may not work in India, for we are too diverse, and English is entrenched. The policy worked in China and Japan, for these are more internally similar than India. Even advanced countries not colonised by Britain, like Germany, the Netherlands, and the Scandinavian nations, have welcomed English. Why are we funked? It’s unpopular to say so, but free India is a creation through many acts of the English language. Many of our best minds have prospered due to English education. National policymakers, including the framers of NEP 2020, have seen English’s locus standi in India, to some extent from the vantage of our colonial past. That perception must go. English is our launchpad. Why not draw a plan that makes Indian education in English second to none? Like many non-English-speaking countries, we have moulded English to suit our needs. Indeed, there’s a case for it to be deemed as an Indian language now. Yes, some of our languages have grown and current knowledge production has adapted to the linguistic audiences in the country, but there’s no escaping English’s reach and scope. This applies across vast spheres: It’s a battle not only for Indians but many non-anglophone countries. If it takes relative advantage of the English language, India could scale up this talent to slacken anglophone hold over vast domains of knowledge. It’s a matter of their future, and especially young Indians need English much more than their mother tongues, for professional growth. We must stop deluding ourselves on our linguistic traditions – they are deep, rich, and we love them, but they will not help in building a future or provide a means of living for millions of young Indians, yet. They have limited ability to generate meaningful employment. In such a national setting, Hindi’s culturalpredominance is a permanent wedge, for the rest of India. Hindi cannot be in India what Mandarin is in China. Thomas Macaulay may have been an arrogant imperialist, but his “Minute on Education” in 1835 also explained how English rose to world prominence. English and England had low street-cred in Europe for ages. English grew through imbibing from Greek, Latin and other languages. It developed during the great conflicts of the medieval era just before England became an imperial pioneer. Strife and assimilation mark English’s evolution. These are learnings for Indian languages today. So, we must rid the nativist reflex from within and not see English and the Indian languages in binary terms. India needs English. Make teaching it attractive. Install learning programmes that remove the fear of English for Indians who are not fluent in it. Make quality English education enter every inch of India. When governance systems flounder, a sense of the past as a romance, is what we get. How sweet, but can we move on?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/you-can-try-what-you-want-but-there-s-no-escaping-english-886697.html
13-09-2020||Opinion||Can IPL survive outside of coronavirus-hit India?||By Daniel Moss Covid-19 has taken a big toll on sports, from the cancellation of Wimbledon to the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics. Cricket’s marquee event, the Indian Premier League, gets underway this week after a five-month delay. Just not in India. A bit more than 1,620 miles away in the United Arab Emirates, to be precise.  While this might seem like a radical step — akin to moving Major League Baseball to Costa Rica for a season — the shift makes a lot of sense. India locked down its economy but failed to stem the coronavirus. The country now has the second-highest number of cases, overtaking Brazil. Packing stadiums in the cricket-mad nation of 1.3 billion was a non-starter. But to deprive them of the opportunity to stream their favorite stars would have piled cruelty on the tragedy. Cricket is as much a religion as a pastime.  An alternative had to found, the closer to the sub-continent the better. The UAE isn’t one of the top cricketing jurisdictions that play five-day games called “tests,” typically limited to England and a clutch of her former colonies. It does, however, excel as a transportation hub and a venue for international events. And IPL is a global business — valued at some $6.8 billion — headquartered in Mumbai. Far from showing the limits of corporate cricket, the pandemic era may display its strengths, according to Tim Wigmore, co-author with Freddie Wilde of Cricket 2.0: Inside the T-20 Revolution. Unlike the traditional contests that typically unspooled over days-long clashes between national teams, IPL is synonymous with a smash-and-bash short format, called Twenty-20, or T-20. Games are over in a few hours. Each side gets 20 overs; at six balls per, the 120 total deliveries means there's an incentive to swing for the fences. Dead-ball strategies sometimes used in longer forms of the game serve no purpose. Stately and genteel, this isn’t. Critically, the eight teams in the tournament are all based in India and feature domestic stars sprinkled with the best global talent money can buy. In times of disease, it’s easier to manage what's essentially a transplanted domestic competition than clusters of international teams with the diverse customs and quarantine requirements that come with them. To gauge the temperature of IPL and, through it, the broader game, I caught up with Wigmore via phone and email. His work with Wilde was named book of the year in the 2020 edition of Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack, the sport’s unofficial bible. Here is a lightly edited transcript of our exchanges: DM: The rise of the Indian Premier League is a reflection of the rapid expansion of India's economy in the past few decades. But growth slowed dramatically amid the pandemic. Can the IPL survive this slump? TW: Yes, absolutely. The IPL is only going to grow in the years ahead. Holding this year's competition in the UAE and without any fans is a big inconvenience, obviously. But it doesn't change the long-term trends which are making the IPL an even bigger part of world cricket.  DM: Is the pandemic generally accelerating or slowing down changes to the way the sport is played?  TW: Historically, cricket has been unusual in how much it has revolved around nation versus nation contests. T-20, especially the IPL, is moving cricket toward the [European] football model. There will be international tournaments, but fans’ day-to-day focus will increasingly be on club games. There's clearly a huge amount of uncertainty, but the pandemic could well accelerate the changes, and the shift to cricket being a sport that increasingly revolves around club versus club matches. Boards face a new normal of bio-secure venues, chartered flights and quarantining teams on arrival. All of this will take time and money, which is increasing the costs of international cricket even as the revenue earned from it decreases. This is partly true for domestic cricket, too, though you don't need to fly in a whole squad from a particular country. The difference is you get a lot more games for the time and effort of creating an environment to play. There are 60 IPL matches in seven weeks — over the same period of time, an international team might be able to play five tests and, say, six shorter-form games.   DM: Why the UAE? The country isn't one of the elite playing nations. What's in it for UAE and the League? TW: The UAE is perfect. It has great transport links with the rest of the world and very good facilities. The UAE hosted most of Pakistan's home games since 2009, and the International Cricket Council has its global academy there. And it seems to have coped with Covid relatively well. For the UAE, staging the IPL — they already staged half the IPL in 2014 — helps position itself as a venue for elite sport. And it’s a significant boost to the hospitality sector. DM: India is also one of the top cricket nations. Other countries have gone through periods of dominance, such as the West Indies from the mid-1970s through the 1980s, or Australia in the 1990s through, say, 2005. Why is this moment different? TW: There is one huge difference: Those two brilliant teams didn't generate over half of cricket's total wealth, as India now does. So you have a country that’s the economic giant of the sport, and a team that’s one of the best in the world— India is ranked in the top three in the world in all three formats. India’s on-field rise over the last 20 years only suggests it will become more successful in the years ahead, benefiting from the transformation in cricketing infrastructure in the country, its sheer population and love for cricket . When you take on- and off-field performance together, India could be said to be almost as dominant in cricket as the U.S. is in basketball. DM: Cricket has been re-invented before. Do the IPL and T-20 owe a debt to Kerry Packer's World Series Cricket venture in the 1970s, which pioneered the use of colored clothing, day-night matches, and innovative TV coverage? Is the IPL, in essence, a child of Packer? TW: What Packer did was essentially about getting the TV rights to Australian international matches.  As soon as he could do this, peace broke out in the cricket world. Packer's impact was profound, with those changes you outline. But he didn't challenge the orthodoxy that nation versus nation competition represented the pinnacle of cricket; the unofficial games were between players representing countries, with the famous slogan “C'mon Aussie C'mon.” World Series Cricket was still about Australia versus England and Australia versus  the West Indies. The IPL is completely different, as it's about domestic matches: Mumbai versus Chennai, Bangalore versus Delhi, and so on. It has successfully challenged the orthodoxy that international cricket should take precedence over domestic cricket, moving cricket more in line with football or basketball. International boards used to fight the IPL and try and stage internationals at the same time, forcing players to choose between the two. Now, major international boards don't stage fixtures at the same time as the IPL because they know that players will choose the IPL. DM: Saudi Arabia is described as the central bank of oil. Has India become the central bank of cricket, where it has the ability, through IPL, to essentially control demand and supply?   TW: Absolutely. A player can earn more in a single IPL season than many could in their entire careers under the old model. It’s re-shaped the economics of the game. Look at the way the international cricket calendar is now organized, Covid notwithstanding. IPL gets its own window, free of clashes with any major international tournaments. Nobody else gets that privilege.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/can-ipl-survive-outside-of-coronavirus-hit-india-886791.html
13-09-2020||Opinion||How Covid-19 made flying business class feel like economy||By Angus Whitley and Anurag Kotoky Forget the flute of chilled Moet & Chandon before takeoff, mid-flight gin and tonics and a roaming dessert trolley after dinner. Flying business class isn’t what it used to be.Efforts to minimize human interaction and reduce the risk of infection are taking the shine off the most expensive seats onboard commercial aircraft. Gone are the multi-course banquets and warm personal service, once the hallmarks of carriers like Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. These days, what’s left of premium-grade travel is functional, hygienic and closer to cattle class -- only with more legroom. The limitations are one more headache for an industry grappling with a near-total collapse in demand and follow years of luxury oneupmanship among carriers in a contest for the most profitable passengers. Suddenly, it’s harder to tell airlines apart when you’re up the pointy end. That’s making it tougher to win top-paying customers, and risks pushing some to the back of the plane. ‘Feels Like Economy’“There’s nobody to help you with your bag, you’re not escorted to your seat, and there’s definitely no pre-flight champagne,” said Sandra Lim, who flew business class to Singapore from Los Angeles with Singapore Air late last month. “It feels like it’s reverted back to economy class.” The crew wore face masks and eye shields, and avoided contact and shared touchpoints where possible, Lim said. While passengers could ask for a drink, they weren’t freely offered, and there were no menus. Meals came with everything on one tray, just like in economy, rather than in separate courses. “When you strip away the food and service, it’s just a mode of transport to get from point A to B,” said Lim, a 38-year-old food and beverage consultant. Some overseas routes have resumed, but traffic worldwide has barely started to creep back. International passenger demand was down 92 per cent in July. The planes that were flying were typically about half full, according to the International Air Transport Association. ‘Structural Change’It’s also not clear to what extent the premium market, which IATA says generated 30 per cent of airlines’ international revenues in 2019, can recover. Many grounded business travellers have become accustomed to video conferencing rather than making visits in person, and a global recession threatens corporate budgets. Empty SkiesIAG SA, owner of British Airways and Iberia, said in July that leisure demand will recover before corporate travel, and this “structural change” in the market will lead to new cabin layouts. On a conference call, IAG Chief Financial Officer Stephen Gunning said British Airways retired its Boeing Co. 747s early partly because they had so many premium seats. Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Paul Scurrah said at a conference this month that business travel would rebound slower than the overall market as some companies maintain work-from-home policies. Qantas Airways Ltd. CEO Alan Joyce was optimistic that demand would fully recover, but not until 2023 or 2024. Low-cost airlines such as Ryanair Holdings Plc and EasyJet Plc, largely catering to short-haul leisure travellers, are likely to bounce back faster than airlines with a bigger international focus, UBS Group AG analysts led by Jarrod Castle said in an August 21 report. Paying Up?The appeal of a larger, more comfortable seat that extends fully flat may be enough to keep business class passengers coming back, said Volodymyr Bilotkach, a lecturer in air-transport management at the Singapore Institute of Technology. But it might be different for those in premium economy. “On the airlines where I have experienced it, this product was more ‘economy’ than ‘premium’ to begin with,” said Bilotkach. “I don’t know if passengers would be willing to pay that price differential now.” Yet airlines somehow need to keep filling premium seats or get rid of them. According to Bilotkach, a single business class seat that lies flat needs to generate at least four times the profit of an economy seat to justify all the space it takes up in the plane. Some airlines will use the pandemic to permanently downgrade their offerings in premium cabins to save money, said Jeremy Clark, who runs Malaysia-based JC Consulting, which advises carriers on catering and service. That means many airline-dependent suppliers will shut, limiting the scope for on-board dining and service to bounce back to pre-pandemic levels when travel recovers, he said. That said, “there will still be airlines that recognize the value good food and service bring to their brand in return for the relatively small cost of providing it,” said Clark. “We’re human beings. We like to be spoiled.” While Covid-19 has reduced the frequency of service onboard, when safe, airlines will return to a fuller culinary service with premium cabins leading the way, according to David Loft, chief commercial officer of Emirates unit dnata catering. Safety ShowUntil then, business- and first-class passengers should expect scaled-back service and more modest meals, said Michelin-starred chef Vineet Bhatia, who has worked with British Airways and Qatar Airways for almost two decades. He said travelers needn’t worry about the risk of infection from the food or even a tipple -- “having a scotch in a plane with 40 per cent alcohol is safer than having a glass of tap water” -- but they want to see some Covid-19 precautions. “The safety aspect has to be very visual,“ said Bhatia. “The passenger wants to see crew maintaining distance, greeting him fully covered, giving him his meal in a wrapped up box and leave. That looks like science fiction, but that’s how it is.” Even that wasn’t quite enough for Graziela Guludjian, who took a 12 1/2 hour flight to Barcelona from Singapore in business class last month. The Singapore Air crew gave her a bag with a facemask, hand sanitizer and disinfectant wipes. “I didn’t feel comfortable,” said Guludjian, who was moving back to Spain with her husband and three children. “I didn’t want to fly, but I had no option. I don’t want to travel any time soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-covid-19-made-flying-business-class-feel-like-economy-886797.html
13-09-2020||Opinion||Off the record: September 14, 2020||Inundated As roads and streets in Srinagar are getting inundated even after a slight drizzle, the Jammu and Kashmir government should focus on installing flood gauges in the major streets of the city to keep people updated about the status of rising waters. Over the years the condition of the drainage system in the city has deteriorated to an extent that every now and then shopkeepers around the city center Lal Chowk have to shift their goods to the first floor of the buildings in case of major rainfall. Shopkeepers and businessmen are more worried about water level increasing on roads than in river Jhelum. Installing gauges on the streets would make more sense as it gives a real picture of the situation.  Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar An elevation Former Union Telecom Minister A Raja was a surprise choice for deputy general secretary post in the DMK. Raja was never thought to be a contender for the position. In fact, he may owe this sudden elevation to a newspaper report! Though Dalits have had held many positions in the DMK, there is an opinion that they do not occupy prime posts in the party. And a day before the DMK General Council was to meet, a vernacular daily carried a report saying the party was practicing untouchability in power. Immediately, the party top brass swung into action and decided to appoint Raja, a Dalit, as deputy general secretary after amending the party’s Constitution. ETB Sivapriyan, Chennai Covid-19 kits  Parliament is convening its Monsoon Session under unprecedented circumstances. The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the contours of the proceedings. MPs have undergone Covid-19 tests. Marshals standing on both sides of the Chairman have been advised to wear both masks and face shields while assisting the Chairman. Now, all MPs will be getting Covid-19 kits from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The multi-utility kits will contain disposable three-ply masks (40), N-95 masks without wall (5), 20 bottles of sanitizers of 50 ml each, face shields made of polypropylene (5), gloves (40), touch-free hook (to open and close doors without touching them), Sea BuckThorn tea bags which enhance immunity and herbal sanitation wipes. Shemin Joy, New Delhi Wanderlust Known for his unconventional style of functioning, Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari says he is a ‘ghumantu’ (wanderer) and this helps him perform his duties as a ‘rajya sevak’ efficiently and effectively.  Around a month ago, he trekked to the famous hill fort of Shivneri, the birthplace of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Describing himself as ‘rajya sevak’, Koshyari, who last week completed one year in gubernatorial office, said it was a great experience for him visiting villages and districts in Maharashtra and interacting with people. He said one cannot understand the problems on the ground unless one visits the place oneself. Speaking on his engagements with universities, he said he had made it a practice to attend convocations in all universities. “No governor had visited the Shivaji University for 16 years,” he said, adding that these visits provided him an opportunity to interact with teachers and students. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai A glitch With the local body and general elections fast approaching, Kerala is now witnessing a series of inaugurations of new projects. Owing to Covid-19, almost all inaugurations are conducted through video conferencing. The other day Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated as many as 34 new school buildings at various parts of the state by sitting in his office. Owing to some technical glitch, the live streaming of a news channel came in between and incidentally a programme related to allegations against the state government with regard to the gold smuggling accused was being aired at that time. This caused much embarrassment to the government. No surprise if any punitive action is taken against those responsible such goof up. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-september-14-2020-887131.html
13-09-2020||Right in the Middle||An eerie incident||As a medical professional, I have always tried finding a rational explanation for everything. But there are times we are compelled to believe certain things, beyond our comprehension. Like this incident, which is indelibly imprinted in my mind. In 1999, when I was in sixth grade. My dad, a naval officer who was posted in Chennai then, had taken month’s leave to be with my grandma, who had just then undergone a major cardiac surgery in Bengaluru. At night, my father, mother and I were driving down from Chennai to reach Bengaluru around 3 AM. Since my uncle was at the hospital, my grandfather was at home. When he heard the hooting of our car horn, he rushed to open the door.  He seemed slightly shocked, from what we could conclude from his countenance. He then started narrating what had just then transpired. Just minutes before our arrival, his landline had started ringing-- the blaring noise piercing the night's tranquillity. My grandpa had woken up with a start, wondering who could it be at that unearthly hour.  A sense of trepidation had gripped him. Hoping it wasn't my uncle from the hospital with grim news, he mustered the courage to pick up the phone. He was indeed petrified by what he heard. It was loud wailing of a lady at the other end. His repeated attempts at eliciting an answer regarding who it was failed. All he could hear were blood-curdling wails of the woman.  He seemed visibly shaken as he recounted the horrific happening. Of course, dad passed it off as a “prank call”. My grandma passed away just a few hours after that telephonic occurrence. Her death shook our family really hard.  One day, as I was watching a telly programme on myths and mysterious occurrences across the globe, I came across the myth of the “Banshee”-- an Irish spirit, whose wail indicates imminent death in a family. Immediately, I correlated this with the ‘spooky incident'. Was it really a Banshee forewarning us of grandma’s impending death, or was it indeed a ‘prank call’, as my dad had put it?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/an-eerie-incident-887130.html
13-09-2020||Second Edit||Digital infrastructure access needs attention||The latest report of the National Statistical Organisation (NSO) survey on access to internet and digital devices and facilities across states presents a picture that should cause concern, especially when Covid-19 and the measures to fight it have badly affected normal life and activities. It shows not only that the national digital access levels are very poor but also that there are major disparities among states in this respect. The survey was done with the household as the unit. It showed that only 10% of the households in the country have a computer — whether a desktop, laptop or tablet. Only 25% of the households have internet facilities, accessed through a fixed or mobile network using any device, including smartphones. The global average is near 50% and in the developed countries it is over 80%, and that shows how much the country has to move forward in digital infrastructure and facilities.    The disparities among states and classes and between urban and rural areas are huge. Only in Delhi, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh over 50% of the households have access to the internet, when urban and rural areas are taken together. In Karnataka, it is less than 20% and it is in the company of Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh in this respect. Net connectivity is less than 10% in many states. About 42% of households have internet access in urban areas while only 15% are connected to the internet in villages. These figures show how online education will not be available for most students in the country. Most of them do not have access to online teaching, zoom classes and digital textbooks. Even if mobile phones and laptops are available, there is no net connectivity in most places. Lack of power or its unreliable supply adds to the problem. Digital literacy is also low. Not more than 20% of people even in the young age group have basic digital literacy, which is essential to use digital facilities.  The plan to connect all villages with optical fibre network has lagged in most states. Enhancement of digital infrastructure and facilities and access to devices is most important for all areas like the economy, and especially for education. Special efforts have to be made to make online education available to all students. The situation in every state and district needs to be studied and appropriate programmes should be made to create infrastructure and facilities to provide computers, laptops or mobiles to students wherever necessary. This has to be done urgently, and Karnataka has to pay special attention to this as its position is poor, in spite of Bengaluru’s reputation as the country’s Silicon Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/digital-infrastructure-access-needs-attention-887128.html
13-09-2020||South||Kerala police grow organic vegetables in confiscated vehicles stranded outside stations: Report||The old, rusty seized vehicles outside police stations are not unusual. These vehicles range from motorbike to heavy-duty vehicles and are left at the stations after some conflict with the law. The police also have the option to auction these vehicles but it involves several legal issues. And, there are not many buyers, too. According to a 2019 report, cited by the publication, there were about 40,000 such vehicles stranded at police stations across Kerala.  However, in Thrissur district’s Cheruthuruthy, police have made the most of the situation. The police personnel have voluntarily divided work among themselves and started growing organic vegetables in some of the mini lorries that were left behind  Rangaraj, a civil police officer who also happens to be a farmer handles the cultivation of these vegetables along with officers Simpson, Sudhakaran, Baby, Ranjit, Raghu, and Anil.  Simpson PT, a civil police officer, said the mini lorries that were caught for sand and soil smuggling were converted into harvest fields three months ago. It was a successful attempt and they had their first harvest a week ago. "We gave the vegetables to our police canteen,” he said.  After the first successful attempt, the police officers plan to extend the project to other vehicles, too. In the first phase, they grew vegetables like ladies finger, beans, and spinach. And, they are planning to add more to the list.   However, at other police stations, these rusty vehicles continue to occupy spaces.  A station house officer of North Kerala said, in most cases, owners don't want the vehicles back after it has been into trouble. He said vehicles caught in some illegal activity usually involve the drivers, not the owners. Thus, the vehicle is ignored. The verdict, in a court case, may be delayed, and in the meantime, vehicles rust and degrade.  In some parts of the state, locals have complained about the menace. These piled-up vehicles eventually become dump yards, making it a perfect hideout for miscreants. "People living around here are actually scared,” said Basheer, a resident of the Chattanchal area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-grow-organic-vegetables-in-confiscated-vehicles-stranded-outside-stations-report-886795.html
13-09-2020||South||Former CPI(M) MLA Thangavelu dies of Covid-19||Former CPI(M) MLA K Thangavelu died of Covid-19 at a private hospital here on Sunday, party sources said. He was 69 and is survived by his wife and two daughters. Thangavelu was admitted to the hospital a couple of days ago and died without responding to treatment, they said. He had represented Tirupur South assembly constituency in 2011-16. He was the party Coimbatore district secretary and State executive committee member, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-cpim-mla-thangavelu-dies-of-covid-19-886827.html
13-09-2020||South||15 new deaths take Puducherry's Covid-19 toll to 385||A total of 388 new Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths took the infection tally to 19,821 and the deaths to 385 in the union territory on Sunday, the government said. The UT also tested 4,024 samples, the highest in a single day. The 15 deaths included six women and the deceased were in the age group ranging from 48 to 85. Most of the deceased had comorbidities, a release from the health department said. A total of 4,024 samples were tested, taking the total number of specimens examined so far to 99,480, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said. The overall Covid-19 cases stood at 19,821 (after the transfer of six cases to Tamil Nadu), he said. The fatality and recovery rates were 1.94 per cent and 73.56 per cent respectively. Active cases stood at 4,856, while 14,580 patients have recovered so far. Puducherry region accounted for 291 new cases, while Karaikal had 58, Yanam 38 and Mahe, one, Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/15-new-deaths-take-puducherrys-covid-19-toll-to-385-886876.html
13-09-2020||South||RSS man who restarted worship in Vellore fort succumbs to Covid-19||Veteran RSS 'pracharak' M Veerabahu, who brought devotees together and successfully led them in installing the Shivalinga inside the Jalakandeshwara temple in Vellore fort decades ago, has died of Covid-19. The 71-year-old senior functionary, who tested positive two weeks ago, succumbed to the virus on September 12 at a government hospital here and his body was cremated at a burial ground in Villivakkam,the RSS said. Veerabahu is noted for his field work in mobilising devotees and the local people, leading to the installation of the Shivalinga in the Jalakandeshwara temple inside the Vellore fort in 1981, according to RSS functionaries. Noted archaeologist S Rajavelu said the temple, an Archaeological Survey of India protected monument, became a "living temple," after the installation of the Shivalinga. "This Shivalinga was brought from Sattuvachary near the Vellore fort and it was installed all of a sudden when no one expected it," he said. For a very long time till the installation of the Shivalinga in thesanctum sanctorum, there had been no worship inthe ancient temple, he said. The fort and the Shiva temple were built in the 15th Century by Vijayanagara chieftains, he said. The senior Sangh worker has held various positions in the Sangh and its affiliate bodies, including the Hindu Munnani and Vishwa Hindu Parishad. He was among the RSS men imprisoned inTamil Nadu during the Emergency (1975-77). For about 10 years, till the time of his death, he helmed Tamil RSS mouthpiece 'Vijayabharatham' as its Editor. Asa whole time 'pracharak' for 50 years, he had worked across Tamil Nadu. A native of Tirunelveli, he became an RSS worker when he was about 21-years old and had just stepped out of college. RSS functionaries who had worked with Veerabahu praised him for his organisational skills and a spirit of endurance. Dravidar Kazhagam president K Veeramani expressed shock and grief over the RSS veteran's death. "Veerabahu's death is a huge loss for the RSS. We extend our condolences and sympathies to Veerabahu's family, the RSS and the editorial team of Vijayabharatham," Veeramani said in a statement. DK is the parent organisation and ideological fountainhead of Dravidian parties in Tamil Nadu, including the AIADMK and DMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rss-man-who-restarted-worship-in-vellore-fort-succumbs-to-covid-19-886910.html
13-09-2020||South||Coimbatore Marathon to go virtual this time, to be held in December||The eighth edition of the Coimbatore Marathon will be a virtual month-long event owing to the prevailing pandemic situation and will be held in December, the organisers said on Sunday. The theme for this year's event being organised from December 1 to 31 is 'Run Smart', they said. "We are very excited to present this virtual edition of the marathon and ensure continuity of the event for the benefit of all stakeholders," Coimbatore Marathon Race Director Ramesh Ponnuswami said. "Since the event is a virtual one, we are not constrained to conduct it on a specific date and time," he added. Participants can choose their date, start time, route, distance and run/walk from wherever they are and complete their race any time during the month of December, he said. Another advantage of the virtual run is that there are no constraints in terms of the route, timings and so on, so four new event categories have been introduced a 3 km run/walk, a 10 Miler [16.1 km], a 20 Miler [32.2 km] and a Full Marathon [42.2 km] in addition to the usual 5 km run/walk, 10 km and Half Marathon (21.1 km) events, Ramesh said. Stating that past editions of the event have always been held in the first week of October, he said taking into consideration experience with adverse weather conditions prevailing during that time of the year and the clash with festival and public holidays, the event will henceforth be permanently moved to December from this year. The premier event, for the cause of cancer patients, is expected to attract more than 25,000 participants from all walks of life across the world and registration for Coimbatore Marathon 2020 Virtual Event is now open. Participants can register through www.coimbatoremarathon.com. For those wishing to participate, a donation of Rs 99 to the Coimbatore Cancer Foundation will be applicable for participants based in India and USD 5 for participants based outside India, for all the categories. Participants in India can opt for a finisher medal for a donation of Rs 399 (USD 24 for participants outside India) or a finisher medal and a finisher T-shirt for a donation of Rs 699 (only for India-based participants). Participants must submit their timing online for verification. Post verification, finisher medal & finisher T-shirt will be home delivered to participants who opted for them. All participants get to download an e-certificate and e-badge for participating and contributing to a noble cause, Ramesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coimbatore-marathon-to-go-virtual-this-time-to-be-held-in-december-886923.html
13-09-2020||South||Veteran of many labour battles in TN, Thangavelu dies of Covid-19||Marxist leader and former MLA K Thangavelu, who cut his teeth as a banian mill worker and went on to spearhead many successful agitations for labour rights in Tamil Nadu, died of Covid-19 here on Sunday. The 68-year-old party veteran and trade unionist, who was treated for coronavirus at a hospital for the past 14 days passed away early today, the CPI(M) said. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. A Marxist ideologue, he was renowned for his lectures on Marxism and leadership qualities and had been a state executive committee (known as state secretariat in the party) member for about 25 years. Thangavelu, born in an ordinary family, started his life as a banian mill worker and mobilising workmen, he led many successful agitations for their labour rights. During his stint in trade unions at various levels he was instrumental in getting these mill workers various rights. "As a leader, he left an indelible mark through his excellent work. He was simple, honest and calm," the party said in a statement paying rich tributes to him. Elected as an MLA in 2011 from Tirupur South Constituency, he championed labour welfare in the Assembly and was close to the ordinary people in his constituency. Expressing grief and extending condolences, the CPI(M) said Thangavelu's death is a huge loss for the party, the Left movement and the working class. DMK President M K Stalin, citing Thangavelu's humble origins, said he distinguished himself as a trade union leader through his hard work to get labour rights. Pointing to Thangavelu's long drawn out agitation (for 127 days) for labour rights, he said it is remarkable in the annals of the fight for workers' welfare. He had data on issues that affected the ordinary people and the working class on his fingertips, Stalin said, offering his condolences to the bereaved family and party. CPI State Secretary R Mutharasan, condoling his death, hailed the Marxist leader for his struggle to get workers their rights. MDMK general secretary Vaiko praised Thangavelu as an honest leader who earned the goodwill people in all parties. Announcing three-day mourning, the CPI(M) said party flags would fly at half-mast as a mark of honour to the departed leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/veteran-of-many-labour-battles-in-tn-thangavelu-dies-of-covid-19-886940.html
13-09-2020||South||Kerala minister's son allegedly linked with gold smuggling||More skeletons are coming out of the cupboard in Kerala, as the son of a minister and senior CPM leader is alleged to have links with the Kerala gold smuggling case accused. Already, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's principal secretary, CPM state secretary's son and a minister are facing probe in this connection. It is alleged that gold smuggling key accused and former employee of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, Swapna Suresh had mentioned in her statements to the investigation agencies about her association with a minister's son. BJP state president K Surendran on Sunday alleged that the son of a minister was very close to Swapna Suresh, and he had also received a commission of the UAE Red Crescent funded housing project in Kerala. He also alleged that Kerala police seeks custody of Swapna Suresh to disrupt the investigation. "It is aimed at sabotaging the probe. The Chief Minister and the CPM were hailing the probe into gold smuggling case. But with party leaders and their children coming under probe, the party is now alleging that the probe is politicised," he said. While the minister concerned is yet to comment on the allegations, various political parties staged a protest march to his residence. Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that earlier, CM Pinarayi Vijayan was hailing the Central investigation agencies' probe, but now CPM is alleging that the probe is politically motivated because a minister, another minister's son and CPM state secretary's son have come under the spotlight. Surendran said that already the fact is out that Rs. 4.5 core commission was involved in the Rs. 20 crore housing scheme for the homeless, as head of the CPM controlled news channel itself admitted it. "Swapna admitted that she received Rs. One crore. Who are the others who received the remaining commission? CPM should clarify the connection minister's son with Swapna Suresh," he said Protests against Minister continued Protests continued against Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel who was quizzed by Enforcement Directorate on Friday. Jaleel alleged in a social media post that baseless news is being unleashed by the media against him and he doesn't mind to clarify the facts. Workers of various opposition parties staged a protest against the minister at various parts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ministers-son-allegedly-linked-with-gold-smuggling-886962.html
13-09-2020||South||Not prepared to reveal anything to those spreading lies: Jaleel||Kerala Minister K T Jaleel on Sunday defended his silence on the ED questioning him over alleged FCRA violations and said he was not prepared to reveal anything to those who were "fabricating lies" and spreading them without a prick to their conscience. The Higher Education Minister made the remarks in a Facebook post amid demands by opposition parties that he should clearly state what information was sought from him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and continuing protests by them, pressing his resignation. He had appeared before the ED in Kochi on Friday in connection with alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) in accepting consignments of copies of the Holy Quran brought from UAE through diplomatic channel and his statement was recorded by the agency. "Lies and false stories are being spread each day without a prick to their conscience," Jaleel said in the Facebook Post. "What has to be kept under wraps will be concealed, what has to be revealed will be disclosed to whom it has to be divulged. This is the way all "Dharma Yudhams" (war of righteousness) have been won", he said, in response to criticisms that he had concealed information on the ED interrogating him. The minister, who is presently at his home at Valancherryin Malappuram, also released some photographs in the social media showing him meeting people there. For the third consecutive day, protests were held in various parts of the state by opposition parties demanding Jaleel's resignation. Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the student wing of the BJP,took out marches to the minister's house which turned violent with police making a lathi charge to disperse the protesters. In Kozhikode, the activists were dispersed using water cannons. Coming out in support of Jaleel, state Law Minister A K Balan alleged the former was being hounded by the opposition. "The central agency had only sought some information from Jaleel. A notice was sent to him as a private person, not as a minister... The religious books were brought lawfully," he told reporters in Palakkad. He also said Quran was not a banned religious text. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran alleged the son of another state minister had received 'commission' from gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh over a housing project in Thrissur district and demanded a probe. Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala of Congress said the allegation was 'serious' and also demanded a probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-prepared-to-reveal-anything-to-those-spreading-lies-jaleel-886965.html
13-09-2020||South||Despite Covid-19, Andhra Pradesh sees spike in tax revenue: Data||Belying fears of an adverse effect on the economy due to coronavirus-prompted lockdown, Andhra Pradesh saw over Rs 4,000 crore spike in its tax revenue in the first four months of the current financial year compared to the corresponding period last year. Accounted figures of the state released by the CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General) showed that Andhra Pradesh earned a tax revenue of Rs 19,114.73 crore from April to July in 2020-21 compared to Rs 15,017.77 crore during the same period a year ago. Citing possible fall in revenues due to Covid-19 lockdown, the state government has enhanced various taxes, including on liquor and petrol and diesel, to mop up an additional annual revenue of over Rs 15,300 crore. On top of these, the government mobilised Rs 39,946 crore through borrowing from various sources in the first four months of the fiscal, the CAG data said. The state also received Rs 10,554.21 crore as grants-in- aid and other contributions from the Central government till July as against just Rs 5,164 crore in the corresponding period last year. The non-tax revenue was, however, slightly lower at Rs 787.14 crore during April-July this year compared to Rs 971.75 crore last year, the CAG data showed. While the state borrowed Rs 13,994.90 crore during April-July in 2019-20, the figure touched Rs 39,946.30 crore this year. The state actually set a target of Rs 48,295.58 crore for borrowing during 2020-21 but it has exhausted 82.71 per cent of the limit in the first four months itself. The borrowed money was spent on various freebie schemes being implemented by the state government, official sources said. The interest payment bill itself was Rs 5,608.59 crore this year as against Rs 263.14 crore last year. The state Finance Department officials, however, disputed the CAGs figure on borrowing. "We borrowed heavily, yes, but Rs 40,000 crore is not correct. The figure is something around Rs 30,000 crore this year," a bureaucrat in the Finance Department told PTI. Apart from loans, the state government is banking on enhanced taxes and so far has increased various taxes and rates that could fetch an additional revenue of Rs 15,361 crore. On May 4 and 5, the state enhanced prices of liquor by 25 per cent and 50 per cent in quick succession to net a sum of Rs 13,500 crore during the year. In July, the tax structure on petrol and diesel was revised for garnering Rs 600 crore more in revenue. Last month, the land values in urban areas have been hiked by 10 to 30 per cent to realise an additional Rs 800 crore. The profession tax was increased for an additional income of Rs 161 crore and on September 12, the tax on natural gas was enhanced by 10 per cent to net Rs 300 crore more in revenue. Now, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has given his nod for increasing the transport tax rates and user charges on various municipal services in urban local bodies, both of which are expected to rake in additional Rs 2,400 crore per annum. Formal orders on this are expected in a few days, official sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-covid-19-andhra-pradesh-sees-spike-in-tax-revenue-data-886981.html
13-09-2020||South||Community barbershop to eliminate caste discrimination at Kerala village||As Kesavan Koviloor had a haircut and shave at a newly opened barbershop at a village in Kerala's Idukki district on Sunday, it marked the end of caste discrimination prevailing in the locality for years. Chakliya, a Scheduled Caste community at Vattavada, about 40 kilometres from Munnar town, had been facing discrimination at barbershops in the locality. In order to eradicate it, the local grama panchayat opened a community barbershop and closed the two barbershops that denied haircut to the Chakliya community members. The 700 odd members of the Chakliya community have been facing discrimination at the barbershops over decades. Hence, the Chakliya community members used to either cut each other's hair or they would travel for 40 kilometres to Munnar town. School students even had to take a day off for a haircut. Though the community members earlier faced discrimination at hotels in the locality, as they were served tea in coconut shells, it was eliminated by the early years of 2000. Still, there were allegations that some hotels used to serve tea to the community members in separate glasses. Interestingly, the Chakliya community members have been facing discrimination mostly from members of other Scheduled Caste communities. A section of youths from the community recently raised voice against the discrimination and submitted a petition to the Vattavada grama panchayat. As it gained support from various quarters, the Vattavada grama panchayat authorities issued closure notice to the two barbershops in the locality that were practising discrimination. Rajya Sabha MP and member of Parliamentary Standing Committee for the welfare of SC/ST K Somaprasad, who intervened in the issue, told DH that if the barbershops allowed Chakliya community members, members of the other communities in the region would not use those shops and hence the discrimination. The CPM ruled panchayat decided to open a community barbershop. The other two barbershops would be allowed to function only if they are willing to entertain the Chakliya community members, said panchayat president Ramaraj. The new barbershop is set up by renovating a building. Bhagyaraj, a barber from the locality, joined the shop, said panchayat secretary Nandakumar. Vattavada district is situated along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. The major chunk of the people of the Vattavada is of Tamil origin. Though the Chakliya community is believed to have its roots in Andhra Pradesh, its members at Vattavada hails from Tamil Nadu. They are mainly involved in agriculture and other daily wage jobs, said Nandakumar. Meanwhile, Somaprasad said that certain allegations of similar discrimination at workplaces have also come up now and it would be looked into.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/community-barbershop-to-eliminate-caste-discrimination-at-kerala-village-886988.html
13-09-2020||South||Plea filed to cancel Malayalam actor Dileep's bail in assault case||The prosecution in an assault case in Kerala has filed a petition seeking cancellation of bail of leading actor Dileep. According to sources, the prosecution alleged that Dileep, who is the eighth accused in the case, is trying to influence the witnesses in the case and hence the bail granted to Dileep should be cancelled. The petition is now pending with the trial court. A popular south Indian actress was allegedly abducted and sexually assaulted by a gang at the behest of Dileep in February 2017. Dileep was arrested in connection to this case in July 2017 and was granted bail in October that year under strict conditions. However, as the trial in the case commenced earlier this year several witnesses turned hostile. This seems to have prompted the prosecution to approach the court seeking cancellation of bail. Special prosecutor in the case A Sureshan was learnt to have filed the application for cancelling bail. He said that the details could not be divulged as the case is being considered in closed court. It was learned that the prosecution alleged that Dileep was trying to influence a prosecution witness who was said to have seen Dileep meeting key accused involved in the abduction of the actor. The trial in the case got delayed as Dileep approached an upper court seeking discharge, but was rejected. The court proceedings were also affected owing to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/plea-filed-to-cancel-malayalam-actor-dileeps-bail-in-assault-case-887019.html
13-09-2020||South||With 5,693 new cases, Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 tally breaches 5-lakh mark||The coronavirus tally in Tamil Nadu surged past the five lakh mark on Sunday with 5,693 fresh cases being added, the Health department said. The state's Covid-19 aggregate stood at 5.02 lakh as 74 related deaths were reported today, taking the toll to 8,381, the department said in a bulletin. Recoveries continued to outnumber fresh infections as 5,717 people walked out from various healthcare facilities, taking the total of those cured to 4.47 lakh so far. Active cases including those in isolation stood at 47,012 in the state. As many as 84,308 specimens were tested on Sunday, pushing the total number of samples tested so far to 58.88 lakh. Meanwhile, the state capital clocked 994 new cases, taking its infection count closer to 1.50 lakh mark. Besides, Coimbatore recorded 490 new cases, followed by Salem 309, Thiruvallur 300, Chengalpet 299, Tirupur 291 and Cuddalore 251, the bulletin said. Erode, Kancheepuram, Kanyakumari, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, Tirunelveli, Vellore and Villupuram logged more than 100 cases. Among the 74 who died of the virus today, 66 had comorbidities. As many as 43 deceased were between the age of 60 and 79, the bulletin said. Seven of the new infections who tested Covid-19 positive were returnees from various States, it said. Of the 8,381 deaths reported till date, 2,976 people were from Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-5693-new-cases-tamil-nadus-covid-19-tally-breaches-5-lakh-mark-887053.html
13-09-2020||South||Allocate land to set up memorial for T'gana liberation day: G Kishan Reddy||Union Minister G Kishan Reddy on Sunday urged Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to allot land here to build a memorial to commemorate the Telangana liberation struggle that led to the merger of the erstwhile princely state of Hyderabad with the Indian Union in 1948. Recalling the history of the struggle, the Minister of State for Home said in a letter to Rao that present and future generations should know about the struggle and take inspiration. Noting that people of Telangana wish to see a special memorial centre, highlighting the history of the state's freedom fighters, set up, Reddy said he recently discussed the matter with the Union Tourism Minister, who agreed to provide funds for it. The Centre is ready to establish a grand memorial centre, which would be an inspiration to future generations if the land is allocated in Hyderabad, he said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/allocate-land-to-set-up-memorial-for-tgana-liberation-day-g-kishan-reddy-887055.html
13-09-2020||South||SCTIMST scientists develop device to help people avoid thrombosis||The Thiruvananthapuram-based Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology has developed a device to help blood flow in legs’ veins, preventing the chances of a susceptible person developing life-threatening Deep Vein Thrombosis, the Department of Science and Technology said on Sunday. The DVT implies the formation of a blood clot in a deep vein, usually in legs, and it can lead to life-threatening complications. The fragments of impure blood clots reaching the heart and then finding its way to the artery, which carries pure, oxygen-rich blood to various parts of the body, can cause 'pulmonary artery embolism', a potentially life-threatening complication. The scientist at Thiruvananthapuram‘s SCTIMST, an institute under the Department of Science and Technology, has developed this device which can help blood in legs’ veins keep flowing. The device can bring relief to patients affected by prolonged immobility or bed-ridden state, possibly due to post-operative immobilization or paralysis of legs. A large number of such patients are affected by DVT causing pain, swelling, redness, warmth and engorged surface veins, the DST said. The engineering team which made this device included Jithin Krishnan, Biju Benjamin and Koruthu P Varughese from the SCTIMST. Such devices are imported at a cost of Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh while the one developed by SCTIMST can be made available domestically for less than Rs 1 lakh, the DST officials said. The newly developed device works by compressing the legs’ veins in sequence to facilitate the flow of blood out of it to heart. The compression pressure is set in such a way that the veins are compressed but not the arteries. It is equipped with closed-loop monitoring of compression pressure and also has controls through valves which are driven by an electronic circuit. A dedicated software and a control circuit are provided in the device to ensure that safe compression levels are always maintained. The device is also equipped with a power supply back-up in the case of power failure. The license for manufacturing and sale of the device has been transferred to Kochi–based enProducts Pvt Ltd, the DST added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sctimst-scientists-develop-device-to-help-people-avoid-thrombosis-887098.html
13-09-2020||South||Protests mark Kerala minister K T Jaleel's travel||Protests by opposition parties marked the travel of Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel from his home at Valancherry in Malappuram district to his official residence in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Over a dozen violent demonstrations were witnessed along the minister's over 300-kilometre travel by road on Sunday. The protests demanding the minister's resignation were continuing in front of his official residence late into the night. Some activists were injured in police action. Jaleel, who was quizzed by Enforcement Directorate on Friday, came out of his house for the first time on Sunday after the news of his questioning came out. Congress, BJP, Youth Congress and Yuva Morcha workers had shown black flags at the minister at many parts of his journey. Attempts were reportedly made to throw rotten eggs at the minister on the way. The police managed to overpower the protesters and ensured safe travel for the minister. Jaleel, who made a social media post accusing the media of presenting baseless news about his involvement in the gold smuggling case, told the media that he would react only on social media. Jaleel was quizzed mainly in connection with accepting Ramadan relief food kits and Quran from UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram through diplomatic baggage. It came to light during a probe by customs into the smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage from UAE to Kerala. The minister was justifying the act as a customary gesture only, while the central agencies are probing into the alleged violations of foreign contribution regulation and protocol norms. Despite the mounting demand for the minister's resignation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was yet to react.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/protests-mark-kerala-minister-k-t-jaleels-travel-887109.html
13-09-2020||State||Excise duties, realty deals lift Karnataka's revenues||The government’s cash registers have started ringing with key departments showing signs of recovery after a turbulent first quarter, especially excise and property registration. Authorities, however, are uncertain on the trend in future collections due to continued uncertainty over Covid-19. With an average target of around Rs 1,050 crore per month, the Stamps & Registration Department had collected just Rs 378.76 cr in the first two months of the fiscal. It surged to Rs 780.95 crore in June, Rs 705.76 crore in July and Rs 987.19 crore in August. It has collected Rs 230 crore in the first 10 days of September, resulting in a revenue of Rs 3,092 crore till date, which was 24% of Rs 12,655 cr target for the fiscal. K P Mohanraj, Inspector General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps, said the department was “positive and confident” that revenue will improve in the coming months. “Predicting how much of the target will we reach is difficult,” he said, adding that a clear picture would emerge only after one or two months. Revenue is dependent on the pandemic, he noted. “While improvement in revenue is a positive sign, growing number of Covid cases is a concern,” he added. The Excise Department, which has an annual target of Rs 22,700 cr for the fiscal, had registered zero revenue in April due to the lockdown. Though collection in May (Rs 1,387 crore) was below the revenue generated in same month last year (Rs 2,052 crore), it has since exceeded the last year’s tally in each of the subsequent months. In June this year, Excise mopped up Rs 2,459.56 crore (Rs 2,404 crore in June 2019), Rs 1,904 crore in July (Rs 1,686 crore) and Rs 1,828 crore in August (Rs 1,684.55 crore last August). The Transport Department, too, is seeing a similar trend as Stamps & Registration, with revenues approaching the average monthly target.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/excise-duties-realty-deals-lift-karnatakas-revenues-886716.html
13-09-2020||State||Hindi Gotthilla: New credo for new generation of Kannada activists||A wave of ‘anti-Hindi imposition’ sentiment is gaining momentum in Karnataka on the back of social media campaigns by pro-Kannada activists who range across the ideological spectrum from the Left to the cultural Right. T-shirts with the slogans, “Hindi Gotthilla Hogo. Naavu Kannadigaru, Naavu Dravidaru” (We don’t know Hindi, go away. We are Kannadigas, we are Dravidians), reminiscent of a similar campaign in Tamil, cropped up on social media recently. The T-shirt campaign was followed up by another one, #ServeInMyLanguage, that made the case for government services to be available in Kannada for Kannada-speaking people. While such campaigns have come and gone, what differentiates this current round of social media-led agitations is bigger numbers of ‘volunteers’ running them and better planning to facilitate a bigger online impact. Groups such as the Kannada Grahakara Koota that were behind the #ServeInMyLanguage hashtag, for instance, co-ordinated to amplify the message on Twitter on Friday, which soon became one of the trending topics. And it’s not limited to social media alone. The Karnataka Rakshana Vedike has planned to hit the streets on September 14 to protest against the celebration of Hindi Diwas. The issues driving the current upsurge in ‘anti-Hindi imposition’ voices include the mention of the three-language formula in National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, bank forms and signboards only in the two official languages and the translation of the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification into Hindi but not other regional languages. Meanwhile, the old bugbears of an undue advantage to Hindi speaking candidates in exams for Central government jobs and services and the use of only Hindi and English in Bengaluru’s Metro services also persist. “Voluntary participation of individuals in social media [campaigns] has increased as more people became aware of how regional languages were sidelined to thrust Hindi upon them,” Arun Javagal of Kannada Grahakara Koota told DH. He pointed out that support for this movement was more substantial than those in the past as linguistic groups from across India were joining in. For these activists, the language policies of the Centre are a threat to the linguistic identity of regional groups and a conspiracy to keep them away from policymaking. This, they feel, goes against the ideals of democracy and India’s federal structure. They say they are prepared for a long fight to change this. “Articles 343 and 351 of the Constitution should be amended to ensure equality to regional languages and a sustained campaign is necessary for the same,” Javal said. One of the surprising voices joining these debates is Chakravarty Sulibele, the founder of the ‘NamoBrigade’. The staunch supporter of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken issue with the manner in which the draft EIA Notification has beencirculated. “If you have no problem translating it into Hindi then definitely you shouldn’t have a problem translating in (sic) Kannada, too. We have more number of original words in Kannada than Hindi.@narendramodi ji this is unacceptable. Please look into it,” he tweeted onSeptember 7. Among the few political leaders who have spoken out against the Centre during such campaigns is Congress MP G C Chandrashekhar. Reacting to the Centre’s stand over the recent language controversies, he quoted Field Marshal K M Cariappa, who said that non-Hindi speakers had the right to protest against Hindi imposition onthem. Amidst all of this the Kannada Development Authority (KDA), a state government body charged with ensuring the use of Kannada in disseminating information about Central government schemes and projects, is trying to toe the middle line. T S Nagabharana, Chairman, KDA, said that Karnataka had written to the Central government to ensure three-language policy in all Central government schemes and information provided by ministries. He held that if the Centre implemented the same three-language policy as in the NEP, many issues could be sorted out. It remains to be seen if new gen Kannada activists will be amenable to this position.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hindi-gotthilla-new-credo-for-new-generation-of-kannada-activists-886756.html
13-09-2020||State||Army person with AK 47 live round handed over to MLIRC||An army person with AK 47 live round and Insas was found at the airport here on Saturday during frisking by KSISF officers. He has been handed over to Maratha Light Infantry Regimental Centre (MLIRC) Station Headquarter. Marihal police under whose jurisdiction the airport has been located in the letter to Station Headquarter, MLIRC informed that Nayak Subedar Arun Maruti Bhosle was found carrying one AK 47 live round and one Insas fired empty case while frisking by KSISF officers. He has been handed over to officers for further action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/army-person-with-ak-47-live-round-handed-over-to-mlirc-886777.html
13-09-2020||State||Widespread more than normal rainfall predicted in Karnataka||Overcast conditions - which has caused maximum temperatures to drop by three to four degrees than normal in parts of Karnataka, is forecast for next week with widespread to fairly widespread rainfall. South Interior Karnataka region has received three times the normal rainfall till September 12, with Karnataka receiving twice the normal rainfall during the period. In the month, 22 of the 30 districts have recorded 'Large Excess rainfall' - which is 60% above the normal. Chitraduraga and Davanagere districts have received 400% of the normal rainfall. In contrast, Bidar and Yadgir districts have received deficit rainfall during the month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/widespread-more-than-normal-rainfall-predicted-in-karnataka-887079.html
13-09-2020||State||Cauvery river swells as rain pounds Kodagu||The water levels in rivers Cauvery and Lakshmanathirtha have shot up following heavy overnight showers in Kodagu. Torrential rain in the last few days has upped the water level at Triveni Sangama in Bhagamandala, the confluence of Cauvery, Kannike and a mythical river Sujyoti. Heavy showers in Talacauvery, Napoklu and surrounding areas have triggered flood fears in Siddapur and Karadigodu regions. Lakshmanathirtha river has swollen following unrelenting showers in Brahmagiri Irpu hills, where the river originates.  Meanwhile the intensity of rain has come down in coastal districts. Overcast conditions prevailed over the region throughout the day. However, Kundapur taluk continued to receive heavy rains with Kirimanjeshwar witnessing 18 cmof rain. A compound wall of the government primary school at Manakulikeri in Bhatkal, Uttara Kannada, caved in due to heavy rains. Many parts of Chikkamagaluru also experienced good rainfall on Sunday. Bhadra reservoir in Shivamogga district is just a foot short of reaching its full reservoir level. Water level in the dam on Sunday rose to 185.10 feet. Parts of Chitradurga and Davangere district also saw moderate spells of rain through the day. Damage in Hampi  The Yediru Basavanna Mantapa in Unesco world heritage site Hampi collapsed due to the persistent wet weather. The mantapa was weakened due to the relentless showers in the past few days. A portion of mantapa had collapsed last month, P Kalimuttu, deputy superintendent, ASI Hampi Circle, told DH. Hosapete town and parts of taluk have been receiving light showers since Saturdaynight. There’s no let-up in rain for coastal districts and Malnad. The India Meteorological Department has declared orange alert for seven districts, predicting heavy rain forMonday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cauvery-river-swells-as-rain-pounds-kodagu-887081.html
13-09-2020||State||Govt docs not to share reports, boycott meetings against pay disparity||The Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) has issued directions to its 4,620 members to stop sharing any report with the government, both Covid and non-Covid, with effect from Tuesday. “Most of the labs are either private or come under the medical education department. The government is free to get Covid test reports from the labs directly. When we struck work in Mysuru a few days ago, Mysuru showed zero cases. That was just for one district. Now, it will show a blank for all districts,” said Dr Srinivas G A, Bengaluru District Health Officer (DHO).  The patients will be informed of their Covid status by private labs or government labs that come under the medical education department, he added. The medical officers did not share any reports with the government after Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer Dr S R Nagendra ended his life. The DHO said the information blockade applies to all government programmes such immunisation, tuberculosis and leprosy programmes. The executive committee of KGMOA which met on Saturday decided to submit a memorandum to deputy commissioners of various districts on September 14. The memorandum says, “We would not be submitting any online or offline reports from September 15, participating in any meeting held by DC/CEO, or health department meetings whether offline or online, including DHO meetings. We would wait for one week.” The memorandum adds that in case of no response from the government, all services except emergency services will be closed from September 21. Currently, the medical education department doctors are being paid according to the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) scale. While an MBBS doctor on AICTE scale gets more than a lakh per month, a health department doctor gets less than Rs 70,000 KGMOA says. “While their doctors are working at the district level, our specialists are working at the taluk/gram panchayat level and in community health centres. They are as qualified or even have more credentials than the doctors of the medical education department,” Dr Srinivas said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-docs-not-to-share-reports-boycott-meetings-against-pay-disparity-887083.html
13-09-2020||State||Almatti dam gets 493 tmcft water in 98 days||The Lal Bahadur Shastri Sagar (Almatti reservoir) has received a whopping 493 tmcft water in 98 days (till Sept 11), this rain season, owing to the bountiful rain in its catchment areas in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The reservoir, the lifeline of north Karnataka districts, had received its first inflow of the season quite early on June 5. In the next two months, the dam logged steady inflows. In August, the daily inflow into the dam clocked 1 lakh-plus cusecs. With a rapid surge in inflow, the dam authorities let out huge volume of water by lifting crest gates. This led to a flood-like situation in downstream Almatti for the best part of August. The reservoir is receiving good volume of water and it is likely to continue till September end, according to Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigama Limited (KBJNL). Almatti reservoir has been reaching its full reservoir level every year since 2002. The dam, on an average, clocks inflows for 110 to 120 days every year. Records galore in 2019 However, last year, the reservoir clocked inflows for a record 144 days. Many records tumbled in 2019. The reservoir recorded 1,095 tmcft of water, highest since 2002. On August 12, the dam received the highest single-day inflow of 6.95 lakh cusecs (60 tmcft). The same day also saw the single-day high in outflow of 5.70 lakh cusecs, the KBJNL sources said. On Friday (Sept 11), 59,860 cusecs of water flowed into Almatti and 62,000 cusecs of water was released downstream the same day. The water level in the dam stood at 519.57 metres while the live storage was 122.48 tmcft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/almatti-dam-gets-493-tmcft-water-in-98-days-887084.html
13-09-2020||State||Some tall leaders of Karnataka BJP consumed opium: Congress MLC||Congress MLC B K Hariprasad has said that some “tall” leaders of the BJP were not stepping out of their houses without consuming opium. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, Hariprasad said that both state and central governments were targeting celebrities in order to hide their failure in tackling Covid-19 pandemic.  “We know of certain tall leaders of BJP who never stepped out without consuming drugs. But, I don’t want to name them,” Hariprasad said. He said that it was wrong to target people of particular religion in the drug scandal. Stern action should be initiated against persons of any religion or party if they have committed an illegal act. “But, now only women are being blamed. Aren’t any men involved in drug scandal?” he sought to know. Meanwhile, speaking to reporters in Chitradurga, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol said that the investigation into the drug racket was on the right track and no information regarding the probe was being leaked. He said that the leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had been making baseless allegations against the government in this regard. Congress leader questioned The Central Crime Branch, Hubballi has questioned Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Congress unit general secretary Girish Gaddigeappagouda over his alleged connection with Sandalwood actor Ragini Dwivedi. An officer who wished not to be named said prima -facie there appeared to be no wrong doing. “We have asked him to submit certain documents related to income tax and property,” the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/some-tall-leaders-of-karnataka-bjp-consumed-opium-congress-mlc-887087.html
13-09-2020||State||Soldier held with live bullet at Sambra airport in Karnataka||The Marihal police in the city arrested a soldier and seized a live bullet of AK 47 rifle and a fired cartridge case of INSAS rifle from hit at Sambra airport here on Sunday. The arrested has been identified as Nayak Subedar Arun Maruti Bhosle. The soldier was found carrying the live bullet and fired cartridge case during the frisking by Karnataka state industrial security force (KSISF) men, the policesaid. Bhosle has been handed over to the Maratha Light Infantry regimental centre station headquarter in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/soldier-held-with-live-bullet-at-sambra-airport-in-karnataka-887088.html
13-09-2020||State||NLSIU to re-test those affected by technical glitch on September 14||The National Law School India University (NLSIU), following complaints of technical glitches during the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT), has announced to conduct re-test for the candidates who had raised complaints. The test, according to the NLSIU will be conducted on Monday, 14 September. On Saturday, hundreds of candidates fumed over NLSIU on social media platforms over the repeated technical glitches. Following several such complaints, the university had asked the students to raise queries. On Sunday evening, the university has announced the holding of re-test and sent SMSs to candidates about the test on Monday. However, some of the candidates are not happy with the move and tweeted, "Is this a cruel joke? Which student enjoys undergoing the stress of entrance exam multiple times? NLSIU admins have totally lost it." Another student tweeted, "NLSIU is more desperate to make NLAT a success than the students are to get into NLSIU."   Despite holding a re-test, the NLSIU has not revealed details of how many students are likely to take the re-test on Monday. The Vice-Chancellor and other authorities did not respond to multiple calls made by DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nlsiu-to-re-test-those-affected-by-technical-glitch-on-september-14-887120.html
13-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Highly spiritual: Some temples in Karnataka offer ganja (weed) as 'prasada'||Marijuana has been at the centre of many a controversy in the recent discourse surrounding drug cases -- be it the one involving actress Rhea Chakraborty or the one down south reeling in Sandalwood stars. The contentious drug in question, however, has found a sacred spot in some temples in north Karnataka for many years now. For instance, the report talks about the Mouneshwara temple in Yadgir's Thinthini, where packets of ganja are given to the devotees as 'prasada' which is smoked after offering prayers to the temple deity. "The usage is traditional as Mouneshwara introduced it (marijuana) to people. The devotees and saints believe this sacred grass shows the path to enhancing knowledge of spirituality," a member of the temple's committee Gangadhar Nayak told the publication. Speaking about its widespread use in the region, Nayak also added that ganja is not sold to outsiders for recreational purposes. “During the (annual) fair, anybody can come here and smoke. While some consume ganja after boiling it, others consume it like tobacco powder," he said. Marijuana is banned in India and the law that governs it is stringent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/highly-spiritual-some-temples-in-karnataka-offer-ganja-weed-as-prasada-886918.html
13-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||105-year-old woman in Karnataka recovers from coronavirus after treatment at home||A 105-year-old woman in Koppal district has successfully recovered from Covid-19, after undergoing treatment for the viral infection at her home. Kamalamma Linganagouda Hiregoudar hails from Katarki village in Koppal taluk. According to official sources, as the elderly woman had a fever, she was made to undergo a test and the result came out positive last week. As the centenarian had no other health issues, also considering her refusal to go to hospital, she underwent treatment under home isolation at her son's residence. After undergoing treatment at home under the supervision of grandson, Srinivas Hyati, who is a Doctor by profession, Kamalamma has recovered and her test reports have come negative now. Speaking to reporters, Kamalamma's grandson said he felt it was challenging considering her age, but as she had no other health issues, she was under normal treatment and his grandmother is now an inspiration for those who fear Covid-19. Though the elderly woman hesitated to take food, she was administered porridge and water, and medicine that was prescribed to her was limited. Till last evening, Koppal had reported a total of 8,802 Covid-19 cases, including 186 deaths and 6,870 discharges. As of September 12 evening, cumulatively 4.49 lakh positive cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, which includes 7,161 deaths and 3.44 lakh discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/105-year-old-woman-in-karnataka-recovers-from-coronavirus-after-treatment-at-home-886924.html
13-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coming week crucial in fight against drugs, agencies & laws will be strengthened: Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the coming week is going to be crucial in the government's crackdown against drug peddling and substance abuse, as it will take certain key decisions by strengthening agencies and laws to fight the menace. He said the intelligence department will also be involved in a big way, while the Central Crime Branch (CCB) will be further strengthened. "We have decided to further strengthen the crackdown against drugs and narcotic substances. The coming week is crucial, as we have decided to give instructions to police in border districts for more stricter measures against drugs coming into the state from inter-state borders," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said it has been decided to involve the intelligence department in a big way in this fight against drugs. Also, there is need to further strengthen the CCB that is investigating the case in Bengaluru, Bommai said, as the CCB is under the burden of several cases, its purview and base need to further strengthened by posting more officials and providing more facilities. "We will be taking certain decisions in this regard in the coming days. " Further noting that state has the powers to frame rules for the implementation of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), which is a central act, he said to resolve implementational issues and regarding changing rules, we will be discussing with legal experts and take the decision to further strengthen. CCB police investigation into the drugs case has led to several arrests so far including actresses Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani, and high-end party planner Viren Khanna among others. Stressing the need for concerted effort and an aware society to fight the drugs, Bommai said we are open for all suggestions and advice in this regard. "I have told police officials, especially CCB, that any information from anywhere, whether it is media or any statement, should be taken seriously and investigated for necessary further action," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coming-week-crucial-in-fight-against-drugs-agencies-laws-will-be-strengthened-karnataka-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-886955.html
13-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Drugs case: Siddaramaiah seeks impartial probe without any political motive||Leader of Opposition in Karnataka assembly Siddaramaiah on Sunday sought merciless action against those involved in drug peddling and substance abuse in the state, and said the investigation into the case has to be "impartial" and without any political motive. "Any investigation has to be impartial, it should not be done without any political motive. Drug is a menace to the whole society, this has been around for several years now and it has to be stopped," Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters here, he said merciless action should be taken against whoever is involved in it, but it should not be out of political malice. To a query on Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan's name allegedly being linked to the case, Siddaramaiah said just because someone is seen with a person involved in a case, he cannot be labelled a criminal. "What is the evidence for Zameer's involvement in the drug racket? It should not be done unnecessarily out of political motive. Someone's name should not be dragged in unnecessarily to defame them," he said. The former chief minister said he had even questioned Zameer, after his name was linked to the case, and the latter has clarified that he has no connection and has nothing to do with it. Zameer Ahmed Khan, ruling out his involvement or any connection with the case had on Friday said he was being targeted for being a Muslim and would file a defamation suit against entrepreneur Prashanth Sambaragi, who has accused him of having links with those allegedly involved in the case. Responding to a question on his recent charge that the government was using the drugs case to 'cover up' its failures, Siddaramaiah said, "it is getting more publicity, I'm not saying that publicity should not be given, but keeping everything aside, this is getting importance."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drugs-case-siddaramaiah-seeks-impartial-probe-without-any-political-motive-887005.html
13-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports biggest single day spike of 9,894 new Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Sunday reported its biggest single-day spike of 9,894 new Covid-19 cases and 104 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 4,59,445 and the death toll to 7,265, the Health department said. The day also saw 8,402 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 9,894 fresh cases reported on Sunday, 3,479 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on September 2 with 9,860 cases. As of September 13 evening, cumulatively 4,59,445 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 7,265 deaths and 3,52,958 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 99,203 active cases, 98,396 patients were in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 807 were in ICU. As many as 45 out of total 104 deaths reported on Sunday were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Mysuru (15), Ballari (8), Dharwad (7), Shivamogga (5), Hassan (4), Dakshina Kannada, Koppal and Tumakuru (3), Gadag, Kolar and Raichur (2), and Chikkaballapura, Davangere, Haveri, Uttara Kannada and Vijayapura(1). Most of the dead were either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 3,479, followed by Mysuru (665), Ballari (661), Hassan (426), Dakshina Kannada (404), Belagavi (318), Shivamogga (299), Tumakuru (294), Koppal (259) and Mandya (246), followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,70,662 infections, followed by Ballari (26,813) and Mysuru (25,751). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with total 1,27,132, followed by Ballari (21,728) and Mysuru (18,158). A total of 38,00,976 samples were tested so far, out of which 67,955 were tested on Sunday alone. Among the samples tested today 31,657 were rapid antigen test||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-9894-new-covid-19-cases-887040.html
13-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Examinees approve of safety measures at NEET centres||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate medical and dental courses for the 2020-21 academic year was held successfully on Sunday amidst the panic over Covid. Of the total 15 lakh plus candidates who registered, only 1,19,587 appeared at various centres in the state. Keeping in mind the safety of candidates, the National Testing Agency (NTA) had increased the number of examination centres compared to the previous year. The candidates started reporting as early as 10.30 am, even though they were instructed to report between 11 am and 11.30 am for verification process. Further, 12.30 pm was the deadline for students to register, as the exams were scheduled to commence at 2 pm. Some students complained that they had to wait for at least an hour to get through the Covid-19 screening process.  “Even though I had reached the centre much early, I was in queue for over 45 minutes for screening,” a student at a test centre in Bengaluru said. Another student said, “I was under intense pressure till I reached the hall after the formalities.” Students said physics and biology papers were a bit difficult. “The biology paper was tricky and difficult to answer,” said a candidate. “Even the physics paper was lengthy and difficult,” said another student. Much to the relief of many, there were no reports of health safety issues. The candidates appreciated the measures taken for social distancing and for the safety of candidates. At some test centres, parents were seen crowding outside the campus and security staff had to repeatedly ask them to disperse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/examinees-approve-of-safety-measures-at-neet-centres-887089.html
13-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Net cast beyond consumer, will catch drug trade kingpins, says Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka’s crackdown against drugs has hogged headlines for over a week. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai tells Bharath Joshi of DH that it was the first time that the government is taking high-profile people head-on in the war against drugs. Excerpts of the interview.  The government has said that the ongoing operation against drugs is unprecedented. What are you doing that previous governments did not? Previous governments hadn’t taken this seriously at all. We’ve attacked this from all angles. Earlier, it started and ended with the consumer. Now, we’ve taken this to the kingpins and suppliers across the state and nation. For the first time, we were able to break the dark web, and also seize large amount of synthetic drugs that were to be supplied to lakhs of people. And nobody dared to touch people with high contacts. We’ve taken them head on. Whoever they are, however well connected they may be, we won’t spare them.  But there’s only so much the police can do with educational institutions closed, given that students are said to be the most vulnerable. Before educational institutions restart, we’ll meet government officials (for state-run institutions) and private managements. We want to take them into confidence. We want to see to it that drugs are eradicated from educational institutions. Somehow, the perception is that it is only ganja that is being seized. Ganja is there in large quantities. Synthetic drugs such as LSD, heroin and cocaine in different forms are also being seized in a big way compared with previous years. I’ll provide all details in the upcoming session of the legislature. Former CM Siddaramaiah says your party is falsely accusing Opposition leaders during the ongoing investigation. We’re not here for any witch hunt. At the same time, the Opposition should also not come in the way of the investigation by making such political statements. Whom do they want to protect? What (Siddaramaiah) means to say is, if someone in the Opposition is involved, that person shouldn’t be touched. Clearly, drug abuse can’t be limited to the film industry. But the investigation seems confined to just that. Always, the optics of cinema will be very high. That’s all. But, if you see, we’ve arrested 8-10 people who have nothing to do with cinema. They were the real suppliers and they were the real party organizers. They were marketing the drugs. The menace of drugs is in the entire spectrum of our society. So, whoever is involved will be booked. Why does the government want to revisit the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act? After analysing all the previous cases, it is found that most of the people get bail and are acquitted because of procedural faults. It’s a very, very long procedure involved. The NDPS Act is a Central Act, but the state has the right to make rules to implement it. So, we’re looking into that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/net-cast-beyond-consumer-will-catch-drug-trade-kingpins-says-basavaraj-bommai-887094.html
13-09-2020||West||Quarantine center attendant held for raping woman in Maharashtra||A 27-year-old attendant at a Covid-19 quarantine centre in Maharashtra's Thane district has been arrested for allegedly raping a woman at the facility, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in June, but came to light on Saturday when the 20-year-old woman lodged a police complaint, inspector Sampat Patil of Navghar police station said. The woman in her complaint alleged that the accused committed the offence while she was attending to an 11-year- old relative who was lodged at the quarantine centre, located in Mira Road area here, the official said. According to the police, the woman was staying in a room at the facility along with her 10-month-old daughter to take care of the relative who tested positive for coronavirus. The accused used to visit the room at night under the pretext of giving hot water. He allegedly made advances towards the woman, but she resisted his move following which he threatened to kill her child, Patil said. He allegedly raped the woman in the room on three occasions in the first week of June, the official said. The woman did not approach police at that time as she was afraid the accused would harm her family members. She lodged a police complaint on Saturday following which the accused was arrested and a case was registered against him under Indian Penal Code Section 376 (rape) and other relevant provisions, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/quarantine-center-attendant-held-for-raping-woman-in-maharashtra-886815.html
13-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Six drug peddlers arrested||In a major swoop as part of its mission to bust the Bollywood-drug mafia nexus, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) nabbed six drug peddlers with possible links to the group arrested in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. The actor’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik were arrested last week by the NCB. The NCB has been carrying out raids in Mumbai and elsewhere in the country for the last three to four days. Among those arrested include Karam Jeet Singh Anand alias KJ, a 23-year-old Bandra resident from whom NCB seized ganja and charas. In another raid, Dywan Anthony Fernandes along with two persons has been apprehended from Dadar West, who used to supply ganja. In this case, 500 grams of Ganja has been recovered. Besides, Ankush Arenja, a 29-year-old youth was nabbed from Powai in the citywide swoops in the past couple of days. The NCB has recovered 42 grams of charas and cash of Rs.1,12,400 from Arenja. Arenja is described as a receiver of contraband from Karamjeet and also supplied it to another accused Anuj Keshwani, arrested earlier in the same case. The NCB, Goa unit has apprehended one Chris Costa in the same case. The operations were spearheaded by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who has been attached to NCB for six months. “Detailed investigations were in progress,” NCB’s deputy director (operations) KPS Malhotra said. He, however, denied that Bollywood celebrities are on the radar. Those arrested earlier besides Rhea and Showik include, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant, drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar; Kaizan Ebrahim, Karna Arora, Abbas Lakhani and Anuj Keshwani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-six-drug-peddlers-arrested-886816.html
13-09-2020||West||Another fire breaks out at SSG Hospital in Vadodara, no casualty reported||A fire broke out at the state-run SSG Hospital treating Covid-19 patients in Gujarat's Vadodara city, the second such incident at the hospital in a week, officials said on Sunday. The minor blaze erupted in the hospital late Saturday night following a spark in the electric room of the neurosurgery ward, but it was soon doused with a fire extinguisher by alert staff members, they said. There was no casualty, they added. No fire department personnel was called, a fire brigade official said. The incident took place on the ground floor of the building, which has an ICU ward having several patients on the first floor and a laboratory for testing samples for coronavirus, a hospital official said. "It was a minor fire. A fuse blew up due to an electric spark, but the fire was soon brought under control," SSG Hospital's medical superintendent Ranjan Aiyer said. "We controlled the blaze using a fire extinguisher. Had the fire not been controlled, the situation could have been worse as many serious patients are admitted in the ICU ward on the first floor," another hospital official said. Earlier, a fire broke out in the hospital in Tuesday following which 35 patients were shifted from two affected wards. No one was injured in that incident. The fire had broken out due to a short-circuit in a ventilator inside the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) ward where critical coronavirus patients were being treated, an official earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/another-fire-breaks-out-at-ssg-hospital-in-vadodara-no-casualty-reported-886828.html
13-09-2020||West||42 tourists held for gambling after raid in Goa hotel at Calangute beach village||Goa Police have arrested 42 tourists after a raid on a gambling den at Calangute beach village near here, an official said on Sunday. Cash worth Rs 10 lakh, 57 mobile phones and other material were seized following the raid conducted in a hotel near the Calangute beach in North Goa district around Saturday midnight, a police spokesman said. The accused, all tourists from Gujarat, Maharashtra and New Delhi, were caught gambling on the fifth floor of the hotel, he said. All the accused have been booked under provisions of the Goa, Daman and Diu Public Gambling Act, he said. The official said they will write a letter to the state tourism department to seek suspension of the hotel's licence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/42-tourists-held-for-gambling-after-raid-in-goa-hotel-at-calangute-beach-village-886857.html
13-09-2020||West||Uddhav Thackeray warns of second wave of Covid-19||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Sunday, warned that there would possibly be a second wave of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Thackeray said that the precautions and preventive measures have to be multiplied manifold to tackle the viral infection. “Cases are on the rise, in India and the world….is this the second wave? Or are we on the threshold of a second wave…difficult to say but let us together make efforts to ensure that the Covid-19 problems do not compound further…we are making all efforts to prevent a second wave,” Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president said in a webcast. “We would not like another lockdown, let us all work towards that goal,” he said, adding that preventive measures need to be adhered to. Thackeray hinted that there could be severe action for not wearing masks. “You have to wear masks…there cannot be any laxity…and you have to wear masks properly, you cannot just pull it down from your nose and mouth and keep the mask hanging…I have seen people not wearing the mask properly,” the chief minister said. “Avoid face to face talks, give more stress on online shopping, avoid crowding while traveling in public transport follow physical distancing. Make maximum use of video conferencing for meetings,” he advised, adding that until and unless it is absolutely necessary people must not step out – and follow the work-from-home culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-warns-of-second-wave-of-covid-19-886861.html
13-09-2020||West||Conspiracy to malign Maharashtra: Uddhav Thackeray||Facing flak from detractors on both political and coronavirus front, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said a conspiracy is afoot to malign Maharashtra. "Whatever political storms come, I will face... I will fight coronavirus too," Thackeray said in a televised public address. A day after Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 10-lakh mark, Thackeray said his government has done effective work to tackle the pandemic. Speaking in the backdrop of political criticism over demolition of actress Kangana Ranaut's bungalow in Mumbai and the way his government handled the Sushant Singh Rajpit death case, Thackeray assured people that he would fight the political crisis too. "I will have to remove the mask of Chief Minister to respond to politics. I don't speak doesn't mean I don't have answers," Thackeray said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/conspiracy-to-malign-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-886871.html
13-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Amid high demand, tempo with oxygen cylinders stolen in Pune||A tempo carrying seven oxygen cylinders meant for hospitals amid the coronavirus outbreak was stolen in Pune's Chakan area, police said on Sunday. The complainant has a business of transporting such cylinders and he had parked his tempo outside his house on Thursday night from where it went missing a few hours later, Inspector Balaji Sontake of Mhalunge post said. "We have registered a theft case and efforts are on to trace the tempo and nab the accused who stole it," said the official. There is a high demand for oxygen in hospitals due to the coronavirus outbreak and the district administration here has even formed dedicated teams to oversee and coordinate supply between oxygen manufacturing units and medical facilities. Adequate oxygen support, along with anti-coagulants and other medicines, is the mainstay of Covid-19 therapy and medical oxygen is listed as an Essential Public Health Commodity by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-amid-high-demand-tempo-with-oxygen-cylinders-stolen-in-pune-886874.html
13-09-2020||West||Gujarat: Policeman who worked as 'carrier' for racket held with banned drug worth almost Rs 1 crore||The Detection of Crime Branch (DCB), Ahmedabad on Sunday busted a drug racket and arrested four persons including a policeman. Crime Branch officials said that the racket was using the accused policeman as a 'carrier' who used to sit in the car in uniform to avoid suspicion while ferrying drugs from Mumbai. DCB officials said that they had received specific information on this racket which used to bring drug Methamphetamine from Mumbai. They said that based on the information, three persons were identified as Md Arif Jamaluddin Kazi alias Munno, 48, Firozkhan Mohammedkhan Nagori, 51, and Imran Ibrahim Padhiyar alias Emmo, 28, all residents of Jamalpur, Ahmedabad. They were caught at Ahmedabad-Vadodara Express Highway while coming from Mumbai in a car. The police recovered 995 gram MD drug worth Rs 99.50 lakh, phones, police uniform, cap, belt, among others. The suspected policeman Nagori is posted with Danilimda police station as an Assistant Sub-inspector (ASI). "Nagori used to sit in the car wearing his uniform while travelling from Mumbai to Ahmedabad in order to avoid suspicion. There is CCTV footage which shows him sitting in the uniform and later changing it after reaching close to Ahmedabad," said Superintendent of Police, DCB, Deepan Bhadran. Police said that the drug was procured from Mumbai with the help of Shahzad Hussain Tezabwala and Imran A Ajmeri. These two suspects had been arrested in another case of 1.469 kg of methamphetamine drug, worth Rs 1.46 crore, haul case in 2019 and were out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-policeman-who-worked-as-carrier-for-racket-held-with-banned-drug-worth-almost-rs-1-crore-886886.html
13-09-2020||West||Kangana Ranaut meets Maharashtra Guv Koshyari, talks about 'injustice' done to her||Amid the raging war of words between Kangana Ranaut and Shiv Sena, the Bollywood actor met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday to complain about the 'injustice' meted out to her. The meeting came days after the Shiv Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished alleged illegal alterations at Kangana's bungalow at Pali Hill in suburban Bandra. The meeting between Kangana and her sister-cum-manager Rangoli Chandel with Koshyari lasted for 30 minutes. “The Governor is the guardian of the state, I told him about the injustice meted out to me,” she said, adding what happened to her was an indecent behaviour.  “I have nothing to do with politics. I have come here as a common citizen, who has started in Mumbai from a scratch,” she said. “I am privileged that Governor Sir met me….he heard me as a daughter,” she said. The trouble between the Sena and Kangana started after the actor recently said she feared the Mumbai police more than the "movie mafia" and likened the Maharashtra capital to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). The 33-year-old actor, who returned to Mumbai on Wednesday from her home state Himachal Pradesh the same day as her house was partially demolished by the civic body, had alleged that the Maharashtra government was targeting her because of her clash with the Sena. On Friday, the "Queen" actor had urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to intervene and stop the "harassment of women". In a tweet, she had asked Gandhi if she was not anguished by the treatment given by the Maharashtra government, in which the Congress is also a part. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-ranaut-meets-maharashtra-guv-koshyari-talks-about-injustice-done-to-her-886951.html
13-09-2020||West||Nagpur mask violation fine up from Rs 200 to Rs 500: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said people in Nagpur will be fined Rs 500 instead of Rs 200 from Monday for not wearing masks amid the coronavirus outbreak. Speaking to reporters here, he said all precautions must be taken and social distancing norms have to be followed strictly till such time as a vaccine is developed for Covid- 19. "Despite appeals, many people are not wearing masks. From Monday, the fine here will be Rs 500, up from the current Rs 200," he said. Queried on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's statement earlier in the day that a conspiracy was underway to defame the state, Deshmukh said it was true. "From the last two months we can see there is a conspiracy going on to defame Maharashtra," Deshmukh said. Thackeray made the remarks during a televised public address on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-mask-violation-fine-up-from-rs-200-to-rs-500-anil-deshmukh-886958.html
13-09-2020||West||Maharashtra anganwadi supervisor booked for bid to sell ration||An anganwadi supervisor from Thane district in Maharashtra has been booked for allegedly misappropriating nutritious food meant for beneficiaries, the Zilla Parishad said in a release on Sunday. The accused Sushma Gughe, working in the integrated development project in Kalyan, was caught while transporting stock of dry food in a mini truck on Saturday night. Through anganwadis, the government provides supplementary nutrition to children below age of six years, lactating mothers, and pregnant women. A case has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-anganwadi-supervisor-booked-for-bid-to-sell-ration-886998.html
13-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Jalna official junks Covid-19 compensation messages||The state government is not giving Rs 1.5 lakh as compensation to Covid-19 patients and any message to this effect on social media is fake and must not be believed, Jalna Collector Ravindra Binwade said on Sunday. He said the state was providing free treatment under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). Binwade also refuted rumours that the district would be put under a total lockdown again amid a rise in infection cases. The Covid-19 count here reached 6,516 after 179 people tested positive on Sunday. The number of active cases is 1,461 as 4,969 people have been discharged and 166 have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-jalna-official-junks-covid-19-compensation-messages-887006.html
13-09-2020||West||Gujarat govt to provide interest-free loans to women||The Gujarat government on Sunday said it will launch a special scheme to provide interest-free loans to promote self-employment among women in the time of Covid-19 pandemic on September 17, birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Under the Mukhyamantri Mahila Kalyan Scheme (MMKS), loans of Rs one lakh will be given to women self-help groups (SHGs) each comprising 10 members, an official release said. The state government will bear the interest burden on loans, it said. A total of one lakh such SHGs--50,000 each in rural and urban areas--will begranted loans under the scheme, it said. "The Gujarat government has decided to introduce a scheme to provide loan sans interest to women to make them self-employed. The scheme will help women to become self-reliant and will enable them to help their families to cope with finances in the time of coronavirus pandemic," the release said. In rural areas of the state, the MMKS will be implemented by the Gujarat Livelihood Promotion Company, while the Gujarat Urban Livelihood Mission will implement it in urban areas. "This scheme will help women to start their own small business from their homes," the government said, adding that it will soon sign MoUs with banks and other lenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-to-provide-interest-free-loans-to-women-887009.html
13-09-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray ignores Kangana Ranaut as she meets Governor Koshyari||Rattled by the demolition of her office, Kangana Ranaut met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday even as Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray kept mum and completely chose to ignore the Bollywood actor, who is being backed by the BJP. Kangana and her-cum-manager Rangoli Chandel called on Governor Koshyari at Raj Bhavan in Malabar Hill, where the meeting lasted for thirty minutes. After the meeting, Kangana sounded diplomatic and said that she is not a politician and has nothing to do with politics and is committed to fight for justice. Meanwhile, Thackeray in a webcast to the people of the state completely sidestepped the burning issue of the demolition of alleged illegal construction and alterations at the actor’s office Manikarnika Films Pvt Ltd at the Pali Hill bungalow by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Thackeray, his son and Tourism Minister Aaditya and Shiv Sena had been the target of the 33-year-old actor on multiple issues like the lynching of two sadhus of Juna Akhada and their driver at Palghar and the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. She had even addressed Thackeray inappropriately using words like “tu” and “tujhe”. However, Thackeray, who heads the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress' Maha Vikas Aghadi government, was completely unfazed by the issue. “Whatever political storm comes, I will face them... I will fight the Covid-19 pandemic too,” Thackeray said. It was an apparent response to the Leader of Opposition and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s charge that “the government is fighting Kangana and not corona”. The Chief Minister further said: “I want to speak about how Maharashtra is being defamed; that I'm not speaking doesn't mean I don't have answers”. There were speculations that Thackeray would break his silence on the issue, and give a reply to the BJP and right-wing organisations that had been backing the actor. Speaking after meeting with the Governor, Kangana said: “The Governor is the guardian of the state, I told him about the injustice meted out to me.” She said what happened to her was an indecent behaviour.  “I am not a politician...I have nothing to do with politics. I have come here as a common citizen, who started in Mumbai from a scratch,” she said. “I am privileged that Governor Sir met me….he heard me as a daughter,” she said. Asked about the meeting, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that he sees nothing wrong. "Anyone can go and meet the Governor." However, he said that the actor is being protected by the same police whom she called 'mafia'. "See the dictionary and look for the exact meaning...she had repeatedly called the Mumbai police as mafia...she has been targetting the (MVA) government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-ignores-kangana-ranaut-as-she-meets-governor-koshyari-887011.html
13-09-2020||West||On the run with female student for two years, Gujarat teacher arrested from Himachal Pradesh||On the run for over two years, a 50-year-old teacher who had eloped with his 18-year-old female student was nabbed by a team of Delhi police from Solan, Himachal Pradesh. The teacher Dhaval Trivedi, already convicted for raping two minors who were also his students, will be brought to Ahmedabad by CBI, which was chasing him following a Gujarat High Court order on a petition moved by the girls' parents. CBI officials said that a team of Delhi police arrested Trivedi from Himachal Pradesh based on information received through technical surveillance. He was disguised as "Satnam Singh alias Mukhtiyar Singh" sporting beards and moustache. Officials said that Trivedi had run away with his 18-year-old student from Chotila, Rajkot district where he had started a coaching centre after getting out of jail on two paroles and a furlough within a span of less than two months. Officials said that after eloping, Trivedi and the girl started living in Gurudwaras in different cities. They lived at 25 places including Jammu, Delhi, Gorakhpur, Patna, Haridwar, Kathmandu in Nepal among other cities. Officials said that Trivedi lived in several Gurudwaras with fake names and at many places took up teaching work. He taught English at Arora International School, Patna, Maulana Azad Public School at Narkatiyaganj, Champaran as its principal.  They went to Jamshedpur where they lived at Refugee Colony Gurudwara as "Father-Daughter" but left after the management started suspecting. They also went to Odisha and then Haryana from where he tried to leave for Canada as a preacher of Sikh religion but failed due to lack of documents. He took the girl to Haridwar where they separated following a tiff. About two weeks ago, he went to Ludhiana and finally was apprehended in Solan, Himachal Pradesh. Meanwhile, the girl returned home in June with her 11-month-old child. After she left home in 2018, the girl's parents had registered an FIR with local police but even after a year, they couldn't trace the duo. The matter reached the High Court which asked the CBI to find the girl and the teacher. CBI issued an advisory to all states, education departments and also approached Nepal and Bhutan police for information through Interpol. Look Out Circulars, Blue Corner Notice were issued against Trivedi.  CBI also declared a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh for information on Trivedi. The notice issued by police inspector Ketan Mehta, who is investigating the case, mentioned Trivedi's background as a "history-sheeter" who committed similar offences in the past and "generally works as an English teacher" in remote areas. Gujarat ATS also joined in to assist the CBI. In a similar incident, Trivedi had been booked for enticing, abducting and eloping with two minor girls in 2012 and was arrested from Punjab in 2014. These girls were also his students at a reputed school in Rajkot. He was awarded life imprisonment by Rajkot sessions court in 2018.  Sources said that inside Sabarmati Central Jail he created rapport with jail staff by helping them reading and replying "English correspondence". He was two paroles and a furlough during which he started a coaching centre at Chotila and within two weeks, he fled with the girl.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/on-the-run-with-female-student-for-two-years-gujarat-teacher-arrested-from-himachal-pradesh-887013.html
13-09-2020||West||Nagpur sees 2,343 Covid-19 cases; highest in a day||Nagpur registered its highest single-day spike of 2,343 new coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, the authorities said. This took the district's overall tally to 52,471, the district information office said in a statement. The number of patients who died due to the infection on Sunday was 45. This pushed the death toll in the district to 1,658, it said. As many as 39,149 patients have recovered from the infection so far, of whom 1,769 were discharged on Sunday. There are 11,664 active patients in Nagpur district at present, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-sees-2343-covid-19-cases-highest-in-a-day-887022.html
13-09-2020||West||Shiv Sena targets Akshay Kumar for his silence over Kangana Ranaut's PoK comment||Questioning the silence of Bollywood on the Kangana Ranaut-episode, the Shiv Sena on Sunday accused the BJP of backing the actor, who had compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir. “The Hindi film industry should have condemned the statement against Mumbai….they should have said that Kangana opinion is not the film industry’s opinion…at least Akshay Kumar should have said,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut wrote in his weekly column ‘RokhThok’ in Marathi daily Saamana. "It is unfortunate that BJP is supporting those who call Mumbai as Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir and the city's civic body as Babur's army," said Raut, a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray said. However, Kangana has reacted sharply to the statement.  “Wow!! Unfortunate that BJP is protecting someone who busted drug and mafia racket, BJP should instead let Shiv Sena goons break my face, rape or openly lynch me, nahin Sanjay ji? How dare they protect a young woman who is standing against the mafia!!!,” she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-targets-akshay-kumar-for-his-silence-over-kangana-ranauts-pok-comment-887024.html
13-09-2020||West||Maratha quota: Post SC stay, protests in Solapur, Kolhapur||Members of the Maratha Kranti Morcha on Sunday staged protests in Solapur's Shivaji Chowk area against the state and Union governments following the Supreme Court stay on the implementation of a decision to provide quota for the community in jobs and education. The apex court on Wednesday stayed implementation of the Maratha quota law and referred petitions challenging the law to a larger constitution bench. Protesters conducted a mock funeral of the state and Central governments and demanded that the two work together to ensure the community gets justice, MKM member Ram Jadhav said. A Fauzdar Chawdi police station official said protesters were detained later. In Kolhapur, members of Maratha outfits tried to stop vehicles on the highway, and warned they would disrupt milk supply to Mumbai as part of their agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maratha-quota-post-sc-stay-protests-in-solapur-kolhapur-887028.html
13-09-2020||West||1,326 new Covid-19 cases in Gujarat, toll rises by 15||With the addition of 1,326 coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, Gujarat's overall tally went up to 1,13,662, the state health department said. With 15 deaths, the fatality count reached 3,213, it said. A total of 1,205 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the number of recovered cases in the state to 94,010, the department said in its release. In the last 24 hours, 68,828 tests were conducted in Gujarat at the rate of 1,058.89 tests per day per million population, the department said. With this, the number of samples tested in the state so far has increased to 32,88,811. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,13,662, new cases 1,326, deaths 3,213, discharged 94,010, active cases 16,439, and people tested so far 32,88,811.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1326-new-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-toll-rises-by-15-887030.html
13-09-2020||West||Tribals from villages around Statue of Unity stage protest||Hundreds of tribals from 14 villages around the Statue of Unity on Sunday formed human chains against acquisition of their land by the Gujarat government for development of the area, which they said would affect their livelihood. On the occasion of the Indigenous Peoples' Rights Day, residents protested peacefully outside their villages by holding placards and banners. One of their main demands included the cancellation of the recently-enacted Statue of Unity Area Development and Tourism Governance Act, an activist said. The act gives power to the government to acquire land across these villages for any development projects in the area around the world's tallest 1,182-metre statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. People from 50 tribal-dominated talukas in 16 districts in eastern Gujarat took part in the protests organised by Adivasi Samanvay Manch, said activist Praful Vasava. "The state government is forcibly taking away farmland owned by tribals that forms the basis of their livelihood in the name of development projects," he alleged. He said a large number of tribals were displaced because of the projects. "We demand that the government grant us rights under the Panchayats (Extension to the Scheduled Areas) Act," he said. When asked about protests, Narmada district superintendent of police Himkar Singh said tribals marked the Indigenous Peoples' Rights Day on Sunday. "They just came out of their houses on road to protest and they did so peacefully. Similar events were organised all over the district and in other parts of Gujarat," the police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tribals-from-villages-around-statue-of-unity-stage-protest-887048.html
13-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: 22,543 cases push Covid-19 tally beyond 10.60 lakh||Maharashtra on Sunday continued to report higher number of Covid-19 infections and added 22,543 new cases and 416 deaths, state health department said. The total count of cases now stands at 10,60,308, while the cumulative death toll reached 29,531, it said. 261 of the 416 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours. A total of 11,549 patients were discharged after treatment in the day, taking the number of recoveries in the state to 7,40,061. The state is now left with 2,90,344 active cases, the department said in a statement. Maharashtra's case recovery rate stands at 69.8 per cent while the fatality rate is 2.79 per cent, it said. On Sunday, Mumbai saw 2,085 new cases and 41 deaths, taking the city's total case count to 1,69,741. The cumulative death toll now stands at 8,150, it said. The total number of cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including Mumbai, rose by 5,357 to 3,98,938. With 84 people succumbing to the infection, the fatality count in the MMR went up to 13,951, it said. Elsewhere, Pune city added 2,294 cases while Nagpur's count of new infections was 1,534. Pimpri Chinchwad added 1,004 patients in the day, it said. Nashik added 713 more patients, followed by Sangli (562), Aurangabad (429), Amravati (194), Jalgaon (131) and Chandrapur (120). The state tested 52,53,676 samples until now. Currently, 16,83,770 people are placed in home quarantine while 37,294 others are in institutional quarantine. Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally is as follows: Positive cases: 10,60,308, deaths: 29,531, recoveries: 7,40,061, active cases: 2,90,344, and people tested so far: 52,53,676.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-22543-cases-push-covid-19-tally-beyond-1060-lakh-887051.html
13-09-2020||West||203 villages under Thane Zilla Parishad now 'corona free'||A total of 203 villages under Thane Zilla Parishad do not have any coronavirus positive cases and the panchayats there have put up green flags to highlight the feat, Chief Executive Officer Hiralal Sonawane said on Sunday. He told PTI that villages which do not report any Covid-19 case for 28 days are termed 'corona free villages'. The official informed that Thane district has 430 village panchayats in all. "The recovery rate in the rural parts of the district is 79.24 per cent," he added. District Health Officer Manish Renge said doubling rate of cases in the ZP area was now 84 days. Thane ZP PRO Pankaj Chavan said there were 11,257 coronavirus positive cases in its jurisdiction, led by Bhiwandi with 4,536. "A total of 8920 people have recovered while the death toll so far is 338. The number of active cases is 1,999," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/203-villages-under-thane-zilla-parishad-now-corona-free-887076.html
13-09-2020||West||SSR case: NCB arrests six more persons from Mumbai||Six more persons were arrested from here on Sunday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) probing the drug angle in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, taking the total count of people held so far to 16, an official said. The six accused have been identified as Karamjeet Singh Anand, Dwayne Fernandes, Sanket Patel, Ankush Anreja, Sandeep Gupta and Aftab Fateh Ansari, he said, adding that they were picked up after their names emerged during investigation. They all were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, he said. The official said Anand is a supplier of drugs who has had connections in film industry. Fernandes used to deal in curated marijuana and hashish, and is an associate of Showik Chakraborty, brother of actress Rhea Chakraborty who was arrested earlier by the federal anti-drugs agency in the case, he said. The NCB suspects Fernandes had supplied drugs that were arranged for the actor, the official said. Patel used to work under Anand and used to deliver narcotics to celebrities, the official said. On Gupta's role, he said the former is a rickshaw driver, but he used to transport bulk quantities of "weed" to retail dealers like Fernandes. Ansari is an associate of Gupta, he said. He said Anreja runs a kitchen in a posh locality in the city, but also used to sell contrabands like weed, Hash and MD to high-profile client. Anreja used to buy drugs from Patel and was also connected with the network operated by Anuj Keshwani, who was arrested in the case earlier, and Anand, the official added. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the NCB is probing the drugs case in which Rhea Chakraborty, Showik, late Rajput's manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant and others have been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ssr-case-ncb-arrests-six-more-persons-from-mumbai-887085.html
13-09-2020||West||Mumbai police inspector dies of Covid-19; toll 75||The number of Covid-19 deaths in the Mumbai Police force reached 75 on Sunday with a 53-year- old inspector succumbing to the infection, an official said. The deceased inspector was attached to Vakola police station in the city. He was briefly hospitalised after a minor road accident and was recovering at his home, the official said. "Around 5.30 am, the inspector suddenly collapsed inside his bathroom and became unconscious. He was rushed to hospital, where he was declared dead," the official added. His samples returned positive for the Covid-19 infection, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-inspector-dies-of-covid-19-toll-75-887121.html
