14-09-2020||First Edit||Delhi riots: Victims are culprits, critics conspirators||What is common between CPM General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, economist Jayati Ghosh, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand and film-maker Rahul Roy is that they are critics of the Narendra Modi government and have opposed many of its decisions and policies, including the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). What is also common between them is that they are named as accused or co-conspirators in a supplementary charge sheet filed in connection with the probe into the communal riots in north-east Delhi in February. The police claim that the names occur only in a disclosure statement which is not admissible as evidence in a court of law. But the possibility of it forming the basis for legal action in future cannot entirely be ruled out. The original charge sheet was against three anti-CAA protesters who had staged a sit-in, and the secondary charge sheet, citing disclosure statements of two of them, says they were directed by Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Roy to stage protests. But the two have written on some pages of the statement that they refused to sign on them. Yechury and Yadav figure in the statements of the third accused for “provoking and mobilising crowds.’’  The denials by the police of any mala fide intentions are not convincing, in view of the bad and biased record of Delhi Police in handling the riots and investigating them. The police had, from the time the riots happened, faced the charge that it was shielding the rioters, not protecting the victims, most of whom were Muslims. The investigations later were more directed against the victims. From the beginning, the attempt was to make out that the riots were a part of the anti-CAA protests and caused by them. The appearance of the names of the government’s critics in documents connected with the riots can only be considered as part of that narrative.  The main charge against Delhi Police is that victims of the riots are being turned into culprits and critics of the government are sought to be involved in cases as conspirators and instigators. One charge sheet said that the accused tried to malign the image of the government. That can be no crime. At the same time, those who are known to have actually incited and instigated the riots, like the BJP leaders who made communal and provocative speeches, are allowed to go scot-free. A letter written by the country’s celebrated former police officer Julio Ribeiro to Delhi Police Commissioner SN Srivastava has pointed this out. It needs to be emphasised again that the police should not act like the government's political arm but stick to the rule of law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/delhi-riots-victims-are-culprits-critics-conspirators-887628.html
14-09-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||KIMS delivers babies of 101 Covid-19 positive women||Karnataka Institute Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, which is also a designated Covid-19 hospital, has so far delivered babies of over 100 coronavirus positive pregnant women. Among 101 such deliveries handled by the Obstetrics & Gynecology Department of the KIMS till September 13, 35 were normal deliveries including the delivery of twins, and 66 were cesarean section. Four stillbirths and death of three mothers with serious health problems were also recorded. "Initially, there was fear about Covid-19 among doctors also. The decision about cesarean was taken liberally then, for the safety of all, and the number of cases with complications, referred by other hospitals, was also more. The number of normal deliveries has been more in recent days. Only one newborn tested positive for Covid-19," said KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani. In pre-Covid-19 situation, KIMS used to handle upto 1,000 deliveries per month. As some people are now afraid to come to KIMS as coronavirus patients are treated here, this number is 800 now, he said, adding that Covid-19 deaths are comparatively more at KIMS as patients with complicated problems are referred to here from surrounding districts. KIMS OBG Department head Kasturi Donimath noted that 10 house surgeons, eight postgraduate students, three staff nurses and two other staff of the department contracted the virus, and they are back on duty after recovering. KIMS Pediatrics Department head Prakash Wari informed that 66 Covid-19 positive children were treated so far, including 10 children with mild symptoms, and all were discharged.Dr Ullas Bisaleri of Surgery Department stated that Covid-19 can lead to blood clotting resulting in gangrene, and it can also manifest after recovery from Covid. A few such cases were handled at the KIMS, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/kims-delivers-babies-of-101-covid-19-positive-women-887356.html
14-09-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Siddaramaiah wants Assembly Session for 3 weeks||"I have written a letter to Legislative Assembly speaker and the chief minister, asking them to take steps to hold the session for three weeks, till October 15," he said. On his way to Badami, Siddaramaiah told media persons here that the State Government has gone bankrupt, while the Union Government has also not yet released funds for flood relief works this time. Though the loss caused by the flood situation last year was Rs one lakh crore, the State Government sought Rs 35,000 crore, and the Centre gave only Rs 1,869 crore. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and 25 BJP MPs from the State have no guts to ask the Centre, he charged. If one Naveen who posted a derogatory message on social media was arrested immediately, violence would not have erupted in Bengaluru. I condemn violence, but that was due to the failure of the police and the government, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/siddaramaiah-wants-assembly-session-for-3-weeks-887478.html
14-09-2020||In Perspective||Sir M Visvesvaraya: Dreamer, thinker, man of action||The story goes that when he was offered the position of Dewan of Mysore State, he summoned all his relatives and took word from each one of them that she/he will not ask for any favour from him once he becomes Dewan. Only after all of them agreed did he accept the position.  There are many such stories about Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya that bear testimony to the impeccable honesty, integrity and character of the man who dedicated almost his entire life of nearly 102 years in the service of the nation, playing a pivotal role in many engineering projects. On his 160th birth anniversary, it is hard to find people like Sir MV (as he was popularly known), his ideals, his vision and thinking. But before we lose track of history and his greatness, it is crucial to remember this proud son of Karnataka and his exemplary life to serve as an exemplar and inspiration to current and future generations. “Dreamer, thinker, and a man of action, not lost in the past but always thinking of the future, living an integrated life, bringing into existence and giving shape to dreams not for himself but for India and the people of India”. This was Jawaharlal Nehru's centenary tribute to Sir MV in Bengaluru in 1960. A fitting tribute indeed to a man who was a lot more than what most of us know as one of the ablest engineers and the creator of the famous Krishna Raja Sagara (KRS) Dam in Mysuru. He was an eminent engineer (September 15 is celebrated as Engineers Day in commemoration of Sir MV) and builder of modern India, but he was also a visionary, scholar, planner and statesman. His entire life revolved around work and relentless activity, coupled with discipline and clever time management. He travelled, read prodigiously, wrote books, attended seminars and conferences and gave speeches on varied subjects. Visvesvaraya was a man of few words. At his birth centenary celebrations in Bengaluru in 1960, many dignitaries heaped praises on him. When it was his turn to speak, he stood up and said, “Thank you.” And that was it. It surprised many, but those two words summed up his life’s credo: Talk less, work more. “He was endowed by God with three qualities -- courage, patience and forethought. He never, in his childhood or later, undertook any venture without planning or foresight. The institutions built by him stand witness to this,” says Visvesvaraya’s grandnephew Satish Mokshagundam, who is also chairman of Visvesvaraya National Memorial Trust. Born on September 15, 1860, in Muddenahalli, near Bengaluru, Visvesvaraya’s childhood was one of hardship. He lost his father when he was just 12 and the burden of the family fell on his mother. He realised he had to give his best, that there was no substitute for hard work. Be it during early schooling in Chikkaballapur or high school and college in Bengaluru and engineering in Pune, he always topped with distinction. His work life began with the Public Works Department, Mumbai, and from then on, it was a labour of love until the end. It is impossible to list his achievements in an article such as this. Suffice it to say, there are few fields of thought and constructive endeavours of technical advancement and nation-building in which he did not make a significant contribution. Engineering, in all its branches, particularly those of irrigation, reservoirs, dams and water supply, power supply and bridge building; university education, technological and occupational training, town planning, industry and banking, commerce and manufacture. “Sir MV is a combination of endeavour, adventure, courage, intellect, capacity and strength and thereby enjoys God's grace,” remarked Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar, who appointed him Dewan of Mysore. In his ‘Memoirs of My Working Life’, Sir MV is gracious enough to attribute his success to the support and encouragement of the Mysore Maharaja. The legendary nation builder was a strong proponent of industrialisation, and his slogan was ‘Industrialise or Perish’, in direct contrast to Mahatma Gandhi’s ‘Industrialise and Perish’. He wrote the first book on planning in India, Reconstructing India, in 1920, and another in the mid-1930s, Planned Economy for India. “His idea of modern economy rode on a boundless faith in what technology could do to satisfy ever-expanding human wants,” says Chandan Gowda, Professor of Sociology, Azim Premji University. “This optimism is, of course, no longer tenable. We will need to imagine how he might have revised his thinking in the wake of the climate change threat in the present.” For all his achievements, awards were aplenty, including a British Knighthood and the Bharat Ratna. When the Bharat Ratna was to be awarded, he sent word to Nehru, “If you feel that by giving this title, I will praise your government, you will be disappointed. I am a fact-finding man.” Nehru appreciated his forthrightness and requested him to accept the award. Endowed with a sharp intellect, ready wit and repartee, Sir MV was a rare human being who practised what he preached. Although he enjoyed considerable power and influence, there was never the slightest whisper against him of misuse of power. He worked tirelessly till the end, never perturbed by death. Around his 100th birthday, when asked about his longevity, he said, “Death called on me long ago but found me not at home and went away.” But on April 12, 1962, it came again, and this time Sir MV quietly bid goodbye. (The writer is a senior journalist and author/editor of three books on Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/sir-m-visvesvaraya-dreamer-thinker-man-of-action-887634.html
14-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||M-Friends Trust continues serving food in Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru||M-Friends Charitable Trust will complete 1,000 days of its ‘Karunya’ programme of serving food for the attendants of poor patients at Government Wenlock District Hospital on Monday. Trust member Rasheed Vitla said, “We will enter the third year with our charity programme of serving food for attendants of poor patients and others at the Wenlock Hospital. The trust has been serving dinner not only for patients’ attendants but also for the relatives who visit the patients. Uninterrupted food was supplied even during curfew, Section 144, bandh, and Covid-19 induced lockdown with the help of donors.” The 1,000-bed hospital has been getting patients hailing from economically backward sections not only from Dakshina Kannada but also from Udupi, Kodagu, Hassan, Vijayapura, Chikkamagaluru, Raichur, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Haveri, Davangere and neighbouring Kasargod district of Kerala. Though the hospital serves food for the patients, those accompanying the patients are left to fend for themselves. As a result, patients and attendants were sharing the food offered to them. On noticing several attendants of poor patients begging in streets, the trust decided to start Karunya programme, said Rasheed. The trust is spending Rs 2.5 lakh per month for the ambitious programme with the help of donors. The volunteers of the trust serve food near the Burns Centre of the hospital daily at 6 pm. After the hospital was converted to a designated Covid hospital, the food was handed over to the hospital kitchen to be served among the attendants of the patients, he added. Earlier, coupons were distributed inside the wards in advance. An average of 400 to 500 people used to avail the benefit of the programme daily. The menu comprises of chapati-gasi, or idli-tove, or semige and sambar. Biriyani, sweets and fruits are served on special occasions. M-Friends has 55 like-minded people as its members. Initially, it was started as a WhatsApp group on January 23, 2013. Later, a trust was formed to help the poor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/m-friends-trust-continues-serving-food-in-wenlock-hospital-mangaluru-887282.html
14-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||B C Patil refutes allegations by Congress over BJP leaders consuming 'afeem'||Karnataka's Agriculture Minister B C Patil refuted allegations by Congress MLC B K Hariprasad that leaders of BJP consumed "afeem" (Poppy). If he had seen them consuming the contraband, why didn't he speak earlier, he questioned. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Patil said, allegations made by Hariprasad cannot become gospel. Instead of making vague allegations, the Congress leader must make known when did he see BJP leaders consuming "afeem". Making baseless allegations was not acceptable, he added. Patil also demanded to know who were responsible for the violence in Bengaluru recently and with whom are anti-nationals associated with. Congress leaders do not have any right to question Prime Minister Narendra Modi government at the Centre. Its own leaders have stated that the party will have to remain in the opposition for the next 50 years, he stated. Regarding allegations that it has become a fashion for BJP to target minorities, he said we target none. Regarding allegations by JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy that drug mafia facilitated the formation of the BJP government in the state, Patil said, the former chief minister did not take action against drug mafia while in office and has become a seasoned politician who speaks of liquor when liquor cases come to the fore and has now been speaking about drug mafia when drug cases have come to the fore. We do not know why did Kumaraswamy keep quiet for a year. If he had documents and evidence, they should have been given to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-c-patil-refutes-allegations-by-congress-over-bjp-leaders-consuming-afeem-887309.html
14-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||HD Kumaraswamy demands Hindi Diwas be scrapped||Hindi Diwas holds no meaning for those whose mother tongue is not Hindi, former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy said Monday. In a series of tweets, the JD(S) leader opposed the nation-wide celebration of Hindi Diwas, asking it to be scrapped. If at all it has to be celebrated, the Centre must celebrate all languages including Kannada. For this, a separate Day has to be announced by the Centre. In which case, November 1 should be celebrated as Kannada Day across the country, he said.  Hindi Diwas is celebrated on the birth anniversary of Beohar Rajendra Simha, who fought for the language to be recognised as an official language of the country. "In a country as diverse as India, the Centre is imposing Hindi through various means. I oppose Hindi Diwas, which is nothing but linguistic arrogance. Even though the Constitution does not recognise one single 'national language', there have been several attempts over time to portray Hindi as the national language. Such attempts have now reached their limits. Before people agitate, this imposition has to stop," Kumaraswamy said.  Hindi language learning is being used as an excuse for imposition of the language. Language learning has to be a choice and imposition of one language should not come in the way of the self-respect of another language. Of late, Hindi has been equated with nationalism, patriotism and Hindutva. “This is nothing but treachery,” he stated.  In an emotionally-worded tweet, the regional party leader also warned that there would be a people's revolt if Hindi supremacists mistook the 'harmonious nature' of Kannadigas to be their weakness or believed that Hindi could be easily imposed in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hd-kumaraswamy-demands-hindi-diwas-be-scrapped-887377.html
14-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 14||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 49 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 49,22,039 as of September 14 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 80,733 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 37,80,107  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-14-887170.html
14-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Wanted in Delhi riots: 'Just the Silhouette. They are free to pick a person of their choice'||The charge-sheeting on Delhi riots mentioning the names of Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav and Jayati Ghosh among others has triggered a controversy but police on Sunday clarified that none of them have been named as accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-wanted-in-delhi-riots-just-the-silhouette-they-are-free-to-pick-a-person-of-their-choice-887176.html
14-09-2020||National||Hope Parliament sends message of unity to soldiers on border, says PM Modi as Monsoon Session begins||Amid a stand-off with China in Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said he was confident that Parliament will send a message of unity to the soldiers who were standing firm on the border braving inclement weather. “Our soldiers are standing firm at the borders with a lot of courage, passion and strong resolve to protect their motherland. In a few days it will start to snow. I am confident that Parliament will give this message in one voice that it stands solidly behind our soldiers guarding the borders,” Modi said in customary remarks to media on the first day of the monsoon session of Parliament. The government is expected to brief leaders of political parties on Tuesday on the situation on the stand-off with China in Ladakh. At the outset, the Prime Minister lauded the MPs for their decision to choose duty over the Covid-19 pandemic, urging everyone to follow social distancing norms. “There should be no let up till the time there is no medicine,” the prime minister said. “We are a witnessing an extraordinary series of events. I am proud to say that the MPs have chosen the path of duty amid the pandemic,” he said. The Prime Minister said many important issues will be debated in the Parliament and the more debate happens, the better it is for the country. “I am confident all MPs will collectively do value addition to discussions on several subjects,” he said. He highlighted that the pandemic has led to changes in schedule and had also led to premature end to Budget Session of the parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-parliament-sends-message-of-unity-to-soldiers-on-border-says-pm-modi-as-monsoon-session-begins-887213.html
14-09-2020||National||Leaked database shows Chinese firm watching over 2 million people, including top Indian leaders, diplomats||As a tensions between India and China over the Line of Actual Control peaked over the last week, a Shenzen-based tech firm is monitoring over 10,000 individuals and organisations, including the Indian Prime Minister and President, across the world, multiple media reports said. According to a copy of the database that was left unsecured on the Internet and retrieved by an Australian cybersecurity consultancy, China's Zhenhua Data Information Technology Co, which has ties with the Chinese government, and the country's Communist Party, has stocked a global database of "foreign targets". The list includes President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi and their families, Cabinet Ministers Rajnath Singh, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Nirmala Sitharaman, and also Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Singh Rawat to at least 15 former Chiefs of the Army, among many others, the report claimed. The firm targets key personalities and institutions who are involved in politics, government, business, technology, media, and civil society, according to this database. DH could not independently verify the names claimed in this database. Reports said the company tracks the digital footprint of the individual or the organisation, across multiple social media - from friends and relationships; analyses posts, likes and comments by friends and followers - and online platforms, drawing up a complete record. The report also added that collecting such massive data and weaving in public or sentiment analysis around these targets, Zhenhua offers “threat intelligence services", at the heart of what the company itself flaunts as its role in “hybrid warfare.” According to Canberra-based expert Robert Potter, "Why does this company (Zhenhua) need processing centres in so many countries? If you don’t want attention from the platforms you are mass scraping, you simply use proxies." "The only plausible purpose is to build capacity for following up on the actionable data," Potter said. "The threat of surveillance and monitoring of foreign individuals by an authoritarian China is very real," he said, referring to the leaked database report. “Our data are all public data on the internet. We do not collect data. This is just a data integration. Our business model and partners are our trade secrets. There is no database of 2 million people,” the representative, who identified herself as head of business, told the news outlet. “When agglomerated, this data opens up myriad opportunities to conduct targeted influence activities should the need arise … This can include dis and mis-information, inauthentic simulation (deep fakes), straight-up bribery, and general muddying of the information environment in which democracy operates," Dr Zac Rogers of Flinders University in South Australia, who is research leader at the Jeff Bleich Centre for the US Alliance in Digital Technology, Security and Governance told The Guardian. Zhenhua’s documents characterize the company as a 'patriotic firm' with the military as its primary target customer, operating out of Shenzhen and an office park in northwest Beijing, The Washington Post report said. Indian norms In India, the laws under the Information Technology Rules, 2011, under the IT Act, 2000, personal data state that “any information regarding a natural person, which either directly or indirectly, in combination with other information available or likely to be available… is capable of identifying such person.” This is barring the information that is available freely or accessible in the public domain anddoe snot impose any conditions on the use of personal data for direct marketing etc. "The key point is that the company is undertaking this without consent… a third party scraping your geo-location from social media sites and sharing it with a rival country’s intelligence will be seen illegal, at least in some advanced jurisdictions," a data expert told The Indian Express. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said in its statement, “The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures.” In June, the Centre banned 59 Chinese apps including TikTok, Club Factory, Cam Scanner and UC Browser, and later added 47 more to the list. In total, 224 other apps have now been banned by India. China-US tensions According to a PTI report, China possesses one of the largest militaries in the world and is becoming increasingly comfortable portraying itself as a counter to the United States. Russia has also upgraded conventional forces while investing heavily in cyber, space, electronic warfare, and hybrid warfare capabilities, the Pentagon said. China-US tensions over trade, technology and a multitude of other issues have increasingly spilt over into the areas of diplomacy and media, with the US ordering the closure of the Chinese Consulate in Houston in July. China tightly controls and censors its own cyberspace through the popularly dubbed Great Firewall, which has for years restricted access to firms such as US majors Twitter Inc, Facebook Inc and Google owner Alphabet Inc. The administration of US President Donald Trump has taken aim at Chinese giants such as Huawei Technologies Co Ltd  Tencent Holdings Ltd and TikTok owner ByteDance, citing concerns over national security and the collection of personal data, which the companies have rejected. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leaked-database-shows-chinese-firm-watching-over-2-million-people-including-top-indian-leaders-diplomats-887235.html
14-09-2020||National||More women lost their jobs during Covid-19 lockdown than men: Report||The informal workers' survey, conducted between May-June by a civil society organisation group - ActionAid Association - covered 11,537 workers across 20 states, of which about 28 per cent (3,221) were women. Among the sample, over 79 per cent were women were left unemployed following the nation-wide lockdown compared to men. Also, about over 51 per cent of women reported receiving no wages during the lockdown period. Prior to the lockdown, about 90 per cent of women were working and for men, the number stood at 85 per cent. However, by mid-May, when the coronavirus lockdown was most in intense, the share of unemployed women rose to 79 per cent. About 75 per cent men lost their jobs during the lockdown. Domestic workers were hit the hardest. About 85 per cent of them lost work and with no income, almost 99 per cent had to rely on their savings, while 68 per cent of them had to resort for loans. The report also highlighted several challenges faced by domestic and weeding workers, farm labourers along with women who make beedis and waste workers. A majority of the domestic workers reside in urban areas (about 88 per cent)  and merely 11.5 per cent of them in rural areas. About 40 per cent of the responders said they migrated for work.  The survey also showed that more women are not getting paid for work than men. Over half of the female responders were reported of not receiving any wages as opposed to 46 per cent of males. In terms of sectors, four industries accounted for around 61 per cent of jobs, led by IT (23 per cent), banking (22 per cent), auto (9 per cent) and finance (7 per cent). Textiles, which at one time was a leading employer, was fifth in the hierarchy with share of 2.4 per cent. Ten industries saw a decline in headcounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-women-lost-their-jobs-during-covid-19-lockdown-than-men-report-887244.html
14-09-2020||National||Save your own lives as PM Modi busy with peacocks, Rahul Gandhi tells 'Atmanirbhar' Indians||Taking a dig at PM Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked 'Atmanirbhar' Indians to save their own lives as the prime minister was busy with peacocks.  In a tweet, Gandhi said, "India's coronavirus cases will cross 50 lakh this week and active cases will cross 10 lakh. Unplanned lockdown was the gift of one man's ego, which led to the spread of coronavirus across the country.  "Modi government said become 'Aatmanirbhar' (self-sufficient) which means save your life yourself because the PM is busy with peacocks," the former Congress chief added in a clear reference to a recent video showing the prime minister feeding peacocks. कोरोना संक्रमण के आँकड़े इस हफ़्ते 50 लाख और ऐक्टिव केस 10 लाख पार हो जाएँगे। अनियोजित लॉकडाउन एक व्यक्ति के अहंकार की देन है जिससे कोरोना देशभर में फैल गया। मोदी सरकार ने कहा आत्मनिर्भर बनिए यानि अपनी जान ख़ुद ही बचा लीजिए क्योंकि PM मोर के साथ व्यस्त हैं।   Attacking the government over spike in Covid-19 cases, Gandhi accused the government of implementing the lockdown without a plan. "The unplanned lockdown is a product of a person's ego causing the coronavirus to spread across the country," Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.  India's Covid-19 case tally crossed 48 lakh on Monday with 92,071 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 79,722 with 1,136 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/save-your-own-lives-as-pm-modi-busy-with-peacocks-rahul-gandhi-tells-atmanirbhar-indians-887245.html
14-09-2020||National||Probe into Sushant Singh Rajput's death case helps NCB unearth well-oiled mechanism of drug cartel||As the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) digs deeper into the Bollywood-drug mafia nexus, it has unearthed a well-oiled machanism that was supplying drugs – mainly marijuana, cannabis products and MD to celebrities and high-profile individuals. Right from procurement from cartels to supplying to retailers in auto-rickshaws, it was a flawless operation. As part of the investigations into the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the NCB’s Mumbai zonal unit have arrested six more persons - whose interrogation led the NCB to find out how the mechanism worked. Sushant’s live-in partner and actor-model Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, allegedly sourcing these drugs for Sushant, who mostly smoked marijuana, are linked to this cartel. Investigation into the role of these six persons revealed to the NCB how the racket works. The six persons arrested over the weekend were identified as Karamjeet Singh Anand alias KJ, Dwayne Fernandes, Sanket Patel, Ankush Anreja, Sandeep Gupta and Aftab Fateh Ansari. NCB officials revealed that Karamjeet is a big drug supplier and he has a well-networked local distribution channel of drugs in the cine world. On the other hand, Dwayne was a drug dealer who dealt in curated marijuana and hash.  “He is an associate of Showik Chakraborty and supplied drugs meant for Sushant,” the officials said. Sandeep Gupta was an auto rickshaw driver by profession. “But his main job was to supply bulk quantities of weed to retail dealers like Dwayne,” they said. Sanket Patel was the main distribution link for Karamjeet and used to deliver narcotics to celebrities. Aftab Fateh Ansari was a close associate of Sandeep Gupta operating a wholesale procurement channel of weed and further distribution. Ankush Arenja runs a kitchen in a posh area of Mumbai and sold narcotics like weed, hashish and MD to high profile individuals. “He used to buy stuff from Sanket and connected with the network of Anuj Keshwani and Karamjeet Singh,” the officials said. Besides these six people, others arrested are Rhea and Showik, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant, drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar; Kaizan Ebrahim, Karna Arora, Abbas Lakhani and Anuj Keshwani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/probe-into-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-helps-ncb-unearth-well-oiled-mechanism-of-drug-cartel-887252.html
14-09-2020||National||Covid-19 tally in India breaches 48-lakh mark; death toll climbs 79,722||India's Covid-19 case tally crossed 48 lakh with 92,071 new infections being reported in a day, while over 37.8 lakh people have recuperated taking the national recovery rate to 78 per cent on Monday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 48,46,427, while the death toll climbed to 79,722 with 1,136 more people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further dropped to 1.64 per cent. There are 9,86,598 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, while 37,80,107 people have recuperated, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 5,72,39,428 samples have been tested up to September 13 with 9,78,500 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tally-in-india-breaches-48-lakh-mark-death-toll-climbs-79722-887254.html
14-09-2020||National||Judge seeks contempt action against actor Suriya for remarks on judiciary||A Madras High Court judge has written to Chief Justice A P Shai seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against actor Suryia for his remarks that judges are dishing out justice through video conferencing in times of Covid-19 lockdown fearing their lives, while NEET candidates are expected to appear for exams. Justice S M Subramaniam wrote to Sahi on Sunday night, hours after Suriya issued a detailed statement speaking against NEET. He attacked the government for asking students to come to a center to write the exam even while judiciary was conducting its proceedings through video conferencing for the “fear of life.” In his letter, Subramaniam referred to the statement by Suriya which has been carried by Tamil television channels. “The said statement in my considered opinion amounts to contempt of Court as the integrity and devotion of the Hon'ble Judges as well as the Judicial System of our Great Nation are not only undermined but criticised in a bad shape, wherein there is threat for the public confidence on the Judiciary,” Justice Subramaniam said. “Thus, the Cine Actor Mr Surya has committed contempt, warranting contempt proceedings to uphold the Majesty of our Indian Judicial System,” the judge said in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judge-seeks-contempt-action-against-actor-suriya-for-remarks-on-judiciary-887266.html
14-09-2020||National||Flagship LIFE Mission now threatens life of Kerala government||Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment Mission, popularly known as LIFE Mission, has been one of the flagship projects of the ruling Left-front government in Kerala aimed at providing housing for all homeless people in the state in five years. But now the LIFE Mission is posing a threat to the government's life itself owing to the allegations of commission and corruption linked to the gold smuggling accused as well as flouting of diplomatic procedures. After its launch in 2017, over 2.25 lakh houses were already constructed and handed over to beneficiaries under the mission so far and amidst the controversies, the government has again invited applications for house construction under the scheme.Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has been often highlighting LIFE Mission as one of the major achievements of his government. A formal announcement regarding completion of nearly 2.15 lakh houses were made in February this year. But now LIFE Mission's credibility is under question with the probe by Central agencies into the gold smuggling case involving UAE Consulate's former employees exposing serious irregularities in the LIFE Mission project. A statement reportedly made by one of the key accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, that Rs one crore recovered from her bank locker was received as commission from a Rs 20-crore housing project under the LIFE Mission being funded by UAE based Red Crescent. Another gold smuggling accused Sandeep Nair was said to have received Rs 75 lakh. Later a CPM-backed Malayalam news channel reported that the total commission involved in the deal was around Rs. 4.25 crore. This triggered allegations that many others in the government received kickbacks. Apart from some ministers, there were fresh allegations that a minister's son also received the kickback. The entire row is over a housing scheme at Wadakancherry in Thrissur district for 140 families who lost houses in floods. The work of the project started last year, but got stalled due to COVID. The plan was to complete it by 2020 December. When the allegations over the project came up, the Kerala government initially maintained that it had no direct involvement in getting the foreign aid and it was Unitac Builders, which was awarded the work, that directly got the aid from Red Crescent though the UAE Consulate. The agreements and other documents pertaining to the project later exposed that the government's claim was false and it was also involved in getting the foreign aid through the UAE Consulate. The External Affairs Ministry spokesperson recently said that the state government had not sought its nod for entering into a deal with a foreign entity and the ministry was looking into the matter. Habitat, which is a Kerala-based known construction firm, was initially roped in for the project and the government also gave administrative sanction for Rs 13- crore project. But Habitat moved out of it after the LIFE Mission authorities maintained that prefabricated technology was planned for the project. But Unitac, which was later entrusted with the project, was not using prefabricated technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flagship-life-mission-now-threatens-life-of-kerala-government-887280.html
14-09-2020||National||Monsoon Session: Lok Sabha adjourned for an hour after obituary references||Lok Sabha was adjourned for an hour on Monday after paying tributes to former President Pranab Mukherjee, a sitting MP and 13 ex-parliamentarians who died in the recent past. The first-of-its-kind Monsoon session saw members sporting masks while attending the proceedings. Birla also remembered "Corona warriors" like doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, police personnel and voluntary workers who died while fighting the pandemic. The speaker then adjourned the House for an hour, after about 20 minutes of business. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, DMK leader T R Baalu, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and NCP leader Supriya Sule were among those who were present in the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-session-lok-sabha-adjourned-for-an-hour-after-obituary-references-887283.html
14-09-2020||National||Leaving Mumbai with a heavy heart, Mumbai-POK analogy bang on: Kangana Ranaut||Yet again justifying her rant against the Mumbai government and comparing the city with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut left Mumbai on Monday for her hometown in the hilly state of Himachal Pradesh. The 33-year-old actor continued to attack Shiv Sena and Congress and its leaders. After landing in Chandigarh for her return leg, she tweeted that her security had reduced significantly and people were greeting her with joy. "It seems this time I was saved. There was a time when I felt a mother's touch in Mumbai, but today the situation is such that I am lucky to be alive. The moment Shiv Sena became Sonia Sena, the Mumbai administration became a terror," she posted in Hindi, targeting the two allies in Maharashtra.   चंडीगढ़ मे उतरते ही मेरी सिक्यरिटी नाम मात्र रह गयी है, लोग ख़ुशी से बधाई दे रेही हैं, लगता है इस बार मैं बच गयी, एक दिन था जब मुंबई में माँ के आँचल की शीतलता महसूस होती थी आज वो दिन है जब जान बची तो लाखों पाए, शिव सेना से सोनिया सेना होते ही मुंबई में आतंकी प्रशासन का बोल बाला। The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government has been on the receiving end of the actor's wrath During the lockdown, she was living in her home in Manali. She landed in Mumbai last Wednesday just hours after the Shiv Sena-controlled BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation demolished the alleged illegal constructions and alterations at her office Manikarnika Films Pvt Ltd at her Pali Hill bungalow. The demolition has been stayed by the Bombay High Court till 22 September. On Sunday evening, she had called on Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to complain about the demolition and sought justice. However, Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray remained unfazed and chose to ignore her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leaving-mumbai-with-a-heavy-heart-mumbai-pok-analogy-bang-on-kangana-ranaut-887287.html
14-09-2020||National||Sedition law being used as iron hand to curb free speech: Former SC judge Lokur||Former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B Lokur on Monday said the sedition law is being used as an iron hand to curb free speech in an over reaction to people expressing their views. He said there have been instances of misreading statements of free speech and terming expression of opinions as speculative news to put even journalists behind the bars. "Many citizens, expressing their views, think they are within the limits of free speech while the State thinks the citizens are transgressing the limits. So what can citizens do? They cannot take to streets or resort to violence. They can only continue to speak," he said. Justice Lokur also expressed concern on the misuse of preventive detention on people by misreading the intent of their speeches. "You have people who talk about violence, about breaking up things - nothing happens to them," he said. The unfortunate thing is that people who are put under preventive detention are not challenging it, he said. It is difficult to sustain preventive detention, but it is not being challenged maybe because people are afraid. Speaking about the pendency of cases, he said, "I have gone to the e-courts website. As many as 3 crore 40 lakh cases are pending. The judiciary has to be transparent. They have to tell us, are they doing anything? If they are, then they should tell so that they can get the reaction of lawyers and litigants." He was speaking in a virtual programme 'Freedom of Speech and Judiciary' on a day when advocate Prashant Bhushan deposited a fine of Re one imposed on him by the top court after holding him guilty of contempt of court for his tweets. Senior journalist N Ram, activists Aruna Roy, Yogendra Yadav and Anjali Bhardwaj also participated in the virtual programme. "The judgment by the Justice Arun Mishra led bench was very fearsome but when it came to punishment, it was incongruous due to Re one fine. The Supreme Court claimed sky-high powers. This has to be challenged," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-law-being-used-as-iron-hand-to-curb-free-speech-former-sc-judge-lokur-887305.html
14-09-2020||National||AIPEF urges Members of Parliament to oppose Electricity Amendment Bill||All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has urged all Members of Parliament to oppose the Electricity (Amendment ) Bill 2020. The Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 is expected to be introduced in Parliament in the current Monsoon session. "AIPEF has urged all the Members of Parliament to oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 that has anti-people draconian provisions and aims at total privatisation of the Power Sector," an AIPEF statement said. AIPEF has written letters on Saturday to all the Members of Parliament. V K Gupta a spokesperson of AIPEF said in the letter it has been mentioned that a number of states have already raised serious objections on the number of issues in the Bill that have not been addressed in the Draft Bill. Under such circumstances, they should raise serious reservations and objections on the Bill as and when introduced in the Parliament, it said. Further, the Bill should be referred to the standing committee on energy, it added. Electricity is a concurrent subject whereas the Amendment Bill is an attempt of the centre to impose its will on the states without their concurrence. The Bill proposes to eliminate subsidy in tariff and introduce a new tariff based on the cost of electricity. This would make the tariff of domestic and agricultural consumers 'unaffordable', the body pointed out. The Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) of power, the subsidy would adversely impact the farmers, it claimed. The centre wants to dictate the electricity tariff by making the state electricity regulatory commissions (SERC) subservient to tariff policy that would be determined by the centre, it also said. The centre intends to introduce privatization of electricity distribution functions by introducing Distribution Sublicensees and franchisees to distribute power without a license, it said. The private parties would take over the high revenue and profitable areas which would further financially impact the State Discoms, it pointed out. In view of the comments received from various states, some proposals with regard to a single selection committee for the SERC and DBT needs to be modified, it demanded. The revised draft should be circulated in the public domain for getting the comments from all the stakeholders, Gupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aipef-urges-members-of-parliament-to-oppose-electricity-amendment-bill-887308.html
14-09-2020||National||India's coronavirus recoveries highest in the world: Johns Hopkins data||India on Monday overtook Brazil to register the highest number of Covid-19 recoveries in the world at 37,80,107, according to Johns Hopkins University data. According to data, 1,96,25,959 people around the world have recovered from the coronavirus infection while the total number of Covid-19 cases across the world are 2,90,06,033 and the total number of deaths reported globally stands at 9,24,105. Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world, put India in the number one position in terms of the number of recovered coronavirus cases at 37,80,107, followed by Brazil at 37,23,206 cases and the US at 24,51,406 cases. According to the Union Health Ministry, India's recovery rate has touched 78 per cent reflecting the increasing number of high recoveries per day. "Around 77,512 patients have been discharged in the last 24 hours. The total recovered cases are 37,80,107. The gap between recovered cases and active cases is consistently increasing. This has touched nearly 28 lakh today (27,93,509)," the health ministry said in a statement. The ministry further said that Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have recorded around 60 per cent of the total recovered Covid-19 cases. The total number of active coronavirus cases in India stands at 9,86,598 as on date while the number of Covid-19 cases in the country stands at 48,46,427.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-recoveries-highest-in-the-world-johns-hopkins-data-887320.html
14-09-2020||National||Prez Ram Nath Kovind, PM Modi, Sonia Gandhi: Key Indian personalities who China's Zhenhua has been tracking||The company, which was pulled down earlier this month, is believed to have stocked a global database of "foreign targets". From India, the company has been monitoring President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi; Cabinet Ministers Rajnath Singh, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Nirmala Sitharaman, Smriti Irani, Piyush Goyal; and also Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Singh Rawat and at least 15 former Chiefs of the Army, among many others, as per the report. The list also includes chief ministers of various Indian states like Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Naveen Patnaik (Odisha) to Shivraj Singh Chouhan (Madhya Pradesh) along with former chief ministers Raman Singh, Ashok Chavan and Siddaramaiah. Leaders of political parties such as the late M Karunanidhi of DMK, the late Kanshi Ram of Bahujan Samaj Party and RJD’s Lalu Prasad Yadav are also being monitored.  It also tracks the relatives of key personalities like PM Modi (wife Jashodaben); President Kovind (wife Savita Kovind); former PM Manmohan Singh (wife Gursharan Kaur and their daughters Upinder, Daman, Amrit); Sonia Gandhi (husband, the late Rajiv, son Rahul Gandhi, daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra); Smriti Irani (husband Zubin Irani); Harsimrat Kaur (husband Sukhbir Singh Badal, brother Bikram Singh Majithia and father Satyajit Singh Majithia); Akhilesh Yadav (father Mulayam, wife Dimple, father-in-law R C Rawat, uncles Shivpal Singh and Ram Gopal). Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde, Lokpal Justice P C Ghose and Comptroller and Auditor General G C Murmu are also under Zhenhua’s radar. Among industrialists, Zhenhua has been tracking Ratan Tata and Gautam Adani and startup entrepreneurs like Nipun Mehra, founder of BharatPe, and Ajay Trehan of AuthBridge. The Chinese firm’s target list also includes scientists, academicians, journalists, actors and sportspersons, as well as religious figures and activists; and hundreds accused of financial crime, corruption, terrorism, and smuggling of narcotics, gold, arms or wildlife. A Chinese Embassy source in Delhi told the publication, “China has not asked and will not ask companies or individuals to collect or provide data, information and intelligence stored within other countries’ territories for the Chinese government by installing “backdoors” or by violating local laws.” “What I would like to point out is that the Chinese government has been asking Chinese companies to strictly abide by local laws and regulations when doing business overseas; this position will not change,” the Embassy source added. Besides tracking Indian bureaucrats in key positions, Zhenhua also targets high-profile individuals from the United States, United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, Canada, Germany and the United Arab Emirates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prez-ram-nath-kovind-pm-modi-sonia-gandhi-key-indian-personalities-who-chinas-zhenhua-has-been-tracking-887322.html
14-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha adopts motion to do away with Question Hour, private members' business||Lok Sabha on Monday decided to do away with Question Hour and private members' business during the Monsoon session, inviting strong criticism from opposition members who accused the government of stifling democracy. The lower house adopted the motion to suspend Question Hour, with the government maintaining that it is not running away from discussion and will reply to all questions raised by the opposition. Slamming the move, the opposition led by the Congress said that Question Hour is the "golden hour of the House". Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said the argument and rationale that has been put forth by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi is far from convincing. He said the Question Hour is recognised as an essence of parliamentary democracy and executives are accountable and answerable during the Question Hour. In such an extraordinary situation, if the House is running, "why Question Hour is singled out," he asked. "We get chance to raise issues of common people. Question Hour is simply a golden hour of the House," he said, adding by doing way with this, the government is trying to "throttle democracy". During the Question Hour, which is the first business of the day, members are allowed to ask questions concerning public interest from the ministers. Moving the motion, Joshi said the Lok Sabha session is being held in extraordinary circumstances amid the COVID-19 pandemic and this House resolves that starred questions and private members' business may not be brought before it for transaction during the session. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said the Question Hour and private members' business are cornerstone of democracy and it is very much essential for the existence of parliamentary democracy. "I urge the Speaker not to allow the executive to encroach on the territory of the legislature. It is a shameful day," he said. He also requested for a division, which was not accepted by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. Manish Tewari (Congress) said this is the only time when the opposition can hold the government accountable. TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee said the Question Hour is an integral part of the basic structure of parliamentary procedure and "we cannot destroy that part". Today, the government has pressure to pass bills, he said. "We also have our views to express," he said adding, "kindly do not take away this advantage. It will take the entire glamour, 50 per cent glamour of running Parliament," he added. Joshi said before arriving at this decision, deputy leader in the Lok Sabha, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to almost all leaders of various parties. "I would like to tell various leaders who questioned the suspension of Question Hour that all state assemblies including Punjab, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala have run sessions for a day or two and passed several bills, whereas the government of India decided to run for 18 days and hold discussion on bills," Joshi said. People are saying this is the basic structure of Parliament then what had happened in 1975, he questioned. In the last five years, 60 per cent of Question Hour in Rajya Sabha and 40 per cent in Lok Sabha was wasted, he added. There are so many ways to question the government and it is not running away from discussion and "we are going to reply to all questions which you are going to raise," he said. The defence minister said that leaders of most parties agreed over no Question Hour and Zero Hour for 30 minutes. Singh said that he has discussed the matter with several leaders and noted that this session is being held in an extraordinary situation. "We apprised you (Speaker) of it following which decision was taken by you. I appeal to all members of House to cooperate as session is being held in an extraordinary situation...We need support from all" as the House will run only for four hours, he added. He said if somebody wants to ask a question, they can do during the Zero Hour, he said, adding most of the leaders have agreed on the issue of doing away with the Question Hour. "I would urge all members to extend their support...You can raise issues through unstarred questions, ministers will reply. If members are not satisfied from that reply, then you can seek clarifications during Zero Hour also," Singh said. The Speaker sought support of all members for smooth functioning of the House. "I will provide sufficient time," he said. Meanwhile, DMK MP TR Baalu raised the matter of some students ending their lives recently. "I would like to draw the attention of this House and the government to the plight of 12 students who had committed suicide - all from rural background - because of NEET exam," he said. He added that these students had passed class 12 through state board syllabus and NEET is conducted only on basis of CBSE syllabus. Without knowing much about the CBSE syllabus, the students are helpless and committing suicide, he said, adding,"Future doctors of India have committed suicide". Chowdhury tried to raise the issue of Indo-China border tensions, but the Speaker asked him to raise it in the meeting of the Business Advisory Committee. Birla said this is a sensitive issue and it should be raised in a sensitive manner. Chowdhury said: "I would like to seek the attention of the government and the defence minister that for last several months, Indian citizens are worried because at the borders...Today also, there is a news report that China is watching our President".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-adopts-motion-to-do-away-with-question-hour-private-members-business-887325.html
14-09-2020||National||Demolition of 48,000 slums along railway line in Delhi on hold for now, Centre tells SC||The Union government on Monday told the Supreme Court that the Centre, Railways Ministry and Delhi government would sit together to find a solution within four weeks, following the order to demolish 48,000 'jhuggis' (slum dwellings) along railway lines in the national capital. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta assured a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde that till a decision is taken, no jhuggis would be removed. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for former Union Minister and senior Congress leader Ajay Maken and others, sought an order for status quo, which the court declined, in view of statement made by Mehta. Senior advocates Colin Gonsalves and K V Vishwanathan also appeared in the matter. The court will consider the matter after four weeks. The top court's bench led by Justice Arun Mishra had on August 31 ordered the demolition within a period of three months in the case of M C Mehta, related to Delhi pollution. In an application, Maken asked the top court to direct the Indian Railways, Delhi government and others to rehabilitate the slum dwellers prior to eviction or demolition of their jhuggis. He also sought a direction for complying to the provisions of the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015 and the protocol (for removal of Jhuggis) in letter and spirit. He said many of those who have been living over there for 30-40 years would be rendered homeless at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic wreaks havoc, which may prove to be a recipe for disaster. On August 31, the court gave a detailed hearing to Railways, Municipal Corporations etc who sought to dispossess the slum dwellers. However, the court completely ignored the affected and vulnerable population of slum dwellers by denying them an opportunity to be heard, he said. Questioning the direction which said no court will grant stay in the demolition process, Maken said this amounted to grave obstruction in the right to access to justice. With the directions, he said casualty would be greater than 48,000 shanties as more than 5,00,000 people, who contributed to the social and economic life of a city by working as sanitation workers, garbage collectors, domestic help, rickshaw pullers, labourers, would be directly affected. Among the grounds, the applicants said it would be highly risky to demolish the hutments without prior rehabilitation as they will be forced to move from place to place in search of shelter and livelihood. "Needless, to say that even a small percentage of the displaced population if affected by Covid-19, then the same will prove to be a recipe for disaster in the current pandemic," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demolition-of-48000-slums-along-railway-line-in-delhi-on-hold-for-now-centre-tells-sc-887330.html
14-09-2020||National||Same sex marriages not recognised by our laws, society and our values: Centre to Delhi High Court||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that marriage between same sex couples was "not permissible" as it is not recognised by "our laws, legal system, society and our values". The submission was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan by Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta during hearing of a PIL seeking a declaration that same sex marriages be recognised under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and Special Marriage Act. Mehta opposed the relief sought in the petition saying "our laws, our legal system, our society and our values do not recognise a marriage, which is a sacrament, between same sex couples". He said the plea to grant recognition to or permit registration of such marriages was "not permissible" for two reasons -- firstly, the petition was asking the court to legislate and secondly, any relief granted "would run contrary to various statutory provisions". "Unless court does violence to various laws, this cannot be done," he added. Mehta also said that under the HMA, the various provisions regulating marriages or prohibited relationships talk of husband and wife and therefore, who would be assigned these roles where a same sex couple was concerned. The bench observed that the world over things were changing, but it may or may not be applicable to India. It, however, questioned the need for a PIL in the instant case, saying the people who claim to be affected are well educated and can themselves approach the court. "Why should we entertain the PIL," it added. The counsel for the petitioner stated that the affected people were not coming forward themselves as they feared reprisals and therefore, a PIL was preferred. It asked the lawyer appearing for the petitioner, Abhijit Iyer Mitra, to give details of the persons who were not permitted to register their same sex marriage. With the direction to place these factual aspects before the court, the bench listed the matter for further hearing on October 21. The petition has contended that despite the Supreme Court decriminalizing consensual homosexual acts, marriages between same sex couples was still not possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/same-sex-marriages-not-recognised-by-our-laws-society-and-our-values-centre-to-delhi-high-court-887339.html
14-09-2020||National||NGT directs CPCB to finalise SOP for restaurants and eateries along highways||The National Green Tribunal Monday directed the Central Pollution Control Board to finalise an appropriate Standard Operating Procedure for restaurants and eateries along highways within two months. The green panel said the existing policy acknowledges serious environmental issues in the operation of restaurants and other such establishments particularly the generation and handling of waste and extraction of ground water. "Let the CPCB finalise an appropriate SOP integrating its guidelines already prepared and incorporating such of the provisions in the above policy as are found appropriate so that the SOP prepared by the CPCB will cover the entire field. "If no change is required in the guidelines already prepared by the CPCB, the already prepared guidelines may continue. Decision by the CPCB may be taken within two months," a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice AK Goel said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Haryana resident Abhay Dahiya and others against illegal dumping and burning of garbage, and discharge of untreated water by various establishments, including restaurants on G T Road, Murthal in Sonepat district. The green panel also directed Haryana government to finalise its action plan within one month, consistent with SOP but its norms should not dilute the said SOP. "Action taken reports may be furnished by the CPCB and the State of Haryana before the next date by e-mail," the bench said. The Central Pollution Control Board on Monday told the Tribunal that restaurants and roadside eateries at Murthal in Haryana were operating without approval from state pollution control boards and extracting ground water without permission. It had earlier directed authorities to expedite setting up of a solid waste treatment plant for management of garbage generated by eateries and asked why a decentralised treatment plant has not been set up by the ''dhabas'' in Murthal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-cpcb-to-finalise-sop-for-restaurants-and-eateries-along-highways-887343.html
14-09-2020||National||Government has no data on migrant labourers' job loss, deaths during Covid-19 lockdown||The government has no data about deaths and job loss of migrant labourers during the national lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19, the Ministry of Labour and Employment informed the Lok Sabha on Monday. It also did not have any report of forced retention of migrant labourers who wanted to return to their home states. This was disclosed by Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar in a series of written replies in Lok Sabha. Gangwar also said that the Centre does not have a state-wise break up of distribution of free ration to migrant workers though the government pegged the number of migrant labourers who returned to their home states at 1.04 crore as per available data. Among the states, Uttar Pradesh saw the highest number of migrant labourers returning home at 32.49 lakh followed by Bihar with over 15 lakh. Railways operated at least 4,611 Shramik Special (Workers' Special) trains and ferried around 63.07 lakh migrant workers to various destinations by providing free water and food during the journey. "No such data is maintained" was the Minister's answer to separate questions seeking the number of migrant labourers who lost their jobs, who died while returning to home during lockdown and ration provided to them. While state-wise details on free ration was "not available", Gangwar said 80 crore people are being provided additional five kg wheat or rice and one kg of preferred pulses, free of cost every month till November to all the beneficiaries under provisions of National Food Security Act. To a question on the total quantum of amount withdrawn from Employees’ Provident Fund account during the pandemic from March 25 to August 31, the Minister pegged the figure at Rs 39,402.94 crore. Maharashtra topped the list with Rs 7,837.85 crore followed by Karnataka at Rs 5,743.96 crore. While it provided no data, the Ministry said the global spread of Covid-19 followed by lockdowns has affected global economies, including India. "Covid-19 has resulted in a large number of migrant workers going back to their native places and loss of jobs has also been observed in India during this period," Gangwar said. "Government has taken initiatives for creating jobs at local levels and supporting migrant workers through Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, Atmanirbhar Bharat and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan...Government is taking several steps to ensure that the country is well prepared to face the challenges and threats posed by Covid-19," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-has-no-data-on-migrant-labourers-job-loss-deaths-during-covid-19-lockdown-887349.html
14-09-2020||National||SC notice to Karnataka govt on plea questioning appointment of Upa-Lokayukta||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea challenging of appointment of retired judge, Justice Bhimanagouda S Patil as Upa-Lokayukta, even though the Chief Justice of the HC did not concur with the decision. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the state government and Justice Patil within four weeks on a petition filed by NGO Samaj Parivarthana Samudaya through its founder president S R Hiremath. The petitioner, led by advocates Prashant Bhushan and Amit Pai, challenged the validity of the High Court's order of February 17, rejecting its plea. The petitioner sought a direction in the nature of quo warranto and quashing of government order of November 20, 2019, to appoint Justice Patil as Upa-Lokayukta The plea raised questions as to what would constitute “meaningful and effective consultation” under Section 3(2)(b) of the Karnataka Lokayukta Act, 1984. Whether even if the Chief Justice of the High Court disagreed on the chosen name, the government can still proceed with the appointment.  It claimed there was no effective consultation by the Chief Minister, with the Chief Justice, the Chairperson of the Karnataka Legislative Council, the Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative Council, and the Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly in the appointment. On July 24, 2018, the Chief Minister elicited the suggestion of a suitable name from the Chief Justice of the High Court, who recommended the name of Justice (retd) A N Venugopala Gowda to the post. However, more than nine months after the recommendation made by the then Chief Justice, the then Chief Minister on June 20, 2019, again sought the recommendation of the newly appointed Chief Justice.  On June 22, 2019, the Chief Justice reiterated the recommendation made by his predecessor after perusal of the relevant materials.  However, on November 12, 2019, the Chief Minister informed the Chief Justice that upon consulting the other four authorities, it was recommended that Justice Patil would be appointed. Two days later, the Chief Justice informed the Chief Minister that there was no material placed before him, warranting change of the recommendation earlier made by him and his predecessor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-plea-questioning-appointment-of-upa-lokayukta-887352.html
14-09-2020||National||20 CPSEs, units in pipeline for strategic sale: Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur||As many as 20 CPSEs and their units are at various stages of strategic disinvestment, while six are being considered for closure or are under litigation, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said on Monday. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Singh said the government follows a policy of disinvestment through strategic stake sale and minority stake dilution. "Based on the criteria laid down by NITI Aayog, the Government has 'in principle' approved strategic disinvestment in 34 cases since 2016, out of which strategic disinvestment in 8 cases has been completed, 6 CPSEs are under consideration for closure and litigation, and remaining 20 transactions are at various stages," Singh said. The CPSEs which are under consideration for closure/ under litigation are Hindustan Fluorocarbon Ltd (HFL), Scooters India, Bharat Pumps & Compressors Ltd, Hindustan Prefab, Hindustan Newsprint, and Karnataka Antibiotics & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. The transactions which are in process are Project & Development India Ltd, Engineering Project (India) Ltd, Bridge and Roof Co India Ltd, Units of Cement Corporation of India Ltd (CCI), Central Electronics Ltd, Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML), Ferro Scrap Nigam Ltd, Nagarnar Steel Plant of NMDC. Also, the strategic sale of Alloy Steel Plant, Durgapur; Salem Steel Plant; Bhadrawati units of SAIL, Pawan Hans, Air India and its five subsidiaries and one JV (joint venture) are under process. Besides, HLL Life Care Ltd, Indian Medicine & Pharmaceuticals Corporation Ltd, various units of Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC), Hindustan Antibiotics, Bengal Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (except Numaligarh Refinery Limited), BPCL stake in Numaligarh Refinery Limited to a CPSE strategic buyer, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India and Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd are candidates for strategic sale. The CPSEs whose strategic sale has been completed are HPCL, REC, Hospital Services Consultancy, National Project Construction Corporation, Dredging Corporation, THDC India Ltd, North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited (NEEPCO) and Kamarajar Port. Singh said strategic disinvestment implies the substantial sale of government shareholding of CPSEs, which are not in priority sector, along with transfer of management control. Asked what steps are being taken by the government to safeguard employees' interest, Singh said upon strategic disinvestment, the management control of the company shall be in the hands of the strategic buyer. "While deciding the terms and conditions of the strategic sale, employees' concerns are suitably addressed through appropriate provisions made in the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) to be signed by the Government with the strategic buyer," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-cpses-units-in-pipeline-for-strategic-sale-minister-of-state-for-finance-anurag-singh-thakur-887354.html
14-09-2020||National||Over 60% active Covid-19 cases in 5 states; recovery rate touches 78%: Centre||More than 60 per cent of the active coronavirus cases are concentrated in the five states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, the Health Ministry said on Monday, underlining that the recovery rate in the country had touched 78 per cent. India's Covid-19 case tally has mounted to 48.46 lakh with 92,071 new infections, while 37.80 lakh people have recuperated. The death toll climbed to 79,722 with 1,136 more people succumbing to the infection, according to the ministry data. India's journey of a fast-growing recovery rate has crossed a milestone on Monday. On a continuous upward trajectory, the recovery rate has touched 78 per cent, reflecting the increasing number of high recoveries per day, it said in a statement. As many as 77,512 patients have been discharged in a single day and the gap between recovered cases and active cases is consistently increasing, and now stands at 27,93,509. The total number of active cases in the country is 9,86,598, according to the ministry. More than 60 per cent of the active cases are concentrated in five states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. These states are also reporting 60 per cent of the total recovered cases, it said. Nearly 60 per cent of the total number of Covid-19 cases are from five states -- Maharashtra (21.9 per cent), Andhra Pradesh (11.7 per cent), Tamil Nadu (10.4 per cent), Karnataka (9.5 per cent) and Uttar Pradesh (6.4 per cent), the ministry said. Out of the 92,071 new cases, Maharashtra continues to contribute a high number and has reported more than 22,000 new cases in a day. Andhra Pradesh has contributed more than 9,800 new cases, it said. Of the new 1,136 deaths, nearly 53 per cent are concentrated in the three states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh. These are followed by Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh. More than 36 per cent of deaths reported on Sunday are from Maharashtra (416 deaths), the ministry said. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 5,72,39,428 samples have been tested up to September 13 with 9,78,500 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-60-active-covid-19-cases-in-5-states-recovery-rate-touches-78-centre-887363.html
14-09-2020||National||25 MPs test positive for Covid-19 as Monsoon Session begins||At least 25 Parliamentarians were tested positive for Covid-19 on the first day of the monsoon session on Monday, Parliament officials said. Lok Sabha members of the BJP Meenakshi Lekhi, Parvesh Sahib Singh, Sukanata Majumdar were among the 17 from the lower house who tested positive in the RT-PCR tests that are mandatory for attending the monsoon session. As many as 359 Lok Sabha members, of the present strength of 541, attended the parliament session wearing masks and taking precautions to protect themselves from the infectious disease. In the Rajya Sabha, eight members tested positive for Covid-19. Some members such as Lekhi and Verma took to Twitter to reveal their Covid-19 positive results. The Covid-19 tests added to the intrigue in the case of RLP member Hanuman Beniwal, who had submitted his DNA samples at the testing centre in Parliament on September 11. However, his samples turned out to be negative when he got himself tested again in Jaipur. “I got myself tested in the Lok Sabha premises for Covid-19 which came out positive. After that I got my test done at SMS hospital in Jaipur, which showed the result as negative. I am sharing both these reports with you. Which report should be considered accurate,” Beniwal wrote on Twitter. Of the 785 members in both the Houses, 200 are above the age of 65, which makes them vulnerable for infection. Despite all odds, Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav, 80, was seen in the Lok Sabha, Saugata Roy (73) of Trinamool, and so was JMM founder Shibu Soren, 76, who took oath as Rajya Sabha member. The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha met in separate four-hour shifts that allowed members to spread across chambers of both the houses to ensure physical distancing. Around 200 members were seated in the Lok Sabha chamber, few members in the visitors’ gallery overlooking the main chamber, while the Rajya Sabha was sparsely filled. Members were allowed to address the chair while remaining seated and polycarbonate sheets were placed in front of their tables to ensure safety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-mps-test-positive-for-covid-19-as-monsoon-session-begins-887366.html
14-09-2020||National||45.62 lakh Covid-19 cases, 76,271 deaths in India till September 11: Harsh Vardhan||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday that a total of 45,62,414 novel coronavirus cases and 76,271 deaths, with a case fatality rate of 1.67 per cent, had been reported in India till September 11. Speaking in the Lok Sabha, Vardhan said as many as 35,42,663 people, which is 77.65 per cent of the cases, had recovered from the pathogen. The maximum cases and deaths from the infection have been primarily reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karantaka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Telangana, Odisha, Assam, Kerala and Gujarat. "All these states have reported more than 1 lakh cases," the minister said. As per the World Health Organization, there are more than 2.79 crore confirmed cases of Covid-19 across the world and more than 9.05 lakh deaths, with a case fatality rate of 3.2 per cent, he said With the endeavour to manage coronavirus through "a whole of government and a whole of society approach", India has been able to limit its cases and deaths to 3,328 cases and 55 deaths per million population, which is one of the lowest in the world as compared to similarly-affected countries, the minister said. Many of the epidemiological parameters like mode of transmission and subclinical infection were still being researched. Once a person is exposed to the infection, the disease may develop anytime between 1-14 days, Vardhan said. The main symptoms of Covid are fever, cough and difficulty in breathing. In India, about about 92 per cent of the cases are reported to be having mild disease, the minister said. The increasing magnitude of the outbreak of this diseases in India called for a pre-emptive, proactive and "whole of government and whole of society approach," he said. The Centre took the Covid-19 with the highest level of political challenge. India collectively stood up to manage Covid-19 and it is estimated that the decisions taken by the government helped in preventing approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37,000-38,000 deaths, Vardhan said. "Where there was no indigenous manufacturing of PPE... today, we are self sufficient and even in a position to now export," he said. The Centre initiated a series of actions to prevent entry of disease and contain it. "Group of minister, under my chairmanship consisting of minister external affairs, civil aviation... has met 20 times since its inception on February 3, 2020," the minister said. The Ministry of Home Affairs has constituted 11 empowered groups on March 10 on different aspects of Covid-19 management in the country, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4562-lakh-covid-19-cases-76271-deaths-in-india-till-september-11-harsh-vardhan-887384.html
14-09-2020||National||Parliament nod to Bills that ensure quality homeopathy, Indian system of medicine||Parliament has given its nod to two bills that propose a medical education system that improve access to quality and affordable medical education by ensuring availability of adequate and high-quality homeopathy and Indian system of medicine professionals across the country. Lok Sabha on Monday passed the National Commission for Homoeopathy Bill and the National Commission for the Indian System of Medicine Bill. Rajya Sabha had passed them earlier, and the lower house' nod to the two proposed legislations mean that they are set to become laws after getting formal approval from President Ram Nath Kovind. Some opposition members protested against the bill, saying the Centre needed to undertake wider consultation. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the proposed laws will help in better administration of homeopathy and the Indian system of medicines. The proposed legislations promote equitable and universal healthcare that encourages community health perspective and make services of such medical professionals accessible to all citizens, the Union government has said. They promote national health goals, encourage medical professionals to adopt the latest medical research in their work and to contribute to research with an objective, periodic and transparent assessment of medical institutions. They facilitate the maintenance of a medical register of homeopathy and the Indian system of medicine and enforce high ethical standards in all aspects of medical services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-nod-to-bills-that-ensure-quality-homeopathy-indian-system-of-medicine-887393.html
14-09-2020||National||Covid-19 affected shopping habits on safety concerns: Report||The coronavirus pandemic has largely affected shopping habits with safety now taking over as a new criterion over price range, variety and convenience, forcing retailers to adapt to the new reality, according to a report. The report by KPMG in India and Retailers Association of India (RAI), however, said activities like entertainment, physical shopping and dining out could see a surge in demand with gradual opening up of physical marketplaces, especially with the onset of the festive season, as consumers have been missing the touch of reality for so long. "Shopping habits have been largely affected during the pandemic, with safety now taking over as a new criterion over price range, variety and convenience. In India, hypermarkets are witnessing lower footfalls, and most sectors including apparel, accessories and durables have faced a lack of demand," it said. Essential category players are also facing challenges, albeit of a different kind — managing huge spikes in demand, ensuring liquidity, modifying and managing store operations to maintain safety standards, managing employee health and grappling with a shortage of staff, the report 'New Retail Reality' added. In terms of buying behaviour, KPMG and RAI said, "We also expect consumers to continue buying via e-commerce than physical stores. Retailers then should be in the position to adapt and make strategic collaborations in order to leverage mutually beneficial situations." Focus should shift on converting existing businesses to delivery-oriented ones, with utmost care for safety precautions. Tying up with delivery and logistics service providers in order to provide direct-to-home services for customers is already on the rise and could further gain more traction, it added. "While several are optimistic about the future returning to a state of normalcy, it is quite evident that consumer mindsets have changed drastically. It is safe to say that pre-Covid-19 behaviour might not be the best way to survive post-Covid-19," the report said. A chunk of organisations has been proactively responding to the current changes even though the future picture seems hazy. Presently, the optimal solution is avid preparation and responsiveness for the near future and the post-Covid-19 world, it added. However, the report pointed out that "going forward, we believe that entertainment, physical shopping, dining out etc could see a surge in demand with gradual opening up of physical marketplaces — especially given the onset of the festival season." People would be drawn more towards physical stores as they would have been missing the touch of reality for so long. So, experience would become an integral part of shopping, it added. Commenting on the findings of the report, KPMG in India Partner and Head, Consumer Markets and Internet Business, Harsha Razdan said, "The unchartered waters of Covid-19 has meant a gradual change in consumer behaviour. With new models of working and shopping evolving, physical and online channels too are undergoing makeovers." There is an increasing thrust on localisation as the new standard. With rising consumer expectations, order fulfilment is becoming increasingly important for retailers to adhere to. To provide a seamless customer journey, it is important to be available across physical and digital touchpoints offering the right choices to consumers, Razdan added. "Our view is that retailers across the world, especially the brick and mortar ones will have to borrow best practices from each other and get back up on their feet. Since there is an uncertainty that continues with this crisis, innovation and adaptation are key. With the advent of a strong digital wave, it will be important for companies to adapt to the situation quickly and continue to innovate keeping consumers at the centre of their plans," Razdan said. RAI CEO Kumar Rajagopalan said in the wake of the pandemic retailers are relooking at their product mix and the way in which they do their businesses. "Even neighbourhood retailers are stepping up their game by augmenting their digital capabilities to optimise every prospective opportunity to their benefit. They always had the trust factor going for them and are now also adding convenience to their arsenal," he said. The neighbourhood retailers are now creating their own web stores and taking orders by marketing their products through various digital channels such as Facebook and WhatsApp, Rajagopalan said. "The pandemic has pushed retailers to think out of the box and accelerate tech adoption. We see this trend continuing, making retail more interesting and consumer-focused," he added. The report said though no one knows for certain what concrete impact this crisis will have on business the world over, one thing is for certain — innovation and adaptation is key. "No matter what unseen catastrophe retailers are going through, the businesses and business owners need to be flexible and agile enough to incorporate changes in their behaviour, operations and management, in order to evolve for the better," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-affected-shopping-habits-on-safety-concerns-report-887396.html
14-09-2020||National||Over 60% active cases in 5 states; recovery rate touches 78%: Centre||More than 60 per cent of the active coronavirus cases are concentrated in the five states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, the Health Ministry said on Monday, underlining that the recovery rate in the country had touched 78 per cent. India's Covid-19 case tally has mounted to 48.46 lakh with 92,071 new infections, while 37.80 lakh people have recuperated. The death toll climbed to 79,722 with 1,136 more people succumbing to the infection, according to the ministry data. India's journey of a fast-growing recovery rate has crossed a milestone on Monday. On a continuous upward trajectory, the recovery rate has touched 78 per cent, reflecting the increasing number of high recoveries per day, it said in a statement. As many as 77,512 patients have been discharged in a single day and the gap between recovered cases and active cases is consistently increasing, and now stands at 27,93,509. The total number of active cases in the country is 9,86,598, according to the ministry. More than 60 per cent of the active cases are concentrated in five states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. These states are also reporting 60 per cent of the total recovered cases, it said. Nearly 60 per cent of the total number of Covid-19 cases are from five states -- Maharashtra (21.9 per cent), Andhra Pradesh (11.7 per cent), Tamil Nadu (10.4 per cent), Karnataka (9.5 per cent) and Uttar Pradesh (6.4 per cent), the ministry said. Out of the 92,071 new cases, Maharashtra continues to contribute a high number and has reported more than 22,000 new cases in a day. Andhra Pradesh has contributed more than 9,800 new cases, it said.  Of the new 1,136 deaths, nearly 53 per cent are concentrated in the three states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh. These are followed by Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh. More than 36 per cent of deaths reported on Sunday are from Maharashtra (416 deaths), the ministry said. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 5,72,39,428 samples have been tested up to September 13 with 9,78,500 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-60-active-cases-in-5-states-recovery-rate-touches-78-centre-887400.html
14-09-2020||National||Formed 16-member committee to study ancient Indian culture: Union minister Prahlad Patel||The government has formed an expert committee for conducting a study on the origin and evolution of Indian culture dating back to around 12,000 years ago, Union minister Prahlad Patel informed Parliament on Monday. In a written reply in Lok Sabha, Patel said the 16-member committee will include K N Dikshit, Chairman, Indian Archaeological Society, New Delhi and former Joint Director General, Archaeological Survey of India, among others. "A committee has been set up for conducting a holistic study of origin and evolution of Indian culture since 12,000 years before present and its interface with other cultures of the world," the Union minister of State for Tourism and Culture said. In a reply to another query on the ministry's plans to use the report of the said committee in textbooks for the purpose of educational research, he said at present, there is no such proposal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/formed-16-member-committee-to-study-ancient-indian-culture-union-minister-prahlad-patel-887404.html
14-09-2020||National||SC indicates to modify conditions for release of prisoners in Maharashtra during Covid-19 pandemic||The Supreme Court on Monday indicated to issue directions to the High-powered Committee of the Maharashtra government to decide the release of every prisoner on merit, instead of insisting on excluding a large number of people arrested or convicted under the special laws, amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian reserved the order on a petition filed by activist Medha Patkar. They challenged the validity of the Bombay HC's August 5 order upholding the decision on the classification of prisoners for temporary parole as well as interim bail.  The petitioner asked the court to direct the High-Powered Committee to reconsider the cases of 17642 undertrial prisoners and 11,000 convicted persons lodged in jails within Maharashtra pending final hearing of the matter, for temporary release on interim bail and emergency parole, respectively.  On March 23, acting Suo Motu, the top court took judicial notice of the necessity of maintaining social distancing in the prisons in the light of Covid-19 and directed the States to constitute a High-Powered Committee so as to release the prisoners on interim bail or emergency parole.  The panel in Maharashtra decided that those who are accused or convicted of offenses punishable with imprisonment of seven years or less shall be released on interim bail or emergency parole. However, it said the directions would not apply to the prisoners who are accused of or convicted for offenses under the Special Acts like MCOCA, PMLA, NDPS, UAPA, etc, or the serious economic offenses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-indicates-to-modify-conditions-for-release-of-prisoners-in-maharashtra-during-covid-19-pandemic-887414.html
14-09-2020||National||Bill to cut MPs' salaries by 30% to meet Covid-19 exigencies introduced in Lok Sabha||Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday introduced in Lok Sabha a bill that seeks to reduce for one year the salaries of Members of Parliament by 30 per cent "to meet the exigencies arising out of Covid-19 pandemic". The Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to replace the Salary, Allowances And Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. "I rise to move...to introduce the bill further to amend the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954," Joshi said and added that "I introduce the bill". The ordinance was cleared by the Cabinet on April 6 and promulgated on April 7. The ordinance had stated that the coronavirus pandemic has shown the importance of expeditious relief and assistance and therefore, it was necessary to take "certain emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of this pandemic".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-cut-mps-salaries-by-30-to-meet-covid-19-exigencies-introduced-in-lok-sabha-887429.html
14-09-2020||National||Shibu Soren, 14 others take oath as Rajya Sabha members||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief Shibu Soren, DMK leader Tiruchi Siva and BJP's Syed Zafar Islam were among the 15 newly-elected members who took oath in Rajya Sabha on Monday. On the opening day of the Monsoon session of Parliament that is being held with several restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the MPs walked to the designated spot, took the oath but did not go for the customary handshake with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. Naidu welcomed them with folded hands as members came forward for the oath-taking, signed the register, and walked back to their designated seats, without approaching other leaders for greetings. Soren, 76, who had last month tested positive for the coronavirus, spoke feebly as he took oath in Hindi and was assisted by a Rajya Sabha staff member as he walked to his seat. Banker-turned-politician, Islam, who was elected to the Upper House from Uttar Pradesh last month, took oath in the name of God in Hindi. Siva took oath in Tamil as did his party colleagues N R Elango and Anthiyur P Selvarasu. From UP minister Jaiprakash Nishad of BJP also took the oath. Congress leader Phulo Devi Netam, who was elected to the Upper House from Chhattisgarh, took oath in Hindi while NCP's Fauzia Khan took oath in Marathi. While TRS leaders K Keshava Rao took oath in Telugu, his colleague K R Suresh Reddy, who sported a scarf with an image of his party president, took oath in English. TMC leader Dinesh Trivedi and his colleague Arpita Ghosh, M V Shreyams Kumar (LJD), Wanuiroy Kharlukhi (NPP), and Ajit Kumar Bhuyam (Ind) were the other members who took the oath||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shibu-soren-14-others-take-oath-as-rajya-sabha-members-887435.html
14-09-2020||National||Who has guts to stop Uddhav from coming to Ayodhya? Ram Temple Trust functionary asks seers||Amid calls from a section of seers to not allow Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to set his foot in Ayodhya following the Palghar lynching and demolition of a portion of actress Kangna Ranaut's bungalow in Mumbai, a senior functionary of the Ram Temple Construction Trust on Monday lent his support to Uddhav and decried the seers' threat. Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust general secretary Champat Rai not only came out in support of Uddhav but also virtually dared the seers to carry out their threat in case the Maharashtra CM visited Ayodhya. ''Kiski maa ne doodh pilaya hai jo Uddhav Thackeray ko Ayodhya ane se rok sake'' (who has the guts to prevent Uddhav Thackeray from coming to Ayodhya), Rai said. Terming the remarks by the seers as ''uncalled for'', Rai said that an attempt was being made to ''unnecessarily create a controversy''. Prominent Ayodhya based seer Mahant Raju Das slammed Rai for supporting Uddhav. ''This kind of language against the seers will not be tolerated....this is a humiliation of the seers,'' the Mahant said. He said that the seers had opposed Uddhav as the Maharashtra government failed to save the lives of the sadhus at Palghar. ''We are firm on our decision not to allow Uddhav to set his foot on Ayodhya,'' he added. President of the All India Akhara Parishad (AIAP), an apex body of the seers in the country, Mahant Narendra Giri had recently declared that the Maharashtra CM would not be welcome if he visited Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-has-guts-to-stop-uddhav-from-coming-to-ayodhya-ram-temple-trust-functionary-asks-seers-887436.html
14-09-2020||National||Govt's timely decisions, lockdown helped in preventing approximately 37-38 thousand Covid-19 deaths : Health Ministry||The timely decisions taken by the government, including imposing a nationwide lockdown, helped in preventing approximately 37-38 thousand deaths due to coronavirus and 14-29 lakh people from getting infected, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday amid surging cases of Covid-19 in the country. Making a statement in Lok Sabha on Covid pandemic and the seps taken by the Central government, Vardhan said in India about 92 percent of the reported cases have mild symptoms, while oxygen therapy was required in 5.8 percent cases and intensive care in 1.7 percent cases. As on September 11, a total of 45,62,414 novel coronavirus cases and 76,271 deaths, with a case fatality rate of 1.67 per cent, have been reported in India, the Health Minister added. Asserting that the Central government undertook the Covid-19 challenge with the highest level of political commitment, he said the nationwide lockdown, a bold decision, undertaken by the government duly involving community, initiated as self-imposed 'Janta Curfew' as per the call given by the Prime Minister is testimony to the fact that India has collectively stood up to manage Covid-19 and successfully blunted the its aggressive progression. "It has been estimated that this decision prevented approximately 14–29 lakh cases and 37–78 thousand deaths," he asserted, adding more than 35.42 lakh cases have recovered, equivalent to 77.65 per cent of the total cases. "I wish to inform this house that the government is taking all necessary measures to prevent spread of the Covid in India," he said, adding that he was "daily reviewing the situation." The maximum cases and deaths from the infection have been primarily reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Telangana, Odisha, Assam, Kerala and Gujarat. "All these states have reported more than 1 lakh cases," the minister said. As per the World Health Organization, there are more than 2.79 crore confirmed cases of Covid-19 across the world and more than 9.05 lakh deaths, with a case fatality rate of 3.2 per cent, he said. With the endeavour to manage coronavirus through "a whole of government and a whole of society approach", India has been able to limit its cases and deaths to 3,328 cases and 55 deaths per million population, which is one of the lowest in the world as compared to similarly-affected countries, the minister said. Many of the epidemiological parameters like mode of transmission and subclinical infection were still being researched, the health minister said. Noting that the increasing magnitude of the outbreak of these diseases in India called for a pre-emptive, proactive approach, the minister said,"where there was no indigenous manufacturing of PPE... today, we are self-sufficient and even in a position to now export". Asserting that a series of actions were initiated by the government to prevent entry and spread of the disease, he said, the group of ministers (GoM), under my chairmanship, consisting of minister external affairs, civil aviation has met 20 times since its inception on February 3, 2020. The government has also constituted 11 empowered groups on March 10 on different aspects of Covid-19 management in the country, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-timely-decisions-lockdown-helped-in-preventing-approximately-37-38-thousand-covid-19-deaths-health-ministry-887447.html
14-09-2020||National||Women grieve stillborn babies as Covid-19 hits maternity care in rural India||Mantasha Bano was 28-weeks pregnant when her cries of sudden, unbearable pain prompted neighbours to call an ambulance in the rural Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It never came, and Bano's baby was stillborn. Medical workers in the northern state have reported a marked increase in stillbirths as the coronavirus pandemic strains hard-pressed rural health services including maternity care in one of the countries worst-hit by Covid-19. Bano, 22, said she believed her baby could have survived if the ambulance had arrived quickly. "It was a girl. She was very beautiful. I feel sad, very sad... I had so many dreams and now everything is shattered," she said. Coronavirus infections are rising faster in India than anywhere else in the world as the country repeatedly reports the highest global daily caseloads, including a record jump in new cases on Friday. The World Health Organization (WHO) fears the situation could get worse as the virus spreads into the vast countryside, where 60% of India's 1.35 billion people live. As the virus stretches manpower and equipment to the limit, state-run health facilities are reserving beds, tests such as ultrasound scans and treatment for critical cases involving Covid-19 or serious accidents, local health workers said. Workers from the government's Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) - usually the first point of contact in rural India - have also been deployed to fight the pandemic. The situation has forced many women like Bano, who rely on their husbands' daily wages, to pay for private healthcare. Renu Singh, an ASHA coordinator who has been overseeing 26 villages in Uttar Pradesh, including Atesua where Bano lives, for nearly 15 years, said it was the first time maternal care had been so badly disrupted. Between March and August, when India was under a months-long national lockdown, she said there had been 22 stillbirths in her area - about four times more than last year. "We have never seen such a large number of stillbirths in the villages before," she said, adding that health facilities that once catered to pregnant women had been converted into Covid-19 centres. She said nutrition units - known as Anganwadi Centres - which provide health checkups, medicines, food rations and child and maternal healthcare advice were also shut for months, resuming only irregular operations in July. "All these factors are responsible for the rising cases of stillbirths," she said. Jay Pratap Singh, Uttar Pradesh's health minister, said state health facilities were "fully working" again after the strict lockdown initially affected all medical services. He told the Thomson Reuters Foundation his department was trying to plug healthcare gaps with various measures, including the recruitment of more radiologists for prenatal ultrasounds. "The problem (of stillbirths) may be in some areas but not across Uttar Pradesh... Things have smoothened up now," he said, adding that he did not have up-to-date state-wide birth data. Some local medics disagree, however. Doctor Anil Kumar Dixit, superintendent at a state-run community health centre in Itaunja town near the state capital of Lucknow, said his facility had no qualified personnel to operate its ultrasound scanner. "There are many factors which result in stillbirths and most of them can be prevented easily by getting regular checkups, following doctors' advice and taking health supplements regularly," he added. The WHO recommends at least eight prenatal checkups, one ultrasound before 24 weeks of pregnancy and a daily intake of iron and folic acid supplements to prevent maternal anemia, neural tube defects (NTDs) and preterm birth. Sarita Gautam, 22, missed several of those steps during her pregnancy, including regular iron supplements for her anemia. She said she only had two weeks' supply and struggled to get hold of more as her health clinic was closed to "normal patients", which also forced her to get an ultrasound privately in June when she was five months pregnant. "The doctors at the (state-run clinic) told me to come and get the ultrasound done in the ninth month of my pregnancy, but I had lost my baby before that," she said. Kusum Singh, an ASHA worker who assisted Gautam, said the local state-run facility was only admitting women who were in the last week of pregnancy and reserving ultrasounds for them, leaving others with no choice but to seek private care. "Many of the families are so poor they cannot afford testing," Singh said. "If this continues, the situation will become worse. "This year, especially after the lockdown was imposed, there have been a lot of stillbirths," she added. India's federal Health Ministry did not respond to repeated requests for comment and nationwide stillbirth data. As part of lockdown guidelines, the ministry said prenatal services had to be provided on a walk-in basis at state-run health centres with social distancing rules. "It is our duty to ensure the life of a pregnant woman is not put to unnecessary danger," Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in February. But as Covid-19 spread and hospitals began to buckle, more hardship cases involving pregnant women have come to light. In June, a woman who was eight-months pregnant died near New Delhi after being turned away by eight hospitals. A month later, a newborn died when a woman gave birth in an autorickshaw in Bengaluru after three hospitals said they could not admit her due to a lack of beds. Aparna Hegde, a urogynecologist, called for urgent extra investment in primary healthcare and to improve the referrals process, urging authorities to identify possible gaps that could put women at higher risk. "(Otherwise) when a pandemic comes, it's really going to come and hit you and expose all your frailties," said Hegde, founder of Armman, a maternal and child health charity. Gautam, who lost her baby when she was seven-months pregnant, spends her days grieving the loss, which has also strained her marriage. "My husband blames me for it, saying I was careless during the pregnancy... But I did everything to save the child."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-grieve-stillborn-babies-as-covid-19-hits-maternity-care-in-rural-india-887450.html
14-09-2020||National||Will Parliament seriously discuss China, Covid-19, asks Shiv Sena||With the monsoon session of Parliament beginning from Monday, the Shiv Sena asked whether the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will discuss seriously important issues like Chinese aggression along the LAC, Covid-19 and unemployment. In an editorial in its mouthpiece 'Saamana', the Shiv Sena said Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc in states with no end in sight to the coronavirus pandemic, while China has adopted aggressive posturing along the LAC. Also, Pakistanis are openly conducting surgical strikes in Kashmir, said the Sena publication on Monday. The country's economy is in doldrums and crores of people have lost jobs due to demonetisation in 2016 and now the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, the former BJP ally said. "Will there be a serious discussion on these issues in both the Houses (of Parliament)?" asked the editorial. The Uddhav Thackeray-led outfit, an opposition party in Parliament, claimed that to hide issues concerning the country's security and peoples livelihood, non-issues are being highlighted. "This is treachery with the people. All this is being done to divert attention from the China issue. The cyber legions of the ruling party are creating such an atmosphere that price rise and unemployment are not the issues, but the ones from by-lanes (non-issues) are," it said in an attack on the BJP. Mumbai has deliberately been chosen to take forward this "great work" (of highlighting non-issues), the Sena said, referring to the assault on retired Navy officer Madan Sharma. It condemned the assault on Sharma, but asked what did he achieve by circulating an objectionable cartoon on Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. "Werent you taught while you were in naval service to respect those occupying constitutional posts? the Sena asked Sharma. The Marathi daily said it was surprising that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to the retired officer over the phone after the incident last week. The revenge for killings of 20 Indian soldiers (by Chinese troops) has not yet been taken and China is still being imperious, it said, adding the BJP protested following the assault on the retired Navy officer, who has demanded resignation of Thackeray. He should have demanded the resignations of President, Prime Minister and Defence Minister "who are responsible for the killings of 20 soldiers," the Shiv Sena said. It sarcastically said given the kind of frivolous things going on in the country at present, it will definitely secure gold in the childs play category (if there is created any) at the Olympics. The Sena alleged that supporters of BJPs Jalgaon MP Unmesh Patil had in the past attacked an ex-serviceman, but the NDA lead constituent had not taken to streets then. It recalled that the son of Mohammad Akhlaq, who was lynched by a mob in Uttar Pradesh's Dadri five years ago, is also serving in security forces. The Sena also referred to retired Army captain Amanullah (64), who was beaten to death in Uttar Pradesh earlier this year, and said there was no word on the prime minister or defence minister calling up the deceased's wife. "Because all these uncalled-for activities are reserved for Maharashtra only, the Shiv Sena alleged. Without naming actress Kangana Ranaut, the party said anger was expressed when she insulted Mumbai and its police. "But that (expression of anger) was treated as threat and she was accorded Y-plus security by Himachal Pradesh and central governments...what promptness! the Shiv Sena quipped. Ranaut had likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and said she feared the city police more than an alleged movie mafia. Latching on to media reports about gang-rape of a married woman in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra, the Shiv Sena asked why that the hill state's Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur or Union Home Minister Amit Shah did not provide Z category protection to the victim. "This needs to be thought about at the national level seriously, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-parliament-seriously-discuss-china-covid-19-asks-shiv-sena-887451.html
14-09-2020||National||MSP will stay, farmers will get investment, technology: Govt on farm sector Bills||Defending its two Bills on the farm sector introduced in the Lok Sabha, the government on Monday said they will help the farmers get a remunerative price for their produce as well as private investments and technology. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, while introducing the Bills to replace the 'The Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 and 'The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, said that almost 86 per cent of farmers have agricultural land of fewer than two hectares and they are often unable to benefit from minimum support price (MSPs). The Minister, however, assured the House that the MSP will stay. The Congress and other parties have been opposing the legislations, alleging it will undermine the safety net provided to the farmers by the MSP system and will lead to their exploitation by big companies. The ordinances seek to provide barrier-free trade for farmers' produce outside notified farm mandis, and empower farmers to enter into farming agreements with private players prior to the production for sale of agri-produce, according to the government. Tomar said the Bill will help the farmers as they are unable to invest much in their farm and do not attract investments from others. He also rejected the criticism that it was beyond the remit of the union government to legislate on these issues, saying opposition members should trust the Centre. The Opposition has alleged that the Centre brought in the legislations without consulting the states under whose domain 'agriculture' and 'mandis' come. The minister asked the opposition members to study the content of the Bills deeply before "running to oppose them". He stressed that farmers will get a lot of benefit from these laws as they can enter into an agreement with private traders for selling their produce. These agreements will be about the produce and not the farmland, he asserted, rebutting suggestions that farmers may lose ownership of their land. Opposing the two Bills, the leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said constitutional provisions are very clear that agriculture is a subject on the State List. "Such a law can only be brought by state governments.... Through this Bill, the centre will nullify Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) law enacted by various state governments," Chowdhury said. The central government is not competent to make such a law, he asserted, adding, "This is a case of legislative overreach and a direct attack on the federal structure of the Constitution." Chowdhury pointed out that farmers of Punjab and Haryana are protesting against these two Bills. TMC member Saugata Roy claimed that farming will move into the hands of capitalists due to these legislations. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said the Bill violates the basic tenets of federalism enshrined in India's Constitution. "It is beyond the legislative competence of this house to enact any law on agriculture, which is a domain of the state governments," Tharoor said The Bill endangers the right to food of the countrymen, he added. The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, bars state governments from imposing taxes on sale and purchase of farm produce undertaken outside the mandis and give farmers the freedom to sell their produce at remunerative prices . Besides, any conflicts arising from the transactions will be dealt with exclusively by the Sub Division Magistrate (SDM) and District Collectorate within 30 days and not in the jurisdiction of civil courts. At present, farmers are allowed to sell their agriculture produce at 6,900-odd APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees) mandis spread across the nation. There are restrictions for farmers in selling agri-produce outside the mandis. The ordinances were promulgated on June 5, 2020. However, the Union Agriculture Ministry notified the two Ordinances on July 20. The Ordinance also permits electronic trading of farmers' produce in the specified trade area. Private players, farmer producer organisations or agricultural cooperative society can establish and operate such platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/msp-will-stay-farmers-will-get-investment-technology-govt-on-farm-sector-bills-887454.html
14-09-2020||National||Maharashtra: Bookseller sleeps on pothole to highlight road condition||A bookseller in Aurangabad in Maharashtra slept on a pothole to highlight the pathetic condition of roads in Marathwada's biggest city and a video of his act soon went viral on social media. Mirza Abdul Qayyum, who also teaches children Urdu and Marathi, told PTI on Monday that the condition of roads had gone from bad to worse with the onset of monsoon, and the administration was not doing enough to give people relief. "I am a bookseller and Urdu teacher by profession. But I am also interested in social work so wanted to highlight the bad condition of roads in Aurangabad city. I have seen people trip and fall in this pothole routinely," he said. The site of his agitation on Sunday was a pothole just in front of his bookshop in the city's Kaisar Colony area. "While the administration checks shops to see if they are taking precautions in view of the coronavirus outbreak, it is doing little in such matters," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-bookseller-sleeps-on-pothole-to-highlight-road-condition-887457.html
14-09-2020||National||Senior bureaucrat Rajesh Khullar appointed Executive Director, World Bank||Senior bureaucrat Rajesh Khullar has been appointed as Executive Director, World Bank, Washington, a Personnel Ministry order issued on Monday said. Khullar, a 1988-batch IAS officer, is currently serving in his cadre state Haryana. He is the principal secretary to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. He will have a tenure of three years or till the date of his superannuation, i.e. August 31, 2023, the order said. In another order, the Personnel Ministry said Sameer Kumar Khare has been appointed Executive Director of the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Manila. Khare is a 1989-batch IAS officer of Assam-Meghalaya cadre and is currently the additional secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs. He has been appointed Executive Director of ADB for a tenure of three years, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-bureaucrat-rajesh-khullar-appointed-executive-director-world-bank-887459.html
14-09-2020||National||NDA candidate Harivansh re-elected as Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman||JD(U)'s Harivansh was on Monday elected as the Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha for the second time. He defeated the joint Opposition candidate Manoj K Jha of RJD in a voice vote. The Opposition did not seek a division of the votes, as it was clear that the camp did not have the numbers to take on the NDA candidate. Harivansh was earlier elected Deputy Chairman on 8 August 2018 and remained in the chair of Deputy Chairman till his membership in the Upper House expired earlier this year. He was re-elected later to the Upper House later. Motion to elect Harivansh as Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman was moved by JP Nadda and seconded by Tawarchand Gehlot. Ghulam Nabi Azad, Tiruchi Siva, Javed Ali Khan moved separate motions to elect Jha as Deputy Chairman. Anand Sharma, Ahmed Patel, Jairam Ramesh seconded the motion in favor of Jha. Congratulating Harivansh on his election, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he is an honest face of both politics and journalism, which was his vocation earlier before entering politics. He has earned this post through his hard work. "In running the House, the umpire (Chair) faces more challenges than the players (MPs). To make MPs adhere to the rules is a challenge. When he was chosen for the first time (in 2018), some people had some reservations. But he earned their faith through his impartial conduct of the House," Modi said. Jha said the fight was not against two personalities but on issues. "We have chosen a middle path and that is the beauty of democracy," he said congratulating Harivansh. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said "two good people were candidates but only one could win." Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said he is sure that Harivansh will remain impartial as he was in his first term as Deputy Chairman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nda-candidate-harivansh-re-elected-as-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-887465.html
14-09-2020||National||No plan to revise reservation norms under NEP: Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'||There is no plan to revise the existing reservation norms under the new National Education Policy, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said on Monday. Nishank made the comments in response to a written question in the Lok Sabha about whether the government plans to revise the existing reservation norms under the NEP. "There is no question of revising the reservation policy," Nishank said. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet in July replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for "transformational reforms" in schools and higher education systems to make India a "global knowledge superpower"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plan-to-revise-reservation-norms-under-nep-education-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank-887480.html
14-09-2020||National||Kolkata’s first theme-based Durga Puja set to make a come back||It all started 61 years ago in North Kolkata when a prominent Durga Puja committee gave the responsibility to a young artist for the pandal decoration. The outcome was no conventional pandal decoration but the first theme-based Durga Puja in Kolkata. Now the organisers are all set to give visitors a trip down the memory lane by recreating the same theme this year. Back then Durga Puja used to be dominated with big traditional pandals primarily made of cloth and bamboo. The idols were also made in a traditional manner. But in 1959 an upcoming artist Ashok Gupta hired by the Jagat Mukherjee Park Durga Puja decided to do things differently. He decorated the pandal with elaborate murals on the wall creating Kolkata’s first theme puja. This year the organisers are all set to recreate the same theme as a tribute to Gupta. The responsibility has been given to artist Subal Pal. It is not just an aesthetic challenge for him but also a test for his will power. Pal who suffers from high blood sugar has recently recovered from Covid-19. He resumed his work as soon as he felt a little better. From the outside, the pandal will be built resembling Gupta’s studio. So from both the outside and the inside, the puja will be like a trip back in time for visitors. “Ashok Gupta created the Durga idol on a board in a high relief form (where at least half or more of the natural circumference of the forms are projected from the background),” said Pal. The organisers said that despite the lack of funds this year due to the absence of sponsors they are determined to make the puja unique. “This year we have a very low budget. So we decided to bring back the pandal (of 1959) which made our puja famous,” said puja committee member Dwaipayan Roy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-s-first-theme-based-durga-puja-set-to-make-a-come-back-887484.html
14-09-2020||National||Report on Chinese surveillance: Cong calls on govt to step up efforts on cyber security||The Congress on Monday urged the government to step up its efforts on cybersecurity for confronting China's intentions in the cyberspace after a media report claimed that a Shenzen-based firm with links to the Chinese government is monitoring over 10,000 Indian individuals and organisations in its global database of "foreign targets". A report in the Indian Express claimed that the range of targets in India identified and monitored in real-time by Zhenhua Data Information Technology Co. Limited was "sweeping" and included President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress' interim president Sonia Gandhi, and their families, as well as several chief ministers, among others. Tagging the news report, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Twitter that the news about Chinese digital surveillance of India's leaders and others is "worrying". "We condemn this unequivocally. Have the Chinese used this 2 yr old Company to influence Govt policies in any manner? Will the Govt investigate & assure the Nation?" he said. In another tweet, Surjewala asked that, if the report is correct, then did the Modi government know about this serious matter. "Or they didn't know that we were being spied upon? Why is the government failing to protect our strategic interests over and over again?" he said. A clear message needs to be sent out to China to prevent them from indulging in such activities, he said in the tweet in Hindi. When asked about the report, Congress' deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi said, "We want the government of India to step up its efforts on cybersecurity because when we confront a country like China, we are not only confronting China on land, sea and air, we are also confronting Chinese intentions in the cyberspace as well." The government should not be caught sleeping and should ramp up its efforts, he told reporters. "In the days to come, the government should be clear...that all the data that has been collected by Chinese agencies has not been used to manipulate policy, has not been used to gain more intelligence data on our military or sensitive information," he said. That kind of assurance should come from this government, Gogoi asserted. He also said that the Congress wanted the government to give an assurance on the first day of Parliament that when will the Indo-China border issue be taken up in Lok Sabha, when will it be taken up in Rajya Sabha and in what form will the prime minister speak on the issue. "These are clarifications...the entire country is watching -- when will the Indo-China border conflict be taken up in Parliament, but no such indication was given in Parliament today," Gogoi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/report-on-chinese-surveillance-cong-calls-on-govt-to-step-up-efforts-on-cyber-security-887486.html
14-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Govt has no data on migrant labourers' job loss; 25 MPs test positive for Covid-19||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Government has no data about job loss of migrant labourers during lockdown; KSRTC switches to environment-friendly ticketing technology; 25 MPs, including Meenakshi Lekhi, Anant Kumar Hegde and Parvesh Sahib Singh, test positive for Covid-19, and Centre tells Delhi High Court that marriage between same-sex couples was "not permissible".  Here are the top news of today, Sunday: September 14, 2020:   The government has no data about deaths and job loss of migrant labourers during the national lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19, the Ministry of Labour and Employment informed Lok Sabha on Monday. It also did not have any report of forced retention of migrant labourers who wanted to return to their home states. This was disclosed by Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar in a series of written replies in Lok Sabha. Gangwar also said that the Centre does not have a state-wise break up of distribution of free ration to migrant workers though the government pegged the number of migrant labourers who returned to their home states at 1.04 crore as per data available at present. Among the states, Uttar Pradesh saw the highest number of migrant labourers returning home at 32.49 lakh followed by Bihar with over 15 lakh. Railways operated at least 4,611 Shramik Special (Workers' Special) trains and ferried around 63.07 lakh migrant workers to various destinations by providing free water and food during the journey. "No such data is maintained" was the Minister's answer to separate questions seeking the number of migrant labourers who lost their jobs, who died while returning to home during lockdown and ration provided to them. While state-wise details on free ration was "not available", Gangwar said 80 crore people are being provided additional five kg wheat or rice and one kg of preferred pulses, free of cost every month till November to all the beneficiaries under provisions of National Food Security Act. To a question on the total quantum of amount withdrawn from Employees’ Provident Fund account during the pandemic from March 25 to August 31, the Minister pegged the figure at Rs 39,402.94 crore. Maharashtra topped the list with Rs 7,837.85 crore followed by Karnataka at Rs 5,743.96 crore. The KSRTC will do away with the plastic pipe holding the small rolls of paper in the electronic ticketing machines (ETM) as the corporation switches to environment friendly technology. Karnataka State Road Transoprt Corporation (KSRTC) and its sister corporations use about 1.5 crore of ETM rolls per year to print the tickets. The corporation procures the paper which is then cut into smaller rolls in the Karnataka State Transport Press. Established in 1952, the press has been supplying various materials to the corporations. On Monday, KSRTC installed two new slitting machines that cuts the jumbo reels into small rolls used by the bus conductors in the hand-held ETMs. Earlier, the paper was rolled around plastic pipes each of which cost about 50 paise. The corporation said that the switch to environment friendly technology will save about Rs.75 lakhs per year to the corporation. The machines can produce 16,000 rolls per day and KSRTC press can earn up to Rs 4.80 crore annually. KSRTC Chairman M Chandrappa, who inaugurated the machines, said two more such machines will be installed in the coming days. The press can they supply the rolls to BMTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC as well. 25 MPs, including Meenakshi Lekhi, Anant Kumar Hegde and Parvesh Sahib Singh, tested positive for Covid-19 on first day of Parliament Monsoon Session, reports ANI.The infected MPs include 12 from BJP, two from YSR Congress and one each from Shiv Sena, DMK and RLP, according to reports. The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that marriage between same sex couples was "not permissible" as it is not recognised by "our laws, legal system, society and our values". The submission was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan by Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta during hearing of a PIL seeking a declaration that same sex marriages be recognised under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and Special Marriage Act. Mehta opposed the relief sought in the petition saying "our laws, our legal system, our society and our values do not recognise a marriage, which is a sacrament, between same sex couples". He said the plea to grant recognition to or permit registration of such marriages was "not permissible" for two reasons -- firstly, the petition was asking the court to legislate and secondly, any relief granted "would run contrary to various statutory provisions". "Unless court does violence to various laws, this cannot be done," he added. Mehta also said that under the HMA, the various provisions regulating marriages or prohibited relationships talk of husband and wife and therefore, who would be assigned these roles where a same sex couple was concerned. The bench observed that the world over things were changing, but it may or may not be applicable to India. Israelis reacted with anger and dismay Monday at an imminent nationwide lockdown aimed at curbing one of the world's highest novel coronavirus infection rates. "It's unfair!" lamented Eti Avishai, a 64-year-old seamstress, hours after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced a three-week lockdown will start on Friday. "They didn't stop the big gatherings in synagogues, the weddings and the other events, and now I can't be with my children and grandchildren during the holidays?" she added. The shutdown will be implemented hours before the start of the Jewish New Year and the High Holidays, which also include the Day of Atonement and Sukkot. While Israelis largely accepted the strict lockdown imposed at the onset of the pandemic in March, this time many are frustrated at the way the health crisis has been handled since businesses and schools reopened in May. Source: DHNS / PTI/ AFP Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-govt-has-no-data-on-migrant-labourers-job-loss-25-mps-test-positive-for-covid-19-887489.html
14-09-2020||National||Impact of corporate tax rate cut to be felt in coming years: Anurag Thakur||The government on Monday said the lowering of corporate tax rate has made India a globally competitive and favoured destination for investment and the impact of this landmark reform will be felt in the coming years. The government last year slashed the base corporation tax rate to 22 per cent from 30 per cent, leading to revenue implication of Rs 1.45 lakh crore. "The Government, in its endeavour to make India a globally competitive and favoured destination for investment, reduced the corporate tax rate for new companies in the manufacturing sector to 15 per cent and to 22 per cent for existing companies in September, 2019," Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. This has enabled the corporate tax rates in India to be amongst the lowest in the world, he said, adding "given that investment decisions have a long term perspective, the impact of this landmark reform would be felt in coming years". As per the estimates of gross domestic product for the first quarter 2020-21, Thakur said, the real GDP in India contracted by 23.9 per cent as against a 5.2 per cent growth in the same quarter previous fiscal. "With the phased unlocking of the Indian economy since June 1, 2020, high-frequency economic indicators like PMI Manufacturing, index of eight core industries, E-way bills, Kharif sowing, power consumption, railway freight, cargo traffic and passenger vehicle sales have recovered and indicate growing convergence with previous year's activity levels," he said. In July 2020, merchandise exports of India were estimated at USD 23.6 billion, as against USD 26.3 billion in July 2019, while the merchandise imports stood at USD 28.5 billion in July 2020, compared to USD 39.8 billion a year ago, he said in a reply to another question. This is in line with the contraction witnessed in world trade in the first four months of 2020-21, due to which exports contracted by (-) 30.2 per cent and imports by (-) 46.7 per cent, over the corresponding period of the previous year, he said. GST collections for the first quarter of 2020-21 were 59 per cent of the revenue collected during the same quarter last year, Thakur said in a reply to a question asked by V K Sreekandan, Congress MP from Kerala. However, GST collections for August recovered to Rs 86,449 crore, reaching 88 per cent of collections in the same month previous year. Structural reforms have been announced as part of the Atmanirbhar Package, which include deregulation of the agricultural sector, change in the definition of MSMEs, new PSU policy, commercialisation of coal mining, higher FDI limits in defence and space sector. In reply to another question, Thakur said, the total investment of Rs 18,152.14 crore for 4,81,65,057 grams of gold has been received in 42 issuances since the inception of the Sovereign Gold Bonds (SGBs) scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/impact-of-corporate-tax-rate-cut-to-be-felt-in-coming-years-anurag-thakur-887504.html
14-09-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan deposits Re one fine, asks SC to review contempt judgement||Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday deposited Re one fine in the Supreme Court but asked it to review the judgment that held him guilty of suo motu contempt of court for his tweets against the judiciary. He contended that the August 14 judgment that convicted him "is erroneous on its face because it does not consider the totality of facts". Bhushan asked the court to rehear the matter after granting an open court hearing in the matter. "Just because I am paying the fine does not mean that I have accepted the verdict. We have filed a writ petition that there must be an appeal procedure created for conviction under the contempt," he told reporters. In his petition, Bhushan raised several grounds, including that the judgment has failed to consider the tweet in context or deal with the explanation offered by him for his tweets posted in June this year.  He also said the matter should not have been heard by Justice Arun Mishra (since retired) as he has on several occasions, orally accused the petitioner of committing contempt of court when he had merely mentioned that it may be inappropriate for a particular judge to hear a particular case in circumstances where conflict of interest was involved. Justice Mishra led three-judge bench had imposed Re one fine on Bhushan, failing which he would have to serve three months jail and debarment to practice for three years. He asked the court to hear his review petition along with a writ petition filed him seeking a right of intra-court appeal for a person convicted for criminal contempt by the top court, before a larger and different bench. He also asked the court to issue directions for framing rules and guidelines in this regard or allow hearing of review petition in case of conviction before the open court by a different bench. Bhushan is facing another contempt case arising out of his interview with Tehelka magazine in 2009, accusing more than half of 16 former Chief Justices of India of corruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-deposits-re-one-fine-asks-sc-to-review-contempt-judgement-887512.html
14-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha meets amid pandemic; Members don masks, sit in different locations||Lok Sabha on Monday met for the Monsoon session under unusual circumstances created by the Covid-19 pandemic with members seated in different locations, including the Rajya Sabha chamber, in view of the physical distancing norms put in place to check the spread of the virus. Before the House met at 9 am, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed confidence that Parliament will unitedly give a message that the country is standing solidly behind soldiers guarding India's borders. In an apparent reference to the ongoing border row with China in Ladakh, Modi said Indian soldiers are bravely discharging their duties while standing guard in difficult hilly terrains with snowfall expected in the coming days and weeks. Referring to the Covid-19 pandemic, he said MPs have chosen the path of their duty and added that all precautions will be taken. Modi also enquired about the health of media personnel while noting that they will not get the opportunity to move around freely like before due to the coronavirus guidelines. "You will get every news. It is not a difficult task for you, but please take care of yourself. It is my personal request to all of you," he said. As some Lok Sabha members attended the House proceedings while seated in the Rajya Sabha chamber, Speaker Om Birla said this is perhaps for the first time that such an arrangement had been put in place. Birla also said members do not have to stand while speaking as part of the new procedures put in place to contain the spread of coronavirus. Members participated in debates while sitting on their numbered seats. Special podiums were placed for members, who were sitting in the galleries meant for visitors and VIPs, to speak as there is no mike facility there. The Speaker said rules have been eased to allow Lok Sabha members to sit in Rajya Sabha and similarly Rajya Sabha members can occupy seats in the lower house to ensure distancing during the session of the upper house. In a lighter vein, he said it is a dream of some RS members to sit in Lok Sabha. The Lok Sabha secretariat said 359 members attended the proceedings of Lok Sabha on Monday. With two vacancies, the current strength to Lok Sabha is 541. Unlike in the past, there were no opposition protests in the Well of the House, which is otherwise a usual occurrence on day one of the session as soon as the House assembles. A giant TV screen in the Lok Sabha chamber showed very few Lok Sabha members were occupying seats in the Rajya Sabha chamber. Benches which usually accommodate six members had a numbered sitting plan for only three. Glass-like plastic shields of varied sizes were installed in front of benches to protect members from coronavirus. The shield also covered part of the members' sides. The front seats of the Treasury benches on the right of the Speaker's podium were occupied by Prime Minister Narendra Modi sitting on a seat marked as number one, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on seat number 2 and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on seat number 3. The front seats of the opposition benches were occupied by T R Baalu of the DMK and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress. Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, 80, was helped inside the House on a wheelchair and was seated next to National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah in the second row of opposition benches. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan made a statement in the House on the novel coronavirus, saying the central government undertook the Covid-19 challenge with the highest level of political commitment. The nationwide lockdown, which he described as a bold decision,  is testimony to the fact that India has collectively stood up to manage Covid-19 and successfully blunted the aggressive progression of the infection. It has been estimated that this decision prevented approximately 14–29 lakh cases and 37–78 thousand deaths, he said. During the proceedings, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman sought Parliament's nod for additional spending of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, which includes a cash outgo of Rs 1.66 lakh crore, primarily to meet expenses for combating the Covid-19 pandemic. The government also introduced three bills on the farm sector with Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar asserting that they will help farmers get a remunerative price for their produce as well as private investments and technology. The Centre also introduced The Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which will replace ordinances promulgated by the government earlier. Another bill which seeks to reduce for one year the salaries of MPs by 30 per cent "to meet the exigencies arising out of Covid-19 pandemic" was also introduced. It also seeks to replace an ordinance. On the lack of the usual hustle-bustle during the Parliament session, N K Premachandran, Lok Sabha member from Kollam, said, "These are hard times and the mood was conciliatory. There was, of course, the fibreglass ... the liveliness of Parliament was missing because of the extraordinary situation". In view of the coronavirus scare, only a few MPs interacted with media persons waiting at Vijay Chowk near the Parliament complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-meets-amid-pandemic-members-don-masks-sit-in-different-locations-887514.html
14-09-2020||National||India says China laying cables to bolster communications at border flashpoint||Two Indian officials said Chinese troops were laying a network of optical fibre cables at a western Himalayan flashpoint with India, suggesting they were digging in for the long haul despite high-level talks aimed at resolving a standoff there. Such cables, which would provide forward troops with secure lines of communication to bases in the rear, have recently been spotted to the south of Pangong Tso lake in the Himalayan region of Ladakh, a senior government official said. China's foreign ministry did not immediately respond to questions on the matter from Reuters, while defence officials could not immediately be reached for comment. Thousands of Indian and Chinese troops backed by tanks and aircraft are locked in an uneasy stalemate along a 70 km-long front to the south of the lake. Each country has accused the other of escalating the standoff. A third Indian official said on Monday that there had been no significant withdrawals or reinforcements on either side since the foreign ministers of the two countries met last week. "It is as tense as earlier," he said. Above Leh, Ladakh's main city, Indian fighter planes flew throughout the morning, their engines booming and echoing across the valley surrounded by brown, barren mountains. "Our biggest worry is that they have laid optical fibre cables for high-speed communications," the first official said, referring to the lake's southern bank, where Indian and Chinese troops are only a few hundred metres apart at some points. "They have been laying optical fibre cables on the southern bank at breakneck speed," he said. Indian intelligence agencies noted similar cables to the north of the Pangong Tso lake around a month ago, the second government official said. The first Indian government official said the authorities were alerted to such activity after satellite imagery showed unusual lines in the sand of the high-altitude deserts to the south of Pangong Tso. These lines were judged by Indian experts - and corroborated by foreign intelligence agencies - to be communication cables laid in trenches, he said, including near the Spanggur gap, among hilltops where soldiers fired in the air recently for the first time in decades. Indian officials say a build-up in border infrastructure on their side is also likely to have played a part in the months-long confrontation. The Chinese have complained about India building roads and air strips in and around their disputed border, and Beijing says this triggered tensions along the border. A former Indian military intelligence official, who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter, said optical fibre cables offered communications security as well as the ability to send data such as pictures and documents. "If you speak on radio, it can get caught. Communications on optical fibre cables is secure," he said. The Indian military still depends on radio communications, the first official said, although he said it was encrypted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-china-laying-cables-to-bolster-communications-at-border-flashpoint-887518.html
14-09-2020||National||Covid-19: UGC-NET exam postponed, to be conducted Sept 24 onwards||The Ministry of Education's testing agency on Monday postponed the National Eligibility Test (NET) after its dates were clashing with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) exam. The NET was scheduled to be conducted from September 16 to September 25. It will now be conducted September 24 onwards. "The National Testing Agency will be conducting ICAR exams on 16, 17, 22 and 23 September. In view of that, UGC- NET 2020 Examination will now be held from September 24 onwards," said Sadhana Parashar, Senior Director, NTA. "This is due to some common candidates in both exams and the requests received thereof. The exact schedule of subject-wise and shift-wise details will be uploaded subsequently," she added. The June 2020 exam along with various other exams had to be postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. The new schedule for various exams was released by the NTA in the last week of August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ugc-net-exam-postponed-to-be-conducted-sept-24-onwards-887520.html
14-09-2020||National||Indian mission decries delay in claiming of remains of deceased Indians in UAE||The Indian Consulate in Dubai has urged employers and families of deceased Indians here to claim the mortal remains at the earliest, in view of the increasing burden on the mortuaries across the Gulf kingdom, according to media reports on Monday. “It has come to the notice of the Consulate that in some cases, the deaths of Indian nationals in Dubai and Northern Emirates are not reported to the Consulate on time, due to which there has been delays in claiming the mortal remains from various mortuaries,” the Gulf News quoted a press statement issued by the mission. "It is re-iterated that the mortal remains must be claimed expeditiously and their burial/cremation or repatriation completed at the earliest,” the statement added. The Consulate told the newspaper that on a couple of occasions the deceased Indians were buried in the UAE without the knowledge of their families as there was no one to claim the bodies. In June year, the mission had also appealed to the Indian community to report deaths of Indian nationals immediately to avoid delays. Delays in completing formalities by the employers or families caused additional burden on the mortuaries, the mission said. The situation has been exacerbated by the Covid-19 outbreak. The consulate said employers and sponsors should report the death of an Indian on its emergency helpline: or on deathregistration.dubai@mea.gov.in The Covid-19 has claimed 399 lives with nearly 80,000 cases confirmed infections in the UAE so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-mission-decries-delay-in-claiming-of-remains-of-deceased-indians-in-uae-887522.html
14-09-2020||National||Govt introduces Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill in Lok Sabha||The government on Monday introduced a bill in the Lok Sabha to amend the Banking Regulation Act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in order to protect the interests of depositors. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, which will replace an ordinance that was promulgated in June amid the coronavirus pandemic. Opposition members, including Shashi Tharoor of the Congress and Saugata Roy of the Trinamool Congress, opposed the bill, accusing the Centre of encroaching on the rights of states. Rejecting the charge, Sitharaman asserted that state cooperative laws are not being touched and that the proposed law seeks to bring these banks with same regulations that are applicable on other banks. It is applicable to those cooperative banks which deal with "bank, banker and banking," she said, adding that as many as 277 urban cooperative banks have reported losses. Tharoor said the bill is an encroachment on federalism, while Roy claimed it attacks "state rights". Ruling party members also opposed Roy's personal remarks targeting Sitharaman, with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi demanding an apology. Speaker Om Birla said Roy's comments have been expunged. Sitharaman withdrew a bill to the amend the Act that was introduced in the Lok Sabha in March before introducing the new bill with certain changes on Monday. "I wish to move for leave to withdraw a bill further to amend the Banking Regulation Act 1949," she said. The bill that was introduced in March could not be passed and in June, the ordinance was promulgated. "Yes, we did come up with the Bill (in March 2020) and subsequently an ordinance was passed because the session was not on to consider the bill, discuss the bill and then pass it... ordinance became a necessity," Sitharaman said. "We were going through pandemic and there was stress in several cooperative banks and as a result of which it was felt that till we clear the bill there should not have a situation where many of the cooperative banks should suffer and therefore we brought in an ordinance in place with the essential features of the bill which was tabled in the house in March," she noted. The minister also said the new bill essentially has all the features of the original bill but not exactly the same. N K Premchandran (RSP) opposed the withdrawal of the earlier bill. "You are introducing a bill. Subsequently you are promulgating an ordinance and after promulgation of ordinance you are again coming to the House and seeking the leave of the house to withdraw the bill... this is a clear thing of misuse of constitutional power," he said. After promulgation of the ordinance in June, an official statement had said it seeks to protect the interests of depositors and strengthen cooperative banks by improving governance and oversight by extending powers already available with the RBI in respect of other banks to co-operative banks as well for sound banking regulation. The amendments do not affect existing powers of the State Registrars of Co-operative Societies under state co-operative laws, it said. The amendments also do not apply to Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) or co-operative societies whose primary object and principal business is long-term finance for agricultural development, and which do not use the words "bank", "banker" or "banking" and do not act as drawees of cheques, as per the statement. "The ordinance also amends Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, to enable making of a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation of a banking company for protecting the interest of the public, depositors and the banking system and for securing its proper management, even without making an order of moratorium, so as to avoid disruption of the financial system," it said. The decision also came against the backdrop of scams at cooperative banks, including at the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank that came to light last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-introduces-banking-regulation-amendment-bill-in-lok-sabha-887527.html
14-09-2020||National||No language should either be imposed or opposed: M Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday called for according equal respect to all languages and emphasised that no language should either be imposed or opposed. Addressing an online event organised to mark 'Hindi Diwas -2020', he said all Indian languages have rich history and people should be proud of the country's language diversity and cultural heritage. Noting that Mahatma Gandhi had founded the Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha in 1918, the vice president emphasised that Hindi and other Indian languages should be seen as complementary to each other. Naidu suggested that students from non-Hindi speaking states should learn the language and those from Hindi speaking states should learn one more Indian language such as Tamil, Telugu or Kannada so as to increase goodwill, love and affection among the citizens. Expressing happiness over the importance given to mother tongue in the New Education Policy-2020, the vice president called for providing education in mother tongue for inclusive learning. "This helps the children in learning and understanding the subject better and they are able to express themselves better", he said. Noting that education in mother tongue would necessitate the easy availability of good books in Hindi and other Indian languages, Naidu said publishing houses will have an important role in this. Underlining the need for all Indian languages to grow together, Naidu called upon the publishers and educators to work for enhancing dialogue between languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-language-should-either-be-imposed-or-opposed-m-venkaiah-naidu-887529.html
14-09-2020||National||Delhi riots: Academicians, activists condemn Umar Khalid's arrest under UAPA, call it a 'witch-hunt'||A section of academicians, politicians and social activists on Monday expressed solidarity with former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, who was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots. He was arrested by the special cell of the Delhi Police on Sunday night after 11 hours of interrogation. Dr SQR Ilyas, national president of Welfare Party of India, and Khalid's father, tweeted, "My son Umar Khalid has been arrested tonight at 11:00 pm by Special Cell, Delhi Police under UAPA. Police was questioning him since 1:00 pm. He has been implicated in Delhi Riots. #StandWithUmarKhalid." According to a statement released by his party, Ilyas strongly condemned the arrest of his son and said that police are "falsely implicating him in Delhi Riots". The statement quoted him as saying that Khalid has "always upheld the Constitution and emerged as a strong voice against the contentious CAA law and his approach was always peaceful, non-violent and within the parameters of law". "His implication in Delhi Riots is totally fabricated and a false narrative created by Delhi Police to misguide the nation and stifle dissent," he claimed. "Dr Umar Khalid has been booked under various sections, including UAPA, and named as a conspirator of the Delhi Riots sparing those who actually instigated by giving provocative speech. He implored the citizens to stand up by the truth in solidarity with Umar Khalid and all the innocent activists who are falsely implicated in the Delhi Riots and said ultimately the truth will triumph and falsehood will perish," the statement said. Soon after his arrest, #StandWIthUmarKhalid started trending on Twitter. Using the hashtag "Stand With Umar Khalid", senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted, "PM says he welcomes criticism, but forgets to mention the cost of criticism to be paid by those who who speak out." "In today's India, payback is only reserved to our own citizens, never against countries who actually question and challenge our sovereignty," he added. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said Khalid is among the leaders that India deserves. "Shocked that an anti-terror law UAPA has been used to arrest a young, thinking, idealist like @UmarKhalidJNU who has always opposed violence and communalism in any form. He is undoubtedly among the leaders that India deserves. @DelhiPolice can’t detain India’s future for long," he tweeted. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan said Khalid's arrest exposes the "malafide nature of its investigation into Delhi riots". "Umar Khalid's arrest by Delhi police after naming Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, [academics] Jayati Ghosh & Apoorvanand, leaves no doubt at all about the malafide nature of its investigation into Delhi riots," he tweeted. Activist Harsh Mandar called Khalid a youth the country should be proud of and said he always spoke of non-violence and Gandhi. "...He's a youth a country should be proud of - idealistic, progressive, brave. We spoke together in anti-CAA protests: he spoke always of non-violence & Gandhi. Today he's arrested under draconian UAPA on trumped up charges of conspiracy. Cry out, my country," he tweeted. A group of academicians and activists, including Satish Deshpande, Mary John, Apoorvanand, Nandini Sundar, Shuddhabrata Sengupta, Aakar Patel, Mander, Farah Naqvi and Biraj Patnaik, has jointly issued a statement expressing solidarity with Khalid and called his arrest a "witch-hunt". "As citizens deeply committed to constitutional values, we condemn the arrest of Umar Khalid who has been subjected to a malicious investigation targeting peaceful anti-CAA protestors. He has been booked under several charges including UAPA, sedition and conspiracy for murder," the joint statement said. "With deep anguish, we have no doubt in saying that this investigation is not about the violence in February 2020 in the national capital, but on the completely peaceful and democratic protests across the country against the unconstitutional CAA," it said. Coming down heavily on the Delhi Police for "falsely implicating" Khalid in the case, the Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU) appealed to all progressive sections to "stand united and vigilant, and unfazed by such cowardly actions". "The JNUSU condemns the continuing witch hunt and targeting of activists. We reiterate that all these actions are a means to criminalise the democratic protest against the CAA-NRC-NPR which is a divisive, discriminatory and communal agenda," it alleged. It said JNU students Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Sharjeel Imam have been already incarcerated along with activists such as Meeran Haider, Gulfisha and a host of others. "The police has by all accounts cooked up a version of events based on clichéd and predictably similar disclosure statements obtained under questionable circumstances from arrested people- a lot of whom were arrested after they went to report about the damage or loss of life in the riots," the JNUSU claimed. "The spirit of resistance and dissent against the policies of this particular government, its curbing of voices and its anti-people policies shall continue to be opposed with greater vigour and such intimidating tactics shall be rejected," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-academicians-activists-condemn-umar-khalids-arrest-under-uapa-call-it-a-witch-hunt-887550.html
14-09-2020||National||SSR case: Three suspected drug peddlers in NCB custody till September 16||Three suspected drug peddlers, arrested in the probe related to drug angle in the actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, were on Monday remanded to NCB custody till September 16 by a court here. On Sunday, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested six more persons, taking the count of people held so far in the case to 16. These half a dozen accused were identified by the agency as Karamjeet Singh Anand, Dwayne Fernandes, Sanket Patel, Ankush Anreja, Sandeep Gupta and Aftab Fateh Ansari. They were on Monday produced before a magistrate court which remanded three of them - Anand, Anreja and Patel - to NCB custody till September 16 and sent the rest to jail under 14-day judicial remand. While praying for their custody, the NCB told the court that Anand appears to be a "major player" in "drug syndicate active in Bollywood and high society". He is not cooperating with the investigation and vital information related to the case is yet to be disclosed by him, the apex drug law enforcement agency said. It further argued that Anreja was directly connected with another accused, Anuj Keshwani, from whom the commercial quantity of narcotics had been seized. It is necessary to interrogate Anreja to find out to whom he was delivering contraband in Bollywood, the probe agency told the court. The NCB submitted that Patel, too, is part of this drug syndicate. Special public prosecutor (NCB) Atul Sarpande told that the court investigation in the case was at preliminary stage and revelations made by the accused were yet to be verified. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the NCB is probing the drug case in which actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput's manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant and others have been arrested. They are currently in judicial custody. Rajput (34) was found dead in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14. The CBI is separately probing "abetment to suicide" case related to his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ssr-case-three-suspected-drug-peddlers-in-ncb-custody-till-september-16-887556.html
14-09-2020||National||Centre targeting those involved in movements: Mamata Banerjee on Umar Khalid's arrest||Asked about the arrest of social activist and former JNU research scholar West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that if there is evidence action should be taken as per law. She also seemingly accused the BJP government the Centre of targeting those who are involved in movements. She also said that first CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury was named in the charge sheet for the Delhi riots and then it was removed. “I have also seen it (news of Khalid’s arrest) in newspapers. First, they (Centre) mentioned Sitaram Yechury’s name in the charge sheet and then they removed it. But they have also mentioned the names of Yogendra Yadav and others,” said Banerjee. She was speaking to reporters at the State Secretariat. She also said that such actions were right in a democracy. “If someone has done something wrong and there is evidence then action should be taken as per law,” said Banerjee. Delhi Police arrested Khalid late on Sunday night in relation to the riots in Delhi in February. The Chief Minister also announced that the state government will provide a monthly allowance of Rs. 1000 and free housing for 8000 poor Brahmin priests in Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-targeting-those-involved-in-movements-mamata-banerjee-on-umar-khalids-arrest-887559.html
14-09-2020||National||Farm Ordinances: Congress seeks to revive 2014 land bill movement||Grappling with negative publicity over internal leadership issues and in a bind, Congress got a lease of political life as farmer protests erupted against three agriculture ordinances brought by the Modi government.   Seeking to revive the 2014 land bill movement against the government, Congress top guns have gun-blazing trying to project the government as pro-corporate and anti-farmer. Calling the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 as “three black ordinances of Modi government,” Rahul Gandhi said that they were a fatal attack on farmers and farm labours and cited it as “yet another anti-farmer conspiracy of Modi Ji”. Rahul Gandhi had in 2015 led a massive agitation against the NDA government’s Ordinance bringing changes into the 2013 Land Acquisition Act passed by the UPA. Congress had then carried marches from President House to Parliament House and held agitations across the country. Ultimately wary of the anti-farmer tag, the Government had to withdraw the Ordinance after reissuing it thrice. Congress had also launched big agitations against the killing of six farmers in the police firing in Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh in 2018. The Congress came to power in the state the same year promising loan waiver to farmers. Farmers' protest has been a soft belly of the Modi government and Congress has yet sensed an opportunity to browbeat the government on the issue. Some state governments are also demanding for the withdrawal of these three ordinances, describing them as a violation of the federal structure of the country. The issue has come in handy to Congress, which in the past had also managed to put the government on the mat as some farmer organisations have also upped the ante. On Monday, Bhartiya Kisan Union, in a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanded the Central government must withdraw recently brought three agriculture Ordinances that it brought on June 5. After the party’s stiff Opposition to the Ordinances in Parliament on the first day of the Monsoon Session, Congress spokesperson Gaurav Gogoi said at the AICC briefing, “This will give freedom to corporate to brutally exploit the farmers and take away the protection that the Minimum Support Price gives them and the various State Mandi Acts give them.” Congress, which in the 2019 assembly polls gave a tough fight to the BJP in Haryana, went into a campaign mode on the police lathi-charge against farmers against the farm ordinances in Kurukshetra on Friday. AICC communication department chief and Haryana leader Randeep Singh Surjewala alleged that farmers will be trapped in the contract system through the ordinances and because of these farmers will turn into just laborers. Kerala MP Shashi Tharoor supported TMC leader Derek O Briens’ charge or “Ordinance Raj” and alleged that the BJP government is “too willing to short circuit Parliamentary process.” Congress’ efforts to forge an Opposition unity on the issue also bore fruit as Opposition leaders raised the chorus of the government “creating an ordinance raj like one never seen before in last 70 years.” “Farmers all over India are opposing these ordinances. The government is presenting these ordinances as a big step towards agricultural reforms in the form of One Nation, One Market but BKU is considering these ordinances as Company rule in the agricultural sector,” said BKU President Rattan Man in his memorandum to the Prime Minister. After holding a protest march in the national capital, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said that the farmers are living in fear that these laws will make them captive of companies and corporations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-ordinances-congress-seeks-to-revive-2014-land-bill-movement-887574.html
14-09-2020||National||DMK protests in Parliament against NEET exam||On the first day of the monsoon session on Monday, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MPs staged a protest in Parliament premises against the NEET exam and the recently introduced National Education Policy. DMK MPs TR Baalu, Tiruchi Siva and Kanimozhi along with others were seen wearing masks while protesting against the NEET exam, for admission to undergraduate medical courses, that was held across the country on Sunday. Talking to reporters, DMK's floor leader in Rajya Sabha Tiruchi Siva said this year, poor and rural students got a disadvantage in the NEET exam as they were not able to receive coaching due to the coronavirus pandemic. He claimed that many students have committed suicide in Tamil Nadu due to "fear" of the competitive qualifying exam. The DMK also moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha over the "suicide of students due to NEET in Tamil Nadu". The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) was held on Sunday with almost 90 per cent students appearing for it, according to the National Testing Agency (NTA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmk-protests-in-parliament-against-neet-exam-887577.html
14-09-2020||National||Parliament's Monsoon session off to a stormy start||The session began on a sombre note with tributes to former President Pranab Mukherjee, sitting member H Vasanthakumar, Pandit Jasraj and former MPs who passed away during the inter-session period. Sparks flew soon after as Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi rose to move a Motion to do away with the Question Hour and Private Members’ Business during the truncated monsoon session. Opposition leaders Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi and Manish Tewari, Asaduddin Owaisi in the Lok Sabha and Ghulam Nabi Azad and Derek O’Brien in the Rajya Sabha opposed the government move saying it struck at the “heart of parliamentary democracy”. “The honourable minister has the dishonourable distinction. By moving such a Motion, he is weakening the theory of separation of powers, which is part of the basic structure of the Constitution,” Owaisi said. Joshi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh rejected the opposition allegations and contended that all floor leaders were consulted on the suspension of the Question Hour. Singh said unstarred questions were being answered by the government and members can seek clarification on the same during Zero Hour. The next flashpoint was on the introduction of bills to replace 11 ordinances during the inter-session period. Opposition members took strong objection to three farm sector-related Ordinances that allow farmers to look for markets beyond the APMC, enter into contract farming and removal of stock limits on commodities such as cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onions and potatoes. They contended that the agri-marketing “reforms” will weaken APMCs and could lead to phasing out of the MSP regime. “This is an example of coercive federalism by the Central Government,” Trinamool member Saugata Ray said adding that the Centre was snatching powers of the state to fix stock limits and to regulate agri-markets. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Bills will not affect the MSP regime. “There will be no impact on the MSP regime,” he said. The opposition also objected to the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill contending that it took away the rights of the state government to regulate cooperatives. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman rejected the charge saying that the state's cooperative laws were not being touched. “This Amendment is applicable to only those cooperatives using the words 'bank, banker and banking' and were accepting deposits,” she said adding that as many as 277 urban co-operative banks had reported losses. Sitharaman said the Centre was keen to avoid a crisis such as the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank to protect the interests of the depositors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliaments-monsoon-session-off-to-a-stormy-start-887578.html
14-09-2020||National||Covid-19 patients needing oxygen tripled in last 45 days: Harsh Vardhan in Lok Sabha||The number of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen support has increased by nearly three-fold within the last one and half months, prompting the Centre to ask the states to carry out oxygen audits at the hospitals as the pandemic spreads across the country. On September 11, around 3.7% active Covid-19 patients required oxygen therapy, which translates to nearly 35,000 patients. The number was 2.32% on July 31 that translates to just above 12,000 patients – a jump of nearly three times within a month and a half. As the demand for oxygen rises, the Union Health Secretary on Monday asked the states to undertake an oxygen consumption audit at the hospitals and monitor the movement of oxygen tankers in real-time. Hospitals have been asked to improve storage capacity. In addition, the states would also identify MSME units whose storage capacity can be used for oxygen. Argon and nitrogen carrying tankers will also be repurposed to increase the number of oxygen carrier vehicles.  The states have also been told to ensure timely payment of the due bills to manufacturers and suppliers to maintain an uninterrupted supply of oxygen. “We have now moved from ‘managing travel-related cases’ to containing clusters and large outbreaks due to local transmission to widespread of infection to urban, peri-urban and rural areas,” Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in the Lok Sabha in a tacit admission of “community transmission” without using the term.  “The battle for Covid-19 is far from over. As we are in a stage of unlock to revive the economy, we need to have a balanced approach. It is important that sustained community support is ensured consistently to control the spread of Covid-19 infection and break its chain of transmission.” Vardhan said a Rs 65,560.98 crore proposal under Prime Minister Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana is under the government’s consideration to improve the health sector. This would include investment in research, healthcare and public health infrastructure with a particular focus on pandemic management. With an addition of 92,071 fresh cases, India’s Covid-19 tally reaches nearly 48.5 lakh. As many 1136 individuals lost their lives to the virus in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 79,722.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-patients-needing-oxygen-tripled-in-last-45-days-harsh-vardhan-in-lok-sabha-887599.html
14-09-2020||National||Over 500 Delhi govt school students qualify JEE-Mains 2020: Arvind Kejriwal||Over 500 students of schools run by the Delhi government have passed the Joint Entrance Examination – Mains this year, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, as he congratulated the students and teachers on their achievement. The result for the JEE-Mains was declared on Friday night. Five students from the national capital have scored 100 percentile in the JEE-Mains exam which was conducted earlier this month after being postponed twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kejriwal tweeted, "510 students of Delhi Govt Schools qualify JEE Mains this year. No of students qualifying JEE mains in last 3 yrs- 2020- 510 2019- 473 2018- 350 Congratulations to each student n teachers. Am proud of you. After 98% results, another big achievement of Delhi Govt schools." Staggered entry and exit for candidates, sanitisers at the gate, distribution of masks and maintaining distance as candidates queued up, were among the scenes witnessed at the exam centres across the country. A total of 8.58 lakh candidates registered for the JEE-Mains exam for admission to engineering courses in IITs, NITs and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs) while only 74 per cent of them appeared for the exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-500-delhi-govt-school-students-qualify-jee-mains-2020-arvind-kejriwal-887601.html
14-09-2020||National||China says Indian Army must withdraw troops from Pangong Tso to make Jaishankar-Wang consensus work||The Indian Army must undo the “pre-emptive” moves it recently carried out on the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake), Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, Sun Weidong, said on Monday, even as he refrained to commit withdrawal of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from the territory of India. Less than a week after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi agreed on five points during a meeting in Moscow, Beijing insisted on withdrawal of the Indian Army’s front-line troops from the face-off scenes on the south bank of Pangong Tso for the success of the consensus in resolving the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Sun, Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, on Monday, referred to the August 31 statement issued by the Ministry of Defence of the Government of India claiming that the Indian Army troops had pre-empted a military move by the Chinese PLA on the southern bank of Pangong Tso. He said that the statement itself “revealed” that the Indian Army had illegally crossed the LAC and changed the status quo in the border areas.  He cited media-reports to allege that Indian Army soldiers engaged in the stand-off with the Chinese PLA personnel had opened fire on two different occasions. “For the first time since 1975, the calm in the border areas was broken by gunfire,” China’s ambassador to India said in a statement issued in New Delhi on Monday. He also quoted Wang telling Jaishankar during the meeting in Moscow on September 10 that it was important to immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violated the commitments made by the two sides. “It is also important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed. The frontier troops must quickly disengage so that the situation may deescalate,” Sun quoted the Chinese Foreign Minister telling the External Affairs Minister.   He, however, maintained silence on New Delhi’s demand for withdrawal of the Chinese PLA soldiers, who transgressed into the territory of India, not only on the northern bank of Pangong Tso but also on several other points on the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector – over the past four months. Sun had on July 30 claimed that the entire northern bank of Pangong Tso belonged to China. Jaishankar and Wang had a meeting on the side-line of a conclave of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Moscow last Thursday. They agreed that the current situation in India-China border areas was “not in the interest of either side” and hence the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA “should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease the tension”, according to a joint statement issued early on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-says-indian-army-must-withdraw-troops-from-pangong-tso-to-make-jaishankar-wang-consensus-work-887621.html
14-09-2020||National||2 J&K officers suspended as stamp papers worth Rs 50 lakh go 'missing'||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday suspended two officers including a District Treasury Officer (DTO) in Rajouri, and ordered an inquiry into the missing stamp papers in the treasury, an official spokesman said. The suspended officers are Rajouri DTO Choudhary Imran Mehmood and Cashier Arif Baigh, the spokesman said. The suspension and inquiry follow an inspection of the district treasury, Rajouri, conducted on September 7 by the Deputy Commissioner of Stamps, Jammu to ascertain the stock of stamps available, he said. The inspection report has revealed that the account of sale of stamp papers has not been maintained properly by the officials there, the spokesman said. He said that as per the inspection report of the treasury, there was a shortfall of stamp papers worth Rs 50,99,019. The mismanagement and dereliction of duty by the staff at treasury office Rajouri have resulted in a loss to the state exchequer, according to the report, the spokesman added. He said taking cognisance of the matter, the Finance Department issued an order on Monday suspending Mehmood and Baigh with immediate effect and a regular departmental inquiry has also been initiated to bring all those responsible to the book.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-jk-officers-suspended-as-stamp-papers-worth-rs-50-lakh-go-missing-887624.html
14-09-2020||National||'How can Mughals be our heroes' asks Yogi, renames upcoming Agra Mughal Museum after Shivaji||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday decided to name the upcoming “Mughal Museum” in Agra after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, asking “how can Mughals be our heroes”. Chairing a review meeting of Agra division, the Chief Minister made it clear that his government "always nurtured nationalist ideology and anything which smacks of subservient mentality will be done away with", the UP government said in a statement. "How can Mughals be our heroes?" the Chief Minister asked, adding the very name of Maratha warrior Shivaji will invoke a "feeling of nationalism and self-esteem". Chief Minister Yogi also directed officials to complete the remaining work of Agra Smart City Project at the earliest, saying this project is among his government's priorities and should be taken up with the utmost urgency. Expressing his satisfaction over Agra achieving the second rank among smart cities in the country and the first among those in UP in a recent survey, the CM also asked officials to expedite the Agra metro and airport projects. “No project should suffer for the want of money,” he told officials, adding he would personally speak to the Centre if any requirement of money arises. He said the AMRUT and JNNURM schemes too should be given impetus. Apprising the Chief Minister of the progress in made in Agra Smart City project, officials told him that out of a total 19 tasks under the project, four have been completed while 15 are in progress. A time-line for every work has been prepared and all these works will be completed by August 2021, the officials told the CM. During the review of the progress of the projects and mega developmental tasks of Agra division comprising Agra, Firozabad, Mainpuri and Mathura districts, Yogi also interacted with public representatives through video conferencing. Yogi assured Mathura MP Hema Malini of fulfilling her demands for building a sports stadium and a central School in Mathura besides repairing roads and beginning the operation of Chhata sugar mill. He also received feedback from other lawmakers and officials about the development work in the division. His attention was drawn towards the drinking water problem in the region to which he responded positively and immediately asked officials to prepare a proposal by consulting public representatives and the concerned agencies. At present, there are a total of 22 ongoing projects worth over Rs 50 crore each. Out of these 11 projects are in Agra, five in Firozabad, four in Mathura and two in Mainpuri, the government’s official statement said. The glass industry of Firozabad has immense potential in terms of job creation, said Yogi, adding that 98 per cent of the work on the ambitious sewerage project of Firozabad has been completed. The Chief Minister reiterated that the delay in the developmental projects will not be tolerated and the work should be done on a fixed time-line while observing all the quality norms. He said the fund meant for development should not be used elsewhere otherwise stringent action will be taken including the seizure of the properties of the guilty. He said the utilisation certificate should be made available at the earliest so that subsequent funds may be released. The Chief Minister noted that the districts of Agra division have done well in contact tracing and lauded officials in reducing the Covid death rate in Agra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-can-mughals-be-our-heroes-asks-yogi-renames-upcoming-agra-mughal-museum-after-shivaji-887627.html
14-09-2020||National||Building portfolio of therapeutic options for Covid-19 patients: Vardhan||A portfolio of therapeutic options for Covid-19 patients is being built by undertaking 13 clinical trials of repurposed drugs and harnessing traditional knowledge using the modern medicine approach, with planned trials involving medicinal plants like 'Aswagandha', Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. Making a statement in Lok Sabha on the Covid-19 pandemic and the steps taken by the central government, Vardhan said in India, a major focus has been on facilitating the development of Covid-19 vaccine and more than 30 vaccine candidates have been supported which are in different stages of development. He said Phase 2 clinical trial of 'immunomodulator Sepsivac' has been completed successfully while Phase 2 clinical trial of the first-ever phytopharmaceutical ACQH is underway. One prophylactic trial of 'Aswagandha' and three trials of 'Guduchi plus Pippali'; Yashtimadhu; and polyherbal AYUSH drug (AYUSH-64), are planned on moderately-ill Covid-19 patients, he said. "Thirteen clinical trials of repurposed drugs and harnessing of traditional knowledge using the modern medicine approach are building a portfolio of therapeutic options for Covid-19 patients," the health minister said. Vardhan said an effective vaccine would be the sure-shot tool in the armamentarium against this disease. "On this front, globally, there are around 145 candidate vaccines in the preclinical evaluation and currently 35 vaccines in a clinical trial," he said. In India, a major focus has been on facilitating the development of Covid-19 vaccine and more than 30 vaccine candidates have been supported which are in different stages of development, Vardhan said. Three candidates are in an advanced stage of Phase I/II/III trials and more than four are in the advanced pre-clinical development stage, he said. Covid-19 biorepositories have been setup which have collected more than 40,000 samples that have been made available to researchers and industry for developing diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines, the minister said in his statement. To coordinate the procurement and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine, the government has constituted a National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 on August 7, 2020, under the Chairmanship of Member (Health), NITI Aayog, he said. In his statement, Vardhan also said the Ministry of AYUSH has contributed through various measures for the management and mitigation of Covid-19. The ministry recommended guidelines of self-care for preventive health measures and boosting immunity, he said. The Ministry of AYUSH has also issued health advisories from different systems of medicine on prophylaxis and immunity promotion which was translated into eight foreign languages and circulated to Indian Embassies, he said. Various AYUSH Hospitals were designated as quarantine centres, isolation centres, COVID Care Centres and COVID Health Centres, he pointed out. Around 8.5 lakh Ayush healthcare professionals have been registered on covidwarriors.gov.in, he said. An "Inter-disciplinary AYUSH R&D Task Force" has formulated and designed clinical research protocols for AYUSH prophylactic studies and add-on interventions in Covid-19 positive cases, he said. AYUSH-CSIR collaborative studies were initiated with AYUSH medicines for prophylaxis/treatment, he said. A large scale population-based study through AYUSH Research Councils and National Institutes under the Ministry on prophylaxis of AYUSH interventions in targeted populations in containment zones is underway, he said. Ministry of AYUSH has also initiated impact assessment of effectiveness, acceptance and usage of AYUSH advisories and measures in prevention of Covid-19 through a mobile application app known as AYUSH-Sanjivani app, Vardhan said. He also said states have been requested to assess the stock of their logistic, particularly Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and procure the same. "Total orders for 1.92 crore PPEs have been placed by the central government so far. The Ministry has already supplied 1.39 crore PPE Kits and 3.43 crore N95 masks to States (as on September 11, 2020)," he said. Department of Pharmaceuticals increased the production of drug hydroxychloroquine manifold and as on September 11, 2020, the health ministry has issued 10.84 crore tablets of Hydroxychloroquine to states and UTs, he said, adding that India has also exported it to more than 140 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/building-portfolio-of-therapeutic-options-for-covid-19-patients-vardhan-887642.html
14-09-2020||National||Ladakh BJP MP Namgyal tests positive for Covid-19||BJP leader and Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal tested positive for coronavirus on Monday on a day he took part in a series of activities, including a 25-km cycling event led by Union Minister Kiren Rijiju. Tsering, who is also BJP president for Ladakh, gave the information about his Covid-19 test in a tweet and said his health is fine but was advised “quarantine”. He urged all those who had come in contact with him over the last few days to go for self-isolation and undertake Covid-19 test. Officials said Rijiju, who arrived here on a visit, was among others received by the Ladakh MP at the Leh Airport on Sunday. He participated in the 'Fit India Cyclothon' led by the Union minister in Leh on Monday morning. Local cycling associations and many enthusiastic sportspersons also attended the cycling event which is a part of the month-and-a-half long 'Fit India Freedom Run' from August 15 to October 2, the officials said. Tsering had cycled at an altitude of 2,600 metres above sea level to encourage people to be healthy and fit by including physical activities and sports in their daily lives. The Lok Sabha member had also attended the function with Rijiju who laid the foundation stone of a synthetic track and AstroTurf for football in Open Stadium, near Spituk and Gymnasium Hall in Leh. Ladakh Lieutenant Governor R K Mathur, Chief Executive Councillor of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Leh, Gyal P Wangyal and senior civil and police officers besides sports persons had also attended the function. Ladakh has recorded 40 Covid-related deaths -- 17 in Leh and 23 in Kargil -- since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. The virus caseload stands at 3,345, of whom 73 per cent patients have been cured, while the remaining 869 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-bjp-mp-namgyal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-887643.html
14-09-2020||National||Odisha asks pvt hospitals to reserve 50% beds for Covid-19 patients||Amid the unrelenting surge in Covid-19 cases, the Odisha government on Monday asked all private hospitals in major cities and towns to reserve 50 per cent of beds for coronavirus patients. A notification in this regard was issued by the state health and family welfare department during the day, and the directives came into force with immediate effect, a senior official here said. "All private hospitals having bed strength of 30 or above, located in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Sambalpur, Berhampur and Rourkela Municipal Corporation limits shall mandatorily designate minimum 50 per cent of their general beds and 80 per cent of ICUs for treatment of Covid positive patients, with an option to convert the centre hospital as a Covid hospital," the notification said. It further asked the hospitals to strictly abide by the rate chart prepared by the government for the various facilities and services provided by them. Official sources said that the decision was taken in view of the spike in coronavirus cases, which climbed to 1,55,005 on Monday. "An estimation made by experts indicates that Odisha's caseload is likely to cross the two-lakh mark by the end of September," the senior official said. Meanwhile, in a related development, the government has asked all district collectors and commissioners to shut those Covid care centres (CCCs), Covid Care Homes (CCHs) and Temporary Medical Centres (TMCs) which have zero occupancies. The state government had opened the TMCs in all the gram panchayats of Odisha to isolate the migrant workers, following their return from different states. As the migrant influx has stopped, there was no need to operate the TMCs any longer, the official said. Similarly, CCCs and CCHs are also witnessing zero occupancies as the government has allowed home isolation. Additional Chief Secretary PK Mohapatra, in his letter to collectors and municipal corporation commissioners, said, "CCCs should be closed if there is no patient, or operations might be scaled down in case of low occupancy." The health personnel, engaged in these centres, can be redeployed in districts, where their services will be better utilized, Mohapatra added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-asks-pvt-hospitals-to-reserve-50-beds-for-covid-19-patients-887646.html
14-09-2020||National Politics||BJD to back NDA candidate in Rajya Sabha deputy chairman election: Naveen Patnaik||BJD president and Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik declared his party's support to NDA candidate Harivansh Narayan Singh in the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman election likely to be held on Monday. Patnaik made the announcement after his JD(U) and Bihar counterpart Nitish Kumar called him up in the morning, a CMO release said. Singh, a JD(U) MP, had filed his nomination for the post on Wednesday. Nine of the 10 Rajya Sabha members from the state are of the BJD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjd-to-back-nda-candidate-in-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-election-naveen-patnaik-887250.html
14-09-2020||National Politics||PM Modi has changed culture of politics since 2014, Nadda says at launch of BJP's 'Seva Saptah' to mark PM's birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has changed the culture of politics in the country since 2014 by making elected representatives work for the people instead of themselves, BJP president J P Nadda on Monday said in a veiled attack on rival parties. The people have also realised the difference in the country's politics before and after 2014, the year Modi's BJP swept to power at the Centre, Nadda said as he launched here "Seva Saptah", a week-long party campaign to mark the 70th birthday of the prime minister that falls on September 17. "Friends, if we look at the politics of India post 2014, Modi not only became the prime minister but also changed the 'raajneeti ki sanskriti' (culture of politics) in the country," he told a gathering, including party leaders and workers, at Chhaprauli village in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh. "How that happened? Prior to 2014, politicians would come and deliver speeches and promises but would not keep their words and again get ready for the next elections. This is Modi, who has changed that (culture) now. If we are elected representatives, we will work and serve the people and then go to them with our report card – this is how we work now," Nadda said. "People know this and realise the difference in the two times," he said, without naming any political party or politician. He said earlier in politics there was "mewa" (literally dry fruit) instead of "seva" or "seva" (service) for one's own self. "Now with Modi at helm, we believe there is just 'seva' and we work for the last man standing in the queue, the poor, the harassed, the deprived, Dalits, and bringing them into the mainstream," the BJP chief said. He said India got freedom in 1947 but by 2014 there were still 18,000 villages that had no power supply. He also highlighted the figures of beneficiaries under the Centre's scheme for LPG connection, Jandhan bank accounts, among others. He said amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre also announced ration subsidies that have benefitted 80 crore people. "Imagine the plight of the people living in those villages, the condition of their children and their education. Modi has provided power in 18,000 villages in 1,000 days, we must remember this," he remarked. "When we were opening Jandhan accounts, some people were mocking the move. Now, look how the beneficiaries are getting money during the pandemic into their accounts, doing away with the process of a postman or money order," he said. He said the prime minister also brought glory to India at world stage, citing an anecdote when as India's health minister he visited the World Health Assembly where the director general of the World Health Organisation (WHO)asked him to take to the stage and talk about Ayushman Bharat scheme. Modi provided an annual health cover of Rs 5 lakh to more than 10 crore families, including 50 crore people, under the health scheme, he added. "Now, American elections are due, (Donald) Trump and (Joe) Biden, both of them are making healthcare an election issue. But here Modi brought the Ayushman Bharat scheme, which benefits 50 crore people - totalling the population of not only the US but Canada and Mexico combined," Nadda said. He also hailed the new National Education Policy (NEP), saying it would give equal opportunities to all and provide for students to learn in their mother tongue till class 7 and 8. Meanwhile, he launched the 'Seva Saptah' campaign at Chhaprauli village in western Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district near Delhi. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is turning 70 on September 17. If we look at his life and his journey, seva (service) has been the prime focus in his life. His life has been dedicated into the seva of people and the country. Hence, the BJP has decided to observe September 14-20 week as 'Seva Saptah'," Nadda said. "Crores of BJP workers will serve the people as part of the campaign during the week," he told a gathering, including party leaders and workers, here. Among those present at the campaign launch were BJP's state unit chief Swatantra Dev Singh, Gautam Buddh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma, Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Nagar and local MLAs Dhirendra Singh and Tejpal Nagar. Nadda said Modi had the drive to work for others since childhood and it is not something that came to him only after he became the prime minister. Citing the Modi's life as an example of service to others, he said BJP workers will take up cleanliness and plantation drives, blood and plasma donation, across all districts in the country. "Since he (Modi) is turning 70, we have decided to work at 70 spots in every district for cleanliness, fruit distribution. We will visit hospitals and take care of the ill. There will be blood donation drives with a special focus on plasma donation," he said. "We have also formed a target to provide at least 70 divyang people with whatever equipment they require for support in each district. Similarly, there would be 70 virtual rallies and plantations at 70 spots in every district," Nadda added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-has-changed-culture-of-politics-since-2014-nadda-says-at-launch-of-bjps-seva-saptah-to-mark-pms-birthday-887297.html
14-09-2020||National Politics||BJD to back NDA candidate in RS Deputy Chairman polls, Congress criticises||BJD on Monday extended support to NDA candidate Harivansh Narayan Singh in the election for Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman drawing sharp criticism from the Congress who said the regional party's true face has been revealed. The election is likely to be he held on Monday and BJD president Naveen Patnaik, who is also the Odisha Chief Minister, announced the party's support for the NDA candidate just hours before it. A release by the Chief Minister's Office said Patnaik announced his party's support for Singh after JD(U) chief and his Bihar counterpart called him up in the morning, a CMO release said. Kumar had called him up on September 10 too and had requested him to support Singh, a JD(U) MP who had filed his nomination on Wednesday. BJD had issued a whip to its Rajya Sabha MPs the next day September 11 to remain present in the Rajya Sabha throughout the day on Monday as some important legislative business will be taken up on September 14. Nine of the 10 Rajya Sabha members from the state are of the BJD. BJP has one RS MP from the state. The BJD had in 2018 too supported Singh in the election for Rajya Sabha deputy chairman post. Singh had then defected Congress B K Hariprasad and became the RS deputy chairman. The post, however, fell vacant after Singh's term in the Rajya Sabha expired in April 2020. He has now been re-elected to it and is contesting again for the same post. Opposition Congress has criticised the BJD for its support to Singh. BJDs real face has again been revealed after it declared support to the NDA candidate for the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman election. BJD has been supporting BJP in all issues and they are one party, Odisha PCC president Niranjan Patnaik said in a video message. He accused the regional party of misleading the people of Odisha and said "The BJD has all along been supporting BJP even though it talks about maintaining equal distance from both the BJP and the Congress. In fact, there is no difference between the BJD and the BJP, the OPCC president asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjd-to-back-nda-candidate-in-rs-deputy-chairman-polls-congress-criticises-887392.html
14-09-2020||National Politics||Parallel development of Hindi, other languages under NEP, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said India's linguistic diversity is its strength as well as a symbol of unity and the new education policy provides for parallel development of Hindi and other Indian languages. In a series of tweets and a video message in Hindi, on the occasion of Hindi Divas, Shah said Hindi is an unbreakable part of Indian culture and it has been an effective and powerful medium of national unity and identity since the freedom struggle. "A country is identified by its border and geography, but its biggest identity is its language. The various languages and dialects of India are its strength as well as a symbol of unity. In India, which is full of cultural and linguistic diversity, Hindi has been a unifying force for the whole nation for centuries," he said. The home minister said the greatest strength of Hindi is that it is scientific as well as known for its originality and simplicity. एक देश की पहचान उसकी सीमा व भूगोल से होती है, लेकिन उसकी सबसे बड़ी पहचान उसकी भाषा है। भारत की विभिन्न भाषाएं व बोलियां उसकी शक्ति भी हैं और उसकी एकता का प्रतीक भी। सांस्कृतिक व भाषाई विविधता से भरे भारत में ‘हिंदी’ सदियों से पूरे देश को एकता के सूत्र में पिरोने का काम कर रही है। "With the new education policy of the Modi government, there will be parallel development of Hindi and other Indian languages," he said. Shah appealed to employees of government offices, banks and other institutions to use Hindi as much as possible along with local languages. "Today, on the occasion of Hindi Divas, I salute all those who have contributed to its empowerment. I also call upon the countrymen to take a pledge to contribute more in the protection and promotion of Hindi along with their mother tongue. My best wishes on the occasion of Hindi Divas," he said. Shah also appealed to people to take steps to attract the younger generation towards Hindi and urged the parents to speak to their children in Indian languages. Referring to the ongoing fight against coronavirus, he said India has been successful in its fight against the pandemic under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also appreciated the state governments in their active cooperation in combating Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parallel-development-of-hindi-other-languages-under-nep-says-amit-shah-887409.html
14-09-2020||National Politics||Why BJP not keen on Kangana Ranaut to campaign for Bihar Assembly polls||Contrary to media speculations, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has clarified that it won’t rope in actress Kangana Ranaut to campaign for the party in the ensuing Bihar Assembly elections. “We don’t need any star to campaign for us. We have the biggest star Narendra Modi who has helped us win the national as well as State elections,” said former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis here in the State capital. Incidentally, Fadnavis has been made BJP in-charge of Bihar Assembly elections along with party general secretary Bhupendra Yadav. Kangana, who is hogging the limelight for criticising the Uddhav Thackeray government for poor handling of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case and other related issues, was, as reported in a section of media, expected to campaign for the saffron camp.  For the BJP, Sushant’s death issue is an emotive one. The party has put out posters to highlight how it’s fighting for justice for the Patna-born actor Sushant, who died due to suicide on June 14 and the matter is now being investigated by the CBI. Notably, it was Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar who last month recommended the CBI probe into the death case. “If Kangana wants to come to Bihar, she is welcome. It’s a free and democratic country. But we are not giving her any platform to campaign,” reiterated another senior BJP functionary Devesh Kumar. Experts too argue that Kangana’s campaign may not pay many political dividends to the BJP. “Some people may be of the opinion that SSR and Kangana may help a particular caste (read: Rajputs) to back the BJP. But Sushant’s death is no more an issue in Bihar (it’s only in the electronic media). For the majority of people of Bihar, more important issues are: flood, unemployment, migration, job avenues, governance, and law and order. It’s the rural voters, and the not the middle class, who largely decide who will rule Bihar,” argued film and political expert Vinod Anupam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-bjp-not-keen-on-kangana-ranaut-to-campaign-for-bihar-assembly-polls-887452.html
14-09-2020||National Politics||BJP seeks Saugata Roy's apology over his comments at Nirmala Sitharaman in Lok Sabha||Personal comments aimed at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman from Trinamool Congress member Saugata Roy in Lok Sabha on Monday drew a sharp reaction from the treasury benches with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi demanding his unconditional apology. Roy's comments were expunged by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The TMC MP was objecting to the Banking Regulation (Amendment ) Bill when he made the remarks targeting Sitharaman while referring to the stress in the economy. Attacking Roy, Joshi said, "We can also do it. But this is not our culture. He is a senior member. What is he talking? He should apologise unconditionally. It is an insult to the womenfolk," he said. Other BJP members, including Union minister Smriti Irani, were also seen reacting angrily to the TMC member's remarks. In her statement on the bill, Sitharaman strongly defended it and then referred to Roy's personal dig to say, "If only Prof Saugata Roy can listen rather than get distracted by other factors."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-seeks-saugata-roys-apology-over-his-comments-at-nirmala-sitharaman-in-lok-sabha-887516.html
14-09-2020||National Politics||Likening Mumbai to PoK is blasphemy: Congress takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut||Mumbai is "pride" of Maharashtra and India and to demean the city by likening it to Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) is "blasphemy", All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Ashish Dua said on Monday without naming actress Kangana Ranaut. Taking to Twitter a day after Ranaut met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan here over partial razing of her office by the Mumbai civic body, Dua also said the governor's office is "not for politics". "#Mumbai is pride of #Maharashtra & entire India. This is a city which has realised dreams of millions without prejudice or discrimination. To demean it by comparing with PoK is blasphemy. Guv office is not for politics," Dua tweeted.  He said the BJP should refrain from "dividing citizens on the basis of the region". Ranaut had said that she met Koshyari to apprise him about "injustice" done to her. The Congress is one of the ruling constituents of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghahdi (MVA) dispensation; the other being the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Earlier in the day, the actress, who left Mumbai for her native Himachal Pradesh, reiterated her PoK barb, which had riled the Sena and other members of the MVA. Ranaut has tweeted that she has been terrorised with "constant attacks and abuses" and that her analogy comparing the Maharashtra capital with PoK was "bang on". The Sena and Ranaut have been at loggerheads ever since the actress compared Mumbai to PoK after Sena MP Sanjay Raut asked her not to return to Mumbai. Raut had targeted Ranaut after the latter expressed her distrust in the Mumbai Police in view of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/likening-mumbai-to-pok-is-blasphemy-congress-takes-a-dig-at-kangana-ranaut-887519.html
14-09-2020||National Politics||Govt introduces five bills in Rajya Sabha on first day of Monsoon Session||The government on Monday introduced as many as five bills, including on reduction in the remuneration of ministers and protection of healthcare professional in epidemic, in Rajya Sabha during its first sitting of the curtailed Monsoon Session. As soon as the special mention got over, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu called Minister of State Nityanand Rai to introduce the The Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill, 2020. This bill was listed to be introduced by Home Minister Amit Shah in the revised list of the business of the Upper House. It was introduced with voice vote after Rai sought permission of the House. Earlier this year, government had brought Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which provided a 30 per cent cut in sumptuary allowance payable to each Minister for a period of one year commencing from the 1st April, 2020, to meet the exigencies arising out Covid-19 pandemic. Similarly, the other bill, The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was introduced in the House by Heath Minister Harsh Vardhan to replace an ordinance with a permanent law. Earlier this year, the government brought The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, to provide protection to healthcare personnel combating epidemic diseases and to expand the powers of the central government to prevent the spread of such diseases. Besides the health minister also introduced The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri introduced The Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the House. The bill provides for converting three existing bodies under the Ministry of Civil Aviation into statutory bodies under the Act. These three authorities are Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), and Aircraft Accidents Investigation Bureau (AAIB). Each of these bodies will be headed by a Director General who will be appointed by the Centre. The bills were introduced at the fag end of the day's proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-introduces-five-bills-in-rajya-sabha-on-first-day-of-monsoon-session-887571.html
14-09-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi's unity call to opposition demands debate on China||As opposition pushed for a discussion on the government's handling of the border row with China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said he was confident that Parliament will send a strong message of unity to the soldiers guarding the frontiers braving inclement weather conditions. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s attempts to raise the issue of Chinese transgressions in Ladakh in the Lok Sabha were unsuccessful as Speaker Om Birla insisted that the issue was “sensitive” and required to be handled with utmost care. The Modi government is expected to brief floor leaders on the situation on the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh during the meeting of the Business Advisory Committee on Tuesday which will be followed by a statement by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in both the Houses. “Sir, there are reports that China has occupied 1,700 sq km of our territory. .. I do not wish to level any allegations, but want a discussion in the House,” Chowdhury said in the Lok Sabha. Earlier, in remarks to the media, the Prime Minister invoked the soldiers who were protecting the country’s frontiers in difficult terrain with “great courage and high spirits”. “Rains are going to begin in a few days. Just like the faith with which they are standing, determined to protect the motherland, all the members of the House too will send out a message in a unanimous voice, spirit, and resolve – the country stands in support of the Indian army through the Houses and the Members of Parliament,” Modi said. “The entire House stands with the brave soldiers of the country with one voice; I believe that this House and all the honorable members too will give out a very strong message,” he said. At the outset, the Prime Minister lauded the MPs for their decision to choose duty over the Covid-19 pandemic, urging everyone to follow social distancing norms. “There should be no let-up till such time there is no medicine,” the prime minister said. “We are witnessing an extraordinary series of events. I am proud to say that the MPs have chosen the path of duty amid the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modis-unity-call-to-opposition-demands-debate-on-china-887609.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police arrest Umar Khalid in connection with riots case||Delhi Police late on Sunday night arrested activist Umar Khalid in connection with the investigations into riots in north-east Delhi earlier this February. Khalid, a former student of Jawaharlal Nehru University, is accused of conspiring with other activists to utilise the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests for the riots, officials claimed. Khalid was questioned for nearly 11 hours on Sunday and booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, officials said. Earlier on July 31, he was questioned and his phone was seized. Police had in March registered a case against Khalid and others, accusing them of being part of a "premeditated conspiracy" to foment trouble in north-east Delhi. The FIR had claimed that the former Jawaharlal Nehru University student gave provocative speeches asking people to block traffic during the visit of United States President Donald Trump to attract the international community's attention. A chargesheet filed against AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, who was earlier arrested in the riots case, had claimed that he had met with Khalid. According to the claims in the chargesheet, Khalid had spoken about action during Trump's India visit. Investigators had claimed that Khalid through an organisation United Against Hate had organised meetings against CAA, NRC and prompted activists to go hammer and tongs against the government. Activists have been accusing the Delhi Police of targeting anti-CAA protesters and linking them to the Delhi riots while ignoring acts of hate speech by BJP and Hindutva leaders, which instigated communal violence. In a chargesheet filed by Delhi Police last week, Khalid's name had been mentioned in disclosure statements of two arrested students. Both had refused to sign the disclosure statements. The same chargesheet had also mentioned the names of CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, economist Jayati Ghosh, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav and Delhi University Professor Apoorvanand as mobilising and provoking crowds during anti-CAA protests. According to the disclosure report in the chargesheet, Khalid had given them "tips" on how to organise protests. It was also claimed that it was under Khalid's instructions that one of the arrested students Gulfisha was drafted into protests. "Omar Khalid used to help with money and used to address people in separatist langunge nnd provoke that more people joined the strike in early February," the contentious disclosure reports said. It also claimed that Khalid had participated in a private meeting in January 2020 at Seelampur where he said that only speeches were not sufficient now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-arrest-umar-khalid-in-connection-with-riots-case-887135.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt permits gyms, yoga centres outside Covid-19 containment zones to reopen||The Delhi government on Sunday allowed gyms and yoga centres in the national capital to reopen after being closed for over five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In an order issued late in the night, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said that gymnasiums and yoga institutes will be permitted to reopen in the city, except in the containment zones, with immediate effect. According to the order, weekly markets have also been allowed on a trial basis till September 30 under 'Unlock-4'. The AAP dispensation and the Lieutenant Government office have recently been at loggerheads over the reopening of gyms in the national capital. Last month, the Delhi government had sent a proposal to Lt Governor Anil Baijal in this regard, but it was turned down.  The decision about reopening gyms and yoga centres comes at a time the city has been witnessing a surge in the number of coronavirus cases. On Sunday, the tally of coronavirus cases in Delhi rose to 2.18 lakh with 4,235 more people contracting the viral disease, while 29 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours pushed the death toll to 4,744. This was the fifth day in a trot that the national capital recorded a daily spike of over 4,000 fresh cases. The city recorded its biggest single-day jump of 4,321 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, 4,266 on Friday, 4,308 on Thursday and 4,039 on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-permits-gyms-yoga-centres-outside-covid-19-containment-zones-to-reopen-887165.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||10 senior IPS officers transferred in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh government has transferred 10 IPS officers, including police chiefs of some districts, a senior official said. Rohit Singh Sajwan, who was posted as superintendent of police of Maharajganj, has been appointed senior superintendent of police, Bareilly. SSP Bareilly Shailesh Kumar Pandey is the new superintendent of police of Gonda. SP, Gonda, Rajkaran Nayyar has been transferred to Jaunpur in the same capacity, according to a statement issued late Sunday night. Pradeep Gupta is the new SP of Maharajganj, while Arvind Kumar Maurya has been appointed as SP of Shravasti. Kasganj Superintendent of Police Ghule Sushil Chandrabhan is the new SP of Mau. Mau SP Manoj Kumar Sonkar has been sent to Kasganj in the same capacity, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-senior-ips-officers-transferred-in-uttar-pradesh-887302.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Riots: Rahul Roy, Saba Dewan summoned for questioning||Delhi Police has summoned documentary filmmakers Rahul Roy and Saba Dewan for questioning on Monday in connection with Delhi riots, a day after Umar Khalid was arrested. Activists, writers, and academicians, including Arundhati Roy and Ramachandra Guha, condemned Khalid's arrest saying that the investigation is becoming "more vindictive and farcical" with every passing day. Khalid was arrested on Sunday late night after almost 11 hours of questioning in an FIR in which he is charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The former student leader of Jawaharlal Nehru University has been accused of conspiring with other activists to utilise the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests for the riots. Khalid was produced before a court here, which sent him to ten days police custody after investigators claimed that further interrogation is needed to confront him with huge technical data as well as material that has come during the investigation. The FIR against Khalid claimed that he gave provocative speeches asking people to block traffic during the visit of United States President Donald Trump to attract the international community's attention. He had denied the allegations while police had seized his phone in July when he was questioned for the first time. Khalid's arrest and the summoning of Roy and Dewan came days after Delhi Police filed a supplementary charge-sheet against three girl students in connection with the riots in which their names were mentioned. The charge sheet also mentioned the names of CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan's Yogendra Yadav, economist Jayati Ghosh and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand as "mobilising" and "provoking" public against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Like the others, Roy and Dewan were also mentioned in the charge sheet though not as accused but as part of disclosure statements. At least 36 academicians and activists condemned Khalid's arrest and said Khalid was one of the "bravest young voices" who spoke for the Constitutional values of the country. They said it was “very significant” that of the 20 arrested, 19 are under the age of 31. Of this, they said, 17 have been charged under the “draconian” UAPA and have been imprisoned on charges of a conspiracy for the Delhi violence whereas “those who actually instigated and participated in the violence have not been touched". Among others, the statement was signed by film-maker Saeed Mirza, former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, musician T M Krishna, lawyer Prashant Bhushan, AIPWA's Kavita Krishnan, activist Harsh Mander and academicians Prabhat Patnaik, Jayati Ghosh, Nandini Sundar, Apoorvanand, and Satish Pande. Demanding his immediate release and asking police to stop the "witch hunt", they said in a joint statement that Khalid has been subjected to a "malicious investigation" targeting peaceful anti-CAA protestors.  "With deep anguish, we have no doubt in saying that this investigation is not about the violence in February 2020 in the national capital, but on the completely peaceful and democratic protests across the country against the unconstitutional CAA," they said. "The repeated attempts by the Delhi police to implicate Khalid in a number of fictitious cases of conspiracy for the Delhi violence are part of a brazen attempt to try to suppress his voice of dissent,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-rahul-roy-saba-dewan-summoned-for-questioning-887338.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh's former minister Chanesh Ram Rathiya dies of Covid-19||Veteran Congress leader and former Chhattisgarh minister Chanesh Ram Rathiya died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Raigarh in the early hours of Monday, a health official said. He was 78. "Rathiya, who was suffering from age-related ailments, was admitted in a private hospital here on Saturday after testing positive for coronavirus. He died at around 1 am," Raigarh Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr S N Keshari said. The leader is survived by his wife, two sons and three daughters. Rathiya, a prominent tribal leader from north Chhattisgarh, was elected as an MLA for the first time in 1977 from Dharamjaigarh constituency in the then undivided Madhya Pradesh. He subsequently won five more Assembly elections in a row from the same seat. He served as animal husbandry minister in the Digvijay Singh led-Congress government in erstwhile Madhya Pradesh, and was the food and civil supplies minister in the Ajit Jogi government (2000-2003) after the formation of Chhattisgarh in 2000. His elder son Laljeet Singh Rathiya is currently a Congress legislator from Dharamjaigarh seat in Chhattisgarh. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel expressed grief over Rathiya's death. "Deeply saddened to hear about the demise of former minister and prominent tribal leader Chanesh Ram Rathiya ji. He will always be remembered in Dharamjaigarh and the entire state for serving people," Baghel tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarhs-former-minister-chanesh-ram-rathiya-dies-of-covid-19-887346.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Man held for throwing dog into Bhopal lake||A 25-year-old man was arrested on Monday for allegedly throwing a dog into the Upper Lake in Bhopal, police said. The arrest was made after a video showing the man throwing a canine into the lake went viral on social media. On Sunday, the video was shared by some social media users, who claimed it was shot at the Boat Club Road near Van Vihar on the banks of the Upper Lake. The accused was arrested from Bhopal's Qazi Camp area and a case was registered against him under Indian Penal Code Section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming any animal) and provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, an official from Shyamla police station told PTI. The video was shot four days back at the Boat Club Road, he said, adding that an investigation is underway. Talking to reporters outside the police station, the accused apologised for his act and said it was a mistake. He said the video was shot on September 10. In the video, the man was seen picking up one of two dogs roaming near him and throwing the canine into the lake. He was seen giggling as he looked at the person shooting the video. Netizens who shared the clip had expressed anger over the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-throwing-dog-into-bhopal-lake-887374.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Ravi Kishan asks Government to take action against drug traffickers||BJP member Ravi Kishan on Monday raised in Lok Sabha the issue of drug menace in Bollywood and asked the Government to take strict action against those involved in drug trafficking. Raising the issue during Zero Hour, Kishan said drugs come to the country from China and Pakistan and there is a conspiracy by the neighbouring countries to destroy the youth. "We know the problem of drug trafficking and drug addiction is increasing. In this conspiracy, our neighbouring countries are involved... Drugs come to this country via China and Pakistan. Our film industry too is affected," he said. Kishan, who is also a Bhojpuri actor, also praised the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for doing a good job in unearthing the drug mafia which is trying to spread the menace among youth. "NCB is doing very good work. Guilty must be apprehended quickly and strict action must be taken against them. The Government should stop this conspiracy of neighbouring countries to destroy our youth," he said. The NCB is probing the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The agency has arrested several persons including Rhea Chakraborty, her brother and Sushant's house manager. Supriya Sule (NCP) demanded that Parliament discuss issues concerning the economy and unemployment which are the biggest challenges in these times. "We should have a debate on the state of economy and unemployment," he said. Anupriya Patel (Apna Dal) asked the Government to provide smartphones and internet data packages to poor students as they have no means to access online education. Sunil Tatkare (NCP) demanded that Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), which functions like a mutual benefit society, should remain 100 per cent under the control of government. S S Barne (Shiv Sena) urged the Centre to release GST compensation to Maharashtra which is probably the worst Covid affected state and needs funds to fight the pandemic. Manish Tewari (Cong) urged the Government to include Punjabi language as the official language in the the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir along with Kashmiri, Dogri, Hindi, Urdu and English.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ravi-kishan-asks-government-to-take-action-against-drug-traffickers-887375.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Man arrested under NSA for selling beef in Madhya Pradesh||A 39-year-old man has been arrested under the stringent National Security Act for allegedly selling beef in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, police said on Monday. On the basis of a police report issued on Sunday, the district administration sent the accused to jail under the National Security Act (NSA), Superintendent of Police (West Zone) Mahesh Chandra Jain said. Under the NSA, a person can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that he or she is a threat to national security or law and order. According to police, the man was arrested on charges of selling beef in South Toda area under Raoji Bazar police station limits here. Acting on a tip-off, the police raided a shop in the area on Saturday and allegedly seized a large quantity of beef from there, Raoji Bazar police station's sub-inspector Seema Dhakad said. The accused was allegedly selling beef at the shop meant for selling goat meat, the official said. A probe is underway to find out from where he got beef and to whom he was selling it, Dhakad said. Earlier also, cases were registered against the accused in Indore and Ujjain under the MP Cow Progeny Slaughter Prevention Act-2004, the official said, adding that these cases are pending in court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-under-nsa-for-selling-beef-in-madhya-pradesh-887386.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||High Court directs JNU to sanction leave to professor to pursue fellowship in France||The Delhi High Court Monday directed the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) to sanction extraordinary leave (EOL) to one of its professors to pursue a nine-month fellowship offered by a French research institute. The high court said the varsity’s order rejecting the EOL application was “completely arbitrary” and against the ordinance of the university. Justice Jyoti Singh allowed the petition of professor Udaya Kumar seeking a direction to the varsity to reconsider his application for EOL and grant him the same, with a cost of Rs 20,000 in his favour. “The petition is allowed. I direct the university to sanction EOL to the petitioner (Kumar) from October 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 to enable him to join the fellowship,” the judge said. Kumar, a professor in the Department of English Studies in JNU, has challenged the varsity's executive council's February 18 decision to reject his application dated January 21, 2020 for the EOL without pay for nine months from October 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. The court said there is no gainsaying in the fact that Kumar is not going abroad for self service or self employment and he is going there for higher studies. It is a matter of great prestige for JNU that its professor is granted a fellowship in such a prestigious institute, it added. The court said the ground raised by the varsity, that 20 per cent of strength of teachers in a centre cannot be allowed to be absent, is not made out. Advocate Abhik Chimni, appearing for Kumar, drew the court’s attention to the minutes of a meeting of the faculty members where Kumar has clearly said that he will continue to teach the course online from abroad. He submitted that the competent authority in this case would be the Chairperson for English Studies and the Dean, who is the Head of the School of Language, Literature and Cultural Studies under which the Centre operates and they both have also recommended Kumar’s application for EOL, but the executive council rejected it. So, it cannot be said by the university that the professor cannot be spared for nine months. In his petition Kumar has also sought setting aside of JNU's letters dated March 3, June 12 and July 7 which reject his requests for EOL without pay for nine months, allegedly without giving any reasons. He had made another request for grant of EOL which JNU has rejected again. He has stated in his plea that he has been offered a Fellowship at the Nantes Institute of Advanced Study, France for a period of nine months from October 2020, which is a Research Institute of Global eminence. He has contended that in the past four years he has not availed an EOL and in his entire academic career, he has only availed two EOLs. He has also said that the council exercised its discretionary power in a completely arbitrary fashion without any deliberation and application of mind and action of rejecting the plea was malafide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-court-directs-jnu-to-sanction-leave-to-professor-to-pursue-fellowship-in-france-887387.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||One more Covid-related death in Ladakh, toll reaches 40||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Ladakh has reached 40 after one more patient succumbed to the infection in the Union Territory, officials said on Monday. The 83-year-old patient, who recently tested positive for Covid-19, died in Leh district on Sunday, they said. The officials said this was the seventeenth in Leh due to Covid-19 while the rest of the 23 fatalities had occurred in Kargil district. Ladakh had recorded 3,345 Covid-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. While 2,436 patients have recovered from the disease, 869 others, including 465 in Leh and 404 in Kargil, are still undergoing treatment, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-covid-related-death-in-ladakh-toll-reaches-40-887389.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar recovers from Covid-19, urges people to follow guidelines||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday returned to state capital Chandigarh after recovering from Covid-19 and urged people to religiously follow all the guidelines like wearing masks and social distancing to stay safe. He asserted that there was no need to be afraid of coronavirus, but we have to remain vigilant. After testing positive for novel coronavirus on August 24, barely two days before the day-long monsoon session of the state assembly, Khattar was admitted to Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital for treatment. Khattar, 66, had developed fever and body ache three days prior to testing positive for Covid-19. He was taken to the hospital around 2.30 am on August 25 where he remained admitted for the next 17 days and after being discharged he rested for a few more days in PWD rest house in Gurgaon. After being admitted to the hospital, a multidisciplinary team of doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi; PGIMS, Rohtak, Gurgaon Civil Surgeon Dr Virender Yadav, Medanta's Dr Sushila Kataria had reviewed his condition, line of treatment and progress made, a state government statement had said earlier. Talking to reporters in Gurgaon shortly before leaving for Chandigarh, Khattar said he has fully recovered though doctors have advised him to monitor his health for the next 10 days. "I want to thank all those who wished and prayed for my speedy recovery as well as the doctors who were involved in my treatment," he said. Replying to a question, Khattar urged people to religiously follow all the guidelines issued by the government and other authorities in the wake of the pandemic. "We all have to act responsibly and follow all the guidelines like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand sanitising to stay safe," he said. "We don't have to be afraid of coronavirus, we have to be vigilant. Being vigilant is essential to defeat this pandemic," the chief minister said. Khattar also advised people, especially those who are at a higher risk, To avoid going out of their homes. "Because we have seen instances where an entire family became infected after one of its members contracted the virus," he said. Replying to a question, he said while he was on road to recovery, he tried to keep himself engaged in some official work. To another query, he said he cannot say for sure from where he contracted the infection, but just before catching the virus, he had been attending many official meetings in Delhi. One of the meetings Khattar had attended days before he tested positive was with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who also tested positive for Covid-19 later. PTI SUN VSD KJ||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-recovers-from-covid-19-urges-people-to-follow-guidelines-887395.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||UP's whistle-blower, who was shot after exposing top cop, dies||An Uttar Pradesh whistle-blower, who was shot at and critically injured after accusing the district police chief of Mahoba, about 300 kilometres from here, of demanding a bribe, died at a hospital.  The whistle-blower, Indrakant Tripathi, who dealt in stone crushing business at Kabrai area in Mahoba, was shot at barely two days after he uploaded a video on the social media claiming that the then district police chief Manilal Patidar had demanded bribe from him to allow him to carry on his business. Tripathi was rushed to the hospital in Kanpur, where he succumbed to his injuries late on Sunday night. Patidar was suspended by the UP government and a probe was ordered against him. The family members of Tripathi alleged on Monday that Patidar was 'behind' attack on the trader and demanded his immediate arrest. ''Tripathi had received threatening calls after the video went viral on social media.....we suspect that Patidar may be behind the attack,'' the nephew of the slain trader said. He also said that Patidar was referred to as 'Raja' (king) in the district. The opposition parties launched a scathing attack on the Yogi Adityanath government and said that the police officials were now giving' 'supari' (contract killing) against those raising their voice against corruption. ''Tripathi's murder raises serious questions on the functioning of the UP government....corruption and crime are at their peak in the state,'' Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ups-whistle-blower-who-was-shot-after-exposing-top-cop-dies-887407.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Police seeks 10-day custody of ex-JNU student leader Umar Khalid in UAPA case||Delhi Police Monday sought 10-day custody of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February.  Khalid was present before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat through video conferencing. Khalid was arrested on Sunday night in the case. Police said he needed to be confronted with huge amount of data. In the FIR, police has claimed that the communal violence was a "premeditated conspiracy" which was allegedly hatched by Khalid and two others. The students have also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder,  promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets and block the roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to spread propaganda at international level about how minorities in India are being tortured, the FIR alleged. In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, FIR claimed. Co-accused Danish was allegedly given the responsibility to gather people from two different places to take part in the riots, police alleged. Women and children were made to block the roads under the Jafrabad metro station on February 23 to create tension amidst the neighbourhood people, FIR said. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-police-seeks-10-day-custody-of-ex-jnu-student-leader-umar-khalid-in-uapa-case-887408.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||500 BSF personnel participate in Fit India Movement run in Jammu||Around 500 Border Security Force (BSF) personnel on Monday participated in a Fit India Movement run at the frontier headquarters here as part of the campaign to generate awareness among the troops and their families about physical exercise for good health. The five-km run within the sprawling headquarters at Paloura was flagged off from Hargobind Bhatnagar Stadium by Inspector General of Jammu frontier N S Jamwal this morning, a BSF spokesman said. He said the participants followed the Covid-19 protocols and social distancing norms during the event. Jamwal, in his address to the troops on the occasion, highlighted the need for physical exercise and urged his men to encourage their family members and the society at large to be part of the Fit India Movement. "We can minimize our expenditure on medicine with the help of regular fitness programmes and yoga," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/500-bsf-personnel-participate-in-fit-india-movement-run-in-jammu-887419.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Police stopped us from visiting deceased MP's home, says Samajwadi Party||The Samajwadi Party on Monday claimed that its leaders were stopped by police from visiting the residence of former Lok Sabha MP C N Singh who had passed away recently. "Chief of SP's UP unit Naresh Uttam, MLC Sunil Singh Yadav, and Udaiveer were stopped from going to Pratapgarh to express their condolence to the family of former MP C N Singh," the party said in a tweet. "C N Singh was the Lok Sabha MP from Machhlishahr parliamentary constituency in 1999. For the past few days, he was ill and admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Lucknow, where he breathed his last on September 4. He was also an MLA from Pratapgarh Assembly constituency in 1996," MLC Yadav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-stopped-us-from-visiting-deceased-mps-home-says-samajwadi-party-887425.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Upset over misbehavior by police officer, AAP MLA submits resignation, Assembly Speaker rejects it||Agitated over alleged misbehavior by a police officer, AAP MLA Mohinder Goyal on Monday submitted his resignation to Delhi Assembly Speaker, who did not accept it and said the police commissioner will be summoned in the next session of the House. The MLA from Rithala said the station house officer (SHO) misbehaved with him and he should be suspended. Goyal said if the officer is not suspended, he does not deserve to be a member of the House. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel did not accept Goyal's resignation and assured strict action in the matter. He said the Delhi Police commissioner will be summoned in the next Assembly session. The BJP legislators, including Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, supported Goyal and his demand for action against the police officer. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said senior police officers should be summoned before a Committee of the Assembly. A visibly agitated Goyal wanted to leave the House but later relented after the Speaker and other members extended support to him. The one-day session is being held with various safety measures in place in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/upset-over-misbehavior-by-police-officer-aap-mla-submits-resignation-assembly-speaker-rejects-it-887426.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Assembly pays tribute to 20 soldiers martyred in Galwan Valley clash||The one-day session of the Delhi Assembly began on Monday by paying homage to 20 Indian army personnel who were killed in the Galwan Valley clash in Ladakh and condoling the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee. Various safety measures were put in place for the one-day session, including setting up of a coronavirus testing facility at the assembly for its staff and legislators. The House paid homage to the 20 army personnel who were killed in a violent clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan valley in Ladakh. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel read the condolence message of the House for Mukherjee and said an era of Indian politics has come to an end with his death. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who was to table papers, including a report of Delhi Technological University for 2018-19, could not attend the session after he developed fever on Saturday. The Speaker said in absence of Sisodia, the Minister of Health and PWD, Satyendar Jain will table the papers that the Deputy CM was scheduled to table. Jain will also table the Delhi Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the speaker said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-assembly-pays-tribute-to-20-soldiers-martyred-in-galwan-valley-clash-887445.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Targeted selectively to halt avalanche of allegations against Akbar, Ramani tells court||Journalist Priya Ramani told a Delhi court on Monday that she was “targeted selectively” through a criminal defamation complaint by former Union minister M J Akbar “to halt the avalanche of allegations of sexual misconduct" against him” following the #MeToo movement in 2018. Ramani made the submission before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja through her lawyer during the final hearing in the complaint filed by Akbar against her.  In the wake of #MeToo movement, Ramani in 2018 accused Akbar of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago when he was a journalist. Akbar resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018. Senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Ramani, told the court on Monday that over 14 women accused Akbar of sexual harassment in the wake of #MeToo movement but he has filed complaint only against Ramani. “Priya Ramani was targeted selectively... Either everyone's articles and tweets are defamatory or none is. Or are the other allegations accepted,” John asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/targeted-selectively-to-halt-avalanche-of-allegations-against-akbar-ramani-tells-court-887461.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Center to announce ‘big package’ for business revival in J&K: LG Manoj Sinha||A committee constituted by the Jammu and Kashmir government to suggest a package for the revival of business and other ailing sectors, on Monday, submitted its report and a “big announcement was on cards within a week. This was stated by J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha during a presser. “The committee has submitted its report which is under consideration with the government of India. I think within a week’s time, there is going to be a major announcement about a big package,” he said. Sinha said that it was not only the business sector which has suffered for the past one year or so but the fact remains that for the past 15 or 20 years, every sector has suffered losses. “The package would perhaps be the first-ever and would not just cover the ailing business sector but other sectors that have suffered in J&K so far,” he added. Recently, Kashmir Trade Alliance (KTA), a conglomerate of various trade bodies, had said the Covid-19 lockdown had dented the Valley’s economy by another Rs 21,000 crore and the total loss for since August last year when the Center revoked the special status of the J&K under Article 370, has been around Rs 45,000 crore. On the killing of three civilians on July 18 in an alleged fake encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian, the LG said, “The probe by the administration and the army is underway. I will ensure that there is no injustice.” Anguished over the “inordinate delay” in obtaining the results of DNA tests, the families of the slain civilians had written to Sinha last week, seeking his intervention to help them receive the bodies of their children and give them a decent burial. Sinha also said that “Back to Village” Program-III will commence from October 2. “Before that, I would like to announce here that every Panchayat gets Rs 10 lakh for the various developmental works,” he announced. The LG Sinha also said that there will be public durbars at divisional and sub-divisional levels across the J&K on every Wednesday where divisional commissioners and deputy commissioners will listen to the grievances of people and ensure their timely redressal. “This process will be monitored for three months after which we will take it to block-level as well,” he announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/center-to-announce-big-package-for-business-revival-in-jk-lg-manoj-sinha-887462.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Kanpur police forms SIT to probe 'love jihad' cases||An eight-member SIT formed by the Kanpur police is looking into allegations of forced conversion on the pretext of marriage and has come across over a dozen such cases, an official said. The SIT was formed about a fortnight ago after some members of Hindu organisations met Kanpur IG Mohit Agarwal, alleging “love jihad” incidents. The issue had surfaced after a Kanpur woman, Shalini Yadav, married a Muslim man recently. The couple, however, approached a Delhi court, denying allegations of forced conversion. According to the official, the special investigation team (SIT) will investigate the alleged role of Islamic organisations in it. The SIT led by Deepak Bhuker, Superintendent of Police, Kanpur (South), has been told to look into any fixed pattern or modus operandi behind the alleged incidents, the official said. The SIT, which has till now come across at least a dozen such cases, mostly from the Juhi area in Kanpur, has decided to investigate if any Islamic organisation has a role in funding the “love jihad' racket in Kanpur, the official said. There is a strong possibility that some Islamic outfits may be providing financial assistance to a handful of organisations involved in such anti-national acts, the official claimed. Meanwhile, SP Deepak Bhuker said the help of a special SWAT team has been sought for surveillance, he added. The SIT has contacted local police stations and sought details of all alleged “love jihad” cases reported in the past two years, he said. Bhuker said the probe team has been extracting records related to a dozen phone numbers to establish links. They have been gathering information about such couples, their bank accounts and recording statements of their family members, Bhuker said, adding that phone numbers of their aides have also been extracted. Bhuker, however, said in the case involving Shalini Yadav, the couple had approached the Delhi High Court and later appeared before a magistrate at the Tees Hazari court there, denying the allegations. He said the woman had said that she was a major and married a man of her choice. Since the woman is a major and there is nothing for police to do, a closure report will be sent to the court soon, the SP said. Police are looking into the conspiracy angle to ascertain if youths involved in this are being funded from abroad, the SP said. Police are also trying to find out if the youth in any case hid their identity, the SP said. Recently, the Kanpur police had arrested two people-- Mohsin Khan and Aamir--in an alleged 'love jihad' case, said another senior official. Mohsin Khan allegedly befriended a girl, posing as Sameer and then married her, the senior official added. His friend Aamir became befriended a younger sister of Mohsin's wife but the girl realised their plan and stopped meeting him. She was then allegedly threatened with dire consequences if she did not marry Aamir. Another case was reported from the Naubasta area where Fateh Khan possessed two Aadhaar cards, one of these in the name of Aryan Malhotra, said Kanpur’s Govind Nagar Circle Officer Vikas Pandey. The Hindu family in whose house he had rented a room for two years had later accused him of abusing their minor daughter. Upon investigation, it was found that he had two identity cards, one of which was fake. His real name was Fateh Khan and he is a resident of Bijnor. He was sent to jail on charges of rape, Pandey added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-police-forms-sit-to-probe-love-jihad-cases-887473.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Minor girl raped, video-graphed by five, one accused arrested: Police||A minor girl was abducted and gang-raped in Imalia Sultanpur village of Sitapur district in Uttar Pradesh with the five accused video recording the incident and making the footage viral on social media later, police said on Monday. The main accused of the gangrape case has been arrested after the incident came to light due to viral video, they added. Quoting from the victim’s complaint, the police said the incident took place in Imalia Sultanpur village on September 7, when the girl was returning home from the market. Two youths, Sheebu and Nazim of a nearby village, dragged the girl to a nearby cane field where three others were also present and they all gang-raped her, the police said. The girl told police that the accused made a video of the offence on their mobile phones and threatened to kill her if she told anyone about the incident, the police added. A case was subsequently registered against the five accused, police said, adding one of the accused, Sheebu, was arrested on Monday. Police teams are on the lookout for others, they added. Sitapur Superintendent of Police R P Singh and Additional SP (South) Rajiv Dixit, meanwhile, visited the village amid the tension over the gangrape and deployed police force in the village as a precautionary measure, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-raped-video-graphed-by-five-one-accused-arrested-police-887530.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court sends ex-JNU student leader Umar Khalid to 10-day police custody in UAPA case||A Delhi court Monday sent former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, to police custody for 10 days in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Khalid was produced before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat through video conferencing. Police had sought his custody for 10 days saying they wanted to confront him with documents running into 11 lakh pages. Khalid was arrested on Sunday night in the case. His counsel opposed the remand application saying he was not in Delhi during February 23-26, when the riots took place. In the FIR, the police has claimed that the communal violence was a "premeditated conspiracy" which was allegedly hatched by Khalid and two others. Khalid has also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets and block the roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to spread propaganda at international level about how minorities in India are being tortured, the FIR alleged. In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, FIR claimed. Co-accused Danish was allegedly given the responsibility to gather people from two different places to take part in the riots, police alleged. Women and children were made to block the roads under the Jafrabad metro station on February 23 to create tension among people in the neighbourhood, the FIR said. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-sends-ex-jnu-student-leader-umar-khalid-to-10-day-police-custody-in-uapa-case-887543.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Mukhtar Ansari's wife, her two brothers booked under Gangster Act: Police||Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari's wife Afsan Ansari and her two brothers, Sarjil Raza and Anwar Shahzad, have been booked under the Gangster Act, police said on Monday. A case under the Gangster Act has been registered against the trio at the Kotwali police station here, Ghazipur Superintendent of Police Om Prakash Singh said. Afsan Ansari and her two brothers have been running an organised criminal gang and have grabbed several plots of land in the city’s Kotwali police station area, the SP said, divulging details of various properties allegedly under their illegal possession. Sarjil Raza and Anwar Shahzad had also been charge-sheeted earlier in a case of furnishing fake documents for acquiring government contracts, said the SP, adding the case is pending in the court. Their sister too has a case of embezzlement of money lodged against her, Singh added. Under Section 14 of the UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, a district magistrate can order attachment of any movable or immovable property acquired by a gangster through acts recognized as an offence under the Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mukhtar-ansaris-wife-her-two-brothers-booked-under-gangster-act-police-887548.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 situation to be under control soon, people shouldn't panic: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday exuded confidence that the Covid-19 situation will soon be under control and people should not panic. He also claimed that the Delhi government was the "first in the world" to start home isolation of coronavirus patients. "The Covid-19 situation will be soon under control. We are testing more than 60,000 people every day. There is no need to panic, but people should be cautious and use face mask and follow other measures to prevent the spread of the virus," Jain said while addressing a one-day session of the Delhi Assembly. "We learnt from wherever we could in the fight against coronavirus and maintained transparency. Delhi government was the first in the world to start home isolation. We started use of pulse oximeters. I want to clarify that the treatment of corona in government hospitals is in no way less better than in private hospitals." Jain said that the highest number of Covid-19 tests are being done in Delhi. There are 500 permanent centres including dispensaries and hospitals where testing is being conducted, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-to-be-under-control-soon-people-shouldnt-panic-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-887555.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Ex-UP CM Kalyan Singh tests positive for coronavirus||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh has contracted coronavirus and undergoing treatment at Lucknow’s SGPGI hospital, his grandson and state minister Sandeep Singh said on Monday. The UP Technical and Medical Education disclosed this on his Twitter handle and prayed for the 88-year-old BJP leader’s recovery. “I pray to Lord Ram for your speedy recovery. Our best wishes are with you," Sandeep tweeted referring to the former state chief minister. Sources too confirmed that the veteran BJP leader has been admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences of Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-up-cm-kalyan-singh-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-887558.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has gone into self isolation. He announced this on Twitter. “Had got my Covid-19 test done after I had a mild fever. The report has come positive. I have gone into self-isolation. As of now, I have no fever or any other issue. I am fine. By your blessings, I will recover fully and return to work soon," Sisodia said. Earlier in June, Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain had tested positive for the virus infection and had undergone plasma therapy. Officials said Sisodia had visited Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal at his residence a few days ago. He had also met Jain as well as held meetings with education department officials. Sisodia has skipped the one-day session of Delhi Assembly on Monday. Education Department officials will be getting tested in the next couple of days as Sisodia has been a regular in his office in Delhi Secretariat. Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal tweeted, "Praying for speedy recovery & good health of Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-tests-positive-for-covid-19-887572.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Farooq Abdullah says oxygen shortage in Jammu hospitals worrisome||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Monday termed the reported oxygen shortage in Jammu hospitals amid the Covid-19 pandemic worrisome and claimed that nothing substantial was being done to alleviate the problem, a party statement said. Replying to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan during the Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha, Abdullah said the situation is reportedly quite worrisome particularly in the wake of the alarming spike in Covid-19 cases during the past one week. "Reportedly, hospitals managing Covid-19 cases are facing acute shortage of oxygen, thereby putting the lives of critical coronavirus patients at risk. It is distressing to know that nothing substantial is being done to alleviate the problem," he said. The statement said Abdullah also raised the issue of 60 "dysfunctional" ventilators that are meant to provide life support to critically ill patients. He called for immediate necessary measures to strengthen the healthcare support system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-farooq-abdullah-says-oxygen-shortage-in-jammu-hospitals-worrisome-887612.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Overall situation at friction points in eastern Ladakh unchanged, continues to be tense||The overall situation at friction points in eastern Ladakh remains unchanged and continues to be tense, four days after foreign ministers of India and China agreed on a five-point plan to resolve the prolonged border standoff, government sources said on Monday. The sources also said both the Indian and Chinese troops are firmly holding onto their respective positions at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). They said while the situation in the region continues to be tense no fresh movement of Chinese troops was witnessed. The Indian Army will not lower its guard and will maintain the current state of very high-level of combat readiness in eastern Ladakh till there are visible changes in the ground situation, the sources added. The sources said the date for the much-anticipated Corps commander-level talks between the two armies is yet to be firmed up but it is likely to take place in the next few days. The military talks are expected to focus on implementation of certain provisions of the five-point consensus to ease tensions. India and China reached an agreement to resolve their border row at a meeting between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow last Thursday on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet. The agreement included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. It also mentioned that the two sides should expedite work to conclude "new confidence building measures" to enhance peace and tranquillity in the border areas. However, the agreement has not mentioned any timeline for disengagement of troops. Meanwhile, Chinese envoy Sun Weidong, referring to consensus reached during previous talks between leaders of the two countries, said both sides should "pursue win-win cooperation" instead of "zero-sum game". "I hope and believe that as long as the two sides earnestly implement the consensus reached by the two foreign ministers to the front-line troops and adhere to the correct means of dialogue and negotiation, the two sides will find a way to overcome the current difficulties," Sun was quoted as saying by the Chinese embassy. He was commenting on the Jaishankar-Wang talks. The envoy further said: "As long as the two sides keep moving the relationship in the right direction building on the previous achievements, there will be no difficulty or challenge that can’t be overcome." The five-point consensus at the Jaishankar-Wang talks came days after a fresh confrontation between the two armies early last week in eastern Ladakh that triggered a massive military build up by both sides in almost all friction points along the LAC. The Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) have been locked in a tense standoff in multiple areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May. Shots were fired across the LAC on Monday last for the first time in 45 years with the two sides accusing each other of firing in the air. In the five rounds of the Corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The face-off in eastern Ladakh erupted on May 6. At the Jaishankar-Wang talks, the Indian delegation highlighted its strong concern over amassing of troops and military equipment by China along the LAC besides referring to "provocative behaviour" by Chinese army personnel at numerous incidents of friction. The Indian side clearly conveyed that it expected full adherence to all agreements on management of border areas and would not countenance any attempt to change the status quo unilaterally, according to the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA). Last week, the Army further bolstered its dominance over a number of strategic heights overlooking key Chinese-held positions around the Pangong lake area in eastern Ladakh||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/overall-situation-at-friction-points-in-eastern-ladakh-unchanged-continues-to-be-tense-887622.html
14-09-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Tantrik held for raping ailing teen girl||A tantrik was arrested from Chhattisgarh's Janjgir-Champa district for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl on the pretext of curing her, police said on Monday. Habbu Maulvi alias Shakir Raja Qureshi (44) was arrested on Sunday from Kotmi Sonar village, JP Gupta, Station House Officer (SHO) of Bilaspur's Sipat police station said. "Last week, the victim's parents, who hail from Mungeli district, had registered a zero FIR which was transferred to Sipat police station on Saturday," he said. "As per the complaint, in July last year, the victim, who was suffering from some unknown ailment, was taken by her parents to a dargah in Baloda village of Janjgir-Champa where they met accused Qureshi," the SHO said. The accused asked the girl's parents to drop her at his rented house in Luthra village of Sipat claiming he would cure her using sorcery, he said. "He allegedly sexually assaulted the girl there for a month and threatened her with dire consequence if she revealed the ordeal to anyone. Even after the girl returned home, the accused started visiting there and allegedly raped her. After her parents came to know of it, they filed a complaint," he said. Qureshi has been charged under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-tantrik-held-for-raping-ailing-teen-girl-887631.html
14-09-2020||Opinion||When good people don’t act, evil reigns||I have often wondered how major world tragedies and horrors were allowed to unfold. Where were all the good people, those who objected or should have? How did life simply go on with a horror in their midst? How did the trans-Atlantic slave trade play out over hundreds of years? How did slavery thrive in this country? How was the Holocaust allowed to happen? How did the genocides in Rwanda or Darfur come to be? There is, of course, nearly always an explanation. Often it is official policy; often it is driven by propaganda. But I’m more concerned with how people in the society considered these events at the time, and how any semblance of normalcy could be maintained while events unfolded. It turns out that our current era is providing the unsettling answer: It was easy. Things are poised to get worse: Models now predict that the number of Americans killed by the virus could double between now and January 1. According to the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington: “We expect the daily death rate in the US, because of seasonality and declining public vigilance, to reach nearly 3,000 a day in December. Cumulative deaths expected by January 1 are 4,15,090; this is 2,22,522 deaths from now until the end of the year.” And yet, Americans still flock to Trump rallies, Republicans continue to defend his pandemic response, and it is not clear that he will be defeated in November. We are, in many states, back to restaurants and bars, schools and churches, gyms and spas. It’s not as if we don’t know that there is a deadly virus being transmitted through the air, but it seems as though many Americans, weary of restrictions, have simply made their peace with it. We have a climate crisis that continues to worsen. Storms are getting stronger. Droughts are severe. Rivers are flooding. The sea level is rising. And yet, we don’t do nearly enough to stop it and may not do enough before it’s too late to do anything. Right now much of the West Coast is ablaze with hellish scenes of orange skies, and yet too many of us entertain climate change deniers, or, perhaps worse, know well the gravity and precariousness of the situation and still haven’t changed our habits or voted for the candidates with the boldest visions to save the planet. Right now, China has detained as many as 1 million mostly Muslim citizens in indoctrination camps, hoping to remould many into what The New York Times called “loyal blue-collar workers to supply Chinese factories with cheap labour.” And yet, the world does little. Many look away. Life goes on. This is how these catastrophes happen — in full sight — and people with full knowledge don’t revolt. People sometimes think that the issue is far away, or if it’s not, that it’s too big and they are too powerless. They think provincially, or even parochially, concerned with their own house, their own street, their own community. “It’s too bad that those children are in cages, but I can’t worry about that now. The clothes in the dryer need folding.” “It’s too bad that an unarmed Black man just got shot by the police, but I can’t worry about that now. The yard needs mowing.” I guess in some ways this impulse is self-protecting, preventing the mind and spirit from becoming overwhelmed with angst and rage. But the result is that evil — as a person or system — rampages, unchecked, taking your personal laissez-faire as public license. If you don’t complain, you condone. But this mustn’t be. Stop thinking of yourself as weak or helpless. Stop thinking that things will simply work themselves out. Stop thinking that evil will stop at the gate and not trample your own garden. Gather the energy. Gather your neighbour. Fight, vote, email, post. Do all you can to stand up for the vulnerable, for the oppressed, for the planet itself. Don’t let history record this moment as it has recorded too many others: a time when good people did too little to confront wickedness and disaster. As Edmund Burke wrote in “Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents” in 1770: “When bad men combine, the good must associate; else they will fall, one by one, an unpitied sacrifice in a contemptible struggle.” But you may be more familiar with another quote often attributed to Burke: “The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-good-people-don-t-act-evil-reigns-887228.html
14-09-2020||Opinion||Why those big Covid-induced changes aren’t coming anytime soon||At another level, individuals with the luxury of reflection during extended lockdowns found themselves pondering over their hectic, privileged lives and saw scope for improving work-life balance, building social empathy, and figuring out environmentally sustainable choices for themselves. Of course, expectations were modest at the other end of the socio-economic spectrum. Food, a little liquidity to meet basic and emergency expenses, and a break from high-handed law enforcement, would suffice. Overall, the pandemic came to be read, at least in certain vocal circles, as an unprecedentedly compelling if harsh reminder for acting on several meaningful, long-standing agendas. Here’s a sampler. Overwhelmed health systems, unequal health and livelihood impacts, and generally floundering centralised response management re-affirmed the case for larger, better-designed social sector spends and empowered local governments.  Disrupted global supply chains and hurting small domestic businesses served as added prompts for going local. The Greens had been talking of it anyway. The disproportionate burden of the pandemic in large urban centers, more so among poor and informal sector workers and in low-income neighborhoods, confirmed, once again, the need for better planned, better resourced, more resilient, and equitous cities.  For businesses, the lockdown pause was considered a time to acclimatise to work-from-home arrangements and less travel, contemplate new supply chains, find fresh value propositions for stakeholders internal and external. It also dawned on many that frontline and delivery workers deserved respectful treatment and saner working conditions.  There were other constructive possibilities spoken of, too many to list here, but the larger point remains unchanged. The early days of the pandemic, troubled as they were, came laced with silver linings, stoking hopes that the pandemic’s powerful jolts would spark introspections and shake inertias on a range of issues bearing on the prosperity, well-being, and future of the planet. So, why have these important conversations abated in recent months? The most likely explanation is that the dreamers have had a reality check. Individuals actually thought that the pandemic offered a springboard for sizable leaps, but realised soon that the platform wasn’t springy enough.  Leaching the zing has been three factors. One: Government coffers are running low, and the job of containing an unrelenting pandemic has left decision-makers sapped. Exhausted minds and coffers have found it difficult to engage with proposals for a new social and economic order. Two: The rich and powerful remain entrenched as ever – and their reflex to cling and add to turf, wealth, and power may actually have been reinforced with the insecurities the pandemic has sparked.  This has manifested itself in the tussle over GST compensations between the Center and states but will more broadly test the notion that a catastrophe can rapidly conjure enabling conditions for correcting power and resource distribution imbalances. Lobbies seeking more incentives and concessions for wealth creators are re-mobilized and active already, as are voices wondering if Green considerations should be allowed to get in the way of economic recovery. Three: The appetite for change has lowered all around. Everyone wants to go back to how things were. Sure, it wasn’t perfect, but it was ‘normal’, a state that wasn’t comfortable for the majority but had come to be accepted, accustomed to.  Now, amidst an upheaval that has only worsened things for all but those on the top of the pyramid, the world is longing for that familiar low-equilibrium. And it would prefer tried-and-tested ways of getting there, unjust and unsustainable as they may be, and getting there quickly, rather than experiment with bold stuff at the risk of further upheaval and uncertain outcomes.  To those in the business of dreaming change and mounting struggles for realising it, the above aren’t new challenges. Power is ceded reluctantly, and social and economic disruption is something nobody, rich, middle-class, or poor, looks forward to.  We may then be looking at the pandemic causing incremental movements of the needle – and not the energetic ones that were predicted or hoped for. That would be a pity. Surely things shouldn’t have to get any worse to create space for the better.  (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-those-big-covid-induced-changes-aren-t-coming-anytime-soon-887365.html
14-09-2020||Opinion||Afghanistan-Taliban talks: Not easy giving peace a chance||The long-awaited negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban are underway in Doha from September 12. A recent announcement by Qatar indicated that all major hurdles have been resolved, thereby paving the way for the warring sides to meet face-to-face for the first time to negotiate peace and agree to a political transition. The process gained momentum after President Ashraf Ghani ordered the release of a final batch of 400 Afghan Taliban prisoners. The US-Taliban peace deal signed in February 2020 had pledged to release 5,000 insurgent prisoners. Taliban had declared they would not start talks unless all their prisoners were released. Ghani’s government had reluctantly released most of the Taliban prisoners under pressure from the Donald Trump administration but had been holding on to six “hardcore” detainees (whose release was also opposed by France and Australia). They were reportedly transported to Doha “for direct supervision during the talks.” This facilitated the removal of the final hurdle for the start of the negotiations. The Taliban delegation is led by its deputy leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar. In the recent past, the Taliban has made certain changes in its team composition and has included the hardliner, Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of its supreme leader Mullah Omar. On the Afghan government’s side, former chief executive, Abdullah Abdullah, is responsible for directing the peace negotiations with the Taliban, while Masoom Stanekzai, a former head of the Afghan intelligence agency, leads the Afghan team.  The talks kick-started in presence of officials from several countries and international organisations attending (or speaking virtually) at the commencement ceremony. The key speakers at the opening ceremony included Abdullah Abdullah, Mullah Baradar, and US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.  Many countries including the US, Pakistan, India, Turkey, Germany, Qatar, and representatives from certain global bodies made remarks at the ceremony and called for an immediate comprehensive ceasefire. The speakers at the opening ceremony hailed the start of the peace talks as a “historic opportunity” and asked the two parties to keep an open mind during the exchange. Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar reiterated India’s support for “an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled process.”  Elusive peace Despite the signing of the February peace deal, peace has largely remained elusive in Afghanistan. Taliban’s attacks on security forces and citizens have regularly made headlines. However, to keep the peace process on track, numerous attacks by the insurgent group have been conveniently overlooked and the slightest sign of progress has often been applauded as the harbinger of a breakthrough. Reasonable skepticisms have been brushed aside citing the necessity of bringing an end to the decades of war.  There has also been an eagerness to ignore the largely unreciprocated concessions that were made to get the Taliban to come to the table, so much so, that the insurgent group’s refusal to acknowledge the Afghan government as its principal interlocutor was also overlooked. During the multiple talks leading to the Khalilzad-Baradar accord of February, Taliban negotiators did not reveal any flexibility on any significant issue. On the contrary, they understood that by standing firm they could push Washington to yield on most key issues. It was Kabul, which was seen offering compromises time and again.  For adversaries locked in a war for decades, it’s never easy to negotiate peace. The meeting of the two sides for the intra-Afghan dialogue undoubtedly is a momentous step. But for any constructive result to come out of it, the difficult task of maintaining domestic and regional consensus will be necessary as will continued international support for the peace process.  As far as India is concerned, the prospect of a power-sharing arrangement between Kabul and the Taliban is not a desirable scenario for a country that has pledged $3 billion in assistance since 2001. To mitigate the risks to India’s continued presence in Afghanistan, India must set aside its reluctance to change its policies. It may need to urgently reposition its priorities based on the requirements of the changing circumstances.  Amrullah Saleh, the vice president of Afghanistan, has called the talks with Taliban “one of the most difficult peace negotiations in history”. He believes the discussions on ‘symbolism and values’ will be the most challenging part of the negotiation. It is fair to say that the talks are merely the initial step in what will be at best a long and complex process. Therefore, any optimism has to be tempered.  (Anwesha Ghosh is Research Fellow, Indian Council of World Affairs. She is the author of Identity and Marginality in India: Settlement Experience of Afghan Migrants (Routledge UK, 2019)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/afghanistan-taliban-talks-not-easy-giving-peace-a-chance-887444.html
14-09-2020||Opinion||India-Japan ties post-Abe: Will the bonds remain strong?||The sudden resignation of Shinzo Abe, the longest-serving Prime Minister of Japan, due to health reasons could impact Japan’s relations with some countries unpredictably. Abe had not only nurtured Japan’s new-age policy with nuanced revisionism but also established personal connections with world leaders, imparting predictability and trust in relationships. The Abe-Modi friendship signified one such leadership bond. Although Abe’s long reign at the helm and cordial relations with India seems to have provided a solid platform to provide stability even in his absence, how will the long-term relations between India and Japan shape up post-Abe, and more specifically under his successor? Yoshihide Suga, who was on Monday elected the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, is set to succeed Abe as Japan’s PM. The Modi-Abe chemistry has been variously described as one between ‘friends’ or ‘old friends’. Abe’s strong India-tilt precedes Modi. It hit an unprecedented high with his famous “Confluence of the Two Seas” address to the Indian Parliament in 2007, but the relationship achieved newer heights under Modi-Abe. The two leaders met for the first time in September 2014 and concurred on elevating ties to a “Special Strategic and Global Partnership.”  The December 2015 visit of Prime Minister Abe to India kickstarted the broadbasing of bilateral ties, with an action-oriented and long-term approach to political, economic and strategic goals. The two leaders announced the “Japan and India Vision 2025 Special Strategic and Global Partnership -- Working together for peace and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific region and the world,” a joint statement that would serve as a guidepost for a “new era in Japan-India relations.” In a rare gesture, in 2018, Abe hosted Modi for a private dinner at his holiday home in Yamanashi Prefecture. Abe’s leadership provided India with a confident partner to broaden its Indo-Pacific strategy, by geographically including the vast region between the Far East and the African continent. The Indo-Pacific strategy has enabled both countries to expand the scope of their cooperation by expanding the scope beyond Japanese Official Development Assistance (ODA), which has been a mainstay of bilateral cooperation since 1958. The India-Japan partnership in the Indo-Pacific today relies on working together to promote peace, stability and prosperity through economic growth and development in the region, including Africa, by enhancing connectivity through quality infrastructure and capacity-building. The bilateral partnership in the Indo-Pacific gained new ground under Abe-Modi as their joint development partnership now concerns a host of other countries in the region: Sri Lanka for the development of LNG-related infrastructure, Myanmar for multifaceted development assistance in Rakhine State, Bangladesh for roads, bridges and railway, as well as a comprehensive focus on the socio-economic development of the African continent. The Indo-Pacific partnership between Japan and India has also strengthened the security partnership between the two sides and that is likely to continue under Abe’s successor. The 2015 induction of Japan into the Malabar naval exercises as a permanent member has opened up new fronts for enhancing interoperability and cooperation for security in the maritime domain. Besides, multilateral cooperative mechanisms like the Japan-America-India Trilateral Meeting (JAI), the Quad, and the Quad Plus have all expanded scope for regional cooperation. Multilateral cooperation in the Indo-Pacific has risen in utility for both Japan and India as they not only ensure regional security and provide necessary political signalling, but also keep the regional balance of power in check. This is important in the context of Chinese assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific, its territorial and historical disputes with Japan, and its desire to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region. As Japan and India try to navigate the troubled waters of the Indo-Pacific, a sustained cooperation from the Abe-era should continue under his successor, both in bilateral relations and regional priorities. His successor should also continue the purposeful nuance that Abe maintained vis-a-vis China through a mix of nationalistically driven defence policy, international cooperation and yet a measured approach in dealing with China. The departure of Abe could see a shift in Japan’s designs to recruit India back to the negotiating table on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), a proposed free trade agreement in the Asia-Pacific region between the 10 member states of ASEAN and its free trade partners, Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand, and South Korea. India withdrew from RCEP over concerns about its trade deficit with China, a situation that has been compounded by the ongoing border standoff with China. Other ASEAN countries are also keen to have India back in the RCEP fold, particularly Indonesia, which depends on India and China to buy its palm oil. Abe’s strong relationship with Modi was seen as essential to getting India to rejoin negotiations, although the “door” will still remain open for India in the near future.  Among the many questions still outstanding are those concerning the future of the Asia Africa Growth Corridor (AAGC), which emerged from the Modi-Abe friendship in November 2016. The AAGC envisions a sustainable growth strategy through a series of consultations and partnerships across Asia and Africa. It has been seen as an alternative to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), which has caused anxiety in the developing world over concerns about being tied to Chinese credit. The AAGC focuses on development cooperation, infrastructure development, connectivity and developing capacities and it could benefit the wider region by expanding the value chain and creating new channels of production, as well as movement of goods across the Indo-Pacific. Japan needs AAGC because it is very resource-poor and India, while having some deposits of minerals, lacks the fossil fuels needed to boost its economy and support its large population. Neither can afford to miss out on Africa and its growth. While Abe’s successor is unlikely to rock the boat that Abe and Modi built, the last time Abe resigned due to illness brought about significant change. This time, the LDP remains Japan’s dominant political party and that could ensure continuity. Japan’s emergence as a middle power coincided with India’s rise to prominence in the Indo-Pacific. A small shock to the system is unlikely to undermine its dynamic.  (Cogan is Associate Professor of Peace and Conflict Studies, Kansai Gaidai University, Osaka, Japan; Mishra is Deputy Director, Kalinga Institute of Indo-Pacific Studies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-japan-ties-post-abe-will-the-bonds-remain-strong-887633.html
14-09-2020||Opinion||On grit and determination||I decided to take the public transport that day back home from office. I got into the bus. I bought the ticket from the conductor and then put on my headphones to listen to the radio. A few minutes later, I felt a nudge on my arm and I see a woman, clad in a burqa, sitting on a seat, signalling me to occupy the vacant seat next to her. I sat next to her and thanked her. She smiled and after a few minutes, she asked “do you work?” in Hindi. I smiled and said, “yes”. She enquired what work I did. I replied that I worked at a company. She smiled and said,” auraton ko apne pairo par khada hona zarurai hai” (Women should stand on their feet). “I work too,” were her next words and I saw a glint of pride in her eyes while she spoke. I grew inquisitive and wanted to know more. I switched off the radio and asked her where was she working. She said that she worked at two places. In the morning,  she worked as a house-keeping staff in a software firm and in the evening she worked as a main in a software engineer’s house. Her husband had abandoned her and her two children to marry someone else. Since then she has been the sole bread-earner of the house. Her two children, a boy and a girl, go to school. She wants them to read well and stand on their feet, especially her daughter and she doesn’t want to leave a stone unturned to accomplish that. She added that she gets up early, cooks breakfast and send the kids to school and then leaves for her work. Then comes back and cooks lunch. The kids return from school and she has her meals with them. She then sends them to tuition and leaves for her second work. The kids return from tuition and get busy with their homework and after she returns back, cooks dinner and has a happy meal with her kids and gets ready for the next day’s battle. The bus was reaching her stop and she got up. She looked at me and waved a Bye. I couldn’t help but say, you are an amazing woman and all she said was “hamare liye dua karna” (pray for us).  The strength of a woman lies in her grit to excel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/on-grit-and-determination-887635.html
14-09-2020||Panorama||Tuesday Interview | We’re on solid legal footing on draft EIA norms: Union Environment Secretary||The Environment Ministry’s draft Environmental Impact Assessment norms triggered a huge controversy in the last few months, with the critics arguing that it would offer a free hand to the industry to destroy the country’s air, water and forests. The ministry was flooded with thousands of representations. In an interview with DH’s Kalyan Ray, Union Environment Secretary R P Gupta explains the rationale behind those contentious clauses. Excerpts: Did the MoEF anticipate such a heavy barrage of protests when the draft EIA rules were released for public comments? We did not anticipate so many protests. It is a draft notification that was published seeking comments, objections and suggestions. We frankly did not anticipate that this would lead to such a movement as if the environment has been totally destroyed. One of the criticisms of the draft rules is that it undermines the parent law and won’t pass legal scrutiny. There is a legal aspect and a practical aspect. We are on solid footing on the legal aspects. We are well within the provision of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, and some of the provisions in the draft are from the pronouncement of the courts, particularly the post-facto (permissions) thing which is being talked about. The Jharkhand High Court, in a case of Hindustan Copper Ltd, stated that in cases where violation (environment clearance not taken) is involved, you can’t say such projects will be closed down. It said you must consider those cases on merit and after considering them on merit, you can either reject them or accept them. The HC said not taking environment clearance is a violation for which you must take action; but the punishment is not that you can’t consider them on merit and they have to be closed down. That any project without prior clearance would have to be necessarily closed down and can’t be considered on merit is the basic legal misconception, which is being spread around. What are the views of the Supreme Court? The Supreme Court in its Common Cause judgement said you can’t give ex post-facto clearance. The environmental clearance that would be given after consideration on merit is valid from the day it is given and does not condone past violations. It doesn’t have any retrospective effect. That’s what we are saying in the notification. The prior period remains a violation and for a violation punishment and actions prescribed in the law will apply. In another SC judgement that came in February 2020 in the Alembic case, the top court overturned a NGT order to close down an industry and said it was not the correct procedure and imposed a fine. The SC said closure is not the solution and there has to be a doctrine of proportionality. They imposed the fine and the unit was re-assessed on merit. What are the practical aspects? Is not taking prior clearance such a big offence that a unit has to be necessarily closed down. There is a rule that every vehicle has to obtain the pollution under control certificate. Suppose you don’t obtain it and drive the vehicle. Is the solution the destruction of your vehicle? Or is it that it should be checked and if you drive it without the certificate, you pay a fine. The reactions (against the EIA) are becoming emotional rather than rational. In the case of a vehicle, it is my money or your money, but in the case of an industry, it involves public money and employment, forget the promoter’s money. Environment protection and development have to go hand in hand. So, a violator can destroy the air, water and forests, and walk away after paying a fine? That is not the correct perception. Suppose if an industry was set up without permission, we will examine it as a de novo case. Had it not been allowed in the first place, we will still not allow it. To say that all industries will be cleared is not correct. The violators will pay a very heavy fine just for that offence of not taking prior clearance, in accordance with the ‘polluter pays’ principle. That’s a deterrent as nobody likes to pay a heavy fine. The SC in the 2010 Lafarge judgement asked the government to set up an independent environmental regulator. Why has that not been done in the last 10 years? It was not considered in the last 10 years, and the government position is not to go for a regulator as of now. But this is not a closed chapter, either. At a suitable date, the regulator can come. Why is there a distinction between violation and non-compliance? Violation is when an industry doesn’t take the necessary prior environmental approval for establishing a unit or expanding it. Non-compliance is when the industry has taken prior approval but violates the conditions of it. The fine for non-compliance would not be as heavy as the fine for a violation. If the non-compliance is severe, we can cancel the environmental clearance. Is the draft biased towards industry? Critics say it is meant for ‘Ease of Doing Business’. Why do people see ‘ease of doing business’ as anti-environment? It’s a wrong perception. Environmental damage happens in each and every activity. We have to find the right balance as we can’t live without development. Industry generates employment and livelihood for people. Can we be against it? Easeof doing business is not in any way anti-environment. I accept that our monitoring system is weak and we are now working to develop a strong monitoring system. A rigorous scrutiny spanning over five years is not a substitute for monitoring.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tuesday-interview-we-re-on-solid-legal-footing-on-draft-eia-norms-union-environment-secretary-887637.html
14-09-2020||Panorama||Do institutions celebrate teachers?||Just ten days ago, India celebrated Teacher’s Day. Teachers in India are definitely not at the top of the pyramid in terms of wages or in terms of national priority. The government’s teacher salary per-pupil-expenditure increased from Rs 1887 per pupil per month(pppm) in 2010 to Rs 3090 pppm in 2014 and further to 3430 pppm in 2015. There has been an exponential increase in the number of enrolments but minuscule increase in the number of teaching staff in universities. This speaks volumes of the teacher-student ratio in the universities. I remember how I had started my career in India, teaching 60 students in a class and in a year’s time, the number of students in my class had gone up to 80. Contrastingly, I do not remember ever teaching more than 25 students in a class when I was a lecturer in Singapore. I am pained to share that the teaching load for an average teacher in most of the undergraduate institutions is over 12 hours a week. As a teacher, one must spend at least four hours to prepare an hour-long lecture. That means that a teacher needs to have 48 hours in a day to do justice to the time he or she spends in the classroom during the week. To top it all, they are burdened with administrative activities that take their focus away from their main goal. A teacher hardly gets time to update her knowledge and skills on a regular basis. Government policies have ensured that a university creates provision for faculty development programmes and it is factored in the NAAC rankings. However, several institutions ensure that these funds remain unutilized by making policies that make access to funds difficult. Several institutions keep faculty members employed under contracts or prolonged probation and do not offer professional development benefits to them.  There is a need to ensure there is adequate utilization of such funds. NAAC rankings must move beyond the ‘tick box’ approach and qualitatively assess the institutions. There should be negative scores for institutions giving extra teaching load to a faculty over reasonable hours as per global standards. UGC had introduced a merit-based promotion scheme in 1982. It also had asked universities not to extend the time-bound promotion beyond 1995. The policy changes by UGC was a welcome move to ensure that teacher quality is maintained. There is now a need to ensure that the institutions create an affable environment for teachers that promotes their professional growth. The government needs to encourage institutions to encourage their teachers.  Research activities by teachers should not be seen as an addition to their role rather its integral part. To foster research culture, institutions need to reduce the teaching and the administrative load of the teacher. Younger teachers need to be given more time for building up their research experience and the senior professors should be involved more in administrative work. The figure below shows that a meagre amount of Rs 11.45 crores was disseminated for research promotion to various beneficiaries. Further, Quantum of Assistance in Major Research Project in Sciences including Engineering & Technology, Medicine, Pharmacy Agriculture was Rs 20.00 lakhs and in Humanities, Social Science, Languages, Literature, Arts, Law and allied disciplines was a mere Rs.15.00 lakhs in the year 2018-19.  There is a dire need to prioritise the teaching and research environment in India.  If India has to emerge as a knowledge economy, it has to strengthen the teachers who are the backbone of this economy.  The new National Education Policy 2020 has created new challenges for teachers whereby research and training of teachers will become a must for their survival. Teachers lay down the foundation of a good society. With a growing presence of social media, and easy access to fake knowledge, a teacher has to emerge as a reservoir of true knowledge and wisdom. There is a compass inside all of us that guides us in times of challenge. This compass is being built every day with every experience. Teachers play a vital role in building that compass to shape the core. In today’s time of withering values, they are the prime patron of morality and ethics. It is high time that institutions recognize their role and align incentives accordingly. (The writer works as Head, Centre for Insolvency & Bankruptcy, IICA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/do-institutions-celebrate-teachers-887638.html
14-09-2020||Second Edit||Melting glaciers a worrying sign||Glaciers in Kashmir are receding at an alarming rate, a study conducted by experts at the University of Kashmir has found. The study, which examined satellite images and other data relating to nearly 12,243 glaciers in the area comprising the former princely state of Jammu and Kashmir, found that glaciers are losing around 35 cm of their thickness annually. The glacier ice depleted by around 70 gigatons between 2000 and 2012. Another study, which observed 147 glaciers in the region, found that the glaciers have reduced in area from 101.73 sq km in 1980 to 72.41 sq km in 2018, a 28% shrinkage in their expanse. Climate experts have been drawing attention to the climate change crisis. Increasingly, their studies have shown that climate change is not some distant scenario that will begin unfolding decades from now but a clear and present danger. Other studies have provided data showing the dire impact that global warming is having on the glaciated regions of the Himalayas. The recent studies add significantly to the existing data. Kashmir’s glaciers are shrinking rapidly not only because of rising temperatures but also due to a change in the form of precipitation that is being observed in the region during winters. Instead of snow, which used to be the norm, Kashmir is now experiencing rain. Receding glaciers will result in reduced water flow in Kashmir’s rivers, especially during summer. This will, in turn, have a serious impact on Kashmir’s economy. Kashmir is primarily an agrarian society; nearly 70% of its population is involved directly or indirectly in agriculture, agro-based industries and related occupations. A shortage of river waters will have devastating impact not just on the economy but on lives and livelihoods. Due to lack of industrial activity and other options, unemployment in Kashmir is already high. A decline in agriculture will deepen unemployment. The Kashmir Valley is already conflict-ridden. An economic crisis will deepen conflict here and make militancy an attractive option for Kashmiri youth. The implications of receding glaciers will be felt not just in Kashmir but in the entire Indus basin. This means, its impact will be felt in areas further downstream, including states like Punjab as well as Pakistan. Punjab is India’s granary. A fall in river water will hit agricultural productivity and thus food grain production. As for Pakistan, the River Indus and its tributaries are a veritable lifeline for its economy. Pakistan can be expected to blame India, and not global warming and receding glaciers, for a reduction in water in the Indus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/melting-glaciers-a-worrying-sign-887629.html
14-09-2020||South||Actor Suriya comes out against NEET; asks people to oppose the exam||Popular Tamil actor Suriya has voiced his support against conducting National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into medical colleges and tore into the educational policies of the Centre saying the government that should ensure everyone gets equal opportunities is implementing a system that creates a divid Terming NEET as “manuneedhi exam”, Suriya, whose family runs Agaram Foundation that helps thousands of students from under-privileged sections pursue higher education, appealed everyone to join hands to raise voice against the exam, which he said, “destroys medical dream” of poor students. In a hard-hitting statement on Sunday night a day after three students from Tamil Nadu died by suicide due to fear of NEET, Suriya attacked the government for asking students to come to a center to write the exam even while judiciary was conducting its proceedings through video conferencing for the “fear of life.” “At the maximum, the news of students killing themselves due to fear of exams becomes the point of debate in the media for a day. The chanayakas who find spelling mistakes even in the death declaration of the students will debate the issue,” Suriya said in the statement. This is not the first that Suriya is voicing concerns against the policies of the Union Government. Last year, the actor had issued a detailed statement against the draft New Education Policy (NEP) and he also came out against draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) rules, 2020. In Sunday’s statement, Suriya also said people who do not know the realities faced by poor students are framing education policies. “Manuneedhi exams like NEET not just snatch the opportunities of our students but also their lives. Such incidents serve as life-long punishment for parents who lose their children to such exams. Parents and teachers should be vigilant and cautious as our educational system has no concern towards students,” Suriya said. Tamil Nadu considers NEET discriminatory against students from rural areas who are pitted against those coming from the urban areas across the country, who according to the opponents of the entrance test, have better educational facilities. “The Dronacharya of Mahabharat times just asked the thumb of hand as offering. But the modern Dronacharyas are asking even a sixth standard student to prove his eligibility by writing an exam. Even if someone crosses all such hurdles, they have powerful weapons like NEET, to get their dreams crushed,” the actor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actor-suriya-comes-out-against-neet-asks-people-to-oppose-the-exam-887246.html
14-09-2020||South||With 414 new cases, Puducherry's Covid-19 tally crosses 20,000 mark||Puducherry on Monday logged 414 new Covid-19 cases taking the overall tally past the 20,000 mark while nine people including four women succumbed to the virus, a top Health department official said. The nine fatalities pushed the toll in the union territory to 394, Mohan Kumar, Director of Health and Family Welfare said.  The new cases in the last 24 hours ending 10 am on Monday pushed the coronavirus tally to 20,226 (after the transfer of nine cases to Tamil Nadu). Mohan Kumar said the 414 fresh infections were identified after examination of 3,742 samples, adding 308 were from the Puducherry region, 74 from Karaikal, 29 from Yanam and three from Mahe. He said the fatality and recovery rates were 1.95 per cent and 74.30 per cent respectively. As many as 447 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours, he added. The Health department director said 1,03,743 samples were tested so far and of them 80,424 had tested negative. Results of examination of the remaining samples were awaited. Most of the people who succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours had comorbidities (particularly diabetes) and the deceased were in the age group ranging between 52 and 80 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-414-new-cases-puducherrys-covid-19-tally-crosses-20000-mark-887313.html
14-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly begins amid demand by DMK to ban NEET||The three-day monsoon session of the Tamil Nadu Assembly commenced on Monday at the Kalaivanar auditorium here, amidst demand by the opposition DMK for a ban on the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in the state. On the first day of the session, obituary references were made to former President Pranab Mukherjee, DMK MLA J Anbazhagan who died of Covid-19 and all those in the state who succumbed to coronavirus. The opposition DMK led by party President M K Stalin turned up wearing face masks containing the bilingual slogans "Ban NEET, Save TN Students". Ahead of the session, Speaker P Dhanapal, Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, Stalin and all the members underwent Covid-19 test. On Monday, the House condoled the deaths of Pranab Mukherjee, Congress MP H Vasantha Kumar, who resigned as Nanguneri MLA to successfully contest the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Kanyakumari, Anbazhagan and those who had lost their lives due to coronavirus. Dhanapal later adjourned the House for the day after the members paid homage to the departed and passed a condolence resolution. Later, speaking to reporters outside the auditorium, Stalin said he had sought the Speaker to include the names of the NEET aspirants in Tamil Nadu who had committed suicide, in the Assembly condolence resolution. "I had put forth this demand before the resolution was taken up by the house. But he (Speaker) declined. This is not only regrettable but also condemnable," Stalin said while pointing out the aspirants allegedly committed suicide due to fear of the exam. As many as four medical aspirants from Madurai, Ariyalur, Dharmapuri and Namakkal districts allegedly committed suicide last week, with their deaths sending shock waves across the state. The leader of the opposition also claimed that the Assembly business advisory committee refused to pay heed to the party's suggestion for an extended session to discuss crucial issues like NEET and the Centre's draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 notification. "I and my party MLAs have given about 15 to 20 notices seeking special call attention motion to discuss the issues. I wonder if these could be taken up in the next two days," Stalin told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-begins-amid-demand-by-dmk-to-ban-neet-887316.html
14-09-2020||South||Myanmar Navy rescues missing Tamil Nadu fishermen||At least nine Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu who went missing nearly two months ago have been rescued by the Myanmar Navy and steps have been initiated for their return home, state Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar said on Monday. The fishermen, who set sail on July 23 in a deep-sea fishing vessel from the city, were supposed to return by August 7 and a multi-agency coordination including the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard was launched to search for them, he said. The state government, through the External Affairs Ministry, requested the help of neighbouring Myanmar, Thailand and Bangladesh in their search, he said in a release. Subsequently, the fishermen were located by the Myanmar Navy there on Monday morning and have been "safely rescued" and brought ashore. The Indian mission in Myanmar has informed that the fishermen were doing well and provided with food and other facilities, the minister said. "Due steps have been initiated by the Tamil Nadu government to bring back the fishermen home soon," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/myanmar-navy-rescues-missing-tamil-nadu-fishermen-887381.html
14-09-2020||South||Protests continue against Kerala Minister K T Jaleel; 2 held for obstructing his convoy||Two Yuva Morcha activists were arrested for obstructing the convoy of Kerala Minister K T Jaleel with another car as part of their protest after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) recently recorded hisstatement over alleged FCRA violations. Yuva Morcha activists Pravin (24), Vipin Raj (25) were arrested late on Sunday night for allegedly driving a car into the convoy, comprising the Higher Education Minister's car and his escort vehicle, while they were passing through Parippally on the National Highway near here. "Two activists were apprehended. We have registered a case against them for obstructing the minister's convoy. We are probing the involvement of other persons," an officer from Paripally police station told P T I. Police have registered a case under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 353 (assault or criminal force used to deter public servant from discharging his duty) among others. The incident happened when the minister was on his way to the state capital after his quarantine period which he had spent at his residence in Malappuram. Meanwhile, state fisheries minister J Mercykutty Amma lashed out at the opposition parties and said the "witchhunt for minister Jaleel has reached dangerous levels". "Those who have done such an act are not unaware of the danger posed while obstructing a fast moving vehicle with another car. This is not any form of protest. This was part of a conspiracy to endanger his life. The Minister barely escaped," Mercykutty Amma said in a Facebook post. Sunday was the third consecutive day of protests in various parts of the state by opposition parties demanding Jaleel's resignation. Jaleel had appeared before the ED on Friday at Kochi in connection with alleged FCRA violation in accepting consignments of the Holy Quran brought from UAE through diplomatic channel and his statement was recorded. Days after his appearance before the agency kicked up a storm in Kerala, Jaleel on Sunday said he was not prepared to reveal anything to those who were fabricating lies and spreading them. "Lies and false stories are being spread each day without a prick to their conscience," he said in a Facebook post, in an apparent reference to the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/protests-continue-against-kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-2-held-for-obstructing-his-convoy-887418.html
14-09-2020||South||NEET issue reverberates in Parliament, TN Assembly, and Madras High Court||The issue of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) that was back at the center stage in Tamil Nadu due to students’ suicide before the exams, on Monday, reverberated in the Parliament, State Assembly, and at the Madras High Court. Also, popular actor Suriya, who came out against the conduct of NEET on Sunday night, was at the centre of a raging row over his comments that students were being forced to attend exams at centres while judges were dishing out justice through video conferencing in times of Covid-19 lockdown due to fear for their lives. While Justice S M Subramaniam wrote to Chief Justice A P Sahi on Sunday night seeking to initiate contempt proceedings against Suriya, six former judges of the Madras High Court and over two dozen senior lawyers said any action against the actor would amount to “stifling freedom of speech and expression.” During a hearing, Justice N Kirubakaran criticised the Tamil Nadu government's decision to provide solatium to the kin of NEET aspirants who died by suicide, saying such move would amount to glorifying suicides. Four medical aspirants died by suicide in the past week in Tamil Nadu, ahead of the NEET exam on Sunday, bringing the issue back to focus. Opposition MPs from Tamil Nadu held a protest inside the Parliament Complex on Monday as the monsoon session began, while DMK MLAs led by party chief M K Stalin came to the assembly wearing face masks that had “Ban NEET. Save TN Students” written on them. Stalin told reporters that the party will demand a discussion on NEET and students’ suicide during the session, that will end on Wednesday. Suriya, whose family runs Agaram Foundation that helps thousands of students from under-privileged sections pursue higher education, appealed to everyone to join hands to raise voice against the exam, which he said, “destroys medical dream” of poor students. “At the maximum, the news of students killing themselves due to fear of exams becomes the point of debate in the media for a day. The chanayakas who find spelling mistakes even in the dying declaration of the students will debate the issue,” Suriya said in the statement. This is not the first that Suriya is voicing concern against the policies of the Union Government. Last year, the actor had issued a detailed statement against the draft New Education Policy (NEP) and he also came out against draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) rules, 2020. “Manuneedhi exams like NEET not just snatch the opportunities of our students but also their lives. Such incidents serve as life-long punishment for parents who lose their children to such exams. Parents and teachers should be vigilant and cautious as our educational system has no concern towards students,” Suriya said in the statement. In his letter to the Chief Justice, the judge said: “The said statement in my considered opinion amounts to contempt of Court as the integrity and devotion of the Hon'ble Judges as well as the Judicial System of our Great Nation are not only undermined but criticised in a bad shape, wherein there is a threat for the public confidence on the Judiciary.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neet-issue-reverberates-in-parliament-tn-assembly-and-madras-high-court-887492.html
14-09-2020||South||Judge seeks contempt action against Tamil actor Suriya for remarks on judiciary||A Madras High Court judge has written to Chief Justice A P Sahi seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against actor Suriya for his remarks that the judiciary has forced students to take NEET exams while it was dishing out justice through video conferencing due to fear of their lives in times of Covid-19 lockdown.  Justice S M Subramaniam wrote to Sahi on Sunday night, hours after Suriya issued a detailed statement speaking against NEET. Suriya had criticised the courts for asking students to come to a centre to write the exam even while the judiciary was conducting its proceedings through video conferencing for the “fear of life.” In his letter, Subramaniam referred to the statement by Suriya which has been carried by Tamil television channels. “The said statement in my considered opinion amounts to contempt of Court as the integrity and devotion of the Hon'ble Judges as well as the Judicial System of our Great Nation are not only undermined but criticised in a bad shape, wherein there is threat for the public confidence on the Judiciary,” Justice Subramaniam said. “Thus, the Cine Actor Mr Surya has committed contempt, warranting contempt proceedings to uphold the Majesty of our Indian Judicial System,” the judge said in his letter.  However, six former judges of the Madras High Court led by Justice (retired) K Chandru wrote to the CJ not to take any action against Suriya. “We are afraid that such a construction made on the statement of Suriya will be slightly off the mark and it does not require any action as requested by the learned judge. Where four students have committed suicide unable to meet the NEET requirement and in a surcharged atmosphere, an artistic person’s over reaction should not be taken seriously and out of context,” they said. Meanwhile, Justice N Kirubakaran criticised the Tamil Nadu government's decision to provide solatium to the kin of NEET aspirants who died by suicide, saying such move would amount to glorifying suicides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/judge-seeks-contempt-action-against-tamil-actor-suriya-for-remarks-on-judiciary-887515.html
14-09-2020||South||Kerala CM accuses opposition of raising baseless allegations; ADGP-led team to curb fake allegations||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday alleged that the opposition parties were raising baseless allegations aimed at downplaying the government's achievements. The CM also defended two of his cabinet colleagues who were facing allegations linked to gold smuggling accused. A police team led by an ADGP was also constituted by the government to curb the spread of fake news. Breaking his two-day silence over the mounting protests demanding higher education minister K T Jaleel's resignation after being quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate, the chief minister said that there was nothing illegal on the part of Jaleel and there was no need for him to resign. The Enforcement directorate only sought some details from Jaleel regarding Quran sent by the UAE consulate. Jaleel had already openly revealed all related facts. There was nothing unusual in it, he said. Vijayan alleged that around 2.26 lakh houses were constructed under the LIFE Mission project. The opposition wanted to downplay this achievement of the government and hence baseless allegations of corruption and commission were being raised against the LIFE Mission. He also rejected the allegations against Industry Minister E P Jayarajan's son and wife. While Jayarajan's son was alleged to have close links with gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh and received a commission of UAE agency funded housing scheme, suspicions were raised over the minister's wife's recent visit to a bank to access locker while she was awaiting Covid test result. The chief minister said that the investigation agencies were being misled by fake and baseless allegations that were aimed at defaming the government. A team led by ADGP Manoj Abraham was constituted to curb the spread of fake news and take stringent action against those working behind it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-accuses-opposition-of-raising-baseless-allegations-adgp-led-team-to-curb-fake-allegations-887525.html
14-09-2020||South||Gold smuggling case: Opposition accuses Union minister allegedly of trying to scuttle probe||While the opposition parties in Kerala came up with fresh allegations against the government on Monday, the ruling CPM alleged of an attempt by BJP leader and Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan and demanded his resignation. The Opposition alleged that Muraleedharan's statement soon after the seizure of 30-kg gold from the baggage addressed to UAE consulate said that it was not diplomatic baggage. But the Centre informed the Parliament on Monday that it was diplomatic baggage. Hence the investigation agencies should quiz Muraleedharan as he tried to mislead the probe, the CPM state secretariat demanded. Earlier, the coordinating editor of a pro-BJP Malayalam news channel was quizzed by the Customs after Swapna stated that he advised her to state that the baggage with gold was not diplomatic baggage. This had embarrassed the BJP. The fresh allegations raised by the opposition parties against the government included the recent visit of a minister's wife to a bank locker and the frequent hospitalisation of the gold smuggling case accused. The opposition also raised suspicions over the visit of a minister to Thrissur medical college while gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh was admitted thereafter she complained of chest pain the other day. On Sunday the opposition parties alleged that Industry Minister E P Jayarajan's son received a commission for a UAE agency funded housing scheme and the minister's son was close to Swapna. In the sequel to it, the opposition parties further alleged that the minister's wife recently visited a bank to access the locker even as she was awaiting the Covid-19 test result, and hence it was suspicious. But the minister's wife maintained that she went to take ornaments for grandchild's birthday. The Opposition raised suspicions over hospitalisation of the gold smuggling accused Swapna and K T Rameez at the same time, and asked whether the visits were aimed at facilitating the meeting of the accused. Meanwhile, the Congress, the BJP and youth organisations staged protests at various parts of the state on Monday demanding Jaleel's resignation. Many BJP and Yuva Morcha activists were held in Kollam for trying to block the minister's vehicle using another vehicle. The timely intervention of police averted a mishap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-opposition-accuses-union-minister-allegedly-of-trying-to-scuttle-probe-887546.html
14-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly session begins amid Covid-19||The three-day monsoon session of the Tamil Nadu assembly commenced on Monday at the Kalaivanar Arangam here as Covid-19 rules like physical distancing cannot be implemented in the regular assembly hall. The first-day proceedings were adjourned after paying rich tributes to DMK MLA J Anbazhagan, Congress MP H Vasanthakumar – both died of Covid-19 – and former President Pranab Mukherjee. The session is expected to be a stormy one as opposition parties are set to raise NEET suicide and “poor” handling of the Covid-19 situation. The DMK MLAs led by party chief M K Stalin attended the proceedings on the first day by wearing face masks that had “Ban NEET. Save TN Students” written on them. The session will end on Wednesday.  Ahead of the session, Speaker P Dhanapal, Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, Stalin and all the members underwent Covid-19 test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-session-begins-amid-covid-19-887557.html
14-09-2020||South||Gold smuggling case: No need for Jaleel to resign, what's the case against him, asks Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday rallied behind beleaguered Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel, asserting there was no need for him to resign, as being demanded by the opposition after he appeared before the ED over an alleged FCRA violation. The opposition had been making "imaginary and fabricated" allegations and seeking Jaleel's resignation, he claimed while seeking to know what was the case against the minister. The Congress-led UDF and the BJP have been staging statewide protests demanding that the minister put in his papers after he appeared before the Enforcement Directorate on Friday in connection with the alleged FCRA violation in getting consignments of Holy Quran through diplomatic channel. Jaleel had earlier admitted that a consignment containing Holy Quran had been received from the UAE Consulate here, which a top Customs official had referred to as "prima facie violation of FCRA"(Foreign Contribution Regulation Act). "There is no need for Jaleel to resign as there is no case against him. As part of a probe, some information was sought from him by the investigation agency", Vijayan told reporters here on Monday. "What is the case against Jaleel? The opposition has been making imaginary and fabricated allegations and is seeking Jaleel's resignation," he said. Many complaints were sent to the probe agencies related to the Quran. Normally it was not a controversy. The Quran came through the UAE consulate. "The probe agency sought certain information related to that. That's what I understand", the chief minister said, replying to a question on the issue. Noting that Jaleel handled Waqf board department as well, he said the consulate general had approached him in connection with providing charity (sakkath) during Ramzan. "It's not a crime to help the consulate.Jaleel had even shown the messages related to that to the media. He publicly showed the details regarding the issue. What's the crime?," a visibly agitated Vijayan asked. Spreading "fake allegations" seemed to be a hobby for some people in the state, he added. Vijayan's strong support to his cabinet colleague came a day after Jaleel defended his silence on the ED questioning him and said he was not prepared to reveal anything to those who were "fabricating lies" and spreading them without a prick to their conscience. "What has to be kept under wraps will be concealed, what has to be revealed will be disclosed to whom it has to be divulged. This is the way all "Dharma Yudhams" (war of righteousness) have been won", Jaleel had said, in response to criticisms that he had concealed information on the ED interrogating him. Vijayan also brushed aside a media report that Industries Minister E P Jayarajan's wife had violated Covid-19 quarantine protocol and visited a bank in Kannur after a probe was allegedly launched following the circulation of a photograph of her son and Swapna Suresh, accused in the gold smuggling case. He wanted to know which agency was carrying out the 'investigation'. The minister's wife had retired from the bank and has a locker there." Yes, she went to the bank and might have used her locker. So, What's the big deal about that?" he asked. The minister's wife Indira Jayarajan, in a video message, denied that she had gone to the bank while in quarantine. She said she had gone there to collect some jewels of her grandchildren for their birthday. The minister and his wife later tested positive for Covid-19 and are presently undergoing treatment in a hospital in Kannur. Vijayan alleged that the BJP and the Congress have joined together to oppose the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-no-need-for-jaleel-to-resign-whats-the-case-against-him-asks-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-887596.html
14-09-2020||South||Telangana assembly passes Bill easing building, layout approvals||A Bill to promote transparency and ease for citizens in getting building and layout approvals was passed by the Telangana Assembly on Monday. Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao, who piloted the Telangana State Building Permission Approval and the Self-Certification System (TS-bPASS) Bill, 2020, said under the legislation, no permissions would be required for residential buildings in plots with upto 75 sq yards. Rapid urbanisation was taking place in the state with about 42 per cent of the population living in urban areas. The state government aimed at planned development and provision of appropriate basic amenities in towns and a new municipal Act was brought in last year to herald changes in municipal administration, he said. It had introduced the development permission management system (DPMS) in 2015 in municipalities to address peoples difficulties and corruption in the process of obtaining permissions for construction of houses, the Minister said. The present bill had been brought to give statutory powers to the DPMS and to ensure transparency and also make people work with government responsibly through a self-certification system, he said. "TS-bPASS is a time-bound online approval single-window system with a view to improving transparency and making it easy for citizens to get building and layout approvals, Rama Rao later tweeted. "Instant approval for residential buildings in plots above 75 sq yards and up to 600 sq yards (height up to 10 metres) will be based on self-certification," he said. Single-window approval would be given to layouts/buildings in plots above 600 sq yards and height above 10 metres within 21 days, he further tweeted. In case any urban local body or municipality fails to meet the deadline of 21 days, automatic deemed approval would be issued on the 22nd day through online to the citizen, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-assembly-passes-bill-easing-building-layout-approvals-887619.html
14-09-2020||South||Prasanthi Mandir of Sathya Sai Baba to reopen from September 27||Prasanthi Mandir, the abode of Bhagawan Sathya Sai Baba at Puttaparti, over 70 km from Anantapuramu, will be reopened to devotees from Sept. 27. Announcing this in a press release on Monday, a spokesman of the Sathya Sai Central Trust said the daily morning and evening 'arathi' would be conducted from the reopening day. The mandir was closed in March due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Thousands of devotees from across the globe visit Puttaparti everyday to pay obeisance to the Bhagawan at his divya samadhi. "Bhajans will be held and devotees will be allowed darshan by following physical distancing norms," the spokesman said. He said the ashram would remain closed for accommodation fore some more time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prasanthi-mandir-of-sathya-sai-baba-to-reopen-from-september-27-887632.html
14-09-2020||South||Kerala Minister's wife, son to initiate legal steps against media||Kerala Industry Minister E P Jayarajan's wife and son are initiating legal action against media for publishing allegations against them. A statement from the minister's office said that the minister's wife sent a legal notice to a vernacular daily and his son would also initiate legal action. The legal notice sought withdrawal of the news and an apology or else civil and criminal suit seeking damages of Rs 50 lakh would be initiated The minister's wife P K Indira visited a bank on last Thursday, a day before she was tested Covid-19 positive, to open her locker while she was awaiting Covid-19 test result. There were allegations that Indira's bank visit was suspicious as her son was facing allegations of nexus with gold smuggling accused and received commissions. Indira maintained that the reports in a section of media that she was under quarantine period when she visited the bank was false. She was only awaiting Covid-19 test result and the Covid-19 norms did not prescribe quarantine for those awaiting test results. Moreover, she had no symptoms at the time. She also said that she visited the bank locker to take gold ornaments for presenting to grandchildren on their upcoming birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ministers-wife-son-to-initiate-legal-steps-against-media-887641.html
14-09-2020||State||DH Radio | The Lead: Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai cracking down on the drug mafia||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, the Home Minister of Karnataka, Basavaraj Bommai, tells DH how his government is cracking down on the drug mafia.   Recently, the issue of drug menace has once again come to the fore; In on incident, last week, Police confiscated 1,200 kg of ganja stored in the underground chamber of a sheep farm on the outskirts of Kalaburagi. Home Minister of Karnataka Basavaraj Bommai tells DH's Bharat Joshi how his government is cracking down on the drug mafia. Listen in. Bharat Joshi: The CM says that the current operation against the drugs is unprecedented in the country. How is it different from the actions taken against drugs under previous governments? What is it that you are doing differently?Basavaraj Bommai: The previous government hadn't taken this seriously at all.  We have attached the drugs and drug peddlers from all angles. Earlier, it started with the consumer and ended with the consumer.  Now, we have taken this whole thing to the kingpins to the suppliers across the state and across the nation also. Earlier, there was no attempt to stop any international drug that was supplied into Karnataka. We have found out and we have booked a lot of cases and we have booked cases against many foreign nationals, who were operating in Karanataka with the conduits of their contacts in foreign countries like Canada, The Netherlands and so on and so forth. This is number one.  Number two: For the first time, we are able to break the  Dark Web, which was never done before. And breaking the Dark Web is one solid thing which will expose the modus operandi of all drug dealers. From international supplies to how it comes here... For example, it (the drug) came in an ordinary international post. Through post office it has been done; through couriers, it has been done... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast... Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-radio-the-lead-karnataka-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-cracking-down-on-the-drug-mafia-887175.html
14-09-2020||State||Services at Karnataka's Kukke Subrahmanya Temple begin||All services at Kukke Subrahmanya Temple will begin from September 14 with adhrerance to the Covid-19 guidelines. Accordingly, arrangements have been made for 'Sarpa Samskara', 'Naga Prathishte', 'Ashlesha Bali' and other service offerings in the temple. Meals and prasadam will be provided to those who take part in the sevas. The temple will be open to devotees from 6.30 am to 1.30 pm and from 3.30 pm to 8 pm. Only 30 Sarpa Samskara and Ashlesha Bali sevas will be performed in the temple in a day. The devotees have to wear a mask and maintain social distancing while performing the sevas. Ashlesha Bali seva will be performed in the morning. Those who wish to perform Sarpa Samskara will be allowed to stay in the temple guest house for two days. The place where the seva is performed will be sanitised after the seva. All the devotees will be tested using thermal scanning and will be given sanitiser prior to the performing of the sevas, a press release from the temple said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/services-at-karnatakas-kukke-subrahmanya-temple-begin-887206.html
14-09-2020||State||Murder of Mandya priests: Police open fire to nab three accused||Police had to open fire to nab the three accused in the triple murder cases that shook Mandya, in the early hours of Monday. Based on the clues at the crime spot, the police traced the accused and found them at a bus shelter near Sadolalu Gate, in Maddur taluk, Mandya district. According to the police, when asked to surrender, the trio tried to escape after attacking the police, who then had to open fire.   The accused have been identified as Vijay, 30, from Andhra Pradesh, Gandhi, 28, of Arakal Doddi Maddur taluk and Manju, 30, of Thoppanahalli, Maddur taluk.  The trio, who sustained leg injuries, have been admitted to the Maddur taluk hospital for treatment. A police sub-inspector and two constables were also injured in the operation and are under treatment. The police department had formed five teams to nab the murderers. Superintendent of Police K Parashuram said, "We fired in the air and told them to surrender. When they tried to escape after attacking police personnel, we aimed gunfire at their legs. Details will follow soon," he said. Three priests of the Sri Arkeshwara Swamy temple, at Guttalu in Mandya city, were murdered and temple donation boxes looted on Thursday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/murder-of-mandya-priests-police-open-fire-to-nab-three-accused-887232.html
14-09-2020||State||Covid-19 cases cross 17,000-mark in Dakshina Kannada||The Covid-19 tally in Dakshina Kannada district crossed the 17,000-mark with the recording of 404 fresh cases on Sunday. The total cases have risen to 17,363. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that three more fatalities have been recorded in the district. Among the fresh cases, 192 people were suffering from Influenza-like illness (ILI) and 20 had symptoms of Severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). The contact tracing of 81 people is under progress, while 111 infected were the primary contacts of already infected persons, he added. Mangaluru continues to top the list with 212 fresh cases, followed by 60 in Bantwal, 46 in Puttur, 39 in Belthangady, 27 in Sullia and 20 from other districts. As many as 174 people were discharged from the hospital, taking the total discharges in the district to 12,987. The deputy commissioner said that a total of 1,21,093 samples have been tested in the district so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-cases-cross-17000-mark-in-dakshina-kannada-887242.html
14-09-2020||State||Drugs probe: Zameer sees plot to finish his political career||Congress legislator B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan on Monday said there was a conspiracy to finish off his political career, by dragging him into the drug racket being probed by the Bengaluru police.   Khan has been accused of visiting a casino in Colombo along with actor Sanjjanaa Galrani, who is currently in police custody in connection with the probe into the drugs racket. Photographs of Khan with one Shaik Fazil, who is linked with the casino, have since emerged.  Speaking to reporters, Khan said he knew Fazil four years ago. “I never said I didn’t know him,” he said. Asked about photos of him with Fazil during Umrah, Khan said, “I go to Umrah every year. Thousands of people from Karnataka also come there and they take pictures with me. Does that make me complicit in somebody’s activities? If Fazil is involved, let him be hanged. If I’m involved, let me be hanged.”  Taking a dig at Khan, Tourism Minister C T Ravi asked the Congress leader to come clean about his links with Fazil. “We don’t have any political benefit in attacking Khan, but at a time like this, when there is suspicion, he must clarify,” Ravi said. The minister also took a dig at Khan for vowing to hand over his assets to the government if he was found to be involved in the drug racket. “He had said he’d work as a watchman outside the house of B S Yediyurappa if he became the chief minister. It’s been a year now and the post of watchman is vacant,” Ravi said.  HDK slams Zameer Khan said he visited Colombo several times, including once with JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, when he was with the regional party. An irked Kumaraswamy has hit out at Khan for mentioning about the 2014 visit to Colombo. “Several MLAs and party workers went to Colombo in 2014 to discuss party affairs. The matter is six years old and has nothing to do with this drug case,” Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/drugs-probe-zameer-sees-plot-to-finish-his-political-career-887581.html
14-09-2020||State||B C Patil refutes Hariprasad's allegations||Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Monday refuted allegations made by Congress MLC B K Hariprasad that BJP leaders of BJP consumed drug opium. "If he has seen the leaders consuming the contraband, why didn't he speak earlier?" he questioned. Speaking to reporters here, Patil said making baseless allegations are not acceptable. Patil also demanded to know who was responsible for the violence in Bengaluru recently and with whom are the anti-nationals associated with. "Congress leaders do not have any right to question Prime Minister Narendra Modi government at the centre. Its own leaders have stated that the party will have to remain in the opposition for the next 50 years," he stated. Regarding allegations that it has become a fashion for BJP to target minorities, he said, "We target none." On the allegations made by JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy that drug mafia facilitated the formation of the BJP government in the state, Patil said the Kumaraswamy, did not take action against drug mafia while in office and has become a seasonal politician, who speaks of liquor when liquor cases come to the fore and has been now spoken about drug mafia.  "We don't know why did Kumaraswamy keep quiet for a year? If he had documents and evidence, they should have been given to the government," he added. He said, "Sandalwood, Bollywood and all other woods have drug links. Investigations against drug mafia are in progress."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/b-c-patil-refutes-hariprasads-allegations-887588.html
14-09-2020||State||Bhadra dam reaches full capacity for third year in a row||The Bhadra dam near Lakkavalli in Tarikere taluk of Chikkamagaluru has reached the full reservoir level (186 feet) for the third consecutive year, on Monday following copious rain in its catchment. On Monday, 1,751 cusecs of water was discharged into the river by lifting all four crest gates by three inches. Inflow into the dam clocked 8,453 during the day.  The reservoir holds a gross storage of 71.53 tmcft. Of which, 13.832 tmcft is a dead storage while 7 tmcft of water is marked for drinking water projects and for industrial use. The dam irrigates about 1,82,818 hectares of land in Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Davangere districts. Rain subsides On Monday, parts of Shivamogga received moderate rain. Thirthahalli saw 1.92 cm of rain while Agumbe recorded 1.8 cm. Hiriyur, Molkalmur and Dharampur in Chitradurga also experienced spells of light to moderate rains.  Meanwhile, rain receded in coastal districts but overcast conditions continued to prevail over the region. However, there was no let-up in rain in Kundapur taluk, which received an average rainfall of 4.8 cm in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Monday). Mangaluru taluk received an average of 3.7 cm rain on Monday. After pounding Kodagu in the past three days, rain gave some respite to the hilly district on Monday. Belagavi, Hubballi and Sirsi in Uttara Kannada witnessed intermittent light showers through the day. Acres of agriculture fields are inundated following a breach in Ayyanakere and a check dam near Tumminakatte in Ranebennur taluk. Two houses weakened by the persistent wet weather collapsed in Kampli, Ballari district. Relentless showers have damaged chilli crop on vast tracts in Suggenahalli and Sriramrangapur in Kampli taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bhadra-dam-reaches-full-capacity-for-third-year-in-a-row-887589.html
14-09-2020||State||Loan scheme for professional course aspirants put on hold||The Covid-19 pandemic has forced the D Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation (DUBCDC) to withdraw the education loan scheme extended to students who join professional courses under KCET. Following the shortage of funds, the corporation has announced the cancellation of the 'Arivu' loan scheme for students for the 2020-21 academic year. The corporation has issued an official order on the same and also communicated the same to the executive director of Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA).  Since 2015, students belonging to backward communities used to get educational loans at an interest rate of 2%. The corporation used to pay the fee amount in advance to KEA and students who select seats under KCET quota for various professional courses would get the benefit of the same. A copy of the communication to KEA by the managing director of DUBCDC, which is available with DH, reads, "For the 2020-21 academic year, there is a shortage of funds in the corporation to implement the Arivu student loan scheme. Considering this, the corporation has decided to cancel the implementation of the scheme for the current academic year." Several candidates who are aspiring to get admission to various undergraduate professional courses under KCET are disappointed with this decision. "If I don't get the loan, I might have to discontinue my education," said one of the seat aspirants. "I wanted to pursue engineering, but my parents are not ready to invest in my education as the family is in a financial crisis due to the pandemic. Education loan was the only option for me, now I don't think I can fulfil my dream," said Rakshith C N, a student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/loan-scheme-for-professional-course-aspirants-put-on-hold-887591.html
14-09-2020||State||MP Ananthkumar Hegde tests positive for Covid-19||Former union minister and Uttara Kannada Lok Sabha member Ananthkumar Hegde is among the MPs who have tested positive for Covid-19.  The MP had arrived in the national capital on Friday to take part in the parliament session that commenced on Monday. He underwent a test for coronavirus at the NICPR hospital on his arrival and the result showed that he was Covid positive.  He is under quarantine at his house in Delhi as he has no symptoms. An aide of the MP said throat swab samples of the MP’s family members had been tested and they returned negative for Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mp-ananthkumar-hegde-tests-positive-for-covid-19-887592.html
14-09-2020||State||Sharavathi project last straw for fragile regions of Shivamogga: IISc study||Rampant encroachment and pressure of development works have turned Shivamogga district into an ecologically fragile region, as per a new study of regional ecological fragility by IISc experts. The experts have warned that proposals like the Sharavathi Pumped Storage Project will prove to be a catalyst for a cataclysm. T V Ramachandra of IISc’s Energy and Wetlands Research Group, along with researchers Setturu Bharath and Aithal H Bharath, analysed data, from government satellites, forest boundaries, from 1973 to 2018 and studied topographic maps from Survey of India to trace the change in land use in the district. The study found that 97,851.26 acres (39,599 ha) of forests in Shivamogga has been encroached, much against the government figures that put the forest encroachment in entire Karnataka at 69,192.54 acres (28,001.23 ha). Asked about the difference in data, T V Ramachandra explained: “Unlike Forest Survey of India, we approached the forests in microscale. This helped us to separate the plantation areas that have come upon the forest land.” The researchers overlaid the geo-registered forest boundaries on the high-resolution remote sensing data verified with the government’s Bhuvan as well as Google Earth. The microscale analysis also helped in classifying the forests into sensitive regions depending on the reduced resilience. “The estimate shows the conversion of forest to agriculture and horticulture is to the tune of 36,105 hectares. Verification of these land use in the field reveals that most of these changes are unauthorised,” the study said. Of the three forest divisions in the district, Bhadravathi lost the most with 18% forest land under encroachment, followed by 14% in Shivamogga and 13% in Sagar. The analysis of the spatial distribution of the flora and fauna showed concentration of biodiversity in and around Sharavathy Wildlife Sanctuary, Sagar taluk, Agumbe rainforest, Thirthahalli taluk, and toward the Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary in Shivamogga taluk. The study noted that political, social, and religious pressures have pushed the ecology to the edge. About 650 villages, especially those in western parts of the district, were highly sensitive regions and small changes here will have larger adverse impacts, including diminished water flow in the streams and rivers, it warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sharavathi-project-last-straw-for-fragile-regions-of-shivamogga-iisc-study-887595.html
14-09-2020||State||HC bins plea against promotion of students at UG, PG level||The High Court has dismissed a PIL filed challenging the government order to promote undergraduate and postgraduate students in intermediate semesters on the basis of internal evaluation and performance in previous semesters. The court held that the guidelines issued were confined to the academic year, for one semester, and that the government always has the power to guide the universities, under the Universities Act 2000. The PIL was filed by S P Venkatesh, who claimed to be a public-spirited person taking up issues relating to students. The petition sought direction to quash the government order dated July 10, 2020, outlining guidelines for intermediate semester students for 2019-20.  It said the order was unscientific and illogical, seeking a direction to the government to allow universities to decide on the conduct of examinations. As per the guidelines, students of intermediate semesters for 2019-20, both in undergraduate and postgraduate courses, shall be promoted to the higher semester, based on grading of the students. The grading is calculated with 50% of the marks allocated on the basis of the pattern of internal evaluation adopted by the universities and the remaining 50% marks awarded on the basis of performance in the previous year. If previous marks are not available, particularly in the first year of the annual pattern of examination, 100% evaluation would be done on the basis of internal evaluation. The petitioner said many meritorious students will suffer if the order is implemented. He said as per the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC), universities may conduct examinations after making a comprehensive assessment of preparedness, residential status of students and other factors. The government defended the decision, saying it was a policy decision bearing in mind the acute pandemic in the state. The government said offline examinations would be conducted for final year students. ‘UGC norms bornein mind’ A division bench comprising Justice B V Nagarathna and Justice Ravi V Hosmani observed that the government had borne in mind the UGC guidelines and had taken a policy decision. The bench held that in view of Covid-19, the government, in its wisdom,  formulated the manner in which the promotion and career advancement of the students could be made only for 2019-20, for one semester only. “Further, clause Nos. 2 c, d and e (of the guidelines) permit students to improve grades and also carry forward the subjects to next semesters. Also, every student will be promoted to next semester/year. Therefore, not only the health and safety of the students, but also their academic and career progress are taken care of,’’ the benchsaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-bins-plea-against-promotion-of-students-at-ug-pg-level-887616.html
14-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC switches to eco-friendly ticket rolls||The KSRTC will do away with the plastic pipe holding the small rolls of paper in the electronic ticketing machines (ETM) as the corporation switches to environment-friendly technology. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and its sister corporations use about 1.5 crore of ETM rolls per year to print the tickets. The corporation procures the paper which is then cut into smaller rolls in the Karnataka State Transport Press. Established in 1952, the press has been supplying various materials to the corporations. On Monday, KSRTC installed two new slitting machines that cut the jumbo reels into small rolls used by the bus conductors in the hand-held ETMs. Earlier, the paper was rolled around plastic pipes each of which cost about 50 paise. The corporation said that the switch to environment-friendly technology will save about Rs.75 lakhs per year to the corporation. The machines can produce 16,000 rolls per day and the KSRTC press can earn up to Rs 4.80 crore annually. KSRTC Chairman M Chandrappa, who inaugurated the machines, said two more such machines will be installed in the coming days. The press can they supply the rolls to BMTC, NEKRTC, and NWKRTC as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-switches-to-eco-friendly-ticket-rolls-887369.html
14-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 8,244 new Covid-19 cases, 119 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 8,244 new cases of Covid-19 and 119 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 4,67,689 and deaths to 7,384, the health department said. The day also saw 8,865 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 8,244 fresh cases, 2,966 were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of September 14 evening, cumulatively 4,67,689 Covid- 19 positive cases have been confirmed and they include 7,384 deaths and 3,61,823 discharged, the department said in its bulletin. It said out of 98,463 active cases, 97,663 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable while 800 are in the ICU. Thirty-seven of the total 119 deaths reported were from Bengaluru urban followed by Mysuru (12), Dharwad (9), Ballari (7), Tumakuru (6), Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga (5), Belagavi (4), Bagalkote, Chikkamagaluru, Kalaburagi, Koppal and Raichur (3), Bidar, Chamarajanagara, Chikkaballapura, Gadag, Haveri, Uttara Kannada and Vijayapura, and Bengaluru Rural, Hassan, Kodagu, Mandya and Ramanagara (1). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,966, Mysuru 677, Dakshina Kannada 413, Davangere 325, Hassan 295, Bengaluru Rural 275, Ballari 264 followed by others.  Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,73,628 infections followed by Ballari 27,077 and Mysuru 26,428. Among the discharged too, Bengaluru urban topped the list with 1,30,627 followed by Ballari 22,002 and Mysuru 19,103. A total of 38,46,937 samples were tested so far, out of which 45,961 were tested during the day. Among them, 16,296 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-8244-new-covid-19-cases-119-deaths-887590.html
14-09-2020||West||If Taj Mahal is reopening, why not Ajanta & Ellora: Experts||Tourism industry representatives want reopening of the Ajanta and Ellora caves, arguing that if the Taj Mahal is reopening for the public amid the Covid-19 pandemic, why not the two world-famous heritage sites located near here in Maharashtra. Digital promotion of tourist spots is also needed to resume tourism activities during the pandemic, they said during a panel discussion on 'Aurangabad Tourism: Changed World and Challenges on Sunday. The Taj Mahal at Agra in Uttar Pradesh is set to reopen on September 21, over six months after it was shut. However, the Ajanta and Ellora caves, the UNESCO heritage sites located in Aurangabad, and other monuments in Maharashtra are yet to be reopened for visitors. "When the Archaeological Survey of India's Agra circle has decided to reopen the Taj Mahal, why Ajanta and Ellora can't be opened?" Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation's (ATDF) civil aviation committee chairman Sunit Kothari asked during the discussion. He also called for the use of social media and digital platforms to promote tourist spots in Aurangabad. Videos showing safety precautions being taken at tourist spots could also help in drawing visitors here, he said. "As long as foreign tourists are unable to come to Aurangabad, the tourism industry here should focus on attracting local tourists and visitors from neighbouring districts and states," Kothari said. ATDF president Jaswant Singh said Aurangabad's tourism potential still remains untapped. "To get more foreign tourists here, the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) needs to reach out to different countries. Besides visionary leaders, citizens must also pitch in to promote our tourism assets," he said. Aurangabad Hotel and Restaurant Association president Harpreet Singh said government policies were creating hurdles in resumption of the hotel industry amid the pandemic. Hotels have been opened with limited scope, which is not enough to make the economic cycle run, he said. "Aurangabad is said to be the state's tourism capital, so the head office of MTDC should be shifted here. This city should be projected as the gateway of tourism," he added. Dr Bina Sengar, assistant professor of history at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University here said focus should also be on cleanliness and maintenance of monuments. Suggestions made during the discussion would be forwarded to state Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, the event organisers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/if-taj-mahal-is-reopening-why-not-ajanta-ellora-experts-887229.html
14-09-2020||West||Thane sees 1,930 new Covid-19 cases, district tally at 1,46,102||The number of Covid-19 cases in Thane has gone up to 1,46,102 after detection of 1,930 new cases in the Maharashtra district, officials said on Monday. Besides, the number of Covid-19 deaths in the district has risen to 3,921 as 28 more people succumbed to the disease on Sunday, they said. Out of the total Covid-19 cases, Kalyan town has so far reported more than 35,000 cases, while there have been over 30,000 cases each in Thane city and Navi Mumbai, a district official said. On Sunday, Kalyan reported 549 cases, followed by Navi Mumbai-368 and Thane city-347. The remaining cases were reported from other parts of the district, he said. As of now, there are 17,784 active Covid-19 cases in the district while 1,24,397 patients have recovered. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district is 85.14 per cent, while the mortality rate stands at 2.68 per cent, the official said. The neighbouring Palghar district has so far reported 29,392 Covid-19 cases and 579 deaths due to the disease, another official said. Currently, the Covid-19 mortality rate in Palghar is 1.97 per cent, district civil surgeon Dr Kanchan Vanere said. To bring this below one per cent, the district administration has requested the state government to provide an additional team of doctors to assist the dedicated Covid-19 health centres, she said. The district is taking various steps, including contact tracing, to bring down the death rate, she said. After a review of the Covid-19 situation in Palghar, Collector Dr Manik Gurusal said there are 66 containment zones in the district where relaxations will not be available in the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-sees-1930-new-covid-19-cases-district-tally-at-146102-887319.html
14-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Gujarat traders impose voluntary lockdown in Sabarkantha, Rajkot||All traders in Khedbrahma town of Sabarkantha and the main grain market at Rajkot in Gujarat have decided to enforce a week-long stringent lockdown in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases, officials said on Monday. Following the decision taken by shopkeepers, all markets in Khedbrahma town wore a deserted look on Monday. On the same lines, Rajkot city's main grain market, which has over 200 shops, started a week-long partial lockdown wherein shops will remain closed after 3 pm, Rajkot Grain Market Association president Bipin Kesaria said. Khedbrahma municipality's vice-president Jignesh Joshi said they held a meeting with shopkeepers and decided to go for a week-long total lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. "All the markets and shops in the town will remain shut till September 21," he said. As per a government release issued on Sunday, Sabarkantha reported 13 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours. Khedbrahma shopkeepers' association president Hasmukh Raval said, "Till now, 20 shopkeepers in the town have contracted the infection and they are currently undergoing treatment. Thus, we agreed to the civic body's proposal to impose a complete lockdown till September 21. This should help in stopping human-to-human transmission of the virus." In Rajkot city of Saurashtra region, shopkeepers in the grain market decided to go for a partial shutdown from Monday in view of the rise in number of Covid-19 cases. This comes days after Soni Bazaar, the city's jewellery market, went for a total lockdown. As per the state government release on Sunday, 99 new cases coronavirus were reported in Rajkot city in 24 hours. "Till now, two shopkeepers in the grain market have died due to coronavirus. We have observed that customers flock this market, having around 210 grain shops, in the evening. This is a huge concern for us in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases," Kesaria said. Thus, all shopkeepers of this market have voluntarily decided to keep their outlets shut after 3 pm every day till September 21, he said. Earlier, the city's jewellery market, having around 800 shops, imposed a week-long lockdown from September 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gujarat-traders-impose-voluntary-lockdown-in-sabarkantha-rajkot-887362.html
14-09-2020||West||Maharashtra police to take strict action in quarantine centre rape case, says Anil Deshmukh||The police will take strict action in the Mira Road quarantine centre rape case and no incident of atrocities against women will be tolerated in Maharashtra, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday. Deshmukh made the comment in a tweet after state Legislative Council Deputy Chairperson Neelam Gorhe called for action in the incident. "@Thane_R_Police look into the matter immediately. @neelamgorhe ji, the police will soon take strict action. Nowhere in the state atrocities against women will be tolerated," the minister tweeted. A 27-year-old attendant at the Covid-19 quarantine centre in Mira Road in Thane district was arrested for allegedly raping a woman there in June. The incident, however, came to light on Saturday when the 20-year-old victim lodged a complaint with Navghar police station, Inspector Sampat Patil said. "The woman said she was raped when she was attending to a 11-year-old relative at the centre," said the inspector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-police-to-take-strict-action-in-quarantine-centre-rape-case-says-anil-deshmukh-887413.html
14-09-2020||West||Goa: Former Panaji MGP MLA Baban Naik dies of heart attack||Former MLA from Panaji Baban Naik died after suffering a heart attack in his home, his kin said on Monday. Naik, who was MGP MLA between 1972-77 and president of Panaji Municipal Council between 1975-76, died on Sunday at the age of 76, they said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant tweeted, "Saddened by the passing away of Shri Baban Naik, former MLA of Panaji. His contribution to public life will always be remembered. My deepest condolences to his family in this hour of distress."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-former-panaji-mgp-mla-baban-naik-dies-of-heart-attack-887523.html
14-09-2020||West||Sara Ali Khan, Simone, Rakul Preet figure in NCB probe related to Sushant Singh Rajput's death||In a fresh development, the names of Bollywood celebrities Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and Simone Khambatta have cropped up as the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) continued its investigations into the drug angle involved in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. “There has been an issue that whether the name of Sara, Simone and Rakul surfaced during the investigation…the answer to that is yes,” NCB’s deputy director (operations) KPS Malhotra said. However, he clarified that the NCB has not prepared any list of Bollywood personalities. “There has been questions whether the NCB has prepared a list of 25 Bollywood personalities….the answer to that is no,” Malhotra clarified. However, the NCB has not clarified as to in what aspects of the probe their named had appeared. Nearly a dozen persons including Sushant’s live-in partner and actor-model Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik have been arrested by the NCB over the past fortnight. Sara (25), is the daughter of actor Saif Ali Khan and his first wife Amrita Singh – and she is a descendent of the Tagore and Pataudi families. She is grand-daughter of late cricketer and aristocrat MAK Pataudi and actor and former Censor Board chairperson Sharmila Tagore. Rakul Preet (29) has acted in several Hindi, Tamil, Telugu and Kannada films, while Simone (29) is a fashion designer and social media influencer. Their names have come up during the interrogation of Rhea Chakraborty. Sushant and Sara had worked together in the 2018 film Kedarnath, a Hindi romantic drama. After the success of Kedarnath, Sushant, Sara and the team have travelled together to Bangkok.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sara-ali-khan-simone-rakul-preet-figure-in-ncb-probe-related-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-887534.html
14-09-2020||West||Mumbai airport launches Covid-19 testing facility for all arriving passengers||Mumbai airport has launched the Covid-19 testing facility for all arriving passengers, which can be availed at a charge of Rs 1,600 onwards, a move that would help international passengers opt-out of institutional quarantine, depending upon the test results, a release said on Monday. The RT-PCR testing facility, which is in compliance with the standards of the ICMR and the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), is planned to be expanded further for departing passengers as well shortly, Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said in the release. The provision for 24X7 coronavirus testing at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) comes days after GMR group-owned Delhi airport set up a similar mechanism on its premises. As per the latest directive of the civil aviation ministry, airports are directed to implement a testing facility at the airport for international transit passengers booked on a connecting domestic flight, MIAL said. Mumbai airport has expanded on this initiative to make this facility available to all passengers at the airport, MIAL said. It said, "In compliance with the standards of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), the RT-PCR test is available at a charge of Rs 1,600 onwards." Currently, this facility is operational at the airport for all arriving passengers; all international passengers are advised to book their connecting flight with a gap of 8-12 hours, it said. CSMIA plans to further extend this service for passengers departing from here shortly as well, wherein passengers can opt to undergo the test before departing from the airport and have their report e-mailed to them, MIAL added. Passengers can make an online booking on suburbandiagnostics.com or register themselves at the helpdesk set up at the arrival terminal to enrol for the RT-PCR test. They will receive a digital and physical copy of the test report within eight hours, according to the private airport operator. International arriving passengers exiting at CSMIA could display the results of the RT-PCR test to opt out of the institutional quarantine and instead, observe a 14-day home quarantine, MIAL said. Upon submission of test samples, arriving passengers will be guided to a waiting lounge with special F&B (food and beverage) arrangements while awaiting the test report. Alternatively, passengers can also opt to book a room at the airport hotel, with the approval of the state authorities. "Passengers who have tested negative will be allowed to proceed onward to their final destinations; they will receive a stamp indicating a home quarantine by the state officials. In the event of a positive report, passengers will be transferred by the state authorities to a designated institution," MIAL||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-airport-launches-covid-19-testing-facility-for-all-arriving-passengers-887537.html
14-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Goa BJP MLAs Fernandes, Sopte test positive||Goa BJP MLAs Antonio alias Tony Fernandes and Dayanand Sopte have tested positive for novel coronavirus infection, a senior state health department official said on Monday. St Cruz MLA Fernandes is in a private hospital since Sunday while Mandrem legislator Sopte has opted for home isolation after exhibiting mild symptoms, the official said. Over the past two months, several MLAs, including Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, were detected with the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-bjp-mlas-fernandes-sopte-test-positive-887539.html
14-09-2020||West||Thai woman was murdered by compatriot for money, say Gujarat police||Surat police on Monday claimed to have solved the murder of a 27-year-old woman from Thailand who was found dead in her rented flat last week. The police have apprehended the victim's compatriot for murder who will be formally arrested after testing her for Covid-19. Tomar said that both the Thai women had come to Surat on tourist visas and were staying in rented flats. On September 6, the victim's charred body was found in her flat while the door was locked from outside. Later, it was found that victim's two expensive phones, gold chain and money were missing. During the investigation, the accused was caught on CCTV camera showing her rushing out of victim's house with her face covered on the night of murder. Police said that during questioning, Wongprome remained evasive and faked different stories like she had gone to meet the victim to bring beer cans. But, the testimony of an auto-rickshaw driver is said to have nailed the accused. The driver, who used to drive in the city, told the police that she gave him a plastic bag and asked to throw it garbage. The driver didn't do it and took it home where his wife opened it and found a blanket, pillow and two mobile phones which belonged to the victim. After zeroing on Wongprome, the police searched her house and found the gold chain and the key of victim's flat which was found in a rice container. "During questioning, the accused confessed she was in a bad financial state since the past few months, and had borrowed money from many people to send it back home in Thailand," the official said. Police said that both the Thai women were staying in Surat for nearly three years, working at spas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thai-woman-was-murdered-by-compatriot-for-money-say-gujarat-police-887570.html
14-09-2020||West||Goa Opposition MLA wants five-day assembly session to discuss Covid-19, Mahadayi issue||Former Goa deputy CM and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party MLA Sudin Dhavalikar on Monday demanded the summoning of a five-day assembly session to discuss key, pressing issues confronting the state which includes the Covid-19 pandemic and the ongoing inter-state dispute over water of the Mahadayi river.  In a letter to Goa Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Dhavalikar, who had served as a cabinet minister in the previous ruling dispensation led by late Manohar Parrikar, also slammed the BJP-led Goa government for mishandling of the pandemic, which the Opposition MLA said, had led to unwarranted fatalities.  “One of the most important and burning issue is that of the Mahadayi (also referred to as the Mhadei in Goa) water basin which is yet to see a ray of hope in favour of state and depriving the state right shall cause disaster and ecological imbalance,” Dhavalikar said in her letter to Koshyari, who is holding charge as the Governor of Goa.  Last month, the Union Jal Shakti Ministry had allowed the processing of Karnataka’s plans for the Kalasa-Banduri water diversion project, which the Goa government had objected to.  Goa and Karnataka are battling out a two-decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mahadayi river in the Supreme Court, after both parties expressed reservations about the award by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in 2018. Goa has also opposed the diversion of water from the Mahadayi river basin through the Kalasa-Banduri project claiming it would cause “ecological devastation” and increase the salinity in the waters of the Mahadayi river.  “Mining issue is another major issue of the state whereby the entire state economy of the state is at stake thus leading to unemployment, financial bankruptcy, etc,” Dhavalikar also said.  The former Deputy Chief Minister also slammed Chief Minister Pramod Sawant for mishandling the pandemic.  “I would like to reiterate on the Covid-19 pandemic issue which has slipped away from government control due to inadequate infrastructure specially dedicated Covid-19 hospital with comorbidity patients, Covid care centres, specialised equipments machinery for testing as well as treatment, ultimately fatality graph ascending at alarming rate,” the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-opposition-mla-wants-five-day-assembly-session-to-discuss-covid-19-mahadayi-issue-887587.html
14-09-2020||West||No separate Covid-19 degree certificates, says Maharashtra minister||There will be no difference between degrees that will be granted to students during the Covid-19 period and the similar certificates obtained earlier, Maharashtra Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said here on Monday. He told reporters the government will take action against private companies or industries if they look down upon degrees acquired during the pandemic period. Samant is on a two-day tour of Vidarbha to visit universities. "University degree certificates will be the same as they used to be and no separate certificates will be given to students," the minister clarified. Responding to a query, Samant said the government will take action against recruiters if they discriminate against such degree-holders.  He said recruitment of teachers in universities will resume once the situation becomes normal again. "The government has not stopped the recruitment. The GR (Government Resolution) dated April 4, 2020 to stop recruitment due to Covid-19 pandemic is not a permanent GR. It will be withdrawn after the pandemic period gets over, and recruitment (of teachers) will start again once the situation becomes normal," he said. The minister said vacating the Supreme Court's interim stay on the implementation of reservation for Marathas in education and jobs is the priority of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. He was responding to a query on the impact of the top court's order on admissions to various courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-separate-covid-19-degree-certificates-says-maharashtra-minister-887658.html
