15-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: No entry for devotees at M M Hill for three days||The Male Mahadeshwara Development Authority has restricted the entry of devotees to the hill temple as part of 'Mahalaya Amavasya' from September 16 to 18, in order to prevent the congregation of public and prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Thousands of devotees visit the temple, in Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, every year during the three-day Mahalaya Amavasya jatra, as jatras and special rituals are held for the presiding deity. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi has issued orders prohibiting the entry of devotees to the hill, as a precautionary measure, after the temple authority wrote to him explaining the difficulties in tackling the crowd, in the wake of Covid-19. The vehicles will not be allowed to enter MM Hills at Talabetta from Tuesday evening to 6 am on September 19. However, the rituals will be held as per the tradition on the temple premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-no-entry-for-devotees-at-m-m-hill-for-three-days-887858.html
15-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Surge in Covid-19 continues with 413 fresh cases in Dakshina Kannada||The surge in Covid-19 fresh cases and fatalities continued in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district with the district administration recording 413 fresh cases and five more fatalities. The total cases in the district has reached 17,776 and the fatalities has risen to 447. Explaining on the fresh cases, DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that ILI has contributed highest of 185 fresh cases while SARI has contributed 17 Covid-19 cases. A total of 135 infected are the primary contacts of the already infected persons. The contact tracing of 76 infected are under progress. Of the fresh cases, 225 are symptomatic. Mangaluru taluk continues to contribute highest cases with 169 followed by 66 in Puttur, 65 in Bantwal, 47 in Belthangady, 43 from Sullia, and 23 from other districts. On the positive note, 297 infected have recovered and discharged from hospitals, home isolation and Covid-19 care centres. The district has 4045 infected undergoing treatment at various facilities. Among the fatalities, one each is from Mangaluru and Bantwal while three were from other districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/surge-in-covid-19-continues-with-413-fresh-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-887862.html
15-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Govt schools see increase in enrollment in Dakshina Kannada||The admission to government-run schools in Dakshina Kannada district has increased considerably during the academic year. In the first week of September, the admission in 349 schools has increased by 2,160 compared to admissions in the previous academic year. The district has 1,875 schools (first to 10th standard) affiliated to various departments following various syllabus. Under the Department of Public Instruction, the district has 1,071 government schools, of which 902 are primary and 169 are high schools. Charan Kumar, a teacher of a government school in Mukwe near Puttur said, “I was visiting an apartment near the school to teach children under Vidyagama. Looking at me teaching the children from our school, many parents whose children are studying in private schools have appealed to teach their children as well. Those who were neglecting government schools all these days, have started turning towards government schools.” Parents have started realising the importance of the relationship between teacher and student, he added. Parent Kittanna Rai said, “There are good teachers in government schools. Parents have failed to understand it. Now, they are realising the importance of government schools.” “Due to lockdown, many have lost their jobs and the private schools were asking the parents to pay the school fees. On the other hand, government school teachers are visiting the houses to engage children in the learning process,” said another parent. Further, parents have also realised the need to enroll the children to the nearest school due to the Covid-19 situation. During the previous academic year, the government school at Pidmale had one student while the one at Balthila had two students. The admission has increased considerably in these schools. Sarkari Shaale Ulisi-Belesi Rajya Samithi President Prakash Anchan said that after English was introduced from class 1 in the government school at Daddalakadu, the number of students enrolled for the school has increased drastically. DDPI Malleswamy said that Vidyagama programme is also responsible for the increase in enrollment in government schools. The admissions will continue till September 30 and the department is expecting more admissions this year. By August end, 93,143 children were enrolled in 1,071 government schools in Dakshina Kannada district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-schools-see-increase-in-enrollment-in-dakshina-kannada-887867.html
15-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ganja plants seized at Vaderahalli worth Rs 4 crore: Police||Police assessed the value of ganja plants that had been seized at Vaderahalli in the taluk at Rs 4 crore. Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday, Superintendent of Police G Radhika said the accused had grown 8,250 ganja plants on four acres of land that had been leased out. Each plant measures three metres in height and the total quantum of ganja plants is 9,871 kg. Each plant has more than one kg leaves and such a quantum of ganja plants has been seized for the first time in the state. She said the plants were almost ready for harvest and peddlers were about to receive them in two months. The accused had planned to dry the leaves and convert them into powder. There is a need to find out where they had planned to transport ganja plants and police required four days to cut them. Police team nabbed four persons on September 4 and the value was assessed at Rs 2 crore earlier, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ganja-plants-seized-at-vaderahalli-worth-rs-4-crore-police-887952.html
15-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Day-long celebrations to mark 70th birthday of Modi||Former minister and MLA S A Ramadass said that a day-long celebration has been planned to mark the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Mysuru on Thursday. Addressing a media conference in Mysuru on Tuesday, the MLA said that ‘Namo Divas Namaskara’ will be held from 9 am to 5 pm on September 17 at Ramalingeshwara Park of Vidyaranyapuram in the city, organised by BJP workers. “We are aware that Modi does not approve of celebration of his birthday, but, it is a happy day for us,” he said. “The events will be held, by following Covid-19 guidelines. BJP workers and those who support Modi, from five Assembly constituencies of Krishnaraja, Chamaraja, Narasimharaja, Chamundeshwari and Varuna and also from any taluk or district can participate in the events and win prizes,” he said. Ramadass said, “Abhishek Gore, a BJP booth unit president, will paint a portrait of Modi at 10.15 am, the actual time when Modi was born, to formally inaugurate the events. Youth can participate in ‘Selfi with Modi’ event. Writer S L Bhyrappa will virtually launch a mobile application and a website, which will have 70 best schemes out of 200 schemes rolled out by the Modi-lead Union government, over the past six years, in three languages — Kannada, English and Hindi.” “There will be a questionnaire for users. Anybody across India can use both, mobile app and website up to 15 days. They can respond to the questionnaire and give suggestions, to improve the schemes. The best suggestion and the person giving the best suggestion will be reached up to Modi himself. The winner will also get a huge cash prize,” he said. He said that artists and talented persons in the families of BJP workers and leaders will be felicitated. “Besides, 70 independent and successful persons will be honoured in line with the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ call of Modi. They will include auto drivers, cobblers, entrepreneurs, etc, to encourage ‘dignity of labour’. The aim is to change the attitude of demanding for jobs to ‘work mentality’, which will create more jobs,” Ramadass said. He said, “Under ‘Modi for Development’ event, 70 hoardings on 70 schemes of Modi government will be displayed and participants should take a tour in 35 minutes and write their opinion and give suggestions in less than two pages. The winners will get prizes of Rs 5,000, Rs 4,000, Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 1,000 respectively and five consolation prizes.” Ramadass said, “For children, under 18 years of age, an exhibition of 70 photos of Modi is organised. After seeing the exhibition, children can express their opinion on the photos and answer five questions, to win prizes of Rs 5,000, Rs 4,000, Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 1,000 respectively and five consolation prizes.” He said, “Musicians of BJP will play music and sing songs throughout the day. Eligible beneficiaries, who have not availed the benefits, will be identified and will be enrolled.” BJP leaders Vadivelu, Balakrishna and Nagesh Kumar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/day-long-celebrations-to-mark-70th-birthday-of-modi-888075.html
15-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Poultry industry picks up pace; chicken prices go up||The poultry industry, which faced the worst crisis, due to the Covid pandemic and lockdown, has picked up pace. This has brought cheers among poultry rearers. The business has limped back to normalcy and broiler chicken prices, which had come down to around Rs 100 per kg has increased to Rs 180 to Rs 200 per kg in Mysuru. Eggs, which were sold at Rs 3.50, is nowRs 5 per piece, in retail. It may be recalled that the fear, linking the spread of coronavirus through the purchase and consumption of chicken and meat, and bird flu reported in parts of Mysuru city, kept the people away from non-vegetarian food, for a couple of months. This affected the poultry industry and wholesale price of live chicken which crashed to Rs 25 per kg, leaving poultry rearers in a shock. But, once the lockdown was lifted, there was a sudden spurt in prices for a few days. The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) had to intervene and fix the price of meat and chicken. National Egg Coordination Committee zonal chairman M P Sathish Babu told DH that business is picking up pace since a month. “The rise in price is based on demand and supply. Several poultry rearers, who suffered huge loss during the pandemic have stopped business. Thus, production has come down, resulting in the rise in price. The price of live chicken is Rs 100 to Rs 130 per kg by poultry rearers. Middlemen may also be responsible for the hike in retail price of chicken,” he opined. The industry recorded a loss of more than Rs 1,000 crore in the state, during lockdown. At one point, there were no takers for eggs, even if it was given free, he recalled. Ansar, a chicken stall owner, said, “Demand for chicken has increased and shop owners are compensating for the loss now. Sale has gone up by 60%, and the remaining 40% is affected as small restaurants are not open. Once they open, we hope of seeing profits.” On an average, poultry farmers of Mysuru city and farms in a radius of 30 km, produce around 30 lakh birds annually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poultry-industry-picks-up-pace-chicken-prices-go-up-888076.html
15-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress targets ruling BJP as pics of R Ashoka with drug case accused surface||Sharing pictures of Revenue Minister R Ashoka with an accused in the drugs case, the Congress in Karnataka on Tuesday said there was a need for leaders from the ruling BJP, who are making allegations against those from other parties, to face the inquiry first. In a tweet, the state Congress said, "The pictures of R Ashoka with drugs scandal kingpin Rahul Thonshe suggests that it was not a casual meeting, but a close association. There is a need for leaders from the ruling BJP, who are making allegations against those from other parties to cover up their scandals, to be made to face inquiry first." In the pictures shared along with the tweet, Ashoka can be seen posing for a picture with Rahul along with others at some function. There are also pictures showing the two feeding each other sweets. The Minister had on Monday denied any links with Rahul. "I had gone to a naming ceremony function relating to a party worker in my constituency, when a celebrity goes to such events normally several people take such pictures.... it is common such pictures are taken during public functions, so can we be linked? If I had gone to his house it is a different thing," he said. Ashoka in response to a question said the photo might have been taken some four years ago and since the coronavirus outbreak, he had not attended any such events recently. Earlier, Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan's name has been linked to the drugs case, following his photos with one Shaik Fazil, who is linked to a casino in Colombo where allegedly such activities take place, emerged. Khan, who has denied his involvement, has said he knew Faizal like several other people, but was unaware of his activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-targets-ruling-bjp-as-pics-of-r-ashoka-with-drug-case-accused-surface-887830.html
15-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Sharath Bachegowda to join Congress?||Hoskote legislator Sharath Bachegowda, an Independent who defeated BJP’s MTB Nagaraj in the bypolls last year, and the Congress are said to be holding talks on him joining the party. Sharath is the son of BJP’s Chikballapur MP BN Bachegowda. “Talks are on, but no decision has been taken on bringing him onboard,” a top Congress leader said, who added that the party will be “happy” to have Sharath. Sharath, 37, had rebelled against the BJP to contest as an Independent against Nagaraj in the high-voltage December 2019 bypolls. In the 2018 polls, Sharath was the BJP’s candidate and lost against Nagaraj, who was then with the Congress. However, Nagaraj was subsequently disqualified and contested the bypolls from the BJP ticket. He lost to Sharath, who contested as an Independent. Sharath was not available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sharath-bachegowda-to-join-congress-888067.html
15-09-2020||Mysuru||Foundation laid for Vishnuvardhan Memorial in Mysuru||The state government has sanctioned Rs 11 crore for the construction of Vishunvardhan memorial at Halalu on Manandavadi Road on the outskirts of Mysuru. A sum of Rs 5 cr was already released for the memorial coming up on five acres. Speaking after laying foundation stone, virtually, on Tuesday, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that the Karnataka State Police Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited will execute the project. Vishnuvardhan Smaraka Nirmana Samiti will oversee the construction. “Vishnuvardhan, who acted in over 100 films in a span of 36 years, was not just a good actor, but a great human being with social concern. His contributions to Kannada film industry are commendable,” he said. The memorial is a decade-long plan, since the death of Vishnuvardhan on December 30, 2009. His fans were unhappy over the government’s helplessness to build a memorial for the actor at Abhiman Studio, where he was cremated. As the plot at Abhiman Studio was facing legal hassles, the government offered an alternative land at Mylasandra in Kengeri or a plot Ramanagar district. This land too was embroiled in a controversy, as it came within buffer zone of Turahalli forest. Bharathi Vishnuvardhan decided to shift the memorial to Mysuru, his native place. The actor was born in Chamundipuram of Mysuru. The government allotted five acres of land on Manandavadi Road in Mysuru for the memorial. A date was fixed for laying the foundation stone by then chief minister Siddaramaiah. Meanwhile, local farmers raised objection to the works and moved the court. However, the High Court of Karnataka disposed the matter and gave a green signal for the project, recently. Bharathi Vishnuvardhan said that it was her dream to set up South India branch of Film and Television Institute of India in the name of Vishnuvardhan as a tribute to the late actor. “ I wish the state and union governments join hands to start the institute on the premises of Vishnuvardhan memorial,” she said. The memorial will include a six-foot tall statue of the late actor, a photo gallery, a fountain and an auditorium.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/foundation-laid-for-vishnuvardhan-memorial-in-mysuru-888054.html
15-09-2020||National||Javadekar denies charges that draft EIA notification dilutes environmental laws||Environment Minister Prakash Javadeker on Monday rejected charges levelled by senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh that environment laws will be diluted by the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification. Javadekar dismissed the allegation during a special mention in Rajya Sabha. "As far as public hearing is concerned, we have exempted two new categories (under the EIA)," the minister said. The draft EIA notification, which involves the procedure of issuing environmental clearances to various projects, was issued by the ministry in March this year and public suggestions were invited. Ramesh termed the notification "anti-democratic" and dangerous. "I urge the government to resist the temptation of using this crisis as an opportunity to weaken environmental laws and put this draft notification (EIA) in complete cold storage," he said. "During the lockdown period, there was a concerted attempt to issue this notification, but it has been held back because of the public protest and concerns," the Congress leader said. Ramesh said the draft notification was dangerous on four grounds. "It is anti-democratic because it reduces the role of the public and does away with any assessment by local impacted communities. Secondly, it is anti-public health because it is giving away the right for environmental impact assessment. It is regularising environmental violations," he said. "It is anti-federalism because it is taking away the power of the states and centralising everything. Finally, it is anti-jurisprudence because the notification exceeds the mother Act (law) of the Environment Protection Act," Ramesh added. Senior Congress leader P L Punia demanded that the central government should revoke the changes made by the states in the labour laws during the pandemic. While DMK leader P Wilson called for a uniform examination for admission to medical courses, the YSRCP's Pilli Subhas Chandra Bose demanded a census of backward communities and a dedicated ministry to deal with issues related to them. Harnath Singh Yadav of the BJP called for a strict law to deal with the issue of rising population in the country, and Phulo Devi of the Congress demanded inclusion of Chhattisgarhi Bhasha into the Constitutional list of languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javadekar-denies-charges-that-draft-eia-notification-dilutes-environmental-laws-887663.html
15-09-2020||National||Congress continues protests against 'harassment' of Rhea Chakraborty||Congress activists took out a rally in support of Rhea Chakraborty in the metropolis on Monday, the second such march in two days, alleging that the actor was "continuously harassed" in the name of investigation. Around 100 Youth Congress activists participated in the procession that started from Raja Bazar, shouting slogans that Rhea, the girlfriend of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, was a victim of political conspiracy hatched by the BJP ahead of the Bihar Assembly polls. "We strongly protest against the continued harassment of Rhea, the daughter of Bengal, by central agencies in the name of investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case," a Youth Congress member said. Party activists had taken out similar rallies in the state on Saturday, too. Last week, Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha and its Bengal unit chief, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, had said Rajput was an Indian actor, but the "BJP turned him into a Bihari actor" only to score electoral brownie points. Leaders of several political parties have also been insisting that the "vilification campaign" against Rhea "proved" Bengalis are a soft target of the BJP, which is looking to cash in on this narrative ahead of the Bihar Assembly polls. "I feel that as Rhea is a Bengali, she was victimised even before she was proven guilty in court. The vilification campaign once again proves the sheer hatred of the BJP towards the Bengalis," senior TMC leader and national spokesperson Saugata Roy had recently said. After days of interrogation, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested Rhea, 28, in a drugs case linked to Rajput's death, following which she was sent to judicial custody till September 22 by a local court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-continues-protests-against-harassment-of-rhea-chakraborty-887664.html
15-09-2020||National||Airport gold smuggling thriving, up by 207% in four years||Amid the Centre assuring Parliament of a fair probe into the Kerala gold smuggling case, official data has revealed a 207% increase in gold smuggled through various airports in the country in four years between 2016-17 and 2019-2020. While in 2016-17, 921 kg gold was seized from various airports in the country, the volume rose to 2,646 kg in 2018-19 and 2,829 kg in 2019-20, data presented in Parliament showed. In value terms, the seizure jumped from Rs 243.75 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 857.95 crore in 2019-20. It was in 2019 that the Centre raised import duty on gold to 12.55% from 10% despite concerns being raised that further rise in duty on the yellow metal would encourage smuggling. The government had then said that it had assessed smuggling dimensions before taking the decision. In reply to a written question in the Lok Sabha from Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) leader N K Premchandran and others, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur replied that over 30 kg gold was seized from Thiruvananthapuram airport and that a prime accused in the case was an “influential” person. He, however, said that the government was taking effective steps for a fair and proper investigation but stopped short of disclosing further details as it may impact the case. The minister said customs authorities and the NIA have launched the investigation into the seizure of gold consignment, which was addressed to a diplomat of the consulate general of United Arab Emirates in Thiruvananthapuram. As many as 16 people have been arrested in the case. Directorate of Enforcement has also initiated money laundering investigation in two gold smuggling cases related to Kerala. A recent report by global NGO 'IMPACT' said India is the largest gold smuggling hub in the world. According to the report, gold makes its way indirectly to India from Tanzania and Uganda via India-based gold dealers operating in East Africa, who export gold to Dubai, and the bullion eventually lands in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airport-gold-smuggling-thriving-up-by-207-in-four-years-887666.html
15-09-2020||National||Rajnath Singh likely to make statement in Parliament on India-China issue||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to make a statement in Parliament on Tuesday on the continuing standoff between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The statement would assume significance in the backdrop of demands made by the Opposition for a debate on the issue. Singh had met his Chinese counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe in Moscow recently. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi had also met in Moscow a few days ago. Meanwhile, the Union Cabinet and the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs are also likely to meet over video conferencing on Tuesday afternoon, government sources said. During the monsoon session, which began on Monday, the opposition is seeking to corner the government on its handling of the standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, the Covid-19 situation, economic downturn and unemployment, and is pressing for discussions on these issues. An updated business agenda for the Lok Sabha session on Tuesday said Singh will make a statement in the lower house on "the developments on our border in Ladakh". The Congress and other opposition parties raised these demands in the first business advisory committee (BAC) meeting for Lok Sabha chaired by Speaker Om Birla on Sunday, but no time has been allocated yet for these discussions. The BAC for Lok Sabha will be held again on Tuesday afternoon to further discuss the first week's business schedule. Similar demands have been raised by the Congress in the BAC for Rajya Sabha as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-likely-to-make-statement-in-parliament-on-india-china-issue-887675.html
15-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 15||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 49 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 50,12,269 as of September 15 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 82,010 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 38,59,399  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-15-887691.html
15-09-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: M Visveswaraya - An administrator, a bureaucrat and a creative engineer||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Prof Dhruv Raina talks about Bharat Ratna M Visveswaraya, the latter's legacy as an engineer par excellence.    Ahmed Shariff: Today’s is Engineers’ Day and it is celebrated every year in the honour of Bharat Ratna Sir M Visveswaraya.  Visveswaraya has made innumerable contributions to our society and to talk about that today we have JNU’s Prof Dhruv Raina. Prof Raina specialises in the area of History and Philosophy of Science and has the honour of Heinrich Zimmer Chair for Indian Philosophy and Intellectual History, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Germany. Hi sir, welcome to DH Radio.Dhruv Raina: Hi. How are you?Ahmed: I am good, hope you are doing good too?Dhruv: Yeah. Under the conditions.Ahmed: M Visveswaraya is known for the Dam that he constructed across the Cauvery. could you list some of his other lesser-known but equally relevant contribution?Dhruv: There are many. The dam in that sense was one of the last of his concrete contributions. He trained as an irrigation engineer and he dealt with the water supply and drainage issues as well. He was posted in Nashik district, he tells us in his autobiography that his first job was to build a pipe siphon across a channel on the Panjara river near Dhulia. From there he graduated on to developing a larger water supply scheme for the town of Dhulia. This meat that he had to construct a reservoir. These probably were the areas that received scanty rainfall and they had to construct a reservoir to impound the water. Then he moves on to Pune where he apprenticed with new branches of civil engineering. But his first big project came in 1893. This was to build a barrage in Sukkur in the Sind... To know more about the conversation, tune in to the podcast.... Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-m-visveswaraya-an-administrator-a-bureaucrat-and-a-creative-engineer-887704.html
15-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Absent from Parliament, Rahul Gandhi takes a dig at PM Modi over GDP, Covid-19||Taking a dig at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said its "well-planned fight" against coronavirus has allegedly put India in an "abyss" of GDP reduction of 24 per cent, 12 crore job losses, 15.5 lakh crore additional stressed loans and globally highest daily Covid-19 cases and deaths. Taking a dig at PM Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked 'Atmanirbhar' Indians to save their own lives as the prime minister was busy with peacocks.  "Modi government said become 'Aatmanirbhar' (self-sufficient) which means save your life yourself because the PM is busy with peacocks," the former Congress chief tweeted in a clear reference to a recent video showing the prime minister feeding peacocks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-absent-from-parliament-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-dig-at-pm-modi-over-gdp-covid-19-887715.html
15-09-2020||National||Aaditya Thackeray hangs out with people involved in drug racket: Kangana||Continuing her tirade, actor Kangana Ranaut now accused Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray’s son Aaditya Thackeray of "hanging out" with people involved in the drug racket in Bollywood. “Basic problem of Maharashtra chief minister is why I exposed movie mafia, murderers of Sushant Singh Rajput and its drug racket, who his beloved son Aaditya Thackeray hangs out with, this is my big crime so now they want to fix me, ok try let’s see who fixes who!!!,” she tweeted.  Aaditya Thackeray (30) is the president of Yuva Sena and the state’s tourism, environment and protocol minister. Kangana also showered praises for the Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis saying that he would have investigated the case properly. “I can say with utmost certainty if we had Devendra Fadnavis as the chief minister of Maharashtra and not the corrupt Sonia Sena who are the mafia lovers, the Mumbai police would have done its job properly, public and media didn’t have to struggle to start the movement for justice,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aaditya-thackeray-hangs-out-with-people-involved-in-drug-racket-kangana-887718.html
15-09-2020||National||Coronavirus fact check: Another lockdown from September 25? PIB clarifies||As coronavirus cases surge by the day, rumours of a nationwide lockdown from September 25 for 46 days have emerged when a supposed 'NDMA order' went viral on social media. The Press Information Bureau was quick to debunk the rumour calling it fake and clarified that no such lockdowns will be put in place.  An image of the 'order' where the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) recommended a nationwide lockdown in light of the soaring coronavirus cases went viral. The PIB Fact Check, Centre's Twitter handle to debunk government-related misinformation, said that the rumours were not true. "Claim: An order purportedly issued by National Disaster Management Authority claims that it has directed the government to re-impose a nationwide lockdown from 25th September. PIB Fact Check: This order is Fake. NDMA has not issued any such order to re-impose lockdown," PIB tweeted. The fake order claimed that the NDMA insisted on lockdown to reduce the coronavirus infections and mortality rate of disease caused by the pandemic. It said,  "...the National Disaster Management Authority, along with the Planning commission, hereby urges the government of India and directs the Prime Minister office, ministry of home affairs to re-impose a strict nationwide lockdown of 46 days starting from midnight September 25, 2020. Maintaining the supply chain of essential commodities in the country, therefore hereby NDMA is issuing a prior notice to the ministry to plan accordingly,"  The rumour comes at a time when India's Covid-19 tally has crossed 49-lakh mark, and as for vaccine, the Serum Institute of India said it is waiting for DCGI's approval for resuming Covid-19 vaccine trials in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-fact-check-another-lockdown-from-september-25-pib-clarifies-887729.html
15-09-2020||National||India beats China to win crucial election to UN Commission on the Status of Women||In a significant victory, India got elected as Member of the UN Commission on the Status of Women, the principal global body focussed on gender equality and women empowerment, beating China in a hotly-contested election. The Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) is a functional commission of the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). The 54-member ECOSOC, holding the first plenary meeting of its 2021 session in the General Assembly Hall on Monday, held elections for two seats in the Asia-Pacific States category with Afghanistan, India and China in the fray. Afghanistan, which is led by Ambassador Adela Raz at the UN, garnered 39 votes and India got 38 votes of the 54 ballots cast. China, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, got only 27 votes and could not even cross the half-way mark and also failed to get the required majority of 28 votes. “India wins seat in prestigious #ECOSOC body! India elected Member of Commission on Status of Women #CSW. It’s a ringing endorsement of our commitment to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in all our endeavours. We thank member states for their support,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted. India beat China in the hotly-contested election to the prestigious UN body in the year when the 25th anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women, that was held in Beijing in 1995, is being commemorated around the world. It is highly notable and telling that China lost the election to the UN’s principal global intergovernmental body exclusively dedicated to the promotion of gender equality and women empowerment when the silver jubilee anniversary of the landmark Beijing conference on women is being commemorated and of which China takes a lot of ownership on. The election result is being seen as sending a strong signal about China’s own record of women’s equality and empowerment. India’s Permanent Mission to the UN worked tirelessly for the hard-fought election, reaching out and sensitising all Member States, sources said. India and Afghanistan will join Argentina, Austria, Dominican Republic, Israel, Latvia, Nigeria, Turkey and Zambia, which were elected by acclamation, to the Commission on the Status of Women for a four-year term beginning from 2021-2025. India’s election win at the CSW is highly significant as it comes on the eve of India gearing up to sit at the UN Security Council high table as non-permanent member for a two-year term beginning January 1, 2021. Former UN Assistant Secretary-General and Deputy Executive Director of UN Women Lakshmi Puri congratulated the Indian Mission and Ambassador Tirumurti on the election win. “Victory Earned! #CSW is an important normsetting organ for #Gender #Equality & #WomenEmpowerment & #India has made a significant contribution to evolving global women’s human rights standards in UN including #SDG5 in Agenda 2030!,” she tweeted, referring to the Sustainable Development Goal of achieving gender equality and empower all women and girls. The Commission on the Status of Women is instrumental in promoting women’s rights, documenting the reality of women’s lives throughout the world, and shaping global standards on gender equality and the empowerment of women. In 1996, ECOSOC expanded the Commission’s mandate and decided that it should take a leading role in monitoring and reviewing progress and problems in the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, and in mainstreaming a gender perspective in UN activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-beats-china-to-win-crucial-election-to-un-commission-on-the-status-of-women-887730.html
15-09-2020||National||Sasikala to walk out of jail in January?||Jailed AIADMK leader V K Sasikala, long-time aide of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, will be able to walk out of the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru on January 27, 2021 if she pays the fine of Rs 10 crore. The probable date of release is mentioned in an RTI reply given by R Latha, Public Information Officer and Superintendent, to T Narasimha Murthy of Bengaluru to a question on Sasikala’s release. However, N Raja Senthoor Pandian, Sasikala’s counsel, said he was confident that his client would be out of jail by the end of this month. “I hereby inform you that as per prison records convict prisoner Sasikala's probable date of release is 27-01-2021 provided the in-default fine amount is paid as awarded by the Hon’ble court. Further, her ‘probable date of release’ would be 27-02-2022 if the fine is not paid,” Latha said in her reply. She also added that Sasikala’s probable date of release would vary if she utilises the parole facility. Pandian told DH: “We have arranged Rs 10 crore to be paid before the jail authorities. We are ready to file an application seeking her release. We have got everything ready and we have a strategy. I still maintain that I am hopeful that madam Sasikala will walk out of the Bengaluru jail this month.” He said Sasikala was “entitled for ordinary remission” and if all her non-availed leaves are counted, she should be released by the end of September. “If she does not get ordinary remission, this will be the first time that someone has been rejected that right. The Karnataka Prisons Manual does not say ordinary remission cannot be granted to those convicted under Prevention of Corruption Act,” Pandian added. The counsel said there was nothing new in the RTI reply as the date given was calculated after deducting the days, she spent in jail in 1997 and 2014. “She spent 35 days in jail in 1997 and 2004 and had availed parole for 18 days in two instalments in October 2017 and March 2018. If one add the 35 days and subtracts the 18 days from the total days spent, the date of release is January 27, 2021,” Pandian explained. Sasikala surrendered before the jail authorities on February 15, 2017 after her conviction in the disproportionate assets (DA) case was confirmed by the Supreme Court. Jayalalithaa was also an accused in the case, but her conviction was set off as she died two months before the judgment. The reply comes weeks after the Income Tax department moved to seal over 60 properties owned by Sasikala through her benamis. One of them includes a sprawling campus just opposite to Jayalalithaa’s palatial bungalow in upscale Poes Garden. Sasikala’s release from  jail could be a major political event in Tamil Nadu as her physical presence in the state might alter political equations, especially when the state stares at assembly elections in the first half of 2021. Sasikala, who was elected as AIADMK legislature party leader, could not be sworn in as Chief Minister after incumbent and party colleague O Panneerselvam rebelled against her. Before she went to jail, Sasikala got Edappadi K Palaniswami elected as the leader of the AIADMK and he eventually became the Chief Minister. However, Edappadi and his colleagues sacked Sasikala's nephew, T T V Dhinakaran, from the party and welcomed Panneerselvam back into their fold. Sasikala still remains a primary member of the AIADMK. Palaniswami and Panneerselvam now run the AIADMK jointly and the party has been maintaining that Sasikala’s release will not impact them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sasikala-to-walk-out-of-jail-in-january-887735.html
15-09-2020||National||Coronavirus: Rapid Antigen Tests to be conducted on dead bodies||Amid the rising coronavirus death toll, government hospitals will now conduct a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) on the deceased brought in, to determine if the person had been Covid-19 positive or not. A government circular has also been issued, wherein dead bodies will be tested using TrueNat/ CBNAAT (Tests used for detecting Tuberculosis), to ensure the easy facilitation of bodies. The coronavirus cases continue to mount with the country’s tally crossing the 49-lakh mark, and reporting over 80,000 deaths. Maharashtra has recorded over 10 lakh cases, as of Monday. Conducting RATs on dead persons could provide an accurate death toll, and the method of conducting these tests is not as time-consuming, with results received within an hour or so. If the deceased has tested positive, the body can be immediately disposed of, to curb further spread of the novel coronavirus. Sassoon General Hospital in Mumbai reports an average of 40-50 deaths, and at least 15 are brought in dead, according to a report in The Indian Express. The government medical college and hospital at Nagpur, sees 30-35 deaths daily, with at least five to 10 brought dead, the report added. Death due to a coronavirus infection does not require the postmortem and the required certification for the cause of death can be done by the treating doctor. The circular also added that bodies with suspected coronavirus infection may be marked as medico-legal cases by the doctor in an emergency and then sent to the mortuary. The police may then necessitate a medico-legal autopsy for clarity in cause and manner of death (whether natural/ unnatural). The guidelines also stated that RATs showing a negative result for Covid-19 will be reconsidered and follow other tests to ensure the actual cause of death. This is carried out as RATs often show false negatives, which can waiver the country’s death toll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-rapid-antigen-tests-to-be-conducted-on-dead-bodies-887750.html
15-09-2020||National||Biting the hands that feed them: Jaya Bachchan on remarks by Ravi Kishan, Kangana Ranaut||A day after actor-turned-BJP MP Ravi Kishan raised the issue of drug abuse in the film industry in Lok Sabha, actress-turned Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan on Tuesday said that it was a "shame" that people who are benefited from the sector are "biting the hands that feed them". Ravi Kishan hit back saying that there was a conspiracy in the industry by hollowing it out and it was just his right and duty to raise the issue in Parliament while actress Kangana Ranaut questioned whether Jaya Bachchan would have said the same thing if her children Shweta and Abhishek Bachchan were harassed by drug users in the filmdom. The comments came as a section of film personalities are facing investigation on drug abuse and trade following the controversial death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Raising the issue in Rajya Sabha during Zero Hour, Jaya Bachchan said, "just because there are a few people, you cannot tarnish the image of the entire industry. This industry brings international name and recognition also, apart from the political people." "I was really embarrassed and ashamed that one of the members in the Lok Sabha, who is from the industry -- I am not taking the name -- spoke against the film industry. It is a shame. They are biting the hands that feed them," she said. The Samajwadi Party MP said the film personalities are being flogged by the social media in order to divert people's attention from the financial situation, which is in a "depressing state and employment is at the worst level". She said the government is also not supportive of the film industry. "People who have made their name in this film industry have called it a gutter. I completely disagree and I really dissociate with this. I hope the government tells these people, who have made their earning, name and fame in this industry to stop using such things," she said. She did not refer to Ravi Kishan or Ranaut, who has been vocal in recent times about drug abuse and said the industry was a "gutter", by name. Responding to this, Bhojpuri actor Ravi Kishan said he expected Jaya Bachchan to support what he said in Lok Sabha. "There is a conspiracy to finish our film industry by hollowing it out. As a responsible member of the film industry, it is not just my right but my duty to raise it in Parliament and Jaya-Ji should respect that. I am just a son of a priest who crawled his way up and has worked in 600 films...Not everyone in the industry consumes drugs but those who do are part of a plan to finish the world's largest film industry. When Jaya-ji joined, the situation was not like this but now we need to protect the industry," he said. Kangana tweeted, "Jaya-ji, would you say the same thing if in my place it was your daughter Shweta beaten, drugged and molested as a teenager, would you say the same thing if Abhishek complained about bullying and harassment constantly and found hanging one day? Show compassion for us also.” Jaya Bachchan also said there were people in the entertainment industry who are some of the highest taxpayers and still being harassed. "All kinds of promises are being made to the entertainment industry but are never kept. I got worked up, I am very emotional...I think the government must stand by the entertainment industry because it always comes forward to help the government in whatever good work it takes up. They come and speak for them, they support them. If there is a national calamity, they come forward, they give money and their services," she said. "I think it is very very important that the government must support this industry and not kill it. Just because there are few people, you cannot tarnish the image of the entire industry," she said, adding the industry brings international name and recognition besides a base for political ambitions," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biting-the-hands-that-feed-them-jaya-bachchan-on-remarks-by-ravi-kishan-kangana-ranaut-887780.html
15-09-2020||National||India reports 83,809 new Covid-19 cases, 1,054 fatalities due to coronavirus||India's novel coronavirus tally crossed 49 lakh on Tuesday with 83,809 new cases, while 38.59 lakh people have recuperated so far, taking the recovery rate to 78.28 per cent, the Health Ministry said. The death toll rose to 80,776 with 1,054 more people succumbing to the infection. The case fatality rate stands at 1.64 per cent, according to the ministry data. There are 9,90,061 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), comprising 20.08 per cent of the total 49,30,236 cases, it said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 5.83 crore tests have been conducted so far and 10.73 lakh samples were tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-83809-new-covid-19-cases-1054-fatalities-due-to-coronavirus-887796.html
15-09-2020||National||NCB arrests 2 more persons in drug probe in Sushant Singh Rajput's death case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested two more persons in connection with the probe related to drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case, an official said on Tuesday. The probe agency earlier took into custody 16 people, including Rajput's girlfriend and actress Rhea Chakraborty, in connection with the case. On Monday, the NCB arrested Suryadeep Malhotra, a school friend of Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik Chakraborty, from Mumbai. Besides, one Chris Costa was detained by the NCB in Goa on Saturday. He was subsequently brought to Mumbai and arrested after questioning, the official said. With this, 18 people have so far been arrested by the NCB which is probing drug angle in the case of Rajput's death. The 34-year-old actor was found hanging in his apartment in Bandra area of Mumbai on June 14. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the NCB is probing the drug case in which actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty, Rajput's manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant and others have been arrested. They are currently in judicial custody. The NCB began its investigation after the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was probing money laundering charges linked to the case, shared social media chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty's mobile phone, hinting at use of banned drugs. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is separately probing a case against the actress and others for allegedly abetting Rajput's suicide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-arrests-2-more-persons-in-drug-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-887803.html
15-09-2020||National||China denies reports of troops laying cables at India border||China's foreign ministry on Tuesday denied reports that Chinese troops are laying fibre optic cables at a flashpoint at the border with India. China and India will remain in communication through diplomatic and military channels, foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a news briefing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-denies-reports-of-troops-laying-cables-at-india-border-887823.html
15-09-2020||National||40 lakh people kept under surveillance as part of Covid-19 contact tracing: Centre||Around 40 lakh people have been kept under surveillance as a part of the contact tracing efforts in the country and 5.4 crore samples were tested for coronavirus till September 10, Union minister Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The minister of state for health said there were 15,290 Covid-treatment facilities with 13,14,171 dedicated isolation beds till September 10. There are also 2,31,269 oxygen-supported isolation beds and 62,694 ICU beds (including 32,241 ventilator beds). Guidelines on clinical management of Covid-19 have been issued and are being updated regularly. States are being supported in terms of supply of logistics, Choubey said. So far, 1.39-crore PPE kits, 3.42-crore N-95 masks, 10.84-crore hydroxychloroquine tablets, 29,779 ventilators and 1,02,400 oxygen cylinders have been supplied to state and central government hospitals till September 10, according to the minister. More than 30 vaccine candidates have been supported and they are in different stages of development. Three candidates are in advanced stage of Phase I, II and III trials, and more than four are in advanced pre-clinical development stage, Choubey said. A national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 has been constituted on August 7 under the NITI Aayog. Thirteen clinical trials of repurposed drugs have been undertaken to build a portfolio of therapeutic options for coronavirus patients, he said. "The government of India has taken a series of actions to prevent, control and mitigate the impact of Covid-19. India followed a whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach," Choubey said. The prime minister, a high-level group of ministers (GoM), cabinet secretary, committee of secretaries and Health Ministry officials continue to monitor the public health response to Covid-19 in the country, he said. "The public health actions were taken in a pre-emptive, pro-active, graded manner based on the evolving scenario," the minister said. Choubey pointed out that a number of travel advisories were issued to restrict the inflow of international travellers before commercial flights were suspended on March 23. Till then, a total of 14,154 flights with 15,24,266 passengers have been screened at airports. Screening was also done at 12 major and 65 minor ports and land border crossings, according to Choubey. "In the initial part of the pandemic, India evacuated a large number of stranded passengers from then Covid-affected countries (China, Italy, Iran, Japan, Malaysia) and again in the un-lockdown phase, a total of 12,43,176 passengers have been brought back (as on September 9) and followed up," he said. The Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) is conducting contact tracing through community surveillance. In the earlier part of the pandemic, this was done for travel-related cases and subsequently for cases being reported from community as a part of containment strategy. "As on September 10, a total of about 40 lakh persons have been kept under surveillance. There are 1,697 laboratories conducting Covid-19 testing," he said. "India is testing is about 1 million samples a day. A total of 5.4 crore samples have been tested so far (as on 10th September)." The number of people under treatment for Covid-19 includes 1,14,984 in Maharashtra, 54,064 in Karnataka, 32,972 in Tamil Nadu, 24,593 in Uttar Pradesh and 5,066 in Delhi (till Sep 11), 36,217 in Andhra Pradesh (till Sep 10), according to Choubey. The country saw 33,406 cases of coronavirus and 1,109 fatalities in April, while it registered 1,995,178 cases and 28,777 deaths in August, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-lakh-people-kept-under-surveillance-as-part-of-covid-19-contact-tracing-centre-887825.html
15-09-2020||National||India's role in production of Covid-19 vaccine critical in containing pandemic: Bill Gates||In an exclusive interview to PTI, Gates, whose foundation is focusing on fighting the pandemic, called it the "next biggest thing" the world has been confronted with after the World War. The Microsoft co-founder said the world is looking to India for large scale production of Covid-19 vaccine once it is rolled out. "Obviously, all of us want to get a vaccine out in India as fast as we can, once we know that it's very effective and very safe, and so the plans are coming into focus that sometime next year, it's very likely that roll-out will take place and take place in fairly big volume," he said. "The world is also looking to India for some of that capacity to be available to other developing countries. Exactly what that allocation formula looks like will have to be figured out," Gates added. Scientists and pharmaceutical companies globally are racing against time to find a vaccine for the coronavirus pandemic which has killed about 9,32,000 people and infected around 24 million. Some of the vaccine candidates have entered the third and final phase of testing. "This is not like a world war, but it's the next biggest thing after that that we've ever had," he said. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, one of the world's largest charities, has been involved in global efforts to contain the pandemic. In India, the foundation has entered into a partnership with the Serum Institute to accelerate the manufacturing and delivery of Covid-19 vaccines. "India's willingness to play a big role in the manufacturing and to allow some of those vaccines to go to other developing countries will be an absolutely critical part of that," said Gates. "India will be helping to make sure we have equity. We have a model that shows that getting the vaccine out to those who need it the most will save half the lives that you'd lose if you only send it out to the rich countries," he said. In the telephonic interview, the Microsoft co-founder who has donated billions of dollars to fight poverty and diseases, talked extensively about India's strength in production of vaccines and referred to companies like Serum Institute, Bio E and Bharat Biotech. "We've been brokering the idea of taking a vaccine and manufacturing it in India, even if it comes from AstraZeneca, Oxford or Novavax or Johnson & Johnson. We've publicly talked about the arrangement where a Serum will be able to make very high volume of the AstraZeneca and the Novavax vaccine," said Gates. "There's discussions with Bio E, their connection with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, and whether they'll be able to ramp that up," he said. Gates also said that the foundation has been having "great discussions" with India's NITI-Aayog, adding the ICMR is looking at the regulatory aspects of the Covid-19 vaccines. "I'm actually very impressed with how our discussions with the government on these issues and the companies, including the Western companies collaborating with these new companies, that's all gone very well," Gates said. The American business magnate said he was optimistic that by the first quarter of next year, that several of these vaccines will reach the phase three emergency licence approval. "We still could be disappointed in that. But we have a variety of constructs and the early data from the phase one and phase two, for example the antibody levels, looks pretty promising for quite a few of these vaccines," he said. He said the focus should be to keep the cost of the vaccines low and it should be ensured that they can be made in very high volume. "We have to remember that even once a vaccine is approved, the bar for that vaccine in terms of the effectiveness was set as 50 per cent, and so we still may want to continue with other vaccines to get higher effectiveness," he said. Gates also complimented India's digital cash transfer scheme. "Getting payments out through digital cash transfers, that has been a fantastic thing, and obviously, India has done that at a scale that no other country ever has," he said. "The whole Aadhaar digital financial system in India has proven to be once again a huge asset," he said, adding it can be extended to all the countries of the world. The philanthropist also referred to the foundation's annual Goalkeepers report saying it normally takes stock of the ongoing progress on things like economic growth, literacy, child survival and average lifespan. "This year's report, unfortunately, we're unable to say that there's been progress. In fact, we talk about the setback, and one way we dimensionalise that for like vaccine coverage globally, which went from 84 per cent to 70 per cent, is we say that's a 25-year setback," he said. Asked whether India's economic downturn will impact implementation of social welfare schemes, Gates said the foundation is a huge believer that investments in health pay off very strongly. "It's tragic that all health activities have been so disrupted, and that will lead to increased deaths from other diseases, not just COVID," he said. "In fact, in many places, and I'm not sure if India will be included in this, but there's a chance that there would be more deaths from other diseases because of the health disruption than from COVID itself," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-role-in-production-of-covid-19-vaccine-critical-in-containing-pandemic-bill-gates-887827.html
15-09-2020||National||HC issues notice to Centre on plea over media coverage of Sushant Singh Rajput case||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Union government over a petition filed by an NGO seeking that the media be restrained from reporting on issues related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and subsequent probe into the case. This is the third such plea filed before the Bombay High Court. A bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta is already hearing two pleas, one filed by Pune-based filmmaker Nilesh Navlakha and two others, and another by eight former police officials from the state. The court has now tagged all the three pleas together for a joint hearing on October 8. The latest plea, filed by NGO 'In Pursuit of Justice', sought that the court widen the scope of the Contempt of the Court Act to include any obstructions that could hamper the administration of justice from the time an FIR is registered in a case. It also sought that the "media be restrained from publishing or broadcasting" anything related to the case till the plea is decided finally by the high court. "The recent spate of media reporting in the case of the untimely demise of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the extent of media frenzy concerning all issues and non-issues involving the incident is quite disturbing," the plea said. "It has given rise to an urgent need of finding an acceptable constitutional balance between free press and administration of justice," it said. The plea also said the press has published Rajputs personal chats, statements of accused and hospital staff, and it has already "tried and convicted" the accused persons, called them names such as "murderer, gold digger and abettor". Such reportage has transgressed rights of the parties concerned and is likely to prejudice the probe into the case, it said. The court issued a notice to the Centre over the plea and said, "We'll hear all related matters together."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-plea-over-media-coverage-of-sushant-singh-rajput-case-887853.html
15-09-2020||National||Indian poet-diplomat Abhay Kumar pens 'Venus Anthem'||Having composed several anthems inspired by the cosmos, India’s Ambassador to Madagascar and Comoros and poet Abhay Kumar has penned an anthem on the planet Venus, where a rare molecule has just been discovered by scientists giving a possible hint of microbial life. The Indian poet-diplomat penned ‘An Ode to Venus’ in May 2020 in Madagascar during the global coronavirus pandemic. As scientists on Monday announced detecting phosphine in the floating clouds of Venus which is usually produced by microbes in oxygen deficient environments, Kumar says in his ‘Venus Anthem’ that "secrets hidden beneath opaque clouds/air crushing, volcanoes thundering loud", highlighting the mysterious characteristics of the planet Venus. He has earlier penned anthems for the Earth and the Moon which have been set to music by renowned violinist and composer L Subramaniam. His Mars Anthem has been composed by Kenyan artist Ondiko and sung by Kapnea. During this year’s commemoration of Earth Day in April, the UN Department of Global Communications had organised a global youth conversation on climate action and response to Covid-19, featuring a rendition of the ‘Earth Anthem’ penned by the Indian diplomat. He has also written anthems for the Sun and the Jupiter and is in the process of writing anthems for other celestial bodies in the solar system. He noted that his Venus Anthem takes the peculiarities about the neighbouring planet into account, like the fact that Venus overtakes Earth every 584 days as it goes around the Sun and in the course changes from an Evening Star to a Morning Star. The Venus Anthem also notes that the planet rotates clockwise on its axis unlike Earth or the majority of the planets in the solar system which rotate on their axes in an anti-clockwise direction. It makes a pentagram-like pattern when observed from Earth, he said, adding that Venus is portrayed in the famous painting of Vincent Van Gogh ‘The Starry Night.’ Kumar’s Venus Anthem goes, "The evening star blazing bright/love goddess pouring pure delight, turning clockwise bending rules/the rebel princess dyed in wool…dancing with earth in twists and turns/making pentagrams, stunning patterns…morning star of the starry night/ushering a new dawn filled with light.” Kumar is the author of nine poetry collections including The Seduction Of Delhi. His 100 Great Indian Poems have been translated and published into Portuguese, Spanish, Italian and Malagasy. He has also translated and edited New Brazilian Poems and recently translated Meghaduta and Ritusamhara of Kalidasa, according to his profile on his website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-poet-diplomat-abhay-kumar-pens-venus-anthem-887870.html
15-09-2020||National||413 earthquakes recorded from March 1 to September 8 in India: Govt data||The National Seismological Network recorded 413 earthquakes in the country between March 1 and September 8, the Ministry of Earth Sciences said on Tuesday. The NSN is maintained by the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) to detect and locate earthquakes in and around the country, the ministry said in response to a question in Rajya Sabha. "A total of 413 earthquakes have been recorded by NSN during March 1, 2020 to September 8, 2020," it said. According to the ministry, 135 out of the 413 earthquakes were of magnitude 3.0 or lower which are "usually not felt". As many as 153 earthquakes were between 3.0 and 3.9 magnitude. These are are "minor" and "felt by many people" but there is "no damage", the ministry said. A total of 114 earthquakes were between 4.0 and 4.9 magnitude. An earthquake in this category is "felt in a large area" and there is "minor breakage of objects", it said. Only 11 earthquakes were in the range of 5.0 to 5.7 magnitude. This category is known as "moderate" and there is "some damage to weak structures", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/413-earthquakes-recorded-from-march-1-to-september-8-in-india-govt-data-887874.html
15-09-2020||National||Supreme Court grants bail to accused under NDPS Act in 'unusual times' of Covid-19||The Supreme Court has granted bail to a person in a case filed under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in view of “unusual times” of the Covid-19 pandemic. A three-judge bench of Justices S K Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari noted that the apex court has passed orders for release of persons on bail to decongest jails, applicable to cases of up to seven years sentence. The apex court said, “We are faced with unusual times where the Covid situation permeates. “In the given aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, we consider it appropriate to enlarge the appellant on bail on terms and conditions to the satisfaction of the Trial Court.” The lawyer appearing for the petitioner Sheru argued that the accused has been in custody for almost eight years and despite directions of this Court to treat the case on priority, it has not yet reached the hearing stage. On the other hand, the Additional Solicitor General SV Raju appearing for Narcotics Control Bureau contended that the normal principle of a large period having already been served during the pendency of the appeal cannot be a ground to suspend the sentence and grant bail in view of the stringent provisions of Section 37 of the NDPS Act.  Section 37 of the NDPS Act which provides for the conditions for granting bail to an accused. The top court said that there is no doubt that the rigours of Section 37 would have to be met before the sentence of a convict is suspended and bail granted and mere passage of time cannot be a reason for the same.  The apex court clarified that the order has been passed in the given facts of the case and not to be treated as a precedent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-grants-bail-to-accused-under-ndps-act-in-unusual-times-of-covid-19-887877.html
15-09-2020||National||Re-purposed hydroxychloroquine being used for mild, moderate Covid-19 cases: Harsh Vardhan||Re-purposed hydroxychloroquine is being used for mild but high risk and moderate Covid-19 cases, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. According to the data shared by the minister, the Department of Pharmaceuticals has increased the production of hydroxychloroquine manifold and the health ministry has issued 10.84 crore tablets of the drug to states and union territories as on September 11. "India has also exported it (hydroxychloroquine) to more than 140 countries," Vardhan said. He also said there is a plan to conduct trial of ayurvedic medicines such as aswagandha, guduchi, pippali etc to prevent people from getting infected from Covid-19. The minister said no specific antivirals have been proven effective so far and symptomatic treatment for fever and cough, appropriate rehydration, supplemental oxygen therapy remains the mainstay of treatment. "We have re-purposed the drug hydroxychloroquine for mild (but high-risk cases) and for moderate cases. This was done with limited scientific evidence but well acknowledging that this drug has been used widely in India for other ailments where it is used for prolonged periods of time, with good safety profile," Vardhan said. The government has also made provisions for investigational therapies and has also been made for using Remdesivir, Convalescent plasma and Tocilizumab for managing severe cases under close medical supervision, he said. There are thirteen clinical trials of repurposed drugs and harnessing of traditional knowledge using the modern medicine approach are building a portfolio of therapeutic options for Covid-19 patients. Phase 2 clinical trial of immunomodulator Sepsivac has been completed successfully and clinical trial of the first-ever phytopharmaceutical ACQH is underway, the minister said. "One prophylactic trial of Aswagandha and three trials of Guduchi + Pippali; Yashtimadhu; and polyherbal AYUSH drug (AYUSH-64) are planned on moderately ill Covid19 patients," he said. The minister said that more than 30 vaccine candidates have been supported which are in different stages of development, 3 candidates are in advanced stage of Phase I, II and III trials and more than 4 are in the advanced pre-clinical development stage in India. Government action of nationwide lockdown, community involvement etc has prevented up to 38 thousand deaths and 29 lakh Covid-19 cases in the country, the minister said. He said a total of 45,62,414 confirmed cases and 76,271 deaths have been reported in India out of which as many as 35,42,663 cases, 77.65 per cent of total, have recovered.   "The maximum cases and deaths have been primarily reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Bihar, Telangana, Odisha, Assam , Kerala & Gujarat. All these States have reported more than one lakh cases," Vardhan said. He said that government efforts have been able to limit its cases and deaths per million to 3,328 cases per 10 lakh and 55 deaths per 10 lakh population respectively, which is one of the lowest in the world as compared to similarly affected countries.   The minister informed Rajya Sabha that from a situation of a single laboratory equipped to undertake testing for Covid in January, presently 1705 laboratories are conducting Covid-19 Testing.   According to the minister, the Covid-19 test has reached 10 lakh tests a day which translates to 720 tests per 10 lakh population per day. The central government has issued orders to purchase 60,948 ventilators to meet any contingencies and as on September 11, states have been allocated 32,109 ventilators of which 30,170 have been delivered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/re-purposed-hydroxychloroquine-being-used-for-mild-moderate-covid-19-cases-harsh-vardhan-887878.html
15-09-2020||National||India's rank slips to 54th in terms of appreciation in residential prices||India's rank slipped 11 places to 54th in terms of appreciation in residential prices, as housing rates declined nearly 2 per cent during June quarter compared with the year-ago period, according to property consultant Knight Frank. India is at 54th spot amongst the 56 countries and territories tracked in terms of appreciation in residential real estate prices, the consultant said. As per the 'Global House Price Index Q2 2020', housing prices in India declined 1.9 per cent year-on-year (YoY). "As compared to Q1 2020, India moves down 11 spots in the global index, from 43rd rank to 54th rank in Q2 2020," Knight Frank said. The Index tracks the movement in mainstream residential prices across 56 countries and territories worldwide using official statistics. In the 12-month percentage change for the period Q2 of 2019 to Q2 of 2020, Turkey led the annual rankings with prices up 25.7 per cent YoY, followed by Luxembourg at 13.9 per cent and Lithuania with 12.4 per cent. Hong Kong was the weakest-performing territory in Q2 2020, with home prices falling to 2.8 per cent. "Mainstream residential prices across 56 countries and territories worldwide rose at an annual rate change of 4.7 per cent on average, compared to Q1 2020 at 4.4 per cent," the consultant said. According to the report, 9 per cent of the surveyed global countries and territories registered a decline in a yearly price growth. European countries occupy eight of the top 10 rankings in Q2 2020, which provides representations from the Baltic and Central and Eastern European nations as well. From the Asia Pacific region perspective, New Zealand and South Korea, which were initially seen to have effectively handled the pandemic, have registered mixed results. New Zealand slumped from second to 11th place in the rankings between March and June. However, the country recorded an annual price growth of 9 per cent, making it the top-performing market of the Asia Pacific region. South Korea has seen an annual price growth pick up to 1.3 per cent in Q2 2020. Knight Frank India CMD Shishir Baijal said: "The residential sector has been impacted by low demand across most markets in India. Further, the slowdown due to the pandemic in the global economy has adversely affected the real estate sector and the purchasing power of homebuyers." The current softening of prices can be beneficial for the end users to make their purchase decisions, he said, adding that lower home loan interest rate could provide the right motivation for house purchase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-rank-slips-to-54th-in-terms-of-appreciation-in-residential-prices-887891.html
15-09-2020||National||Cover mental illness under life insurance: Anand Sharma||Amid an "exponential growth" of mental health issues during Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, Congress' Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader Anand Sharma on Tuesday asked the government to put mental illness under the ambit of life insurance, as it will help people see it with the same lens as that of physical diseases. Raising the issue during Zero Hour, Sharma said one in seven persons in the country are suffering from depression and the number of people affected by mental disorders and issues have risen during the pandemic and lockdown in the recent months. Students and children are increasingly suffering from mental disorders and many of them were not able to access online study, non-availability of midday meals and fear of getting affected by Covid-19. "The first and foremost reason is the lack of awareness and sensitivity among people. People suffering from mental disorders suffer from stigma. Any kind of mental disorders or illness demand an active policy intervention and resource allocation from the government. There should be a persistent effort to educate and sensitise society about mental disorders," he said. He demanded that mental disorders be "mandatorily" put under the ambit of life insurance and this will help people to see mental illness in the same lens as they see physical diseases. Both the Centre and state governments need to evolve innovative modes to deepen penetration of services and set up helplines and counselling centres across the country, he added. Samajwadi Party leader in Rajya Sabha Ramgopal Yadav also raised the issue of people committing suicide due to stress. "Many people are jobless after the Covid-19 induced lockdown and are going through stress. In the last 3-4 months in Noida alone, 44 people have committed suicide and 175 people have died," he said. He asked the government to provide Rs 15,000 monthly allowance to those who lost jobs due to the lockdown to ensure they do not die of hunger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cover-mental-illness-under-life-insurance-anand-sharma-887893.html
15-09-2020||National||Rural tourism projects underway in Bihar, Kerala: Tourism Minister||The ministry of tourism has sanctioned two projects in Bihar and Kerala at a cost of Rs 125 crore under the Rural Circuit as part of its endeavour to take tourism to the villages of the country. In a written reply in Rajya Sabha, Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel said the ministry has launched the Swadesh Darshan Scheme for Integrated Development of theme-based Tourist Circuits for development of tourism infrastructure including last mile connectivity. He said recognising the potential of rural tourism in the country, the ministry has identified Rural Circuit as one of the 15 thematic circuits for development under this scheme. "The objectives of the Swadesh Darshan scheme include creating employment through active involvement of local communities and promoting community-based development and pro-poor tourism approach. "Based on the above criteria, the ministry has sanctioned two projects total amounting to Rs 125.02 crore for development of Rural Circuits under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme which are under different stages of implementation," he said. One of the projects has been sanctioned in Bihar during FY 2017-18 - “Development of Bhitiharwa -Chandrahia -Turkaulia” amounting to Rs 44.65 crore and the other in Kerala, during FY 2018-19, - “Development of Malanad Malabar Cruise Tourism” amounting to Rs 80.37 crore, he said. The ministry has also instituted a National Tourism Award in the category of ‘Best Rural/Agri/Plantation Tourism Projects’ to motivate the stakeholders in the tourism sector for implementing such projects. "Ministry of Rural Development has informed us that their Shyama Prasad Mukherji Rurban Mission (SPMRM) follows the vision of development of a cluster of villages that preserve and nurture the essence of rural community life with a focus on equity and inclusiveness without compromising with facilities perceived to be essentially urban in nature, thus creating a cluster of 'Rurban Villages'," he said. Under the Mission, 300 clusters are being developed across 28 States and 8 Union Territories. Tourism is one of the themes of Rurban cluster development. Tourism-related activities/projects are among the 21 component categories under SPMRM. Patel said the ministry of rural development has informed that a total of 67 Rurban clusters have proposed tourism-related activities in gram panchayats across 26 States/UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rural-tourism-projects-underway-in-bihar-kerala-tourism-minister-887896.html
15-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 78.28%||India's Covid-19 recovery rate has risen to 78.28 per cent as a total of 38,59,399 people have recuperated, exceeding the active cases of coronavirus by 28,69,338 as on date, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.  There are 9,90,061 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprise 20.08 per cent of the total caseload, according to the Health Ministry data updated at 8 am. Close to half (48.8 per cent) of the active cases are concentrated in three states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh. Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Kerala and Telangana contribute close to a quarter (24.4 per cent) of the active cases, the ministry said. "Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu contribute 60.35 per cent of the total active cases and are also reporting close to 60 per cent (59.42 pc) of the total recovered cases," it highlighted. Of the 1,054 fatalities reported in 24 hours, nearly 69 per cent are concentrated in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Delhi. More than 37 per cent of cumulative deaths reported so far in the country are from Maharashtra (29,894 deaths). The state reported 34.44 per cent of the deaths in the last 24 hours (363 deaths), the ministry said. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 49,30,236 with 83,809 people testing positive in a day, while the death toll climbed to 80,776 with 1,054 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-7828-887897.html
15-09-2020||National||Multiplex association urges govt to reopen cinemas, says jobs are at stake||Appealing to the government to allow theatres to reopen “on an urgent basis”, the Multiplex Association of India on Tuesday said the movie exhibition sector that provides employment to lakhs of people had lost an estimated Rs 9,000 crore in the last six months. The cinema body, which represents all the multiplex chains, including, PVR, INOX, and Cinepolis, said the sector directly employs more than two lakh people and provides employment to lakhs indirectly. Describing movies as the “soft power of India” and cinemas the main form of entertainment for millions of Indians, the association said close to 10,000 cinema screens across the country had been shut for close to six months. The movie exhibition sector has suffered financially and is now staring at job losses unless the government allows theatres to reopen, it said. The appeal, with the hashtag UnlockCinemaSaveJobs, was published as full-page advertisements in some newspapers and also posted on Twitter. “Due to countrywide lockdown, the cinema exhibition industry has run into an extremely adverse and hostile situation; it was the first sector to be shut down and the last sector to reopen.” “Given the dire economic impact of the epidemic on our sector and livelihoods of people we sincerely urge the government of India to allow the reopening of cinemas on an urgent basis,” the statement said, estimating that the sector had suffered a monthly loss of Rs 1,500 crore in the last six months, amounting to Rs 9,000 crore. More than 84 countries, including China, Korea, UK, France, Italy, Spain, UAE, and the US, have already opened cinemas to the public while maintaining the highest degree of safety protocols and have seen encouraging response, it said. The film body said malls, airlines, railways, retail, restaurants, gyms, and many such services have already restarted as part of ‘Unlock India’. In the fourth phase of unlocking, bars and metro services also opened up. The association, which in July introduced several SoPs such as paperless tickets, seat distancing, staggered intervals, regulated entry, and exit and regular sanitisation to make cinemas a safe place to visit, reiterated that it is equipped with better abilities to ensure crowd management in "stringent hygienic environments while maintaining applicable social distancing norms".   PVR Pictures, the biggest cinema chain in India, tweeted the appeal with a message on the joy of watching movies in theatres. “The joy of watching stories unfold on the big screen: the clapping, laughing and tears. We miss it. Can’t wait to have you back at the movies! #UnlockCinemaSaveJobs,” the chain captioned the appeal. “Millions work behind the scenes, to make dreams come to life on the big screen. Their jobs are at stake. Please reopen cinemas immediately,” INOX Leisure Ltd said while sharing the appeal. Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap also backed the MAI’s appeal on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/multiplex-association-urges-govt-to-reopen-cinemas-says-jobs-are-at-stake-887901.html
15-09-2020||National||DU teachers move HC seeking direction to pay salaries of past four months||Some teachers of Delhi University on Tuesday approached the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the colleges which are affiliated to the varsity and fully funded by the AAP government to release their salaries pending for the last four months. The petition, which is likely to come up for hearing on September 17, said apart from these teachers there are other employees, teaching and non-teaching staff, who have not received their salaries for the months of May, June, July, and August. The eight teachers, who have filed the plea through advocates Ashok Agarwal and Kumar Utkarsh, said they are members of Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA), which on behalf of the aggrieved staff, has been writing to the Delhi government for the release of funds to enable the 12 DU colleges, funded by the AAP government, to pay due salaries to 1500 teachers and non-teaching staff working there. The plea said due to non-payment of salaries to the teachers, they and all other employees working with the 12 colleges are undergoing mental agony and harassment and contended that there is no justification on the part of authorities to not pay them their dues on time. “The impugned actions are unjust, unfair, arbitrary, discriminatory, unethical, unconstitutional, violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India read with the provisions of Delhi University Act, 1922. “The impugned actions are bad in law as much as the same is violative of right to life as well as the right to livelihood as guaranteed under Article 21 of Constitution of India,” the plea contended. It sought a direction to the authorities to pay salaries to the petitioners due from May this year to date and also ensure timely payment of salaries in the future. The plea said the 12 colleges which are affiliated with the Delhi University and are fully funded by the Delhi government are Acharya Narendra Dev College, Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences, Bhagini Nivedita College, DeenDayal Upadhyaya College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College, Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education & Sports Sciences, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Maharaja Agrasen College (DU), Maharshi Valmiki College of Education, Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/du-teachers-move-hc-seeking-direction-to-pay-salaries-of-past-four-months-887905.html
15-09-2020||National||Parliament passes bill to provide statutory status to aviation regulators||Parliament on Tuesday passed a bill that seeks to improve India's aviation safety ratings, provide statutory status to regulatory institutions like the DGCA even as the Opposition accused the government of centralising powers in its hands and demanded a probe into privatisation of airports. Rajya Sabha passed the Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020 with a voice vote after a discussion, six months after the Lok Sabha cleared the legislation in March. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri said the "operating thrust" of the Bill was to provide statutory powers to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) and the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) and it was necessary for moving forward with an exponential growth of the sector. He said the amendments were necessary as the growth in civil aviation has thrown many challenges such as saturated airport capacity, lack of trained manpower, limited manpower capabilities. The new amendments also provide the provision to raise penalty for violation from up to Rs 10 lakh to Rs 1 crore. The last revision was made in 2007 from Rs 1,000-2,000 to Rs 10 lakh. However, no change has been proposed in terms of imprisonment that is at two years in most cases, he said. Rejecting the criticism on privatisation of airports, Puri said since the privatisation of Mumbai and Delhi airports in 2006, the Airports Authority of India has received Rs 29,000 crore. This money has been utilised to develop airport infrastructure in other parts of the country, he said. Initiating the debate on the Bill, Congress' K C Venugopal accused the government of promoting crony capitalism by privatising airports in the name of developing them. Referring to the Adani group getting the opportunity to operate and develop six airports of Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram, he said, "there is a move to monopolise Indian airports. In the future, all Indian airports will be owned by only one company. How can you allow this...There is a clear violation of norms in giving airports to a single private entity. This is a clear scam of public money...I am asking for an inquiry into all this. This is a clear case of corruption." Countering the charge, BJP member GVL Narasimha Rao said the Narendra Modi government acted in complete transparency in developing airports and alleged that crony capitalism was promoted during the Congress-led UPA government. He said the courts had to intervene due to corruption when the UPA regime went ahead with 2G and coal auctions. CPI's Binoy Vishwam said the Modi government has taken FDI as a panacea for all problems and is hell bent on privatising all companies and ports, which is a "dangerous" move for the nation against Atmanirbhar Bharat (self reliant India). Former Civil Aviation Minister and NCP MP Praful Patel highlighted the need for developing more airports to decongest airports like Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai and Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bill-to-provide-statutory-status-to-aviation-regulators-887908.html
15-09-2020||National||Bill to give 'national importance' tag to Gujarat Ayurveda institutes introduced in Rajya Sabha||A bill that seeks to accord the status of an institution of national importance to a Jamnagar-based cluster of Ayurveda institutes was introduced in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan introduced 'The Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill, 2020,' which will grant institution of national importance status by conglomerating the cluster of Ayurveda institutes at Gujarat Ayurveda University campus in Jamnagar. Lok Sabha has already approved the bill in the last session, in which three Jamnagar, Gujarat-based institutes -- Institute of Post Graduate Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Gulabkunwerba Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya and Institute of Ayurveda Pharmaceutical Sciences --would be conglomerated. Moving the Bill for passage, Vardhan said this for the promotion of quality and excellence in education, research and training in Ayurveda and allied disciplines. "This is going to be the first institution in the country in the field of Ayurveda to be given the status of an institution of national importance. This is one of the oldest in the country under the government sector. 10 per cent of Ayurveda research publications are from this institute," he said. The Institute of Post Graduate Teaching and Research in Ayurveda is the only centre, which is a WHO collaborating centre and is the only institution, where PG and research facility is available. It has also made several treatment protocols and guidelines for the country. "This is a first attempt to give such recognition to an Ayurveda institution, which has already attained an international stature," he added. While initiating the debate, INC member L Hanumanthaiah said Ayurveda is an ancient medical system and used by local practitioners in rural areas. However, it is now facing a big challenge from the scientific medical system. Hanumanthaiah questioned the move to grant such a status to an institute from Gujarat while ignoring states like Kerala and Karnataka, which have a rich history of traditional Ayurveda system. "Why this is only in Gujarat. Kerala is number one in Ayurveda," he said adding, institutes in Kerala such as kottakkal Ayurveda are world-famous and even much older than the Jamnagar-based institute. Institutes like the Government Ayurveda College, Thiruvananthapuram were established in 1889, while the Jamnagar-based research institute started in 1952. "Why Kerala Ayurveda institute has not been given national importance. Karnataka has 68 Ayurveda colleges and research institutes," he pointed out. "The bill is interested only in Gujarat and Jamnagar institute," he said. Besides, traditional Siddha medicine is popular in Tamil Nadu and an institute of such national importance should come up there. "If you had come with this kind of national importance institute in Kerala, Tamil Nadu or Karnataka, I would have very happily invited this bill to come up but the government is only interested in Gujarat and I feel... because the prime minister is from Gujarat. So they wanted to have Ayurveda national importance institute there, though there are no practitioners in Gujarat like Kerala and Karnataka," said Hanumanthaiah. "What is the reason, we must know. My colleagues from Gujarat also agree with this," he said. Hanumanthaiah said Ayurveda education system across the country requires teachers and research facilities, which are lacking. "Make a list of all Ayurveda institutes and make a national level governing body for monitoring research institutes across the country, then only you can contribute to Ayurveda and research also," he said. Ayurvedic products business across the world is estimated to be around USD 10 billion (around Rs 73,66 crore) by 2022, he said, adding that work is needed to improve Ayurvedic teaching and research. "To attain self-sufficiency in the postgraduate level and undergraduate level, it needs specialist and teachers in Ayurveda. There is a shortage of teachers at postgraduate level and the research is also not at the expected level and the government says this bill is going to help," he said. The proposed institute would have a 15-member committee including the Minister of Ayush, Secretary of Ayush and Secretary of Health & Family Welfare of the Gujarat Government, along with three MPs in which two would be from Lok Sabha and one from Rajya Sabha. "The bill says the director of the Institute of PG Teaching and Research will be the director of the institute and will be the chairman of the governing body also. I have a strong doubt, how the director would work when the minister and secretary are a member of the governing body," he added. The debate remained inconclusive and would continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-give-national-importance-tag-to-gujarat-ayurveda-institutes-introduced-in-rajya-sabha-887912.html
15-09-2020||National||States face oxygen cylinders shortage as Covid-19 cases surge||The mounting number of coronavirus cases has resulted in a shortage of hospital beds, and as the country nears the 50-lakh mark, states have begun to face a shortage of oxygen supplies. States are dependent on their neighbours for oxygen and are now facing a threat of shortage. Some have tried to prevent transportation outside their border, forcing the Union health Ministry to issue a letter asking the states not to restrict movement of oxygen cylinders. Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka faced a shortage of oxygen after Maharashtra cut off oxygen supplies on September 7, and utilised it for their own hospitals. However, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V clarified that there was no shortage of oxygen in hospitals in the district. As coronavirus cases spiked in Delhi, Indore and Bhopal, their suppliers located in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra and Bundelkhand were hit, resulting in a shortage of oxygen in those three regions. Kharghar-based Polaris Hospital manager Ashok Kumar said, "There is no regular supply. Our demand is 25 to 30 cylinders of 7,000 litres a piece. But we get less than half of it." In Jammu, hospitals faced oxygen shortage, a problem that National Conference president Farooq Abdullah termed as "worrisome".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-face-oxygen-cylinders-shortage-as-covid-19-cases-surge-887918.html
15-09-2020||National||Parliament passes bill to give statutory status to aviation regulators||Parliament on Tuesday passed a bill that seeks to improve India's aviation safety ratings and provide statutory status to regulatory institutions, including the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which provides for statutory backing to the DGCA, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) and the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), was passed by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha. The bill that was passed in Lok Sabha on March 17 also entails increasing the fine for violations from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 1 crore. Introducing the bill, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said, "The operating thrust of the bill is to provide a statutory basis to these important agencies... This is necessary as we move forward with exponential growth in civil aviation." The amendments were necessary as tremendous growth in civil aviation has thrown many challenges such as saturated airport capacity, lack of trained manpower, limited manpower capabilities, he said, adding these are “happy challenges”. Puri said the bill seeks to insert a new definition for three regulatory bodies DGCA, BCAS and AAIB, and added that they will be provided statutory recognition. The proposed amendments follow the 2012 and the 2015 audit by the International Civil Aviation Organisation that had indicated the need to give statutory recognition to these agencies, he said. Puri said there is a provision to raise the penalty for violation from up to Rs 10 lakh to Rs 1 crore. The last revision was made in 2007 from Rs 1,000-2000 to Rs 10 lakh. No change has been proposed in terms of imprisonment that is at two years in most cases, he said. DGCA, BCAS and AAIB were constituted under executive powers of the government. Puri said in the existing setup, the Centre administers various aspects of civil aviation under the Aircraft Act, 1931, through these agencies. Replying during a debate, he said the government in the last three years has recruited 1,000 air traffic controllers as against the requirement of 3,500 such officials. "We are very close to that number and we would have reached that number, even surpassed, if recruitment processes wouldn’t have slowed down on account of COVID pandemic," he said replying to issues raised by Congress member K C Venugopal, who had earlier opposed the bill and attacked the government on its privatisation policy and other issues like air safety. Puri said Venugopal should look at the issue of privatisation in a historical context. The country's largest airports Delhi and Mumbai were successfully privatised in 2006 under a previous political dispensation, and proceeds from the process have resulted in getting resources to develop airport infrastructure in the country, he noted. Since the privatisation of Mumbai and Delhi airports, the Airports Authority of India has received Rs 29,000 crore, Puri said. This money has been utilised to develop airport infrastructure in other parts of the country, he said. On the Congress' charge of allotting six airports to one group, Puri said the Delhi and Mumbai airports account for 33 per cent of air traffic and earnings. The six airports that were awarded in 2018 together account for only nine per cent of traffic and earnings, he said. "In terms of six airports being given to one entity, let me just place it in perspective. When these two airports in Delhi and Mumbai have privatised all subsequent efforts at privatisation contained a stipulation to the effect that prior experience was necessary," he said. "So, we fell into a trap of our own making and not by this government and I don't want to make it as a political point. But unless you had previous experience, which means unless you had earlier done Delhi or Mumbai, you could not participate in the process, which meant for 15 years no competitive open bidding could take place," Puri said. On the other hand, entities from all over the world participated in the bidding for six airports in 2018, he said. Citing examples of the upcoming Jewar airport in Uttar Pradesh, he said a new entity came out as a winner as the entire process has been opened up. "I am making a limited point that we are progressing from a limited number of players, gaining by that experience and then opening it for global entities which were the experience in case of Jewar," the minister said. On the Vande Bharat Mission, Puri said close to 16 lakh citizens who were stranded abroad, were flown back to India under the mission. "This is the largest, most comprehensive process of evacuation, repatriation of Indians or citizens of any country in time in the history,” he said. On Air India's privatisation, he said, "If I could help it, we would keep it, but with Rs 60,000 crore debt the choice is not between privatisation and not privatisation. Some of my colleagues should realise that the choice is between privatisation and closing down." "But we are confident that the airline is running way, doing extremely well will be given to its new owner in order for Air India and that flag to be kept flying," he said. Responding to Prasanna Acharya's (BJD) charge of dismal safety record in the civil aviation sector, Puri said he finds it astonishing that the country is being compared with some of neighbouring nations that have a shoddy record. "We were being compared with some of the neighbouring countries who are in category 2. It gives some members great satisfaction to run ourselves down, compare us with other countries which are in category 2, while we are in category 1," he noted. The European safety agency and US regulator has placed the country in category 1, Puri said. “Let there be no doubt that this government will not compromise on issues of safety," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bill-to-give-statutory-status-to-aviation-regulators-887925.html
15-09-2020||National||'Excellent safety' of two indigenous Covid-19 candidate vaccines revealed during Phase-I trials: Ashwini Choubey||Phase-I clinical trials have revealed "excellent safety" of the two candidate vaccines indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and Cadila Healthcare Ltd and their immunogenicity testing is now in progress, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Their phase II clinical trials are going on, Choubey said in response to a question on the present status of the vaccine programme/clinical trials for Covid-19 undertaken by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and other private research centres in the country. Choubey further informed that discussions on collaborations on the recombinant vaccine developed by Russia are ongoing. However, no formal studies have been initiated. Serum Institute of India (SII) and ICMR have partnered for clinical development of two global vaccine candidates. The first is ChAdOx1-S, a non-replicating viral vector vaccine developed by University of Oxford/AstraZeneca. This vaccine is undergoing phase III clinical trials in Brazil. Phase II/III bridging studies have been initiated by ICMR at 14 clinical trial sites, Choubey said. The ICMR-National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai is the lead institution. Choubey further informed that ICMR and SII have also partnered for clinical development of a glycoprotein subunit nanoparticle adjuvanted vaccine developed by Novavax from USA. The trial will be initiated in the second half of October after the vaccine is manufactured by SII. The trial is led by ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), Pune, he said. Elaborating on the two indigenously developed candidate vaccines, Choubey said an inactivated whole virion candidate vaccine for SARS-CoV-2 has been developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd using the virus isolate provided by ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. Characterization of the vaccine candidate has been undertaken at ICMR-NIV followed by safety and tolerability studies in small animals like rats, mice and rabbits.  Phase I clinical trials along with parallel studies in large animals have been completed.  "The trial has revealed excellent safety of the candidate vaccine. Immunogenicity testing is in progress. Phase II clinical trials are ongoing," he said. Besides, a DNA vaccine (ZyCov-D) has been developed by Cadila Healthcare Ltd, pre-clinical toxicity studies of which were conducted in small animals - mice, rats, rabbits and guinea pigs. The vaccine has been found to be safe and immunogenic. Cadila has partnered with ICMR for the conduct of parallel preclinical studies in large animals.  "While the Government and Industry are trying their best to make available a safe and effective vaccine for Covid-19 at the earliest, it is difficult to comment on the exact timelines in view of various complex pathways involved in vaccine development," he said.   Other companies in India involved in Covid-19 vaccine development are Premas Biotech, Gennova, Mynvax, Epygen Biotech, Luxmatra Innovations, Biological Evans. All candidates are in preclinical development stages, the minister said. As per details provided by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT)/Department of Science and Technology(DST), "more than 30 vaccine candidates have been supported which are in different stages of development, 03 candidates are in an advanced stage of phase-I/II/III trials and more than 04 are in advanced pre-clinical development stage".  The ICMR has allocated Rs 25 crore for various studies and other research activities pertaining to vaccine development. The Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a statutory body under the Department of Science and Technology, has supported three projects under COVID-19 on vaccine research under Intensified Research in High Priority Areas (IRHPA)  The sanctioned expenditure is Rs 22,27,579 and the committed expenditure is Rs 3,20,78,161 according to the details.  The Department of Biotechnology is also supporting eight proposals by the industry and academia for candidate vaccine development and associated research resources at a total cost of Rs 75 crore, the minister said in response to another question.  As per the World Health Organisation, 35 vaccine candidates are under clinical evaluation and 145 candidates are in pre-clinical evaluation stage as on September 9, Choubey said. The Government has constituted a high-level National Expert Group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 which is chaired by Member, Niti Aayog and co-chaired by Secretary, Ministry of Health. Other representatives are -- Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, Secretary, Department of Health Research, Director General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Head ECD, Indian Council of Medical Research, Director Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Member NTAGI) and Representatives from States and D/o Expenditure. The committee is addressing issues related to vaccine delivery, selection of suitable vaccines, procurement, prioritization of groups, logistics including cold chain requirements, finance and national/international equity, Choubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/excellent-safety-of-two-indigenous-covid-19-candidate-vaccines-revealed-during-phase-i-trials-ashwini-choubey-887930.html
15-09-2020||National||Covid-19 spreads through saliva, respiratory secretions of infected people: Choubey||Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that current evidence, according to WHO, suggests that transmission of coronavirus occurs primarily through direct, indirect, or close contact with infected people through saliva and respiratory secretions. "Airborne transmission of the virus can occur in healthcare settings where specific medical procedures, called aerosol-generating procedures, generate very small droplets called aerosols," the minister said in a written reply. According to World Health Organization (WHO), the current evidence suggests that transmission of coronavirus occurs primarily between people through direct, indirect, or close contact with infected people through infected secretions such as saliva and respiratory secretions, or through their respiratory droplets, which are expelled when an infected person coughs, sneezes, talks or sings, he explained. The government of India in its guidelines on rational use of Personal Protective Equipment issued on March 24 has accounted for the possibility of airborne transmission in aerosol-generating procedures and has recommended appropriate PPEs for all such settings, Choubey said. India has reported large outbreaks in certain districts indicating the spread of infection in those districts.  Only 10 states --Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Odisha, Assam, and Kerala -- are currently contributing to 77 per cent of active cases in the country, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-spreads-through-saliva-respiratory-secretions-of-infected-people-choubey-887942.html
15-09-2020||National||223 people under detention in J&K, no one under house arrest now: Govt in LS||The government on Tuesday said 223 people are currently under detention in Jammu and Kashmir and no one is under house arrest. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the government of Jammu and Kashmir has reported that after the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year various measures were taken to maintain public order which included preventive detention of certain persons. "As on September 11, 2020, 223 persons are under detention. No person is under house arrest in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir," he said in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. Reddy also said after the bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019, the number of terrorist incidents have reduced significantly. From June 29, 2018, to August 4, 2019 (402 days), there were 455 terror incidents in Jammu and Kashmir and from August 5, 2019, to September 9 (402 days), a total of 211 such incidents took place in the newly created Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/223-people-under-detention-in-jk-no-one-under-house-arrest-now-govt-in-ls-887947.html
15-09-2020||National||SC restrains Sudarshan TV channel from running programme on 'UPSC Jihad'||The Supreme Court on Tuesday restrained Sudarshan News TV Channel from running remaining episodes of a programme 'UPSC Jihad'. It said that attempts to vilify a community must be viewed with great disfavour by the court, which is custodian of constitutional rights. Maintaining that journalists can't enjoy absolute free speech, the court indicated to regulate the electronic media in view of its powerful impact and wide reach, saying people might not read newspapers today but do watch television. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph said the show apparently made insidious attempt to vilify Muslims as it propagated that they are "infiltrating" civil services. "The edifice of a stable democracy society under a regime of constitutional rights and values is founded on co-existence of communities. India is a melting pot of civilisations, cultures and values," the bench noted.  The court passed its order on a petition filed by advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan, who contended pre-telecast ban was denied on August 28 but the situation now has changed with running of a few episodes. The episode telecast were "palpably erroneous but have been made in wanton disregard of the truth. There is no relaxation either in the age limit or in the number of attempts available to the Muslim community in the civil services. The drift, tenor and content of the episodes is to bring the community into public hatred and disrepute," the bench said. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the TV channel, submitted that the show was an investigative journalistic piece, raising issue of national security. During the hearing, the bench expressed its displeasure over the manner of debates and discussions being carried out in some Television channels. The Centre, led by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, however, opposed any efforts to regulate TV media, saying the freedom enjoyed by the print and electronic media journalist was supreme and it would be disastrous for any democracy to control the press. The Union government also referred to web portals and YouTube channels, which remained unregulated. The bench, however, said the law does not have to regulate everything to regulate something. The court put the matter for consideration on September 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-restrains-sudarshan-tv-channel-from-running-programme-on-upsc-jihad-887955.html
15-09-2020||National||Indian man returns home after UAE govt waives 500,000 dirhams in visa fine||A 47-year-old Indian man, who stayed in the UAE without any documents for over 13 years, has been repatriated home after getting a waiver of half a million Dirhams (Rs 1,00,21,000) in visa dues, according to a media report on Tuesday. Pothugonda Medi, a migrant laborer from Telangana, approached the Indian Consulate here after he lost his job following the coronavirus outbreak, the Gulf News reported. "During the Covid-19 pandemic, he came to us as he could not find any odd jobs that he used to do earlier for his survival," Jithendra Negi, Consul, Labour and Consular, at the Indian Consulate, was quoted as saying by the paper. Pothugonda told the Indian mission that he had come to the Gulf on a visit visa in 2007, however his agent abandoned him soon after. The agent had not returned Medi's passport, the paper reported. The mission found it difficult to assist Medi as there were no documents to prove his citizenship. The consulate sought the help of a charity group in Hyderabad to track down his family. “With the support of social worker Sriniwas we managed to get the copies of his old ration card and election ID card from his native place. Some of the details that he gave were not matching, but still, we could establish that he is an Indian,” Negi said. After the consulate provided a free flight ticket to Medi, the officials applied under the UAE government's visa expiration exemption scheme. According to the scheme, expatriates whose visas have expired before March 1, 2020, can leave the country before November 17 without paying visa dues. The General Directorate of Residency and Foreign Affairs in Dubai has so far waived millions of dirhams in visa penalties. The coronavirus has claimed the lives of 399 people with over 80,000 confirmed cases in the UAE so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-man-returns-home-after-uae-govt-waives-500000-dirhams-in-visa-fine-887962.html
15-09-2020||National||Coronavirus pandemic pushed 37 million into extreme poverty: Gates Foundation||The coronavirus pandemic has pushed almost 37 million people into extreme poverty besides reversing the progress made in the health sector for the past several decades, a report by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation said on Tuesday. It said the "widest-ranging catastrophe" - the one that has hit every country regardless of the actual spread of the disease - is economic. Citing a projection by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the report said the global economy will lose USD 12 trillion or more by the end of 2021 despite the spending of USD 18 trillion in trying to stimulate growth around the world. The annual 'Goalkeepers report' by the Foundation primarily analyses progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations in alleviating poverty and address health issues. It said India was able to transfer cash to 200 million women amid the coronavirus crisis and it not only reduced the impact of the pandemic on hunger and poverty but also advanced the country's long-term goal of empowering women. In an interview to PTI, co-chair of the Foundation Bill Gates said the whole Aadhaar digital financial system in India has proven to be once again a "huge asset". "Getting payments out through digital cash transfers, that has been a fantastic thing, and obviously, India has done that at a scale that no other country ever has," he said. In the report, the foundation said the extreme poverty has gone up by 7 per cent in just a few months because of Covid-19, ending a 20-year streak of progress. "This crisis has thrust almost 37 million more people into extreme poverty, after 20 straight years of that number coming down. At the same time, it has revealed how fragile that progress is: People living just above the extreme poverty line who have fallen below it because of Covid-19 were obviously vulnerable despite not being officially poor," it said. It said, indirectly the Covid-19 will cause more women than men to suffer and die, in large part because the pandemic has disrupted healthcare before, during, and immediately after childbirth. Elaborating on how the pandemic has impacted routine immunisation, it said the vaccination, a good proxy measure for how health systems are functioning, is dropping to levels last seen in the 1990s. "In other words, we've been set back about 25 years in about 25 weeks," it said. The report also talked about the "danger" of how Covid-19 can force the countries to take away their focus from dealing with "residual pandemics". "This would be a heartbreaking injustice. It would also go against the self-interest of the countries at the front of the line," it added. The report said the pandemic is having severe impact on education as well.  "Before the pandemic, the world already faced a learning crisis, with 53 percent of students in low- and middle-income countries - and 87 per cent in sub-Saharan Africa - unable to read a simple text by the time they are 10 years old," it said. The report said constrained finances and school closures are likely to exacerbate these inequalities, with girls at particular risk of not returning to school. In the interview, Gates said though, normally the Goalkeepers report projects a very optimistic approach reminding people about progress on things like economic growth, literacy, child survival, average lifespan, this year's report was different. "This year's report, unfortunately, we're unable to say that there's been progress. In fact, we talk about the setback and one way we dimensionalise that for like vaccine coverage globally, which went from 84 per cent to 70 per cent, is we say that's a 25-year setback," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-pushed-37-million-into-extreme-poverty-gates-foundation-887964.html
15-09-2020||National||Making false excuses to hide Cong's failures: AAP leader Sanjay Singh slams Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi is making false excuses to hide his party's failures, Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh said on Tuesday after the Congress leader alleged that the India Against Corruption (IAC) movement and the AAP were propped up by the RSS-BJP to subvert democracy and bring down the UPA government. Singh said the Congress must stop making false excuses to hide their failures. "How long will they hide their failures by making false excuses? Stop crying now. The truth is that the country does not have any hope from both the BJP and the Congress. "Today, only the Aam Aadmi Party talks about the country, solving people's problems - schools, hospitals, electricity, water. In the future, AAP will be the choice of the country," Singh tweeted tagging Gandhi's tweet. In a tweet on Tuesday, Gandhi cited AAP founder-member and civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan's reported claim that the movement was to a large extent supported and propped up by the BJP-RSS to bring down the Congress government and in-turn elect themselves to power. "What was known to us has been confirmed by a founding member of AAP," the former Congress chief tweeted, tagging a media report on Bhushan's remarks. "The IAC movement and AAP were propped up by the RSS/BJP to subvert democracy and bring down the UPA government," tweeted Gandhi. Bhushan was part of India Against Corruption movement which was the precursor to the formation of the Aam Aadmi Paty, led by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. In 2015, Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav were expelled from the AAP over alleged "anti-party activities". India Against Corruption movement was particularly prominent during the anti-graft protests of 2011 and 2012, concerned with the introduction of the Jan Lokpal bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/making-false-excuses-to-hide-congs-failures-aap-leader-sanjay-singh-slams-rahul-gandhi-887965.html
15-09-2020||National||Let lawyers travel in local trains on experimental basis: HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government and the Railways to let lawyers travel by local trains in Mumbai on an "experimental basis" from September 18 till October 7 to attend physical hearings of cases in the high court. The Western Railway and the Central Railway are running selected suburban train services only for essential services, as identified by the state government, in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said lawyers who have cases to attend must write to the high court registrar. The registrar will confirm the lawyer's claim and issue a certificate, based on which the Central Railway and the Western Railway will issue a pass or ticket to the lawyer just for that particular day. The bench also cautioned lawyers against misusing the travel certificate and said in the event of misuse, it would be open for the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa to take action against the lawyers concerned. "Let this system run from September 18 till October 7 on an experimental basis. We are sensitive to the needs of lawyers. If this works, we will think about lower courts," the bench said. The court was hearing a bunch of petitions seeking that lawyers be permitted to use the suburban train network in the city to reach courts. Its directions came after the state and the Union government submitted that they were open to letting lawyers use the trains as long as it was just for one day to attend cases in which they compulsorily needed to make a physical appearance. The bench said if the above system worked successfully, it will think about extending similar relief to lawyers of trial courts as well. Currently, only a few local trains are operational. These have limited stops and can be used only by those in essential services. The lawyers earlier approached the high court in April after the coronavirus-induced lockdown came into force in March this year. Earlier this month, the lawyers reiterated that they are permitted to use the trains since the HC resumed partial physical hearings, and lower courts never completely stopped physical hearings even during the lockdown. The high court was conducting hearings through video- conferencing since the lockdown came into force. However, it began physical hearings in criminal appeal cases in four courtrooms from August 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-lawyers-travel-in-local-trains-on-experimental-basis-hc-887967.html
15-09-2020||National||India has doubled budget for roads and bridges on China border, says Rajnath Singh||India has doubled the budget for vital roads and bridges along the undemarcated border with China in recent years in response to Beijing's rapid infrastructure development on its side, the Indian defence minister said on Tuesday. Troops of the two countries are locked in their most serious face-offs for years along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) or informal border in the western Himalayas, raising fears of a broader conflict. One of the reasons for the tensions has been India's recent construction of roads and airfields near the border in the Ladakh region bordering Tibet, the Chinese side has said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh told parliament that China had been building up its infrastructure in the remote mountains for decades and the government was trying to close the gap. "Our government too has stepped up the budget for border infrastructure development to about double the previous levels. As a result, more roads and bridges have been completed in the border areas," he said. He provided no figure. Military officials say the development of roads and airfields on both sides of the border has also helped troops mobilise quickly in large numbers and in close proximity at some points in the Ladakh area. Singh said Indian and Chinese troops have had face-offs on the unsettled border in the past, but the scale of deployment of troops and the number of disputed areas was much more than the past. "As of now, the Chinese side has mobilized a large number of troops and armaments along the LAC as well as in the depth areas," he said, listing Gogra, Kongka La and the north and south banks of the Pangong lake as "friction points." "In response to China’s actions, our armed forces have also made appropriate counter deployments in these areas to ensure that India’s security interests are fully protected," he said to the thumping of desks in parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-doubled-budget-for-roads-and-bridges-on-china-border-says-rajnath-singh-887968.html
15-09-2020||National||First Karnataka-Delhi 'Kisan Rail' from September 19||The first 'Kisan Rail' from Karnataka, between Bengaluru and Delhi, will be run from September 19 to October 19, the South Western Railway said on Tuesday. Kisan Rail are trains with multi commodities, multi- consignors and multi-consignees. The service, to run via Mysuru, Hubbali and Pune, would make five trips, the SWR said in a release It will run between fixed OriginDestination pairs with en-route stoppages, and loading and unloading will be permitted at any of the en-route stoppages. The train will have 10 VPH (High Capacity Parcel Vans), one brake luggage-cum-generator car and one-second class Luggage-cum-brake van with disabled friendly compartment. There will be 12 LHB coaches, the release said. The decision to operate the train was in line with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's announcement in the 2020-21 budget to build a seamless national cold supply chain for perishables, inclusive of milk, meat and fish, SWR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-karnataka-delhi-kisan-rail-from-september-19-887969.html
15-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Diganth, Aindrita Ray served notice by CCB; Rajnath says India committed to peaceful resolution of China row||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, CCB officials served notice to Diganth and Aindrita Ray in the drug scandal case; Defence Minister Rajnath Singh says that India is committed to a peaceful resolution of the border stand-off with China in Ladakh and Flipkart says that it will create over 70,000 direct jobs ahead of its upcoming Big Billion Days sale and the festive season.    Here are the top news of today, Tuesday: September 15, 2020:   Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said India is committed to a peaceful resolution of the current border stand-off with China in Ladakh but any attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo by the neighbouring country is unacceptable. Making a statement in Lok Sabha, Singh also said the Indian Army has inflicted heavy costs including casualties on the Chinese side during the clash with the PLA at the Galwan valley on June 15. The defence minister said since April, buildup of troops and armaments by the Chinese side has been witnessed in the border areas adjacent to eastern Ladakh. He said in early May, the Chinese side had taken action to hinder the normal, traditional patrolling pattern of Indian troops in the Galwan Valley area, which resulted in a face-off. Singh said even as this situation was being addressed by the ground commanders as per the provisions of the bilateral agreements and protocol, in mid-May the Chinese side made several attempts to transgress the LAC in other parts of the Western Sector.   The Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials have served notice to couple Diganth and Aindrita Ray in a Sandalwood linked drug scandal case on Tuesday afternoon. The couple are asked to appear before the CCB officials in the CCB office on Wednesday around 11 am. Sandeep Patil, the Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) confirmed the notice has been issued to the couple. They will be interrogated related to the drug case. Diganth is the first male actor from Sandalwood to get a notice from CCB. A senior officer said, "we cannot disclose the exact evidence against the couple or which accused has revealed their names, tomorrow once we question them, further details can be shared. Aindrita and Diganth have received the notice and assured the police to appear tomorrow."   Veteran actor and Rajya Sabha MP Jaya Bachchan on Tuesday charged that the film industry was being defamed and slammed those from the entertainment industry indulging in it, saying they are biting the hands that feed them. Though Bachchan did not take any names, her remarks come a day after BJP's Lok Sabha MP and Bhojpuri actor Ravi Kishan said there was problem of drug addiction in the film industry and also actor Kangana Ranaut's recent remarks calling Bollywood a "gutter". Through a Zero Hour mention in Rajya Sabha, Bachchan said the entertainment industry was being flogged by social media and asked the government to protect and support it. Without taking names, the Samajwadi Party MP said she completely disagrees with those who called the entertainment industry a "gutter". "People who have made a name in this industry have called it a gutter. I completely disagree and I really disassociate," she said. In a reference to Kishan's statement in Lok Sabha on the alleged Bollywood drug cartel, Bachchan said she was "really embarrassed and ashamed." "Jis thali mein khate hai Usme chhed karte hai. Galat baat hai," she said referring to a popular Hindi proverb that means to bite the hands that feed you. "I was really embarrassed and ashamed that yesterday (September 14) one of our members in the Lok Sabha, who is from the industry, spoke. I am not taking names. It is a shame," she said.   Phase-I clinical trials have revealed "excellent safety" of the two candidate vaccines indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and Cadila Healthcare Ltd and their immunogenicity testing is now in progress, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Their phase II clinical trials are going on, Choubey said in response to a question on the present status of the vaccine programme/clinical trials for Covid-19 undertaken by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and other private research centres in the country. Choubey further informed that discussions on collaborations on the recombinant vaccine developed by Russia are ongoing. However, no formal studies have been initiated. Serum Institute of India (SII) and ICMR have partnered for clinical development of two global vaccine candidates. The first is ChAdOx1-S, a non-replicating viral vector vaccine developed by University of Oxford/AstraZeneca. This vaccine is undergoing phase III clinical trials in Brazil.   Homegrown e-commerce marketplace, Flipkart on Tuesday said it will create over 70,000 direct jobs ahead of its upcoming Big Billion Days (BBD) sale and the festive season. The company will also create many more indirect seasonal jobs. While creating direct job opportunities across Flipkart's supply chain, that include delivery executives, pickers, packers and sorters, there will also be additional indirect jobs at Flipkart's seller partner locations and kiranas, the company said in a statement. This will be further supplemented by job creation in ancillary industries including vendor locations, and freight partners, as the entire ecosystem scales up for the festive season, it said. The onboarding of more than 50,000 kiranas by Flipkart for last-mile delivery will also create thousands of seasonal jobs to deliver millions of packages this festive season, the company said.   The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to rechristen the under construction 'Mughal Museum' in Agra, about 350 kilometres from here, after the Maratha-Warrior king Shivaji. ''Mughals cannot be our heroes.....Shivaji is our real hero...his name will give rise to patriotic feelings in us,'' Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said. The 'Mughal Museum' project was the brainchild of the then-UP CM Akhilesh Yadav and was conceived in 2016. The Museum would have artefacts from Mughal and Braj (the region, where Lord Krishna was born). While the opposition Congress and the Samajwadi Party (SP) termed the rechristening an attempt to divert the attention of the people from pressing issues, including unemployment and law and order, several BJP leaders hailed the decision Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis and film actress Kangna Ranaut also welcomed the rechristening of the Mughal Museum. Some BJP leaders now want the Taj Mahal, the 16th century ivory-white mausoleum on the bank of Yamuna river in Agra and one of the wonders of the world, to be rechristened as 'Tejolay' or 'Tejo Mahal' (a Shiva Temple).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-diganth-aindrita-ray-served-notice-by-ccb-rajnath-says-india-committed-to-peaceful-resolution-of-china-row-887972.html
15-09-2020||National||Plea moved in SC for fresh JEE Mains and NEET for candidates who could not take up exams||An advocate has approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the authorities to conduct a fresh NEET and JEE Mains for the candidates, who could not take up examinations due to unforeseen, and unavoidable circumstances amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioner, Shashwat Anand asked the court to lay down certain guidelines or issue directions for accommodations, food and water, transportation, etc to students who missed out such exams, owing to some or the other sufficient cause. "The unprecedented situation, whereby the functioning of whole country has virtually come to a standstill, should not result in an unmitigated disaster to several students who could not take the examinations due to unavoidable situations like flood and transportation etc," his plea stated. The petitioner asked the court to take Suo Motu cognisance of a news report highlighting ordeal of a student who had to travel for about 700 km to take examinations. However, he was not permitted to take up examinations since he arrived at the examination centre apparently 10 minutes late. The petition was drafted by advocates Rajesh Inamdar, Amit Pai and Smita Pandey. Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main, 2020 was scheduled to be held in July. It was postponed to first week of September, due to continuing Covid-19 conditions. Similarly, National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) (UG), 2020 was originally scheduled to be held on May 03, 2020 and later postponed to July 26, 2020. It was finally held on September 13. The court had earlier dismissed pleas for postpone these competitive examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-moved-in-sc-for-fresh-jee-mains-and-neet-for-candidates-who-could-not-take-up-exams-887975.html
15-09-2020||National||Centre transferred Rs 38,282 cr to farmers under PM-KISAN during Apr-Aug: Narendra Singh Tomar||The Centre has transferred Rs 38,282 crore to farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme till August this fiscal, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. There is no proposal to either advance the payment of the remaining instalments or increase the amount from the current level, he added.     Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PM-KISAN), the government is providing Rs 6,000 per annum in three equal instalments to 14 crore farmers. The amount is directly transferred into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode.     Responding to a series of queries raised by MPs on this initiative, Tomar said an amount of Rs 38,282 crore has been transferred to various beneficiaries under the scheme during April-August period of this fiscal.     "Around 9.24 crore farmer families have been benefited under the PM-KISAN Scheme," he said, adding there is no proposal for advance payment of the remaining instalments for the 2020-21 fiscal.       There is also no proposal to increase the amount from the current level to Rs 12,000 annually, he added.     On any complaints or corruption in implementation of the scheme, the minister in a separate reply said the Centre is aware of the recent case of fake PM-KISAN accounts siphoning funds meant for beneficiaries in Cuddalore district, Tamil Nadu.     The Tamil Nadu government has informed that ineligible beneficiaries were registered on the PM-KISAN portal in few districts by stealing the user name credentials, he said, adding the state government has taken action in the matter.     "A sum of Rs 47 crore has been recovered by the state till date. Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) of Tamil Nadu has registered 10 cases and apprehended 16 accused in the case. The District Level and Block level PM-KISAN login IDs have been deactivated," Tomar said.     Further, services of 19 contractual staff who have been reported to be involved in these illegal activities in the districts of Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Cuddalore were terminated, he said.     That apart, three block level assistant directors of agriculture who were considered primarily responsible for lack of supervision and not informing about the fraudulent activities to the superiors were suspended, he added. "According to the PM-KISAN Scheme, the entire responsibility of identifying the eligible landholder farmer family is of the state and union territories," Tomar informed the Lower House.     Besides, the minister said the Centre has received some complaints of certain eligible farmers not receiving the benefit of this scheme in Satara district of Maharashtra.     He said 32 villages comprising 5,964 beneficiaries in Satara faced the issue of non-receipt of benefit under PM-KISAN due to errors in data entry.     However, functionality to correct the locations of beneficiaries on the PM-KISAN portal has been provided by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). The correction activity was initiated immediately for updating the data of the respective beneficiaries, he added.     Tomar explained that PM-KISAN is a continuous and ongoing scheme in which the financial benefits are transferred to the bank accounts of the identified beneficiaries as and when their correct and verified data is uploaded by the concerned states/union territories on the web portal.     The data of beneficiaries so uploaded by them undergoes a multi-level verification and validation by various agencies, including banks, and only then the amount is released into the bank accounts, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-transferred-rs-38282-cr-to-farmers-under-pm-kisan-during-apr-aug-narendra-singh-tomar-887979.html
15-09-2020||National||People in Bihar not happy with Nitish Kumar: Chirag Paswan writes to PM Narendra Modi||Three days after the BJP claimed that “all was well within the NDA” and all the constituents would contest the Bihar Assembly polls together, LJP president Chirag Paswan has reportedly shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that the voters in Bihar were not happy with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The letter, which has not been made public, comes at a time when LJP will convene a meeting of its party MPs on September 16 to chalk out its future course of action. The party, founded by Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, had last week authorised its president Chirag Paswan to decide whether it wants to contest as an NDA ally or it would like to put up candidates on 143 seats out of 243 constituencies in Bihar. Ram Vilas Paswan, who is unwell, has reiterated that he would stand by his son in whatever decision he takes. Sources said Chirag’s letter to Narendra Modi dwelled at length on three issues: First, there is a strong anti-incumbency sentiment against Nitish as people, in general, are not happy with his work in this term (2015-20). Secondly, the results of the Assembly elections could be affected due to resentment among people as even officials in the State are lax and not willing to listen to public grievances. Thirdly, Chirag has expressed doubts about the facts and figures related to Covid-19 in Bihar. “The LJP president has made it clear to the Prime Minister that he was writing this letter based on the feedback he received from the LJP Parliamentary Board meeting recently,” said the source in Paswan’s outfit. It is worth mentioning that the BJP president JP Nadda last Saturday met Nitish at the latter’s Patna residence and discussed seat-sharing among the four constituents of the NDA – the JD (U), BJP, LJP and HAM. Just when it seemed that peace has been brokered between LJP and JD (U), the latest letter shows the war within the NDA has not ended yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-in-bihar-not-happy-with-nitish-kumar-chirag-paswan-writes-to-pm-narendra-modi-887981.html
15-09-2020||National||Smriti Irani tables 'diet chart for pregnant women' in LS; Initiative taken on Speaker's request||Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani on Tuesday presented to Lok Sabha a 'diet chart for pregnant women' and expressed the hope that members will ensure that 'Poshan Abhiyan' is implemented in their respective constituencies In November 2019, Speaker Om Birla has asked the minister to prepare a diet chart for pregnant women and provide it to all members for circulation in their respective constituencies. Tabling the diet chart in the House, Irani said it was prepared in deference to the wishes of the Speaker. She said her ministry had constituted a committee, comprising representatives from ICMR, Health Ministry, and experts, to prepare the diet chart. This is the first time that a 'diet chart for pregnant women' is being presented in Parliament, she said. Poshan Abhiyan or National Nutrition Mission was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March as the government's flagship program to improve nutritional outcomes for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. The month of September has been declared as 'Poshan Maah'. "I would request all the members that despite challenges on account of COVID, they should try to implement the Poshan Abhiyan in their constituencies," Irani added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smriti-irani-tables-diet-chart-for-pregnant-women-in-ls-initiative-taken-on-speakers-request-887989.html
15-09-2020||National||Cases against MPs, MLAs be allocated to one judicial officer in each district, SC told||The Supreme Court was on Tuesday asked to issue directions to the High Courts to allocate cases pending against sitting and former MPs and MLAs, to one judicial officer in each district. The High Courts may be directed to prepare a blueprint for expeditious disposal of the cases, not later than one year for conclusion of trial, senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, acting as amicus curiae, suggested to the court. After analysing data received from various High Courts across the country, he pointed out there is no uniformity as to the setting up of Special Courts for MPs or MLAs throughout the country. In the states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal, there is one Special Court for all cases against MPs or MLAs. In the state of Telangana apart from Special Court for MPs or MLAs, cases are also pending before Special Court, CBI. In all other states, these cases are pending in respective jurisdictional courts. In a note prepared by him, along with advocate Sneha Kalita, he said the High Court should consider mechanism for expeditious trial of criminal cases against MPs and MLAs under special statutes namely the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Companies Act, 2013, Negotiable Instrument  Act, 1881 etc. The note was submitted in court in a PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The court is to take up the matter on Wednesday. Among other suggestions, Hansaria said the special court sets up to try MPs and MLAs should give priority to cases of offences punishable with life imprisonment or death penalty, involving the sitting legislators. He also each High Court may adopt “Rules for Video Conferencing for Courts” framed by the Karnataka High Court wherein such a facility can be used at any stage of trial. In Karnataka, one Special Court had been set at Bengaluru to deal with cases against MPs and MLAs. There are 164 cases pending with regard to offences committed in 23 different districts in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cases-against-mps-mlas-be-allocated-to-one-judicial-officer-in-each-district-sc-told-887995.html
15-09-2020||National||Government approves crucial Palwal-Sonipat rail project, will decongest NCR network||The government Tuesday approved construction of the crucial Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor Project from Palwal to Sonipat which will decongest the railway network in the National Capital Region and connect unserved areas of the state. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) cleared the project to be completed at an estimated cost of Rs 5,617 crore and with a likely completion time of five years. This rail line will facilitate diversion of traffic not meant for Delhi, thus decongesting the NCR network and will also help in developing multimodal logistics hubs in Haryana, the statement said. The project runs via Sohna-Manesar-Kharkhauda and will have connectivity with all the existing railway routes originating from Delhi and passing through Haryana as well as with the Dedicated Freight Corridor network. This rail line will start from Palwal and end at the existing Harsana Kalan station (On the Delhi-Ambala section). This will also give connectivity en route to existing Patli Station (On Delhi-Rewari line), Sultanpur station (On Garhi Harsaru-Farukhnagar Line) and Asaudha Station (On Delhi Rohtak Line). It will be implemented by the Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (HRIDC), a Joint Venture of the Ministry of Railways and the government of Haryana. The project will have joint participation of the Railways, the Haryana government and private stakeholders. Once completed, the project will benefit Palwal, Nuh, Gurugram, Jhajjar and Sonipat districts of Haryana. It will provide high-speed seamless connectivity of this region to the dedicated freight corridor network resulting in the reduction of cost and time of transportation for EXIM traffic from NCR to the ports of India, making exports of goods more competitive, the statement said. ¨This efficient transport corridor along with other initiatives will provide enabling infrastructure to attract multinational industries to set up manufacturing units to fulfil the 'Make in India' mission,” the statement said. The project will connect unserved areas of Haryana, thereby boosting economic and social activities in the state. This multipurpose transport project will also facilitate affordable and faster commuter travel, long-distance travel in different directions from Gurugram and the industrial regions of Manesar, Sohna, Farukhnagar, Kharkhauda and Sonipat. ¨Approximately 20,000 passengers each day will be travelling through this line and 50 Million Tonnes goods traffic would also be carried out every year,¨ the statement said. The alignment of this project is adjacent to the western peripheral (Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) Expressway and has been under consideration for some time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-approves-crucial-palwal-sonipat-rail-project-will-decongest-ncr-network-887997.html
15-09-2020||National||Free ration distributed to 2.67 cr migrants per month in May, June: Govt||Free ration was distributed to 2.67 crore migrant workers per month in May and June against the target of 8 crore under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package announced following the Covid-19 outbreak, Parliament was informed on Tuesday. Under the scheme, 5 kg foodgrains per person and 1 kg pulses per household was to be distributed for free to 8 crore migrants who neither have a central or state ration card. Initially, the scheme was for two months (May to June). Later, it was extended till August.     "Until August 31, about 2.67 lakh tonnes (provisional) of foodgrains have been distributed under the scheme to about 2.67 crore persons (i.e. 94.6 per cent of estimated beneficiaries by States/UTs) per month for the months of May and June," Minister of State for Food and Consumer Affairs Danve Raosaheb Dadarao said. The minister, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha, further said the Centre had liberally allocated foodgrains to cover maximum migrants/stranded migrants. The government had allocated 8 lakh tonnes for two months.     Responsibility of identification of beneficiaries under this scheme was entrusted with states, which initially indicated about 2.8 crore total migrant population, he added.     Since the identification of migrants took substantial time, the Centre extended the distribution period of foodgrains till August 31 this year, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-ration-distributed-to-267-cr-migrants-per-month-in-may-june-govt-888001.html
15-09-2020||National||Clinical trial of fourth Covid-19 vaccine to start in October||The clinical trial of a fourth Covid-19 vaccine is set to start in India in October in partnership with an ICMR laboratory. “Pune-based National AIDS Research Institute has joined hands with the Serum Institute of India for the clinical trial of a vaccine developed by a US company, Novavax. The trial will be initiated in the second half of October, once the vaccine is manufactured by the SII,” Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The vaccine is also being tried in a human trial in South Africa that started last month. The Novavax vaccine candidate - NVX-CoV2373 - has been engineered from the genetic sequence of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. In preclinical studies, it elicited antibody responses to block binding of the virus’s spike protein to the cell receptors targeted by the virus, which is a critical aspect for effective vaccine protection. Studies of this Novavax vaccine in non-human primates have shown protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection in upper airways (nasal passages) as well as protection against lower airway (lung) disease. The trial of the fourth vaccine comes in the wake of the first two Indian vaccines demonstrating “excellent” safety results in the first phase of clinical trial following which the manufacturers started recruiting volunteers for the trial’s second phase. The Oxford vaccine’s trials being conducted by the Serum Institute of India in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research is also set to restart after a pause of a week. “Both Bharat Biotech and Cadila have started recruiting volunteers for phase-II of their trials while the phase-1 results are being analysed. The second dose of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine and the third dose of the Cadila vaccine are yet to be administered,” Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research said here. The first part of the bridging study for the Oxford vaccine candidate has been completed on 100 patients followed by a week-long pause. The Serum Institute will carry out the second part of the study on 1500 people at 14 sites once the regulatory approval comes,” Bhargava said. ICMR’s National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis is a partner in the clinical trial. Discussions were also going on with the Russian officials for the phase-3 trial of the Sputnik-V vaccine that was launched by the Vladimir Putin administration as the world’s first vaccine against Covid-19 even without the necessary regulatory trials. India’s Covid-19 count crossed the 49 lakh mark with the addition of 83,809 new cases. The death toll now stands at 80,776 out of which 1054 was added in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clinical-trial-of-fourth-covid-19-vaccine-to-start-in-october-888015.html
15-09-2020||National||NGOs received Rs 58,113 crore in foreign funds from 2016 to 2019||NGOs received foreign funds to the tune of Rs 58,113.51 crore in three fiscals between 2016-17 and 2018-19, the Ministry of Home Affairs said on Tuesday. This was disclosed by Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. There are around 22,400 FCRA registered NGOs in the country. According to him, the highest amount of Rs 20,011.21 crore was received in 2018-19. In 2016-17, the NGOs received foreign funds to the tune of Rs 18,337.66 crore followed by Rs 19764.64 crore in 2017-18. The figures for 2019-20 is not available at present as the NGOs, which have permission to collect funds from abroad, have time till December 31 this year to file the returns under Foreign Contributions (Regulation) Act, 2010. Reddy said registration and prior permission under FCRA, 2010 is granted to associations/NGOs for five types of programmes i.e religious, social, economic, educational or cultural. The associations granted registration or prior permission have to mandatorily submit online the receipt and utilisation of foreign donations received by them. He said a monitoring unit of FCRA wing monitors the receipt and utilization of foreign contributions. Methods of monitoring include scrutiny of annual returns, inputs from field agencies, on the spot audit and inspection of the accounts of FCRA Associations among others. "Further in the new system of FCRA monitoring, all annual returns are to be filed electronically. The Bank accounts of the FCRA registered associations have also been linked to the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) for better monitoring of flow of funds," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngos-received-rs-58113-crore-in-foreign-funds-from-2016-to-2019-888016.html
15-09-2020||National||Indian Railways to operate 20 clone trains from September 21||With an increased demand for tickets in some routes, the Railway Ministry on Tuesday announced to operate 20 pairs of “clone” trains from September 21, including between Bengaluru-Danapur and Yeshwantpur-Hazrath Nizamuddin (Karnataka Sampark Kranthi Express). These clone trains would run on busy routes in addition to special trains which are already in operation, said the railways in a statement. "The 19 pairs of Clone Special trains will run by utilizing Humsafar rakes. One pair 04251/04252 Lucknow-Delhi Clone special shall run as Jan Shatabdi Express. Fare of Humsafar rake will be charged as Humsafar trains and for Janshatabdi rake, fare will be charged as Janshatabdi Express. The ARP (Advanced Reservation Period) will be 10 days," the statement said. Train No 06509 Bengaluru-Danapur would leave Bengaluru at 8 pm on Mondays while Train No 06510 Danapur-Bengaluru would leave Danapur at 6:10 pm on Wednesdays via Prayagraj, Itarsi, Nagpur, Vijaywada and Chennai. The Yeshwantpur-Hazrath Nizamuddin (Karnataka Sampark Kranthi) would leave Yeshwantpur (06523) at 1:55 p.m. on Wednesdays and Saturdays while Train No 06524 would leave Nizamuddin on Saturdays and Tuesdays. It runs via Hubballi, Belagavi, Pune and Agra. To cater to demand, the railways decided to operate clone trains based on the patronization of already operating Special trains with limited stoppages and faster transit time. The clone trains will be primarily 3 AC trains and run ahead of the already operating special trains, the railways said. "The clone train will have speed higher than the existing special train," the railways said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-operate-20-clone-trains-from-september-21-888020.html
15-09-2020||National||Lockdown successfully blunted aggressive spread of Covid-19, saved 37-78k lives: MHA||India managed to prevent 14-29 lakh Covid-19 cases and 37-78,000 related deaths by imposing a nationwide lockdown and  "successfully blunted" the "aggressive spread" of the coronavirus in the country, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Tuesday. Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said in a written reply in Lok Sabha that the lockdown period helped the country create much required additional health infrastructure. He was responding to questions raised by Congress' Manish Tewari and AIMIM's Asaduddin Owaisi among others. During this period, he said dedicated isolation beds recorded an increase of 22 times and dedicated ICU beds above 14 times to what existed in March 2020. Similarly, laboratory capacity for testing Covid-19 was increased nearly 10 times during this time. While there was no indigenous manufacturing of Personal Protective Equipments (PPE) with the requisite standards, at that point in time, Rai pointed out that the country is now self-sufficient and in a position to export the same. Similarly, the limited indigenous manufacturing capacity available for masks, ventilators, etc, at the time of lockdown, was also enhanced to attain self-reliance in this regard. "It has been estimated that the decision of Lockdown, by slowing down the spread of pandemic in India, has prevented 14-29 lakh cases and 37-78,000 deaths," he said. Defending the decision to impose the lockdown, Rai said Covid-19 is a highly infectious disease any mass movement of people would have spread the disease very fast amongst people in all parts of the country. Between 16-23 March, he said, most of the state governments resorted to partial or full lockdown upon their assessment of the situation. "...The global experience and the need for consistency in the approach and implementation of various containment measures across the country, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24 to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-successfully-blunted-aggressive-spread-of-covid-19-saved-37-78k-lives-mha-888028.html
15-09-2020||National||Ajit Doval quits SCO meet as Pakistan uses map showing J&K, Ladakh and Junagadh as part of its territory||India on Tuesday walked out of a virtual meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) after a map showing its territory as part of Pakistan was put on display behind the representative of the neighbouring country. India’s National Security Advisor, Ajit Doval, left the video conference with his counterparts from the seven other SCO nations, after lodging protest over display of the map behind Moeed Yusuf, the representative of Pakistan. The map was issued by Imran Khan’s Government in Islamabad early last month, incorporating in Pakistan, not only India’s two Union Territories – Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and Ladakh, but also Junagadh in its western state of Gujarat. Yusuf, the Special Advisor on National Security to the Prime Minister of Pakistan, had the map as a background display behind him when he joined the video conference. Doval conveyed India’s “strong objection” to the use of the map by Pakistan. Islamabad’s use of a fictitious map as a backdrop for its representative depicting India’s sovereign territory as part of Pakistan was “in blatant disregard to the advisory by the host against it and in violation of the norms of the meeting”, Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said. He said that Doval had left the meeting after consultation with the host of the meeting – Nikolai Patrushev, the secretary of the National Security Council of Russia. India and Pakistan were in June 2017 admitted to the SCO, which earlier had six members – Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Russia is currently holding the chair of the SCO. Pakistan’s use of the map showing territory of India during the meeting of the SCO was “a blatant violation” of the charter of the eight-nation bloc and went “against its all established norms of safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the member states”, a government source in New Delhi said. Patrushev, who was chairing the meeting, tried very hard to persuade the representative of the Pakistan Government to refrain from using the controversial map as a background display during the meeting. Islamabad, however, claimed that the SCO had rejected the objection raised by New Delhi and Yusuf continued to participate in the virtual meeting with the map on the background even after the exit of Doval. The government sources in New Delhi said that Patrushev had conveyed to Doval that he was “personally very grateful” to the National Security Advisor of India for attending the SCO meet. Russia did not support Pakistan’s provocative act against India, sources quoted Patrushev conveying to Doval. He also expressed his hope that it would not affect New Delhi’s participation in the future SCO meetings and not cast any shadow on his “warm personal relationship” with Doval. Khan, himself, had unveiled the new map of Pakistan on August 4 – just on the eve of the first anniversary of India’s August 5, 2019 move to strip its then state of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) of its special status and reorganise it into two Union Territories. New Delhi had called Islamabad’s move to publish the new map of Pakistan as “ridiculous” and “an exercise of political absurdity”. Pakistan had published its new map amid its “iron brother” China’s aggressive moves to unilaterally alter the status quo along the communist country’s disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh. China earlier prodded Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s government in Kathmandu to publish a new map of Nepal, incorporating in its territory nearly 400 sq kms of area of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajit-doval-quits-sco-meet-as-pakistan-uses-map-showing-jk-ladakh-and-junagadh-as-part-of-its-territory-888034.html
15-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha passes Bill that removes stock limits on farm commodities||Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill that seeks to deregulate food items, including cereals, pulses and onion, amid strong protests from opposition parties and also a BJP ally who dubbed the move “anti-farmer”. Former Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, a Lok Sabha member from Ferozpur, said farmers have “misgivings and doubts” about the bill and two other legislations related to the farm sector. “The Centre should withhold these legislations and work to address the concerns of farmers,” Badal, the Akali Dal chief, said. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have hit the streets against the bills that are under the guise of the Modi government's farm sector reforms. P P Chaudhary (BJP) said the legislation will not only benefit farmers but also consumers and described it as a visionary step and the biggest reform in the agriculture sector. Trinamool Congress' Saugata Roy and Kalyan Banerjee also opposed the bill and accused the Centre of taking away the power of the states. Roy claimed the legislation will benefit big traders, while the farmers would be left in the lurch. D M Kathir Anand of the DMK also opposed the bill, while Kaushalendra Kumar of the JD(U) supported it, saying the proposed legislation will benefit farmers as they won't have to sell their agriculture produce at lower prices. Responding to the debate, Minister of State for Consumer Affairs Raosaheb Patil Danve said the proposed amendment will encourage competition and help farmers get fair price for their produce. Danve also rejected the Opposition's claims that the states were not consulted before promulgating the Ordinance. “A high-power committee of chief ministers of Punjab, Odisha, Haryana, Arunachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh had made recommendations to bring the legislation,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-bill-that-removes-stock-limits-on-farm-commodities-888077.html
15-09-2020||National||Alignment of boundary with China based on geographical principle, historical practices: Rajnath Singh||The customary and traditional alignment of India’s boundary with China is based on geographical principles and historical usage and practice, although the Communist country does not accept it, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. He said that Beijing did not “accept the customary and traditional alignment of the boundary between India and China”. “We believe that this alignment is based on well-established geographical principles confirmed by treaties and agreements, as well as historical usage and practice, well-known for centuries to both sides,” the Defence Minister said, articulating New Delhi’s position on India-China boundary dispute while making a statement in the Lok Sabha on the current military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations. His comment came amid the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The stand-off started in May, after the Indian Army responded to the Chinese PLA’s aggressive move to alter the status quo in the border areas and push the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – westwards. Singh also noted China’s position on the boundary dispute with India. “The Chinese position, however, is that the boundary between the two countries has not been formally delimited, that there exists a traditional customary line formed by the extent of jurisdiction that they claim was exercised historically by each side, and that the two sides have different interpretations of the position of the traditional customary line.” He said that the two countries had engaged in discussions during 1950s and 1960s to resolve the boundary dispute, but could not reach a mutually acceptable solution. The Defence Minister noted that China continued to be in illegal occupation of approximately 38,000 sq kms in the Union Territory of Ladakh. He was referring to Aksai Chin – a territory east of Ladakh, claimed by India, but currently under occupation of China. China had last year joined Pakistan to oppose India’s move to strip Jammu and Kashmir off its special status and reorganize the state into two Union Territories. What had raised hackles in Beijing was Home Minister Amit Shah's statement in the Lok Sabha on August 6 that just as the entire J&K state had remained an integral part of India, the two new UTs too would include, not only India's territory currently under illegal occupation of Pakistan, but also Aksai Chin. The Defence Minister reiterated New Delhi’s claims, not only on Aksai Chin, but also on 5,180 sq kms of area that Pakistan had illegally ceded to China in 1963. He also noted China’s claim on 90,000 sq kms of territory of India in eastern sector of the boundary in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alignment-of-boundary-with-china-based-on-geographical-principle-historical-practices-rajnath-singh-888087.html
15-09-2020||National||Covid-19 reinfection ‘very rare’ occurrence, not a matter of concern: ICMR DG||Coronavirus reinfection is possible even though it is a "very rare" occurrence, ICMR DG Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday and stressed that it is not a matter of serious concern. The remarks come amid suspected cases of Covid-19 reinfection being reported from abroad and from Indian states like Telangana, Karnataka, Gujarat, Punjab and Maharashtra. Responding to a question on the issue, Bhargava told a press conference that reinfection was "very, very rare" with Covid-19, but it can happen as had been seen in a case in Hong Kong. "We have seen that someone gets measles and he is supposed to be protected all his life because he generates certain antibodies, but then we have seen reinfection occurring in measles. "Similarly, we can have reinfection with Covid-19 as has been described by the case in Hong Kong and it is not a matter of serious concern,” Bhargava said. In an earlier press conference, he had said that there was a need to find out how long the immunity lasts against the infection. On coronavirus vaccine development, the ICMR director-general said three vaccines are at clinical trial stages in the country and two indigenously ones developed by Cadila and Bharat Biotech have completed phase-I trial. The results are being analysed and they have completed recruitment for the second phase, he said. Serum Institute of India has completed phase II-B3 trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate. There was a pause of seven days. They will start the phase-III trial with 1,500 patients at 14 locations in India after clearances, Bhargava said.  The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had directed Serum Institute of India to suspend any new recruitment in the phase-II and III clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate till further orders in the backdrop of pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing the clinical trials in other countries. Speaking about the vaccine developed in Russia, the ICMR DG said their first study of 76 patients has been published in the journal Lancet, which is “showing good effectiveness and immune-antibody generation”. He said Russia has not yet completed Phase-III trial. Dialogues are going on between the High-Level Committee on Vaccines and the Russian diplomats about the mechanisms for conducting Phase-III trial in India, he said. British-Swedish biopharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford had on Saturday said that clinical trials for their coronavirus vaccine have resumed in the United Kingdom after Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) confirmed that the trials were safe. The human trials resumed days after a pause had been announced in the trials after an adverse reaction in one of the participants. Addressing a query on the national sero-survey, Bhargava said the survey, which was done in April-May and is being repeated after three months, has been completed in 68 out of 70 districts. After analysis of the results by this month end, the two studies can be compared, he said. The senior official added that the sero-survey also brings out infection fatality rate, which was found to be between 0.5-0.6 in the last national sero-survey, which was much below than in many other countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-reinfection-very-rare-occurrence-not-a-matter-of-concern-icmr-dg-888116.html
15-09-2020||National||India received $20 billion in FDI during Covid-19 pandemic: FS Shringla||India has received over USD 20 billion in FDI amid the coronavirus pandemic, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday, showcasing the country as one of the most attractive destinations for investment globally. In a virtual address at a CII event in the UK, the foreign secretary highlighted various structural reforms undertaken by India in even previously restricted sectors such as space, defence and atomic energy for greater private participation. On ties between India and the UK, he said a comprehensive roadmap is being formulated to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries in the next decade. "We see the UK as a key partner in Europe for a wide range of sectors including, trade, investments, defence, science and technology. Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Boris Johnson are committed to further strengthen our strategic partnership in the next decade, and a comprehensive roadmap for this is being formulated," he said. Shringla said both the countries are in a "unique position" to forge a "truly global partnership" and should not miss this opportunity. The foreign secretary also invited British companies to invest in India, taking advantage of the country's economic reform measures. "The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched several historic reforms to improve the ease of doing business in India in the last six years. Today, India is one of the most open economies in the world. We have put in place a transparent and predictable tax regime," he said. Shringla talked extensively about implementation of various "ambitious" initiatives such as rolling out of the Goods and Services Tax, the Aadhaar biometric project, "groundbreaking reforms" in the agriculture sector and creation of infrastructure for railways, ports and airports. "The success of the reforms launched by the Government is evident in the numbers. Even during the pandemic, we have received over USD 20 billion of FDI this year. While the global FDI declined by one per cent in 2019, FDI into India rose by 20 per cent in the same period," he said. The foreign secretary said several global technology majors have announced significant investments in India including USD 10 billion by Google, USD 5 billion by Facebook and USD 1.2 billion by Mubadala, the UAE's Sovereign Wealth Fund. Talking about India-UK economic partnership, he said the bilateral trade has been on an upward trajectory and touched 24 billion pounds in 2019 and that the country is the sixth largest investor in India with investments totalling USD 28.21 billion. "The Covid-19 pandemic has created severe economic challenges for both our countries. We can overcome these challenges by working together to create new opportunities for our business and industry," said Shringla. He said under the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan' or self reliant India campaign, India has rolled out a stimulus package of about USD 270 billion for the economy. The foreign secretary said research and development for vaccines for Covid-19 is a crucial area where there is potential for collaboration between India and the UK. "Serum Institute of India is already working with the Oxford University-Astrazeneca on their vaccine project. I talked about the role played by India's pharmaceutical sector in meeting the global demand for essential medicines during the pandemic," he said. "We are certain that our companies will play a similar role in the development of an affordable vaccine for Covid-19," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-received-20-billion-in-fdi-during-covid-19-pandemic-fs-shringla-888118.html
15-09-2020||National||Indian national returns home after serving jail term in Pakistan||An Indian national has been handed over to the Border Security Force at the Wagah border, two years after he completed his jail term on crossing into Pakistan "inadvertently", officials said on Tuesday. Anil Chamaru, a resident of Madhya Pradesh, was handed over to the BSF by the Rangers at the Wagah border on Monday upon receiving his papers from the Indian High Commission, the officials said. Chamaru had crossed into Pakistan "inadvertently" from Ganda Singh Border, Kasur (some 60 kms from Lahore) in March 2015, they said. He was sentenced for two years by a local court for illegal border crossing, they said, adding that he had to languish for another two years in jail because of a legal lacuna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-national-returns-home-after-serving-jail-term-in-pakistan-888119.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||NIA arrests key ISI aide in Visakhapatnam espionage case||The NIA has arrested a key accused in the Visakhapatnam espionage case for his alleged involvement in snooping and working for Pakistan's spy agency ISI, an official said on Tuesday. Giteli Imran, 37, a resident of Gujarat's Godhra, was arrested on Monday in connection with the case registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Official Secrets Act, the NIA official said. The National Investigation Agency spokesperson said Imran was involved in carrying out espionage activities and working for Pakistan's ISI. The case relates to an international espionage racket in which Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding locations/movements of Indian naval ships and submarines, and other defence establishments. Investigation revealed that few Navy personnel came in contact with Pakistani agents through social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp, among others. They shared classified information for which money was deposited into their bank accounts through ISI's Indian associates who had business interests in Pakistan. A charge-sheet was filed in the case on June 15 against 14 accused. Imran was associated with Pakistani spies/agents under the guise of cross-border cloth trade, the NIA official said. As per the directions of Pakistan-based spies, he deposited money into the bank accounts of Indian Navy personnel at regular intervals in exchange for sensitive and classified data provided by them, the spokesperson said. Some digital devices and incriminating documents were seized in a search conducted at his house on Monday, the official said. Further investigation in the case is underway, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nia-arrests-key-isi-aide-in-visakhapatnam-espionage-case-887786.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||'Social distancing' promoting discrimination of Covid-19 patients, use 'physical distancing' instead: TMC MP||Doctor-turned-Trinamool Congress MP Santanu Sen on Tuesday demanded the using the "physical distancing" instead of "social distancing", saying that the latter was promoting social discrimination and stigma of Covid-19 patients and their families. Raising the issue as a Special Mention during Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha, the former Indian Medical Association (IMA) president said the term social distancing should not be used anymore. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu agreed to the demand, saying it was an "important" issue and that he suggested using "safe distance" instead of social distancing. "The term social distancing is regularly used in the fight against Covid-19. It is advised to keep social distancing. Actually, it is physical distancing of nearly six feet between two persons. On the contrary, the use of the term social distancing has promoted social stigma which has led to nearly an attitude of boycotting of Covid patients socially," Sen said. He said Covid-19 patients and their families are facing several inhuman situations. He was of the view that the concept of social distancing would lead to discrimination on the basis of social, political and religious lines. "To stop social discrimination and social stigma, the term social distancing should not be used any more to fight Covid-19. Instead, the term physical distancing should be used," Sen added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/social-distancing-promoting-discrimination-of-covid-19-patients-use-physical-distancing-instead-tmc-mp-887806.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||PM Modi inaugurates, lays foundation for projects in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of seven urban infrastructure projects worth Rs 541 crore in poll-bound Bihar. In his address via video conference, Modi lauded the efforts of the state government, headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, over a host of issues, including girl education, representation of deprived sections of the society in local bodies and development. Without naming anyone, the prime minister also slammed earlier state governments, saying Bihar used to have tall and visionary leaders, but an era came when focus shifted from governance. "Selfish interests" took over governance and "vote-bank politics" suppressed the system, Modi said, in an apparent reference to 15-year-long rule of Lalu Yadav's RJD and Congress governments that preceded it. The Centre is working overtime in coordination with the state government to boost infrastructure and development works, the prime minister said. Noting that over 20 Bihar towns are situated near Ganga, Modi said more than 50 projects of over Rs 6,000 crore had been approved in the state to keep the holy river clean. Assembly polls in Bihar are likely to be held in October-November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-inaugurates-lays-foundation-for-projects-in-bihar-887842.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||Facebook India MD Ajit Mohan refuses to appear before Delhi Assembly panel||Facebook India Vice President and Managing Director Ajit Mohan did not appear before a Delhi Assembly panel on Tuesday, questioning its jurisdiction to summon him, even as panel head and AAP MLA Raghav Chadha saying that they will be left with no option but to invoke penal jurisdiction of the House against him if he refuses again. The Committee on Peace and Harmony has summoned Mohan in connection with its probe against Facebook following allegations that it did not adhere to its own policy on taking down hate posts by some BJP supporters fearing that it will anger the ruling party and will have adverse business implications. The panel also said it is of the belief that Facebook must be heard with regard to its role in Delhi riots. As Mohan refused to attend, Chadha said, "non appearance of Mohan, who is called as a witness to depose before the committee, is contempt of the Delhi Legislative Assembly and disregard of the Assembly's privilege...In the event of subsequent default, committee shall be constrained to invoke its power to initiate breach of privilege proceedings against Facebook India unit and thus inviting penal jurisdiction of the house among others." Mohan has cited overriding jurisdiction of the Centre as the reason for objecting to the notice for appearance. Chadha said it appeared like a "sly attempt" to evade responsibility and "conceal" facts. "The frivolous technical grounds cited by the Facebook smacks of premeditated attempt to non-cooperation and ill-assistance with the proceedings in the committee. Reasons cited are demonstrably unsustainable and erroneous in nature. The committee is well within its jurisdiction to call and examine the Facebook officials before it," he said. The committee has decided to give "one last opportunity" to Mohan to appear before the committee. Mohan had earlier appeared before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on September 2. Chadha said the notice of appearance issued to Facebook is directly related to the incidents of Delhi riots while proceedings of the Parliamentary Standing Committee are on the subject “Safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”. Chadha had earlier said the witnesses who deposed have spoken about an "unholy nexus" between Facebook and the BJP and the committee will further probe the allegations ranging from the role of Facebook in the riots in Delhi and other places.  On September 12, Chadha had said, "summons were issued on the basis of scathing depositions of the key witnesses as well as incriminating material submitted by them on record. Having regards to the compelling evidence brought forth by the witnesses, the committee is of the belief that Facebook should be impleaded as co-accused in the Delhi riots investigations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/facebook-india-md-ajit-mohan-refuses-to-appear-before-delhi-assembly-panel-887865.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||India Against Corruption movement, AAP propped by RSS-BJP to bring down UPA government: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that the India Against Corruption movement and the Aam Aadmi Party were propped by the RSS-BJP to subvert democracy and bring down the UPA government. Gandhi cited AAP founder member and civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan's reported claim that the movement was to a large extent supported and propped by the BJP-RSS to bring down the Congress government and get themselves in power. "What was known to us has been confirmed by a founding AAP member," the former Congress chief tweeted, tagging a media report on Bhushan's remarks. "The IAC movement and AAP were propped up by the RSS/BJP to subvert democracy and bring down the UPA government," Gandhi, who is accompanying his mother Sonia Gandhi to the US for her medical check-up, said.  Bhushan was part of the India Against Corruption movement which was the precursor to AAP led by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.  In 2015, Bhushan along with Yogendra Yadav was expelled from AAP over alleged “anti-party activities”. The India Against Corruption movement was particularly prominent during the anti-graft protests of 2011 and 2012, concerned with the introduction of the Jan Lokpal bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-against-corruption-movement-aap-propped-by-rss-bjp-to-bring-down-upa-government-rahul-gandhi-887868.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||Reconsider onion export ban; move will benefit Pakistan: Pawar tells Modi government||Former Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar on Tuesday asked the Modi government to reconsider the decision to ban export of all varieties of onions, contending that the move would help Pakistan make inroads in international markets. Pawar met Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal to convey the anger of onion growers and exporters at the sudden decision to ban exports of all the varieties of the bulb after prices rose sharply in wholesale markets as a fallout of damage to crops in rain-hit states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. “A sudden decision to this effect by the central government is a major blow to India's image as a reliable exporter of onions in the international market,” Pawar told Goyal. The NCP supremo emphasised that Pakistan and other onion exporting countries would benefit immensely from India’s decision to ban exports. Goyal said he would consult the ministries on Finance and Consumer Affairs on the issue. Neighbouring countries such as Bangladesh and Sri Lanka are dependent on India for their onion requirements and the stoppage of consignments would force them to look at other suppliers. The issue also found an echo in the Lok Sabha when BJP member Bharti Pawar raised the issue during Zero Hour. She also requested the government to reconsider the decision as onion prices had fallen sharply in wholesale markets and trucks carrying the commodity to Bangladesh were stranded at the international border. India on Monday banned exports of onions, including that of Bangalore Rose variety, with immediate effect as prices of the bulb soared in domestic markets. “The export of all varieties of onions … is prohibited with immediate effect,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade said n a notification here. “The provisions under Transitional Agreement shall not be applicable under this notification,” it added. The export ban covers Bangalore Rose and Krishnapuram varieties of onions which are largely exported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/reconsider-onion-export-ban-move-will-benefit-pakistan-pawar-tells-modi-government-887871.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||'Unaffected by deaths', Rahul attacks government on no data on migrant labourers' deaths||Turning to verse to attack the Centre for its statement that it does not have data on the number of migrants who died during the lockdown, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the world saw the deaths but only the Modi government was unaware. Union Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar told the Lok Sabha on Monday that the government does not have data on the number of migrants who died or were injured while returning to their native places due to the lockdown. In a four-line verse in Hindi, Gandhi responded by saying the Modi government does not know how many migrant labourers died and how many jobs were lost during the lockdown. "Did the death not take place if you did not count? But yes, it is sad the government was unaffected by it, The world saw their deaths, only the Modi government was not aware of it," he said on Twitter. The former Congress chief is accompanying his mother Sonia Gandhi during her trip to the US for a routine medical check-up. The government's response in Lok Sabha was to a question by BJD member Bhartruhari Mahtab. A nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.  There was an exodus of a large number of migrant workers to their native places from different parts of the country during the lockdown. The lockdown restrictions were eased from late May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/unaffected-by-deaths-rahul-attacks-government-on-no-data-on-migrant-labourers-deaths-887886.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||Ban online rummy as youth are getting addicted to it, resorting to crime: Karnataka MP||Karnataka BJP MP K C Ramamurthy on Tuesday demanded a ban on 'online rummy', saying youths are resorting to crime to follow their addiction after losing money. Raising the issue as a Special Mention in Rajya Sabha, he said advertisement and endorsement of online rummy by renowned celebrities, including cricketers like M S Dhoni and film stars, clearly indicate how rummy is gaining popularity. While rummy is considered to be a "game of skill", he said it is in reality "gamibling and betting money through rummy in the greed of getting more is not skill" as it ruins families financially and otherwise. "It is unfortunate that many have become addicts. The online rummy is rapidly spreading its tentacles by luring all sections, more particularly youth, with attractive advertisements and promotions assuring lucrative returns which are totally false," he said. After losing money, he said, youngsters are resorting to crime to carry on with this addition and it is creating worry among parents. Quoting a KPMG report, he said the online real money gaming industry is estimated at Rs 2,200 crore and is growing at 30% annually and would touch Rs 12,000 crore by 2023. "I do not see any industry that can grow at this pace in the world. This clearly indicates the rapidity with which online real money gaming, which includes online rummy, is spreading," he said demanding a ban on the online game.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ban-online-rummy-as-youth-are-getting-addicted-to-it-resorting-to-crime-karnataka-mp-887903.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||Yogi rechristens Mughal Museum after Shivaji, BJP leaders want Taj Mahal to be declared 'Tejolay'||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to rechristen the under construction 'Mughal Museum' in Agra, about 350 kilometres from here, after the Maratha Warrior-king Shivaji. "Mughals cannot be our heroes.....Shivaji is our real hero...his name will give rise to patriotic feelings in us," Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said. The 'Mughal Museum' project was the brainchild of the then-UP CM Akhilesh Yadav and was conceived in 2016. The Museum would have artefacts from Mughal and Braj (the region, where Lord Krishna was born). While the opposition Congress and the Samajwadi Party (SP) termed the rechristening an attempt to divert the attention of the people from pressing issues, including unemployment and law and order, several BJP leaders hailed the decision. "Ever since assuming office, the BJP government has been renaming the places and buildings....it has nothing else to do," said an SP leader here on Tuesday. Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis and film actress Kangana Ranaut also welcomed the rechristening of the Mughal Museum. Some BJP leaders now want the Taj Mahal, the 16th century ivory-white mausoleum on the bank of Yamuna river in Agra and one of the wonders of the world, to be rechristened as 'Tejolay' or 'Tejo Mahal' (a Shiva Temple). BJP leader Bhole Singh, a member of UP Go-Seva Ayog, said that 'Taj Mahal' should be declared 'Tejolay' without delay. Earlier senior BJP leader Vinay Katiyar had also demanded the Monument of Love be rechristened as 'Tejo Mahal' claiming that it was a 'Shiva Temple'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yogi-rechristens-mughal-museum-after-shivaji-bjp-leaders-want-taj-mahal-to-be-declared-tejolay-887923.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||India-China tension: Government declines Opposition's demand for discussion||The government on Tuesday declined the opposition's demand for a discussion on the standoff between Indian and Chinese forces at the LAC in Ladakh. Sources said during the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting of Lok Sabha, Congress leaders raised the demand for a discussion on the recent standoff of Indian forces with the neighbouring country's troops in eastern Ladakh. Floor leaders of all parties attend the BAC meeting which decides the agenda for the House. Sources said Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, representing the government, suggested that the issue is sensitive and related to national security and thus can't be discussed at a public platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-china-tension-government-declines-oppositions-demand-for-discussion-887951.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||Censor content on OTT platforms like Netfix, Amazon under CBFC: K C Ramamurthy||Karnataka BJP Rajya Sabha Member K C Ramamurthy on Tuesday urged the Centre that content displayed on online streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime should be censored under the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha, he said due to no regulation on contents of online streaming platforms, they were showing adult, sexist, explicit, erotic and violent content. "Sometimes not so good language, and at times anti-national ideology is also shown," he said. "There are many such platforms, right from Netflix, Amazon, Eros Now, Hotstar to Disney, etc., and the numbers keep increasing, and every platform is crossing 'Lakshman Rekha' of entertainment. The content is streamed without licence or certification," he said. "The Department of Information and Broadcasting has been very sensitive for airing any content which is not in accordance with the regulations. But for the platforms using OTT, there is no such strict regulation. Because of this, people, mostly youngsters, fall prey to them and all restricted adult content has made entry into the four walls of the house," he said. "Though some streaming platforms claimed they were self-regulating, it is a big farce because content shows how hollow this claim is," he said. The government should make it mandatory for all over the top platforms to take licence or certificate for the content they are showing so that people will get 'real good entertainment', he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/censor-content-on-ott-platforms-like-netfix-amazon-under-cbfc-k-c-ramamurthy-887960.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||Lok Sabha passes bill to cut salaries of MPs by 30%||Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed a bill to reduce for one year the salaries of MPs by 30 per cent "to meet the exigencies" arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was introduced in the Lower House on Monday. It will replace the Salary, Allowances And Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The ordinance was cleared by the Cabinet on April 6 and promulgated the next day. Replying to the debate on the bill, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that funds are needed to fight the COVID-19 pandemic and "charity should begin from home". He also said that the economy was affected due to the lockdown, and in such a situation, the government has taken important decisions to deal with the crisis. Responding to the demand by opposition members to restore MP Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS), he said: "Whatever decision we have taken on MPLADS is temporary and only for two years". It was decided by the government to suspend the MPLADS funds for 2020-2021 and 2021-2022. Under the scheme, members of both Houses can recommend development programmes involving spending of Rs 5 crore every year. The Congress and other opposition parties in Lok Sabha demanded the restoration of MPLADS funds even as they supported the government's decision to cut the salaries of members of Parliament. Leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said the MPLADS funds should be restored as it is being used by the members for development works in their respective constituencies. Everybody has called for the restoration of the funds, so "why not we pass a unanimous resolution that the fund should be restored," he said. He said that 93 per cent of the funds have been utilised by the members and the bulk of them were used for welfare activities for SCs, STs and villagers. He said that while the government is giving tax relief to corporates, it is cutting the salaries of the MPs, and termed it as being "penny-wise and pound-foolish". "I am appealing to the House that this fund should be restored," he added. Members who echoed the demand included AAP's Bhagwant Mann, independent member from Maharashtra Navneet Ravi Rana, Ritesh Pandey (BSP) and AIMIM's S I Jaleel. TMC MP Mahua Moitra said the government is doing a disservice through this decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-cut-salaries-of-mps-by-30-887974.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||BJP chief JP Nadda inaugurates exhibition on Narendra Modi's life||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday inaugurated an exhibition on the life journey of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as part of the "Seva Saptah" (week of service) the party has started to mark the birthday of its top leader on September 17. The exhibition has been organised at the BJP's headquarters here. Nadda said in a statement that the party is organising "Seva Saptah" at 70 places in every district under this programme, from September 14-20, to celebrate Modi's approaching 70th birthday. Party workers across the country will undertake a number of exercises, including blood donation, distribution of fruits among the sick in hospitals and cleanliness drives. The BJP has been organising "Seva Saptah" for the last several years to mark Modi's birthday. He said Modi has dedicated his life to serving society, and his ideas have been an inspiration for the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-inaugurates-exhibition-on-narendra-modis-life-888005.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||Kanimozhi questions composition of committee to study Indian culture||DMK MP Kanimozhi on Tuesday questioned why an “expert committee” constituted by the Centre for piloting a “'Holistic study of origin and evolution of Indian culture” does not have representation from minority and Dalit communities. The Union Ministry of Culture has constituted an expert committee consisting of 16 members to conduct the study. The committee has come under criticism from various quarters with people pointing out that majority of the members belong to upper castes and those from North East, minority, Dalit, and other communities have been left out. In a tweet by posting the notification, Kanimozhi questioned why none from any minority community has been appointed to the committee that will study Indian culture. “Can’t minorities and Dalits speak about Indian culture? Or are they ineligible?” she asked. After the tweet went viral, Carnatic singer T M Krishna also condemned the Centre’s move. “This committee constituted by the Govt of India to study Indian Culture is proof if its bigoted, casteist, patriarchal nature. Culture is where the most damage is being done. We are ignoring it at our own peril,” he wrote on Twitter. The 16-member panel is headed by K N Dikshit, Chairman, Indian Archaeological society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kanimozhi-questions-composition-of-committee-to-study-indian-culture-888022.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi running away from discussion on China: Congress||Congress on Tuesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of running away from a discussion in Parliament on Chinese transgressions in Ladakh by not allowing opposition parties to speak on the issue. Though several opposition leaders demanded a discussion on the issue in the Lok Sabha, Congress members were the only ones to walk out on being disallowed to speak in support of the Indian Army after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a statement on ‘Developments on our border in Ladakh’ After staging a walk-out, the Congress members held a demonstration in Parliament premises and questioned the absence of the Prime Minister in the Lok Sabha when the Defence Minister made a statement on the Chinese transgressions. “There was a deliberate attempt to silence the Congress party. We only wanted to send a message of solidarity to the Indian Army and we also wanted this Government to be honest, accountable and transparent to the people of India,” Gaurav Gogoi, deputy leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha told reporters here. The main opposition party wanted Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to state in clear terms whether China had occupied Indian territory in Ladakh and specify a timeline when the government planned to oust them. “We are proud of the valour of our armed forces, but why is the Prime Minister missing? Why is the Prime Minister running away from giving an account of his failure to Parliament,” Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said it was clear from the Defence Minister's statement that the Prime Minister misled the country on Chinese incursions in Ladakh. “Our country has always stood up with our defence forces and will continue to do so. But when will you (PM) stand up against China? When will you reclaim our territory that China has occupied? Don't be scared of naming China,” Rahul said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-running-away-from-discussion-on-china-congress-888050.html
15-09-2020||National Politics||MPs unanimous on salary cuts; slam MPLADS suspension||Lok Sabha members on Tuesday passed a Bill effecting a 30% cut in their salaries to enable the government meet exigencies due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but grudgingly accepted the scrapping of local area development funds for two years. The Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill was passed unanimously by a voice vote, with members cutting across party lines expressing willingness to forgo their entire salary for one year but made a strong pitch for restoration of the MPLADS funds. The Bill seeks to replace an Ordinance promulgated during the inter-session period. The government had promulgated the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Ordinance on April 7. In a separate decision of the Union Cabinet, the government had suspended MPLADS fund for two years. “The government can take away the entire salary, but restore the MPLADS fund,” Trinamool member Sougata Ray said participating in the debate on the Bill. NCP member Supriya Sule wanted the government to scrap the Rs 20,000 crore project to redevelop the Central Vista and build a new Parliament building. “You can take a vote here. Do you want a Central Vista and an office or do you want a hospital or a school in your constituency. I think it is a given, it is not rocket science,” Sule said making a strong pitch for restoration of the MPLADS fund. Under the MPLADS fund, every Member of Parliament gets to allocate Rs five crore for development projects in his constituency every year. These funds are spent on smaller projects such as building a culvert, or buying ambulances, or building a class room. “Almost 80% of the fund is spent in rural areas; why are you taking away the funds meant to be spent on Scheduled Castes,” Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said pointing out that 15% of the fund was reserved for SC and 7.5% for ST. While members of Trinamool, YSRCP, Congress, NCP, CPI(M), TDP, TRS, AAP demanded restoration of the MPLADS fund, BJP member Girish Bapat said he backed the government decision on suspending the fund for two years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mps-unanimous-on-salary-cuts-slam-mplads-suspension-888073.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Two militant associates held in Pulwama: J&K police||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Tuesday said it arrested two associates of militant outfit Al- Badr in Awantipora area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. A police spokesperson said the two militant associates were held at Ladhoo crossing in Awantipora when they were heading to Khrew from Shopian on a two-wheeler. He identified them as Rayees-ul-Hassan and Mushtaq Ahmad Mir, both residents of Awantipora. “Incriminating material of proscribed outfit Al-Badr has been recovered from their possession,” the spokesperson said and added the two-wheeler (JK01AC- 4035), used for the commission of crime has also been seized. FIR number 55/2020 under relevant Sections of the Unlawful Activities Act has been registered in Police Station Khrew and further investigation is on, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militant-associates-held-in-pulwama-jk-police-887711.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||CBI raids premises of former BJP minister Lal Singh in Jammu and Kashmir||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday carried simultaneous raids in Jammu and Kathua districts in connection with a probe into allegations of corruption by a trust run by former BJP minister, Choudhary Lal Singh. Reports said the probe agency sleuths carried out searches at nine locations - three in Jammu and six in Kathua, including raided Singh’s residence early morning. The CBI also registered a case of criminal breach of trust and corruption against an educational trust run by Singh and his family and certain government officials. Earlier, on June 25, the probe agency had registered a preliminary enquiry (PE) to probe into allegations of land grabbing and corruption by Singh, who had quit the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) in 2018. Besides naming the R B Educational Trust, in which Singh’s wife and son are the members, the others named in the FIR include the then Kathua deputy commissioner, reports said. Singh and the then industries minister Chander Prakash Ganga in the erstwhile BJP-Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) coalition government had to resign in May 2018 after questions were raised over their participation in a ‘Hindu Ekta Manch’ rally organised in support of those arrested in connection with the rape and murder of an eight-year-old nomadic girl in Kathua that year. After resigning from the BJP he floated his own party - Dogra Swabhiman Sangathan and contested the 2019 Parliament election from both of the Jammu region’s parliamentary seats - Jammu and Udhampur. However, he lost from both the places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-raids-premises-of-former-bjp-minister-lal-singh-in-jammu-and-kashmir-887776.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Lack of rain to cause temperature to rise in Delhi||Lack of rain will likely to push the mercury further up in Delhi over the next two days, the weather department said on Tuesday. There has been no rain in the city for the past five days. According to the India Meteorological Department, the maximum temperature will likely touch the 38-degrees Celsius mark over the next two days amid lack of rain. It, however, forecast light rainfall on the weekend. There has been 75 per cent of less rainfall in September in the city so far, according to Met department data. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, has recorded just 20.9 mm of rainfall against the normal of 83.9 mm this month so far. The Lodhi road weather station has gauged only 18.5 mm of precipitation against the normal of 83.9 mm -- a deficiency of 78 per cent. The Palam weather station has recorded 30.3 mm against the 50-year average of 84.9 mm, according to IMD data. Delhi recorded 237 mm of rain in August, the highest for the month in seven years. Overall, the city has recorded 576.5 mm of rainfall against the usual of 607.7 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts. The IMD has also said that monsoon is likely to stay longer in Delhi and start withdrawing only in the "initial days of October". The wind system had reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lack-of-rain-to-cause-temperature-to-rise-in-delhi-887804.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 forces people to hold condolence meetings online||As the Covid-19 pandemic upends normal life, it has also changed the way people express grief over the death of their near and dear ones with many taking the virtual route to pay condolences from safe confines of their homes. With restrictions still in place, people are finding it difficult to go out and at such a time, technology has come to their help in offering condolences. In Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, people have started organising 'uthavna' (condolence) meetings on social media and apps providing video conferencing facilities to offer tributes to the deceased and to express solidarity with his/her family members. "This city has a culture of organising social gatherings in happy as well as sad times. But, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, now people have to live with this new reality," BJP MP from Indore Shankar Lalwani told PTI. "During this pandemic, it is appropriate to organise online uthavna. In the last one month, I myself took part in more than 100 online uthavna meetings," he said. Some citizens here are also organising 'chalit uthavna' (mobile condolence) meetings, where instead of making sitting arrangements, people are asked to stand in a queue while maintaining distance from each other to pay tributes to the departed soul and then immediately leave the venue. The local Sindhi community has imposed a ban on organising condolence meetings in its community halls here in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. "Since the coronavirus infection is spreading fast in the city, we have decided not permit condolence meetings and post-funeral rituals in our two main community halls, Bhartiya Sindhu Sabha's Indore unit general secretary Naresh Fundwani said. "We have also seen that during 'chalit uthavna' meetings, people gather in large numbers and indulge in long conversations. So, we have also stopped organising such meetings," he said. In Bhopal also, the tradition of informing people about the post-funeral rituals through small paper cards is getting replaced with virtual cards being sent on social media platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook. After the death of an LIC official in the state capital earlier this month, his family members sent a virtual card to their relatives and friends. "To remain safe, pay condolences to the departed soul from your home only. It is not proper to take any kind of risk in such a crisis situation. Your condolences are acceptable to us from a distance also," the message on the card said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-forces-people-to-hold-condolence-meetings-online-887805.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court grants interim protection from arrest to Punjab ex-DGP in 1991 case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted protection from arrest to Punjab's ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in a case related to alleged abduction and murder of a junior engineer Balwant Singh Multani in 1991. A bench, presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan, asked Saini to cooperate with the police in their investigation. The court said Saini will not be arrested till further orders. It sought a response from the Punjab government within three weeks on a petition by Saini challenging validity of September 7 order by the Punjab and Haryana HC, rejecting his plea. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Saini, said that it has been 29 years since Multani escaped. The FIR was registered against Saini this year in a mala fide manner, as now he is a retired person. He further alleged that the Punjab government was after Saini because he had filed two chargesheets which has the current Chief Minister of Punjab Captain Amarinder Singh as the accused. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the State government, claimed Multani was picked up from his residence. On this, Justice Bhushan asked Luthra, "This case is of 1991 and asked after 30 years what is the hurry to arrest him?" Luthra said after the registration of FIR, statement of approver has been recorded. Witnesses in the police station have for the first time stated that the picture of Multani released to have escaped from the prison was not of Multani at all. Luthra further said the High Court judge had noted that Saini used to intimidate the victim. Court had noted that a person had succumbed to his injury after he was imhumanly treated by Saini, he added. Senior advocate KV Vishwanathan, appearing for the brother of Multani, contended that his brother died at the hand of Saini and "he was a notorious police officer." Vishwanathan added that murder offence was disclosed on August 18 this year and thereafter Section 302 was added. There is approver statement on record now. Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer, who was the youngest DGP in the country, was booked along with six others on May 6 this year at Mataur police station in Mohali for the alleged kidnapping of Multani, wrongful confinement, among other charges in 1991. Later in August murder charge was added to the FIR, after two co-accused turned approvers, and in their statement, claimed to be witnesses to the torture meted out to Balwant Singh Multani, under the custody of former DGP Saini, who was then the SSP of Chandigarh. Multani worked with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco) and was picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini, who was then Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police. Saini was injured in the attack and three policemen were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-grants-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-punjab-ex-dgp-in-1991-case-887819.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Probe firing on tribals by police, says Chhattisgarh minister to Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Chhattisgarh Forest Minister Mohammad Akbar has written to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan seeking a high-level probe into the killing of a tribal man from Kabirdham district in an alleged unprovoked firing by police of the neighbouring state on September 6, an official said on Tuesday. Akbar also demanded strict action against the guilty. Jham Singh Dhurve, a native of Balsamund village under Jhalamala police station area in Kabirdham, was killed while another villager Nem Singh Dhurve escaped unhurt in the firing by Madhya Pradesh police on the inter-state border, the minister said in the letter dated September 14. "In its report based on preliminary findings, Jhalmala police have pointed that the MP police allegedly opened unprovoked firing on the two tribals," said Akbar, who is the MLA from Kawardha constituency in Kabirdham. "I have already written a letter to you (on September 12) in this regard, but so far I haven't received any information about action being taken into the incident. It is a very serious matter of the murder of an innocent tribal and attempt to murder of another one," he said. Despite over a week after the incident, no legal action has been initiated by the Madhya Pradesh government due to which there is an immense resentment among the tribal community of the region, the minister stated. He urged Chouhan to order a high level probe and to provide necessary details to the Chhattisgarh government. The official said Jham Singh and Nem Singh had gone in the forests along the border of Kabirdham and Balaghat (MP) districts for fishing when they were fired upon by security personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probe-firing-on-tribals-by-police-says-chhattisgarh-minister-to-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-887876.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Former Uttar Pradesh CM Kalyan Singh's condition is stable: Hospital||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh who has tested positive for coronavirus is stable, a hospital official said on Tuesday. Singh, 88, had complaints of fever, dry cough and breathlessness, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) director R K Dhiman had said on Monday. The former chief minister was admitted to the SGPGI at 6.30 pm after he tested positive for Covid-19, Dhiman had said. "He (Kalyan Singh) was having mild illness. But, he is stable and is on room air," Dhiman told PTI on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-uttar-pradesh-cm-kalyan-singhs-condition-is-stable-hospital-887890.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab police arrests two, busts pro-Khalistan terror module||With the arrest of two people, the Punjab police on Tuesday claimed to have busted a pro-Khalistan terror module. Four .32 calibre pistols, one 9 mm pistol and one .32 revolver, eight live rounds of ammunition, several mobile phones and an internet dongle were seized from their possession, said Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta in a statement here. The module was busted on the basis of inputs about the nefarious designs of certain pro-Khalistan elements trying to disturb peace and harmony in the state by launching terror attacks, said Gupta.  Gupta said following inputs, the Punjab police had launched a drive to ensure thorough frisking and checking of all those entering the state from various parts of the country, thus leading to the arrest of Harjeet Singh alias Raju and Shamsher Singh alias Shera, both residents of village Mianpur, Tarn Taran. They were nabbed at the checkpost near a hotel on Rajpura-Sirhind road by a police team. A case under relevant sections of the IPC, the Arms Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act has been registered against them. During preliminary investigation, the accused revealed that they received four weapons from Burhanpur, Madhya Pradesh, and two from Safidon, in Haryana's Jind district, said the DGP. Gupta said they were also wanted in an attempt to murder and an Arms Act case registered in Police Station Sarai Amanat Khan, Tarn Taran. Initial investigations further revealed that the two men were allegedly planning a major terror attack in Punjab in connivance with five criminals. These criminals were identified as Shubhdeep Singh alias Shubh, now lodged in Amritsar jail, Amritpal Singh Baath, wanted in several criminal cases, Randeep Singh, wanted in drug cases, along with Goldy and Ashu.           Shubhdeep Singh was an "active militant" of the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), said DGP.          He was arrested by the police in September 2019 in a case of the recovery of a China-made drone from village Mahawa, Amritsar, said police. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had filed a chargesheet against him along with eight others before the special NIA court in Mohali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-arrests-two-busts-pro-khalistan-terror-module-887895.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Army ready to guard nation even in winter: Rajnath on border stand-off at Lok Sabha||India is “facing a challenge” along its disputed boundary with China in Ladakh and prepared “to deal with all contingencies”, even as it remains committed to peacefully resolve the military stand-off with the neighbouring communist country, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. With New Delhi losing hope for an early end to the four-month-long military stand-off in India-China border areas, the Defence Minister sent out a message to Beijing about the Indian Army’s preparedness for a long haul in the icy heights of the Himalayas, in order to defend national sovereignty even during winter. He said that the soldiers of the Indian Army were “capable” of defending territorial integrity against expansionist moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) even “at forbidding altitudes with scarce oxygen and extremely cold temperatures” as they had been “effortlessly” doing it over the last many years in Siachen and Kargil. He said that the government was providing winterwear and tents to withstand cold weather to the soldiers so that they could stand guard at the freezing altitudes in India-China border areas. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi had a meeting in Moscow last Thursday and agreed on five points, including on restarting stalled talks between senior military commanders to defuse tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. The Defence Minister’s statement in the Lok Sabha, however, indicated that the five-point consensus did not raise much hope in New Delhi for an early end to the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA. Singh apprised the Lok Sabha about the current situation along the disputed India-China boundary. He said that the Chinese PLA had “mobilized a large number of troops and armaments along the LAC as well as in the depth areas”. “There are several friction areas in Eastern Ladakh including Gogra, Kongka La and North and South Banks of Pangong Tso (lake),” said the Defence Minister. He added that the Indian Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police too responded with “appropriate counter deployments” on all the face-off points to safeguard security interests of India. He urged the Lok Sabha to “reiterate confidence and faith in the velour of the brave armed forces and support them in the mission that they have undertaken to protect the territorial integrity” of India. The Defence Minister informed the Lok Sabha that the Indian Army had noticed a build-up of troops and armaments by the Chinese PLA in the border areas in eastern Ladakh since April. The PLA in early May had made a move “to hinder the normal, traditional patrolling pattern” of the Indian Army troops in the Galwan Valley area, resulting in a face-off. Even as this situation was being addressed by the ground commanders (of both armies) as per the provisions of our bilateral agreements and protocol, the Chinese Army in mid-May made several attempts to transgress the LAC in other parts of the western sector, including Kongka La, Gogra and northern bank of Pangong Tso. “These attempts were detected early and consequently responded to appropriately by our armed forces,” said Singh. He reiterated New Delhi’s position that the PLA had flouted the 1993 and 1996 India-China agreements by amassing such a large number of troops along the LAC. He noted that India-China pacts on maintaining peace and tranquillity along the disputed boundary had detailed procedures and norms to deal with the face-offs. “However, in the recent incidents, this year, the violent conduct of Chinese (PLA) forces has been in complete violation of all mutually agreed norms”, said the Defence Minister, who also had a meeting with his counterpart in the communist country, Wei Fenghe, in Moscow on September 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-ready-to-guard-nation-even-in-winter-rajnath-on-border-stand-off-at-lok-sabha-887899.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||UP cop tells woman complainant to come after 'tearing off blouse' to register case, suspended||Infamous for their alleged nexus with criminals and human rights violations, the Uttar Pradesh police are once again in the news for all the wrong reasons. The in-charge of a police station (SHO) in UP's Kanpur town, about 90 kilometres from here, allegedly told a woman, who wanted to lodge a complaint of land grabbing against another person, to come to him after "tearing off" her 'blouse' and then he would register a case of rape. The SHO of Narval police station, identified as Ram Autar, also allegedly 'abused' the woman. He has since been suspended and a probe has been ordered into the matter, sources here said on Tuesday. The matter came to light, when a video in which the SHO was heard making the remarks, went viral on social networking sites on Tuesday. "Agli baar blouse phad kar ana....main dushkarm ka case darj kar loonga" (next time come after tearing off your blouse..I will register a case of a rape), the cop was heard saying in the video. Sources said that the woman had complained to the SHO that a person from her locality had forcibly grabbed her land and requested him to take action against the person. "This kind of behaviour can not be tolerated....a probe has been ordered...we will take action against the cop," said a senior police official in Kanpur. The incident comes close on the heels of booking of district police chief of Mahoba in the state in the murder of a whistle-blower after the latter had accused the cop of demanding bribe from him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cop-tells-woman-complainant-to-come-after-tearing-off-blouse-to-register-case-suspended-887909.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Dismissed cop dies of heart attack in police compound in Uttar Pradesh||A recently dismissed Uttar Pradesh Police personnel allegedly died of a heart attack in a police compound in Greater Noida, officials said Tuesday. Priyavrat Singh served as a constable and was recently dismissed from service, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Vishal Pandey said. Singh, 34, hailed from Barot in nearby Baghpat district and was earlier deployed at the Dadri police station. He had come to visit his former colleagues. On Monday, he was found lying unconscious in a bathroom in the residential compound of the police station and then taken to a hospital where doctors declared him dead, according to officials. “Prima facie it appears he suffered a heart attack,” Pandey said. He said Singh's family has been informed and further proceedings are being carried out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dismissed-cop-dies-of-heart-attack-in-police-compound-in-uttar-pradesh-887919.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Lockdown from Mar 25 to May 31 controlled progression of Covid-19: Govt||The lockdown from March 25 to May 31 successfully controlled the aggressive progression of Covid-19 in India but there has been a steady rise in the number of cases in the post-lockdown phase, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Choubey said on Tuesday. However, 3,328 cases and 55 deaths per million population in the country are one of the lowest in the world, Choubey said, replying to a question in Rajya Sabha. He also said the health ministry followed a graded approach for expanding Covid-19 dedicated hospital infrastructure and enough beds are available for any contingency. "The lockdown from March 25 to May 31 successfully controlled the aggressive progression of Covid-19 in India. In the post-lockdown phase, cases have shown a steady increase," Choubey said. "Outbreaks of Covid-19 are still largely restricted to urban and peri-urban areas. However, there has been reporting from rural areas in the proximity of major cities," he said. To a question on whether the government is planning to increase intensive care beds and the capacity of hospitals in remote areas to cope with a large-scale outbreak of Covid-19, Choubey said the health ministry followed a graded approach for expanding Covid-19 dedicated hospital infrastructure. The states were advised to plan for the requisite number of isolation, oxygen supported and ICU beds based on the prevalent and expected case growth rate. the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is also monitoring the Covid-19 hospital infrastructure, he said. As of now, there are enough beds available to face any contingency, he added. On the number of ICU beds and ventilators available and operational in different government-run hospitals in states and union territories, the minister said such details are not maintained centrally. According to the information provided by the states and UTs on the Covid-19 portal, there were 62,979 ICU beds and 32,862 ventilators available in the country as of September 14. The ministry has instructed the states that they may indicate the number of ventilators required so that the same can be supplied to them. "So far, 32,109 ventilators have been allocated to various states and a total of 20,916 ventilators have been installed at the facilities," Choubey said. A total amount of Rs 898.93 crore has been released from the PM Cares Fund towards the provision of ventilators. The Ministry of Health had placed an order for supply, installation, and commissioning of 30,000 ICU ventilators from Bharat Electronics Limited, a public sector enterprise of the Ministry of Defence, he said. "All states are going to be equally benefitted as the ventilators are being allocated to states based on the numbers of case(s), the trend of pandemic and the requirement posed by them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-from-mar-25-to-may-31-controlled-progression-of-covid-19-govt-887921.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Minor girl gang-raped in Ballia, two arrested: Police||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly abducted, beaten up and raped by two youths in a village under Phephna police station area here in the district, police said on Tuesday. An FIR was lodged in the case on the victim’s mother complaint and two people were arrested on Tuesday, said SHO Rajiv Mishra of Phephna. The incident took place on September 9 but came to light on Monday when Lucknow Deputy Inspector General of Police Amitabh Thakur took note of a Facebook post of a social activist, Rajat Singh, on the gangrape, said police. Singh’s Facebook post on the incident was based on a viral social media post in which it was said that the girl was returning home in his village from somewhere when the two boys accosted her at a secluded place and dragged her underneath a bridge, where they beat her up and raped her, they added. The activist also tagged with his post a viral video in which the girl was seen pleading with the alleged rapists, addressing them as “bhaiya”, to spare her. Taking cognizance of activist’s post calling for the justice to the rape victim, DIG Thakur apprised additional director general of police of Varanasi zone and DIG, Azamgarh of the gangrape through his tweet on Monday, following which Ballia Superintendent of Police Devendra Nath ordered an FIR into the incident, said police. SHO Mishra said an investigation is on in the case. Incidentally, the victim of infamous December 16, 2012 gangrape case, also known as Nirbhaya case, too belonged to the same police station area Phephna in Ballia district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-gang-raped-in-ballia-two-arrested-police-887932.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Congress MLA Govardhanlal Dangi dies at 62||Congress MLA from Madhya Pradesh Govardhanlal Dangi died at a hospital in Gurgaon on Tuesday, family sources said. The 62-year-old legislator from Biaora had earlier tested positive for coronavirus infection, the chief medical and health officer of Rajgarh district said. According to sources, the first-time MLA is survived by his wife, son and two daughters. The deceased legislator's last rites will be performed at his native village Morchakhedi in Rajgarh district later in the day, they said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state Congress president Kamal Nath and former minister Jaivardhan Singh among others condoled Dangi's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-congress-mla-govardhanlal-dangi-dies-at-62-887958.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Omar Abdhullah takes jibe at AAP as Centre plans amendments to ease implementation of Delhi Act||A proposed Bill by the Narendra Modi government to bring "ease in implementation of certain provisions" of a law that governs the national capital that is speculated to give more powers to Lieutenant Governor over the elected government invited sharp jibes from National Conference leader Omar Abdullah against the AAP on Tuesday. While the content of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2020 is not available in public domain, the bulletins issued by the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have said that it aims to amend the GNCTD Act, 1991 to "bring ease in implementation of certain provisions of the Act". Referring to the AAP's support to the Modi government on revoking special status for Jammu and Kashmir and the state's bifurcation, Abdullah said he is waiting to see AAP support the amendment bill "When they came for us on 5 August, 2019, AAP happily supported the BJP in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Let’s see AAP support this piece of legislation now!" Omar tweeted in response to a post by Kejriwal's former media adviser Nagender Sharma. Abullah's response was to Sharma's tweet on Monday night, "Modi cabinet likely to approve amendments to GNCTD Act 1991 to give sweeping discretionary powers to its Delhi LG during this session itself to further undermine the elected government?" In response to Abdullah, Sharma said, "no! They did not come for you when they allegedly amended the Constitution through an ordinary Bill. They came after democracy & Constitution. Now they are diluting Article 239A by amending GNCTD Act. It is the people of India they are coming after." Sharma also asked Abdullah to disclose what transpired during the meeting he and his father Farooq Abdullah had with Modi days before the special status was revoked. The AAP government has been at loggerheads with the Modi government over the issue of control over Delhi. It has been demanding full statehood. In recent times, it had entered into confrontation with the Lieutenant Governor over a variety of issues in Covid-19 management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omar-abdhullah-takes-jibe-at-aap-as-centre-plans-amendments-to-ease-implementation-of-delhi-act-887973.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||138 terrorists killed in Jammu and Kashmir in last 6 months: Govt||As many as 138 terrorists were killed by security forces between March and August this year, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said Jammu and Kashmir has been affected by terrorism, which is sponsored and supported from across the border, for more than the last three decades. Reddy said that the government has adopted a policy of zero tolerance towards terrorism and the security forces are taking effective and continuous action in countering terrorism. "As a result, 138 terrorists have been neutralised in Jammu and Kashmir from March 1, 2020 to August 31, 2020. During this period of six months, 50 security force personnel have attained martyrdom in terrorist related incidents and ceasefire violations, cross border firings in Jammu and Kashmir," he said replying to a written question. There were 176 attempts of infiltration from across the border from August 2019 to July 2020 and 111 were successful, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/138-terrorists-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-in-last-6-months-govt-887990.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||Video of Madhya Pradesh villagers chasing away Covid-19 ambulance goes viral||A video of villagers in Sheopur district of Madhya Pradesh chasing away an ambulance with sticks and stones to stop it from ferrying a coronavirus positive resident to the hospital went viral on social media on Tuesday after which the administration had to ask the local BJP MLA to intervene. The incident happened in Kakardha village on Sunday where four people have been detected with Covid-19, and while three have been hospitalised, the ambulance had gone to get the fourth one, said Sheopur District Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr BL Yadav on Tuesday. "People there are having some apprehensions about hospitalisation during the outbreak. We spoke to local BJP MLA Sitaram Adivasi, who belongs to the same area, to speak to the villagers and make them see reason. We will get the woman patient admitted soon," Yadav added. Meanwhile, an official said the health staff inside the ambulance are distressed and angry over the incident and have brought the matter to the notice of higher authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-of-madhya-pradesh-villagers-chasing-away-covid-19-ambulance-goes-viral-888004.html
15-09-2020||North and Central||BSF foils major infiltration bid along IB in J&K's Samba||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Tuesday foiled a major infiltration bid by five heavily-armed terrorists along the International Border in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district, a spokesperson said on Tuesday. The terrorists fled back to the Pakistani side after being confronted by the border guarding force, the spokesman said. He said a strong protest note is being lodged with the Pakistan Rangers for helping the infiltrating terrorists. The spokesperson said alert troops observed the movement of terrorists on the Pakistani side in Samba sector during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. "Their movement was tracked by BSF troops and at about 0030 hours, the group was seen close to the International Boundary where they reached taking advantage of the undulating ground and thick wild growth," the spokesperson said.  He said the five terrorists took refuge in a depression having dense wild growth. "The BSF troops challenged them to stop but they opened fired on the party," the spokesperson said.        The BSF troops fired on the terrorists with coordinated effective fire and foiled a possible infiltration bid from the Pakistani side, he said. He said the area was illuminated by the help of para bomb and BSF troops saw the terrorists fleeing. "The area was searched but nothing was recovered as the terrorists could not cross the IB. A strong protest note is being lodged with Pakistan Rangers for their help in facilitating terrorists infiltrate towards the Indian side," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-foils-major-infiltration-bid-along-ib-in-jks-samba-888009.html
15-09-2020||South||Soon, use elevators touchless way at Hyderabad airport||In a move to ensure a completely contact-less commute, the Hyderabad international airport has decided to set all their passenger elevators up with an infrared-technology based touch-less elevator control system, the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), Hyderabad announced in a tweet. This technology was first piloted at one of the departure terminal elevators, where passengers could call the elevator to the floor with just a wave of their hands near the sensor. Once in, all the passengers need to do is point their finger at the floor-number button, as per their choice. This technology has been previously used by smartphone and laptop companies, wherein, the user can command their devices to perform certain functions solely by gestures. “The sensor can detect interaction from a distance of 0.1-10 cm from the button surface to enable users to make their selection with absolutely no physical contact. With the successful culmination of the pilot project, the airport is going ahead with enabling all passenger facing elevators across the airport terminal building for this automation,” the GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited (GHIAL), said in a statement. Earlier, the RGIA had brought in various Covid-19 related precautionary technology such as zero-contact and fully sanitized services like self-check-in kiosks, tech-enabled entry gates where the passengers need to display their documents onto a high-definition camera installed at the domestic departures terminal gates of the RGIA. The airport is also equipped with a self-baggage drop facility and a virtual information desk for passengers. To ensure zero-contact right from the airport’s door-step, upon arrival, the passengers are required to step in front of the thermal cameras at each departure gate, besides the document verification cameras at the domestic terminal to measure their temperatures in a non-intrusive way.  UV enabled disinfection of Automatic Tray Retrieval Systems (ATRS), UV ovens at the retail food outlets, touchless drinking water fountains are among other tech-savvy installments at the RGIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/soon-use-elevators-touchless-way-at-hyderabad-airport-887746.html
15-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Congress sides with Health Minister over NEET issue||Health Minister C Vijayabaskar's accusation that seeds for National Eligibility cum Entrance test were sown during the Congress-led regime at the Centre was 'unfounded,' Tamil Nadu Congress Committee said on Tuesday. Joining issue with the Minister, TNCC president K S Alagiri said the national test was not implemented till 2014 when the United Progressive Alliance held the reins of power at the Centre. "If the NEET examination is being held today in all the states, the BJP, which is at power at the Centre is responsible," Alagiri said, adding neither his party nor ally DMK were behind the test. In addition to not being able to stop the test in Tamil Nadu, the AIADMK government also could not prepare the students for NEET through coaching classes, he alleged. "Tamil Nadu government started 412 coaching centres to prepare state-run school students for NEET. Did these centres run properly?" he asked adding even if they functioned, there were no qualified trainers to prepare the students, he alleged. The Minister's accusation that Congress and DMK were responsible for the emergence of NEET "is unfounded and defamatory," Alagiri said. "It is necessary to teach an appropriate lesson to those in power for shattering the dreams of Tamil Nadu students to pursue medicine. People will never forgive the AIADMK government for their sin," he added. Health minister Vijaya Baskar had on Monday slammed DMK and Congress over their criticism of the state government on the NEET issue, saying the seeds for the qualifying test were "sowed" whenthe United Progressive Alliance was in power. The Minister said: "They are responsible for NEET. They sowed the seeds for the test and issued a notificationon December 27, 2010. Now they are feigning as if they are concerned about the students."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-congress-sides-with-health-minister-over-neet-issue-887835.html
15-09-2020||South||Telangana reports 2,058 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths||Telangana recorded 2,058 new Covid-19 cases and ten related fatalities, pushing the tally of infections to 1.60 lakh in the state. Out of the fresh cases, 277 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Rangareddy 143, Karimnagar 135, Warangal Urban 108, Siddipet 106, and Khammam 103 districts, a state government bulletin said on Tuesday, providing data as of 8 PM on September 14. As 10 more people succumbed to the disease, the toll rose to 984. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1.29 lakh, while 30,400 were under treatment. The bulletin said 51,247 samples were tested on September 14. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 22.20 lakh. The samples tested per million population was 59,811, it said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.61 per cent, while it was 1.64 per cent at the national level, it said. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 80.45 per cent, while it was 78.26 per cent in the country. The bulletin said out of the total 1.60 lakh cases, 1.12 lakh (70 per cent) were asymptomatic and 48,171 were symptomatic. It also said 61.83 per cent cases were male, while 38.17 per cent were female. The highest number of positive cases was among the 21-30 age group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-2058-new-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-887857.html
15-09-2020||South||Elephant tramples 70-year-old woman to death in Tamil Nadu||A 70-year-old woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant near Pannimadai on the city outskirts, early Tuesday. The incident occurred when Neelavathi was on her way to a temple at Varapalayam around 5 AM, police said. The woman noticed an elephant standing in the area and attempted to run for safety. However, the jumbo chased and lifted her with its trunk before hurling the woman on the ground killing her on the spot, police said. Some passers-by who noticed the body alerted the police and forest department officials. A large number of villagers gathered at the spot and staged protests with the victim's body demanding immediate action by the district administration. The protesters dispersed after officials assured to take necessary steps to prevent such incidents. Further investigations are on, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elephant-tramples-70-year-old-woman-to-death-in-tamil-nadu-887875.html
15-09-2020||South||Sex workers in Karnataka adopt community networking strategy to meet needs during Covid-19||Thousands of sex workers, especially those living with HIV, in parts of Karnataka adopted an inspiring community-led response to meet their basic and emergency needs during Covid-19-induced lockdown. The sudden loss of livelihood and lack of access to health care and social protection intensified their vulnerabilities, according to a group of 12 authors whose perspective paper was published in the September issue of WHO (World Health Organisation) South-East Asia Journal of Public Health. For people living with HIV, the lockdown of Mysuru city immediately disrupted antiretroviral therapy (ART) access, as the majority of ART dispensation takes place through the government-run district hospital, although there are two private hospitals being part of the government ART programme, they said. Between 200 and 250 people per day collect their medication from the district hospital. With the onset of Covid-19, and the lockdown, the district hospital initially became the only designated testing and treatment centre for Sars-CoV-2 in the city, which effectively halted regular ART distribution. Ashodaya Samithi, an organisation of more than 6000 sex workers, launched an innovative programme of assistance in the districts of Mysuru, Chamarajanagara, Kodagu and Mandya. Since access to ART was immediately disrupted, Mysuru- based Ashodaya adapted its HIV outreach programme to form an alternative, community-led system of distributing ART at discreet, private sites. WhatsApp messaging was used to distribute information on accessing government social benefits made available in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Other assistance included advisory messages posted in WhatsApp groups to raise awareness, dispel myths and mitigate violence, and regular, discreet phone check-ins to follow up on the well-being of members. Amid the Covid-19 restrictions, community leaders adapted a community network-based strategy successfully utilised in their HIV outreach programme to form a community-led ART distribution system for sex workers, the authors said. "Although Ashodayas response was initiated in Mysuru, it was quickly adopted by Ashodaya teams in the other (three) districts where they work", the perspective paper said. Ashodaya has drawn on its vast experience in community mobilisation and outreach to swiftly respond to emerging issues and challenges resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, helping to ensure continued access to treatment, social entitlements, psychosocial counselling, and accurate and up- to-date information, it was stated. In the period between the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic and May 2020, Ashodaya was able to provide ART to 1,065 people, provide nutritional supplements to 270 people. It ensured access to social protection for approximately 3,800 sexworkers, and it was in regular contact with over 5,500 others through calls and individual meetings. The 12 authors are: Sushena Reza-Paul, Lisa Lazarus, Partha Haldar, Manisha Reza Paul, Bhagya Lakshmi, Manjula Ramaiah, Akram Pasha, Syed Hafeez Ur Rahman, K T Venukumar, M S Venugopal, Bharat Bhushan Rewari and Robert Lorway. "The lessons learnt from these activities represent an important opportunity to consider more sustainable approaches to the health of marginalised populations that can enablecommunity organisations to be better prepared to respond to other public health crises as they emerge", they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sex-workers-in-karnataka-adopt-community-networking-strategy-to-meet-needs-during-covid-19-887898.html
15-09-2020||South||Won't allow Mekedatu dam construction: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami||Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Tuesday assured the Tamil Nadu Assembly that the state government would not allow construction of a reservoir across river Cauvery at Mekedatu in Karnataka. When DMK deputy leader Duraimurugan raised reported efforts by Karnataka to persuade the Centre for early approval to build a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu, Palaniswami said the Supreme Court's judgment on the Cauvery issue is clear. As per the verdict, the "water due for Tamil Nadu should be fully released. Not only that, but the water also shall not be blocked or diverted," the Chief Minister said. Karnataka's repeated bid to bring up the Mekedatu proposal for discussion in the Cauvery Water Management Authority was halted in view of staunch opposition from Tamil Nadu, he said. "A case related to this is in the Supreme Court. I would like to convey categorically to the deputy leader that the Tamil Nadu government would never allow them (Karnataka) to construct the Mekedatu dam," he asserted. Also, Palaniswami said the Supreme Court's judgment would help establish Tamil Nadu's rights in the issue. According to the draft Terms of Reference of the proposal (2019), the Mekedatu BalancingReservoir and Drinking Water Project involve the construction of a balancing reservoir across river Cauvery near Mekedatu in Karnataka. While the project cost is estimated at Rs 9,000 crore, the proposal is aimed at providing drinking water facilities to Bengaluru Metropolitan region and its surrounding areas (4.75 TMC) and generate 400 MW of power as an additional benefit. Tamil Nadu had all along strongly opposed the project and approached the Supreme Court as well saying any dam proposal by upper riparian states in the Cauvery basin would deprive the state's delta farmers of their rightful share of water as per the apex court verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wont-allow-mekedatu-dam-construction-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-k-palaniswami-887926.html
15-09-2020||South||Is Kerala minister K T Jaleel trying to trigger communal sentiments over Quran and Ramadan relief kits?||As protests against him is mounting, Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel seems to be making a bid to resist them by triggering communal sentiments over Quran and Ramadan relief kits. Jaleel, who was quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with accepting Quran and Ramadan relief kits from UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, said in an interview to a news channel on Monday that if the leaders of Indian Union Muslim League tells that what he did was wrong, he would end his political career. He further said that he could swear by touching on Quran that he did not do anything illegal. "Will IUML chief Panakkad Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal say that there was any lapses on my part?" But the IUML leadership maintained that they were firm on the demand for Jaleel's resignation. IUML national general secretary and Lok Sabha MP P K Kunhalikutty said that it was suspected that gold was smuggled along with Quran. Jaleel was trying to divert the issue, said Kunhalikutty. Jaleel made a similar social media post earlier when the allegations against him over accepting Ramadan relief kits worth Rs. 5 lakh and over 250 boxes containing Quran were received from UAE consulate. He had said that he was being attacked by his political opponents for accepting the Ramadan relief kits from the UAE consulate as part of a religious custom. Then itself IUML chief Panakkad Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal had alleged that Jaleel was trying to trigger communal sentiments. He also accused Jaleel of dragging Quran into a political controversy. He should not have done that, he said. Jaleel started his political career through the IUML. He later left the IUML owing to differences with the party leadership and joined the left-front. Meanwhile, Kerala on Tuesday also witnessed widespread violent protest demanding Jaleel's resignation. There were also reports that the ED would be quizzing Jaleel again. The allegations against Jaleel surfaced after he was found to be be in contact with gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Jaleel then justified that the consul general contacted him for supplying Ramadan relief kits. Further investigation by customs into the gold smuggling using diplomatic baggage cover found the arrival of over 250 boxes containing Quran in March. The boxes were distributed to various parts of Kerala using vehicles of Kerala government institution Centre for Advanced Printing and Training. Subsequently it came to light that it was done as per Jaleel's instruction. Jaleel maintained that Ramadan relief kits and Quran were accepted as it was a customary religious and cultural practice. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was also repeatedly justifying Jaleel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-trying-to-trigger-communal-sentiments-over-quran-and-ramadan-relief-kits-887954.html
15-09-2020||South||140 suicides by teenagers in 6 months: SHRC seeks report from Kerala govt on prevention measures||At least 140 teenagers killed themselves in Kerala for trivial reasons in the last six months, a study said, prompting the state Human Rights Commission (SHRC) to direct the Social Justice Department to examine the effectiveness of its suicide prevention measures. In his direction to the Director of the department on Monday, SHRC chairman Antony Dominic also sought a report on the initiatives taken to prevent suicide by youngsters. "As per a complaint received by the panel, a study conducted by DISHA, an NGO, shows that at least 140 youngsters in the age group of 13 to 18 had committed suicide during the period of January 2020 to June 2020," a commission release said. The study said that family disputes, troubled love affairs, failure in examinations, issues over mobile phones, two-wheelers were among the major reasons for the suicides. "Thiruvananthapuram district has the highest number of suicides with 22 youngsters having taken the extreme step, followed by Malappuram with 20 suicides," the SHRC said. The complaint said that the ineffectiveness of "village child protection councils" has resulted in the rising number of suicides among youngsters. The release said the SHRC asked the Social Justice Department to review the effectiveness of the suicide prevention measures being taken up by it and sought a report. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had in July said instances of suicidal tendencies were being witnessed among children and termed it as an "extremely serious social issue". "Since March 25, when the national lockdown was imposed, 66 children, below 18 years of age, have ended their lives due to various reasons," Vijayan had said. To help the children facing issues relating to mental pressures, 'Chiri'a tele-counselling initiative was initiated by the government under its Our Responsibility to Children Programme (ORC), a planned community intervention that connects with Children and Young people between the age of 12 -18 years. The health department had launched "Ottakalla Oppamund" (You are not alone, we are with you) programme to help children facing any kind of mental distress and to stop the suicidal tendencies among them. A committee headed by Fire and Rescue Services DGP R Sreelekha had also been constituted to conduct a study on suicides by children in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/140-suicides-by-teenagers-in-6-months-shrc-seeks-report-from-kerala-govt-on-prevention-measures-887961.html
15-09-2020||South||DMK responsible for NEET, death of 13 aspirants: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami||The politics over National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into medical and dental colleges dominated the Tamil Nadu Assembly proceedings on Tuesday with the ruling AIADMK and principal opposition DMK blaming the other for conduct of the entrance exam. As the AIADMK government came under intense pressure from Opposition parties in the backdrop of four students dying by suicide due to fear of NEET in a week, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami blamed the then UPA-II in which the DMK was an active partner for the NEET exams. He also dragged senior counsel Nalini, wife of former Union Minister P Chidambaram, saying he was responsible for introduction of NEET as she vociferously argued for the proponents of the exam in the Supreme Court. As Congress members protested the mention of Nalini and Chidambaram and continue to disrupt the proceedings, they were evicted from the House. Going a step ahead, the Chief Minister sought to turn the table by alleging that it was the DMK-Congress combine which is responsible for the “13 students who died” because of the NEET exam. NEET is a political and emotive issue in Tamil Nadu as political parties feel students from the state, especially those living in rural areas, are put at a disadvantageous position as they are being forced to compete with those from urban areas and those who study the CBSE stream through their school education. Accusing the DMK of committing "a historical blunder" by "thrusting" the exam upon the nation, Palaniswami said the state government would continue its fight against NEET. "Who is responsible for NEET in 2010 and who went to the court after the apex court quashed the introduction of the exam. It is DMK, which is also responsible for the death of 13 aspirants in the state," Palaniswami said. Separately, Health Minister C Vijayabaskar sought to know from Opposition Leader M K Stalin on what basis he made the statement that the DMK would scrap NEET if it came to power in 2021. “It would be better if Mr Stalin makes public his strategy so that we can do it now,” he said. To this, Stalin said he merely meant getting a state-specific ordinance exempting Tamil Nadu from NEET passed like how the ban on Jallikattu was revoked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-responsible-for-neet-death-of-13-aspirants-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-k-palaniswami-887966.html
15-09-2020||South||George Floyd-style police assault echoes in Kerala amid protests against K T Jaleel||The police assault that led to the death of George Floyd in America is now echoing in Kerala, as a picture of a police man squatting over an activist who tried to block a minister is going viral. Many have criticised the police action by citing it as one similar to the police brutality on George Floyd. In the controversial picture, a policeman can be seen sitting on top of an activist lying on a road. It could be learnt that it was a Youth Congress activist, who was among those who tried to stage protest against Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel, who is facing allegations linked to Kerala gold smuggling. While the minister was traveling from his home at Malappuram to Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday, there were widespread protests against him. One such protest was at Angamaly in Ernakulam district. In a bid to ensure that the Youth Congress worker remained under his control until the minister's vehicle crossed the locality, the police personnel allegedly squatted on the activist, Congress activists alleged. Former MLA and AICC secretary P C Vishnunath said that the police action on the Youth Congress worker resembled the police action on George Floyd. The police was not protecting the people, but protecting the corrupt. While the state police was yet to make any formal clarifications on the incident despite widespread criticism, a senior police officer, who preferred not to be quoted, said that the police personnel fell while trying to block the Youth Congress activist and incidentally the police personnel fell over the activist at the time of clicking the picture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/george-floyd-style-police-assault-echoes-in-kerala-amid-protests-against-k-t-jaleel-887971.html
15-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reserves 7.5% medical, dental college seats for govt school students||Tamil Nadu Assembly on Tuesday passed a bill that provides 7.5 per cent “horizontal reservation” in admission to medical and dental courses to students from government schools who clear the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The move to provide reservation was taken after the number of government school students getting into medical colleges witnessed a massive dip in the past few years after the introduction of NEET. The 7.5 per cent reservation would ensure that at least 300 government school students get into medical colleges every year after clearing NEET. However, introducing the Bill, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, told the Assembly that the government was still opposed to conduct of NEET and is firm in its stand that Tamil Nadu deserves exemption from the entrance exam. “In the interests of the government school students, I told the Assembly on March 21, 2020, that they will be eligible for horizontal reservation in admission to medical and dental colleges. I also constituted a committee under the chairmanship of retired judge P. Kalaiarasan to go into the issue. The panel recommended a law for this purpose which was cleared by the State Cabinet,” Palaniswami told the Assembly. The reservation would apply to all government colleges and government quota seats in self-financing medical colleges in Tamil Nadu, the CM added. Tamil Nadu believes NEET is discriminatory against rural students as they are forced to compete with those who come from urban areas. The government had in 2017 passed two bills seeking exemption from NEET in the assembly, but both were rejected by the Centre. However, activists are not too enthused with the move to provide reservation for government school students, though they say, “something is better than nothing.” “This reservation would only help students who take NEET and score good marks. But the problem here is the fear of NEET has forced many medical aspirants to dump their dreams and aspire for some other course. The government should find ways to get NEET scrapped which is the need of the hour,” Prince Gajendrababu, activist and general secretary of State Platform for Common School System (SPCSS –Tamil Nadu), told DH. He added that exemption from NEET was the “permanent solution” to the problems being faced by medical aspirants in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reserves-75-medical-dental-college-seats-for-govt-school-students-887985.html
15-09-2020||South||Kerala cops allegedly take selfie with gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh, land in trouble||A section of women police personnel in Kerala landed in trouble after they allegedly clicked a selfie with Kerala gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh. It was while Swapna was admitted to Thrissur medical college hospital recently after she complained of chest pain that women police personnel who were posted there allegedly clicked the selfie. Swapna is under judicial remand and hence the action of the police personnel is seen more seriously, police sources said. According to police sources, an enquiry was on to name those who clicked the selfie. Further disciplinary proceedings were likely against those found guilty. All police personnel on duty were also strictly directed to abstain from such acts. A few years ago, a female IPS officer in Kerala, who was then serving as additional SP, invited criticism for posing for a photograph with a leading actor during a public function. Meanwhile, there were allegations and counter-allegations by Congress and CPI(M) over Swapna's hospitalisation. While Congress raised suspicions over a minister in the state visiting the hospital while Swapna was admitted there, there were counter-allegations that a Congress MLA visited the hospital while Swapna was admitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cops-allegedly-take-selfie-with-gold-smuggling-accused-swapna-suresh-land-in-trouble-887991.html
15-09-2020||South||Kerala CM slams BJP state president for raising 'baseless' allegations against family||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday slammed BJP Kerala president K Surendran accusing him of raising baseless allegations against his family. "Surendran seems to have lost his mental stability and hence he was raising such baseless allegations against my family members. There are certain political decency which he is not following,"(sic) Vijayan said at a press conference. Vijayan was reacting to queries over Surendran's allegations linking his (Vijayan's) daughter with the alleged commissions involved in a UAE agency funded housing project in Kerala. Surendran said that Vijayan's daughter should be also quizzed by the investigation agencies.  Vijayan alleged of a deliberate attempt to unleash propaganda that the Kerala chief minister and his family were involved in corruption. He asked whether the Opposition parties could raise any genuine allegation against his government over these years. He said that his hands were clean and hence he was able to strongly face such baseless allegations. He also accused the media of taking up baseless allegations being raised against him and his family without any evidence. Vijayan reserved his comments on queries if he would move legally against raising such baseless allegations. The Chief Minister also reiterated that Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel did not do anything illegal by accepting the Holy Quran and Ramadan relief kits from UAE consulate. He also accused the opposition parties of spreading Covid-19 by carrying out widespread protests flouting social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-slams-bjp-state-president-for-raising-baseless-allegations-against-family-888024.html
15-09-2020||State||No subsidy or loan waiver for farmers growing wrong crops||Government’s announcing goodies for farmers is nothing new,  but for the first time, Karnataka has proposed disincentives for those who grow the wrong crop. If this plan comes through, then farmers who grow crops that are not recommended for their location, will be deprived of subsidies, loan waivers and other benefits. The proposal, which is seen as a key intervention to ensure food security and promote sustainable agriculture, has been mooted by the Department of Planning, Programme Monitoring and Statistics as part of its strategy to end hunger in Karnataka, which is one of the 17 sustainable development goals. Karnataka is divided into 10 agro climatic zones factoring in the rainfall pattern, soil type, elevation, topography and so on. The state government, through its universities of agricultural sciences, recommends farmers to cultivate crops best suited for their land based on the agro climatic zones. Agriculture Commissioner Brijesh Kumar Dikshit backed the proposal. “But, it won’t be so easy,” he said. “Farmers will argue that they have been growing a particular crop like their ancestors did.” Soil health card Currently, the government provides a soil health card to advise farmers so they can decide which crop will provide the best yield. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, in his 2020-21 Budget, has announced the formulation of a new policy to make farmers grow “suitable, region-wise crops”. Since 2019, the government has provided cash benefits to encourage farmers to cultivate drought resistant crops under the Raitha Siri scheme. Farmers get Rs 10,000 per hectare for growing minor millet. This year, it has been extended to include Teff, Chia and Quinoa. “Most farmers grow crops that are recommended, but some opt for water-intensive crops because of the commercial value,” said agrometeorologist M B Rajegowda, who currently advises the state-run Environmental Management & Policy Research Institute. “Crop recommendations are made from a food security point of view. And if the recommendation is followed, there will be yield in 80-90% of the time,” he said, hailing the plan to disincentivise farmers who do not follow crop recommendations. “We must discourage farmers from growing the wrong crops. They won’t get economic returns. Also, we can minimise farmer suicides,” he pointed out. Akin to the ‘ease of doing business’ index, the Planning department has proposed an “ease of farming”, which it said will “safeguard the farmer with remunerative prices and other required support to flourish the sector.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-subsidy-or-loan-waiver-for-farmers-growing-wrong-crops-887665.html
15-09-2020||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa to visit Delhi on September 17 over flood relief, GST||Flood relief, GST compensation and Cabinet expansion will be key agendas during Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s visit to Delhi. He will fly to Delhi on September 17 and meet union ministers and BJP high command, during the next few days. Yediyurappa’s visit to Delhi along with a delegation of ministers is also expected to discuss key development projects with the Centre. The CM is expecting a nod from the BJP leadership to induct new ministers and likely reshuffle the cabinet to silence dissenting voices in state BJP. Accommodating three rebel MLAs, MTB Nagaraj, AH Vishwanath and R Shankar - who were recently sworn-in as BJP MLCs - will feature in the discussions. As the legislature session will convene on September 21, shottly after CMs return from Delhi, Cabinet expansion is expected only in October. His appointment with Union Home Minister Amit Shah is still unclear, as Shah remained admitted for post Covid care at AIIMS, Delhi. He is expected to meet BJP national president JP Nadda. Yediyurappa has said in the past that he would visit Delhi to seek more relief for the damages caused by floods for the third consecutive year in various parts of the state. The central team had visited Karnataka's flood-affected regions recently to assess the extent of damages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-visit-delhi-on-september-17-over-flood-relief-gst-887840.html
15-09-2020||State||Karnataka to borrow Rs 33,000 crore as Covid-19 hits revenues||The Karnataka Cabinet on Tuesday decided to borrow Rs 33,000 crore in order to fund development works as the government’s revenues have been hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic this fiscal. The Cabinet decided to amend the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act to borrow beyond the limit of 3% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP), Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters. This comes on the back of the Centre raising the borrowing limit from 3% to 5% for all states to sail through the economic crisis. "The additional 2% borrowing on the GSDP will make Karnataka eligible to get Rs 36,000 crore. Of this, we have decided to borrow Rs 33,000 crore,” Madhuswamy said. “It's established by now that state governments have suffered a massive blow to revenues because of Covid-19. Karnataka also is facing a similar crisis. This borrowing will help us take up development works," he said.   Karnataka’s total liabilities for the 2020-21 fiscal is estimated to be Rs 3.68 lakh crore. This includes Rs 52,918 crore that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said, in his budget speech, will be borrowed. The Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act mandates that the state’s liabilities should not exceed 25% of the GSDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-borrow-rs-33000-crore-as-covid-19-hits-revenues-887882.html
15-09-2020||State||Brindavan Gardens at KRS to reopen today||Brindavan Gardens, adjoining Krishnarajana Sagar (KRS) dam, a popular tourist destination in Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district, will reopen after a gap of six months, on Wednesday.  The hugely popular tourist spot was closed in the wake lockdown imposed due to Covid-19.  Now, the public will be allowed entry from 8 am to 8 pm. It will be open till 9 pm on Saturdays and Sundays. The musical fountain and boating will also resume. However, tourists are allowed only after thermal screening. The security personnel will ensure that social distancing is maintained, according to Cauvery Neeravari Nigam officials. Now, with the KRS dam full to the brim, officials hope that it would attract tourists and local visitors. On an average 7,000 people used to visit the Gardens every day. The numbers would increase up to 20,000 during Dasara, Christmas and summer vacations. The entry fee is Rs 50 for adults and Rs 10 for children. The reopening has brought cheers among traders around Brindavan Gardens. There are around 200 shops depending on tourists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/brindavan-gardens-at-krs-to-reopen-today-888045.html
15-09-2020||State||Abhimanyu to carry howdah this Dasara||Abhimanyu, the strongest elephant in Mattigodu elephant camp will carry the 750-kg Golden Howdah in Mysuru Dasara procession this year. Vikram, Harsha, Vijaya, Cauvery and Gopi from Dubare elephant camp in Kushalnagar are selected to accompany Abhimanyu in the procession. Assistant Conservator of Forests, Mysuru, Alexander, who is in charge of Dasara elephants, said that Arjuna, who used to carry the howdah had tuned 60 and hence was being replaced by 54-year-old Abhimanya. As per the tradition, the elephants will travel to Veeranahosalli in Hunsur on October 2 and later to Mysuru. Abhimanyu is the second elephant from the Mattigodu camp to carry golden Howdah. Balarama from the same camp carried the howdah for several years in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/abhimanyu-to-carry-howdah-this-dasara-888047.html
15-09-2020||State||Devotees turn up at Kukke Subramanya temple as sevas resume||Devotees are turning up at the Kukke Subramanya temple in Dakshina Kannada district as the temple resumed sevas after a gap of around six months on Monday. Sarpa Samskara and Ashlesha Bali are among the popular sevas performed in this temple. The number of Sarpa Samskara seva is restricted to 30 per day while 60 Ashlesha Bali will be performed each day. Only two persons are allowed inside the temple. Food will be provided to those who take part in the sevas. The devotees have to wear mask and maintain social distance while performing the sevas.  There is no manual booking for the sevas. Kukke Subrahmanya temple is classified as category 'A' temple and it had earned annual income of Rs 98.92 crore for 2019-20. The temple remained closed from mid-March to June 7 owing the lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/devotees-turn-up-at-kukke-subramanya-temple-as-sevas-resume-888056.html
15-09-2020||State||Muslim delegation meets Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||A delegation of Muslim leaders led by cleric Hazrat Maulana Sageer Ahmed Rashadi met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday. It is said that the delegation requested the CM to release innocent people who have been arrested in connection with the DJ Halli, KG Halli and Kaval Byrasandra riots. Yediyurappa is said to have assured the delegation that the police had acted as per law. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, DG and IGP Praveen Sood and Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/muslim-delegation-meets-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-888089.html
15-09-2020||State||KPSC scam: Karnataka Cabinet forms panel to decide on prosecution||The Cabinet on Tuesday constituted a sub-committee to decide on requesting the president to sanction prosecution of Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) members accused in the 2011 scam in the selection of candidates for gazetted probationer posts. The sub-committee will include Law Minister J C Madhuswamy, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar. The committee will look into previous judgments in the case before arriving upon a decision on whether or not to send a request to the president. Based on its recommendation, the Cabinet will take a final call on the issue, Madhuswamy told reporters on Tuesday. “There are many legal hurdles to this and there cannot be a unilateral decision. We need the president’s consent for prosecution. In the previous government, they had sought permission from the Governor, which is not correct as per procedure,” he said.  NMDC mining continued That apart, the Cabinet also approved allowing NMDC to continue iron ore mining at Donimalai, Ballari. Recently, a meeting in this regard was held between Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Union Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi. Under the new agreement, the state government’s royalty has been increased from the earlier 15% to 22.5%. The government is expecting an annual revenue of Rs 647 crore from this.  LED bulbs to Mysuru Further, the Cabinet gave its nod to install LED bulbs in place of sodium vapour street lamps under Mysore City Corporation limits. The project will be implemented over a span of seven years and the estimated cost is Rs 109.91 crore. Madhusway said this would be implemented on PPP model. The Cabinet also approved Rs 84.69 crore for the construction of DC’s office complex in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kpsc-scam-karnataka-cabinet-forms-panel-to-decide-on-prosecution-888090.html
15-09-2020||State||Congress demands special debate on drugs in Assembly session||Congress on Tuesday demanded a special debate on the issue of drugs in the upcoming session of the legislature.  “The drug menace must be contained. Otherwise, Karnataka will become another Udta Punjab,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Eshwar Khandre told reporters. He also demanded the formation of a special team to crackdown on drugs.  The Congress leader charged that the drug mafia ran amok in Bengaluru where “rave parties” continue unabated. “The government should strengthen the law to tackle drugs. Those involved in the drugs business must be imprisoned for life,” Khandre said.  The party also targeted the ruling BJP by sharing photographs of Revenue Minister R Ashoka with a person accused in the drug racket. “These pictures of R Ashoka with the drug racket kingpin Rahul show that they were not accidental meetings, but there could be more to their relationship,” the Congress said in a tweet. “BJP leaders, who accuse people from other parties to cover-up their scams, must be subjected to inquiry first,” it said. On Monday, Ashoka said that he had nothing to do with the drug racket accused Rahul. He said he was photographed with Rahul at a function he attended in his Padmanabhanagar constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-demands-special-debate-on-drugs-in-assembly-session-888091.html
15-09-2020||State||Karnataka Anganwadi teachers to get smartphones||More than 60,000 Anganwadi teachers in the state are going tech-savvy as the state government is providing them smartphones which will be part of their daily work. Under the Poshan Abhiyan scheme of the Union government, it is compulsory to update everyday activities at anganwadis on Common Application Service (CAS), a national portal, using mobile phones. Though the funds were allocated three years ago, the procurement of mobile phones was delayed for various reasons. However, the state’s women and child development department has finally procured smartphones and handed over them to taluk-level officials. The phones will in turn be distributed to anganwadi teachers after a training programme which starts on Wednesday. The department officials said the smartphones will be used to update health check-up details of children, height, weight, growth, immunisation status etc. “Uploading these details on the common website will help the authorities concerned at the national level to track the malnutrition among kids across the nation,” an official said.  Not just updating the details of the kids, the teachers even have to mark their attendance using mobile devices. Considering the network issues in rural parts, the department has gathered the details of networks available and procured the SIM cards accordingly. It has spent around Rs 65 crore for the purchase of mobile phones and SIM cards, of which 60% was provided by the Union government. “All these years, the teachers used to maintain 32 different registers. With the introduction of the smartphones, that is going to end and everything will be done through mobile phones,” the official said. K A Dayananda, Director, department of women and child development department, said that the teachers would get mobile phones in the next three-four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-anganwadi-teachers-to-get-smartphones-888105.html
15-09-2020||State||Sex detemination: HC tells govt to enforce rules||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to ensure periodical training to appropriate authorities appointed to implement the provisions of Pre-conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act 1994. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka disposed of the PIL filed by former MLA Dr Sarvabhouma S Bagali seeking direction to check thriving sex determination centres in some districts bordering Maharashtra. The bench disposed of the petition after going through the affidavit filed by the state government on the directions of the court. Dr Saravabouma S Bagali, former MLA from Indi constituency, and also a retired District Health and Family Welfare officer, had filed the PIL. He claimed that people from the neighbouring Maharashtra were crossing the border at some places in Vijayapura, Kalaburgi, Bidar and Belagavi districts to get sex determination tests conducted by obstetricians.  The petitioner also contended that the provisions of Pre-conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act 1994 and The Pre-conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Rules,1996 were not effectively implemented in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sex-detemination-hc-tells-govt-to-enforce-rules-888106.html
15-09-2020||State||Admission sans CET: HC fines 3 dental colleges Rs 8.10 cr||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday ordered three dental colleges to deposit Rs 10 lakh per student for admitting 81 students to the Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) courses without being assessed by the Common Entrance Test (CET). The total money, which comes up to Rs 8.10 crore, will be transferred to the state Covid Relief Fund, the court ordered. The bench also directed the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences to accord ex post facto approval to the admissions after the students file affidavits with an undertaking to render one year rural service in the state. A division bench comprising Justice Krishna S Dixit and Justice P Krishna Bhat partly and conditionally allowed the petitions filed by the colleges and the students. The colleges – S Nijalingappa Institute of Dental Sciences and Research in Kalaburagi, Hyderabad Karnataka Development Education Trust’s Dental College Hospital and Research Institute and S B Patil Dental College and Hospital, both in Bidar district – and 82 students of these colleges had moved the Kalaburagi bench of the Karnataka High Court. The petitioners had challenged the action of the RGUHS denying approval to the admissions on the ground that the merits of the candidates were not adjudged in the CET. The bench came down heavily upon the colleges terming the act as 'gross violence to the law of the land.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/admission-sans-cet-hc-fines-3-dental-colleges-rs-810-cr-888107.html
15-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister Byrathi Basavaraja tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Urban Development Minister BA Basavaraja (Byrathi) said Monday that he tested positive for Covid-19. “I got tested positive for coronavirus today, but I don’t have any health problems,” he said. “As per medical advice, I got admitted into Columbia Asia Hospital for treatment,” he said, expressing confidence that he will recover soon “with all your wishes and blessings.” On September 12, Basavaraja visited the Harihara Panchamsali Mutt in Davangere along with Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol, CN Ashwath Narayan and Davangere MP GM Siddeshwar to meet seer Vachananda Swami. Basavaraja represents the KR Puram Assembly constituency in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minister-byrathi-basavaraja-tests-positive-for-covid-19-887662.html
15-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||IMA: CBI gets state nod to prosecute two IPS officers||The Karnataka government has provided permission to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to prosecute two top IPS officials in connection with the multi-crore I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam. The CBI is now likely to question senior IPS officers Hemant Nimbalkar, IGP and Additional Commissioner of Police (Admin), Bengaluru and Ajay Hilori, Commandant of Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP). The investigation into the IMA Ponzi scam — in which thousands of gullible depositors were allegedly duped of their hard-earned money — was handed over to the CBI and the central agency had sought the state's permission to prosecute six public servants, including two IPS officers. Following the CBI's request, the state government on September 9 accorded permission to prosecute Nimbalkar and Hilori. The CBI had recently filed the chargesheet against LC Nagaraj, former assistant commissioner of Bengaluru Urban district, and ex-village accountant Manjunath. When the scam happened, Nimbalkar was serving as IGP, CID, and Hilori was DCP (East). The permission has been given under section 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code as well as under section 170 of the Karnataka Police Act 1963. The state government on September 11 permitted the CBI to prosecute EB Sridhar, the then DySP of CID, Economic Offences Division, M Ramesh, who was working as Inspector in the Commercial Street Police Station, and P Gowrishankar, the then Sub-Inspector of police at the same police station, in connection with the IMA case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ima-cbi-gets-state-nod-to-prosecute-two-ips-officers-887671.html
15-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Accidents due to drunk driving in Karnataka decline: Nitin Gadkari||Road accidents due to drunk driving declined in Karnataka in 2019 compared to the previous year, Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. In a written reply, the Minister said in Karnataka, a total 169 such crashes were reported in 2017 while 139 crashes were reported in 2018, and 132 in 2019. Even the overall India data showdrunked that mishaps due to drunk driving were declining in 2019 compared to previous years, the Minister said. In 2017, the total number of road accidents due to drunk driving was 14,071, while it was 12,018 in 2018, and 12,256 in 2019. Uttar Pradesh had the maximum number of such accidents at 4,496 in 2019, followed by 1,290 in Punjab. But such cases were increased highest in Punjab in 2019, as it was just 112 in 2018. Bihar reported zero such cases in 2019 while Goa, Puducherry and West Bengal reported less than 10 cases. Gadkari also said the Centre has asked the states not to issue license to new liquor shops close to national highways. Besides, the states have been requested to review the license of existing liquor shops close to national highways. The Minister also said apart from creating awareness about danger of drunk driving, the Centre is granting financial assistance to states to procure breath analysers to check violators. The Union Road Transport Ministry also has started new initiatives to collect accurate road accident data and other inputs from the spot. The Ministry said Integrated Road Accident Database Project (iRAD) will be implemented first in six states Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh. As per the plan, the government will train police, transport and health department officials to use their mobile phones to collect the road crash and upload in iRAD mobile app. The government is using IT to collect accurate data of road accidents. After collecting data, concerned authorities will find out the cause for accidents and take remedial measures, said the Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/accidents-due-to-drunk-driving-in-karnataka-decline-nitin-gadkari-887940.html
15-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka massively under-reports Covid-19 cases as medical officers refuse to share reports||As government medical officers refused to share Covid-19 reports with the government, an information black hole and massive under-reporting of Covid-19 cases was seen in Karnataka on Tuesday. This affects data analysis and policy decisions if the government doesn't know the true Covid-19 picture in the districts and thereby the state. The doctors refusing to share reports of Covid-19 cases are demanding a pay hike.  Bagalkote reported zero cases, Udupi reported one case, and Ballari, Bidar, Chamarajanagar, Dharwad, Gadag, Kodagu, Kolar, Ramanagar, and Yadgir reported cases in two digits. This is because data is not being shared by government medical officers with the government and this is expected to continue through September 18 till Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) meet to decide the further course of action.  Udupi District Health Officer Dr Sudhirchandra Sooda told DH, "Government medical officers stopped sharing Covid reports from Monday. While patients are being informed from the call centre and getting them admitted in hospitals and treated, we are not getting a picture of how many patients have been infected in the district. Primary contacts are also being seen but they're not bothered about numbers. We have to wait for the outcome from the government's end and decide later about the strike."  Bagalkote District Health officer Dr Anant Desai said the district reported 162 cases in reality on Tuesday but the bulletin showed zero. "It is not just Bagalkote and Udupi, from tomorrow all districts will show zero cases. We have contacted all these 162 patients and they have been treated in hospitals or home isolation though. The figures from other districts are yesterday's backlog and not the actual picture." Though the Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar claimed that the government has conceded to the doctors' demand for a salary hike, the strike was not called off. "The revision in the salaries will be made based on a six-year, 13-year, and 20-year basis, promotions for the doctors and details on the same will be obtained from the medical officers," Sudhakar said. Health Minister B Sriramulu and Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan were also present. Despite the blank statistics, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said that 'tests are at the same level.' The state tested 68,365 Covid-19 samples on Monday. After meeting with the ministers in Vidhan Soudha, Dr Srinivas GA, President, KGMOA, said, "We are not calling off the strike. We have instructed all districts to refrain from sharing Covid reports at least till Friday."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-massively-under-reports-covid-19-cases-as-medical-officers-refuse-to-share-reports-888029.html
15-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to regularise landlocked 'B' kharab lands||The Cabinet on Tuesday decided to regularise landlocked ‘B’ kharab lands in and around Bengaluru by making property owners pay twice the guidance value. The term 'B' kharab refers to non-cultivable land belonging to the government, which cannot be converted. While 'B' kharab lands can be put to public use, in several cases, they are stuck between private properties, making them landlocked. "Until now, property owners were unauthorisedly utilising 'B' kharab lands locked within private property," Revenue Minister R Ashoka told DH. "For instance, in a ten acre land, there could be a small portion of 'B' kharab locked in it. The land owners were making use of it until now without any authorisation. Henceforth, they will have to pay the government," he explained. To enable such 'B' kharab lands to be regularised, the Cabinet has decided to amend the relevant provisions of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act. Previously, the Cabinet discussed legalising such lands even in rural areas at four times the guidance value. On Tuesday, however, the Cabinet on Tuesday decided to limit it only to urban areas. Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said the decision pertained only to Bengaluru and areas falling within an 18 km radius of the city. The move is expected to generate revenues to the state exchequer, while also permanently freeing up pieces of government lands that were sandwiched in realty plots. According to officials in the revenue department, there are some 21,000 acres of 'B' kharab land in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts, including those that are landlocked. Madhuswamy said the government was keen on tabling the BBMP Bill in the upcoming session of the legislature. At present, the Bill is being scrutinised by a joint select committee. The Bill seeks to provide a separate law to govern Bengaluru and proposes several administrative changes for the city’s civic body, including a 5-year term for the Mayor, up to 15 municipal zones, area sabhas and so on. According to Madhuswamy, the committee is regularly meeting twice a week and holding extensive discussions on increasing the number of wards and zones. "The committee is also discussing how much power should be vested with the zonal committees," he said. The government's plans to take up delimitation of wards has been seen as a ploy to delay elections to the BBMP, whose term ended September 10 and is currently run by an administrator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-regularise-landlocked-b-kharab-lands-888033.html
15-09-2020||West||CCTVs to monitor automatic weather stations in Maharashtra to prevent tampering||According to officials, an Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based platform recently offered to provide their services to help monitor them. An information campaign that aims to educate farmers about crop insurance schemes would also be initiated by officials.   The police have filed an FIR against individuals accused of tampering with an automatic weather station located in the Deodaithan revenue circle of Shrigonda taluka in Ahmednagar district. While the rainfall unit in the AWS had indicated medium to heavy rainfall from August 28 to September 2, other parameters did not adhere to the conditions needed for rainfall, the report states. Agriculture department officials concluded that the rain gauge was tampered with. This, officials believe, was done to hit the “triggers” for excess rainfall needed for payment of compensation under the Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS) for horticulture crops.  The rainfall unit of AWS had indicated medium to heavy rainfall from the end of August to the beginning of September. However, conditions were not conducive for these rainfall levels, suggesting that there the system had been tweaked to deliver these rainfall levels.  It is suspected by experts that the AWS was tampered with so that people could collect compensation under the Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS) for horticulture crops. In 2019, three instances of similar tampering were reported from Jalgaon. Ice blocks were placed on radiation measuring devices in order to bring out a lower temperature.  Maharashtra’s AWS network is based as part of a Public Private Partnership (PPP) scheme. Skymet maintains the necessary infrastructure and data, which the government uses to provide compensation under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cctvs-to-monitor-automatic-weather-stations-in-maharashtra-to-prevent-tampering-887741.html
15-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra government campaign to raise awareness on self-protection, says CM||The Maharashtra governments My Family, My Responsibility campaign will prove to be a key weapon in making people understand the importance of self-protection in the battle against Covid-19, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday. Public representatives and the administration should reach out to every person as part of the initiative, which began on Tuesday, Thackeray said in a video conference with corporators of municipal corporations and councils in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), except the BMC. Under the campaign, volunteers appointed by the health department will embark on a door-to-door survey and check temperature and oxygen levels of people. The teams will trace suspected Covid-19 patients and those suffering from other ailments, the government said. "My Family, My Responsibility campaign will prove to be a key weapon in making people understand the importance of self-protection," Thackeray said. "While normalcy is being restored in the state, it is important to break the chain of spread of Covid-19. For that, we need to learn to live with the novel coronavirus and need to change our lifestyle," Thackeray said. For this, there is a need to spread awareness among the people, the chief minister said. "The initiative, therefore, is important and public representatives and administration should not remain off-guard and reach out to the last man," he added. In the first phase of the initiative, the government has set a target of reaching out to 2.25 crore families twice a month, for which help of NGOs and elected representatives will be taken. The first phase of the campaign will end on October 10 and the second phase will be undertaken from October 12 to 24. State Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde, Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar, Thane Mayor Naresh Mhaske and others took part in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-government-campaign-to-raise-awareness-on-self-protection-says-cm-887824.html
15-09-2020||West||Ex-Navy personnel who was assaulted meets Maharashtra governor||Former Navy man Madan Sharma, who was recently attacked by Shiv Sena workers in Mumbai, met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday. Sharma (62) met Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan here. He was attacked last Friday for allegedly forwarding a cartoon lampooning Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on social media. After the attack, Sharma had demanded that the chief minister apologise to him and the country. He had also said that Thackeray should quit his post if he was unable to uphold law and order in the state. Six Shiv Sena workers were arrested in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-navy-personnel-who-was-assaulted-meets-maharashtra-governor-887843.html
15-09-2020||West||Social media being used to defame Mumbai and Maharashtra: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday claimed social media platforms are being used systematically to defame Mumbai and Maharashtra. Since the last five to six years, disparaging comments are being made on social media in the name of gossiping and there is no restriction on it, the Shiv Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. Maharashtra and the Marathis are experiencing such a situation for the past some days, it said. "Social media is being used systematically to defame Mumbai and Maharashtra. But if anyone retorts to such gossiping in their own style, then concerns are raised about one's (the users) freedom of speech," the Marathi daily said without mentioning any incident. It also referred to Supreme Court judge N V Ramanas recent comment where he said "judges are now becoming victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social media postings as they restrain themselves from speaking in their own defence". The Uddhav Thackeray-led party said what Justice Ramana said is true and applies to almost all sectors with its degree varying. The Shiv Sena's remarks came against the backdrop of its workers recently roughing up a retired Navy officer in Mumbai for circulating on social media a cartoon lampooning Maharashtra Chief Minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. The party was also recently engaged in a war of words with Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, who in a Twitter post likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). The Shiv Sena, which is in power in Maharashtra along with the NCP and Congress, also said some machineries have to face "false criticism" helplessly due to government obligation, but that does not mean social media users take disadvantage of it. The party also wondered if social media users will show the maturity of understanding what Justice Ramana said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/social-media-being-used-to-defame-mumbai-and-maharashtra-shiv-sena-887856.html
15-09-2020||West||With BJP-RSS now, says former Navy man who was attacked by Shiv Sena workers||Former Navy man Madan Sharma, who was recently attacked by Shiv Sena workers in Mumbai, on Tuesday said he is with the BJP and RSS now He was talking to reporters after meeting Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan. "From today onwards, I am with BJP-RSS. When I was beaten up, they had levelled allegations that I am with BJP- RSS. So I am with BJP-RSS from now on," he said. Sharma (62) met Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan here. He was attacked after posting on his housing society's WhatsApp group a cartoon lampooning Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. After the attack in north Mumbai's Kandivli suburb, Sharma had demanded that the Chief Minister apologises to him and the country. He had also said that Thackeray should quit his post if he was unable to uphold law and order in the state. Six Shiv Sena workers have been arrested in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-bjp-rss-now-says-former-navy-man-who-was-attacked-by-shiv-sena-workers-887887.html
15-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: 99% of commercial sex workers in Pune look for alternative livelihood||As Pune merged as  India's hit of Covid-19 pandemic, 99 per cent of commercial sex workers are now wanting to take up alternative livelihood options, if given an opportunity. Over the period of lockdown, the demand for sex workers has dried down forcing them to take loans for survival. According to a sample survey conducted by Asha Care Trust, a forum that works towards the welfare of sex workers, over 85% of the workers have taken loans and over 98% of them have taken it from their brothel owners, managers and moneylenders, subjecting themselves to further exploitation. Budhwar Peth is India’s third-largest red-light area which nearly houses 700 brothels and around 3,000 commercial sex workers. Around 300 - around 10% of commercial sex workers in Budhwar Peth - were part of the survey for the study. What is more alarming is that 87% of these workers stated that even before the pandemic struck, their incomes were not sufficient to support themselves or their families. Key factors like lack of education and employable skills compel them to depend on one source of income i.e. earning through this trade and remain trapped in the vicious circle. Majority of the workers now want to explore alternative sources of livelihood and get away from the trade. Delving deeper into their plight, the report explores several socio-economic factors of commercial sex workers and here are the key highlights around 82% of the workers fall in the age group of 25 to 45 years. Some of them were forced into the trade when they were a minor. Around 92.7% stated that they fear resuming sex work but are also crippled with the fear of starvation. Harassment from brothel managers has led them to worry about their daily bread and butter. While 68% believe that the sex trade will pick up in the days to come, 99% stated that they will take up any alternative livelihood option if given an opportunity.  Extending support to the initiative, one of the representatives of Freedom Firm, a local NGO that works in the area said it is high time that the authorities and NGOs should view this unprecedented time as an opportunity to act quickly for providing alternative livelihood to sex workers who have faced a lot hardships already. A delegation led by Asha Care Trust along with representatives of other organisations like Shailesh Badhai from Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samiti, Yogesh Bhokre of Maharashtra Itak Kamgar Sangathana, social worker Pratibha Shinde, Fayyaz Sheikh of Pune Jilha Grahak Sanrakshan Samiti, Bhola Vanjale and Advocate Vidya Pedankar met the Mayor, Mr. Murlidhar Mohol, and submitted the report. The community members also plan to meet other district and state-level decision-makers to help them take the initiative forward and provide requisite support to the sex workers in this difficult time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-99-of-commercial-sex-workers-in-pune-look-for-alternative-livelihood-887888.html
15-09-2020||West||Shiv Sainiks re-arrested for attacking ex-Navy veteran Madan Sharma over cartoon on Uddhav Thackeray||Bowing down to pressure, the Maharashtra government on Friday ordered the re-arrest of six Shiv Sainiks who last week manhandled a retired Indian Navy veteran for allegedly circulating a cartoon on social media that portrayed Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in bad light. The victim, Madan Sharma (65), a retired Chief Petty Officer, was attacked in the housing complex at Kandivali suburbs of Mumbai. The Mumbai police arrested six Shiv Sainiks hours after Sharma along with BJP leaders and veterans met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan here. The Samata Nagar police station arrested Kamlesh Kadam and Sanjay Manjare, both Shakha Pramukhs, besides activists Pratap Vera, Sunil Desai, Rakesh Mulik and Rakesh Belnekar. They were produced before the Borivali magistrate’s court, which remanded them to police custody for 14 days. The arrests came after the police invoked additional charges under Indian Penal Code section 452 pertaining to house trespassing after preparation of assault, hurt and wrongful restraint in the first information report lodged against them. The WhatsApp message had a cartoon mocking Thackeray, who was shown bowing before Congress president Sonia Gandhi and NCP founder Sharad Pawar. Incidentally, Uddhav’s father and late Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray, was himself a cartoonist and founder of Marmik, Saamana, and Dopahar ka Saamana. The opposition BJP had lashed out at the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and letting the Shiv Sainiks go scot free. Last week also, the Shiv Sainiks were arrested but they got bail in 24 hours. The issue snowballed into a political row when Defence Minister Rajnath Singh called up the 65-year old Sharma and ex-servicemen protesting in New Delhi and other parts of India to protest the assault. Maharashtra’s leader of opposition in the Assembly and ex-Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in the Council Pravin Darekar have launched a scathing attack on the government. Bollywood actors including Kangana Ranaut condemned the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sainiks-re-arrested-for-attacking-ex-navy-veteran-madan-sharma-over-cartoon-on-uddhav-thackeray-887913.html
15-09-2020||West||Farmers in Lasalgaon confused, furious over onion export ban||The sudden ban of exports of onions by the Centre has come as a bolt from the blue to farmers in Lasalgaon in Nashik district, the largest onion wholesale market of onions. In Lasalgaon, farmers have come to the streets to protest against the ban, which they feel is unjustified. Even as in New Delhi, NCP supremo and former union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar flagged the issue with the Centre, the Maharashtra government is rattled. "The onion farmers are very poor...the Covid-19 pandemic situation has put them in trouble and this ban is going to affect them more. They will come to the streets," said state's food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal. State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said that the ban on exports of onions needs to be revoked. "We will have to wait for days to see how the market reacts to the situation in totality," said veteran agriculture commodities expert Deepak Chavan. "The rabi crop has yielded 212 lakh metric tons, but a significant portion was not proper...it had got dehydrated, rotten," he said, adding that one would now have to look at the kharif crop. Excessive rainfall in India's southern states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh has affected the crop and the supplies, said Ajit Shah, president of the Mumbai-based Onion Exporters' Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-in-lasalgaon-confused-furious-over-onion-export-ban-887917.html
15-09-2020||West||Kangana seeks compensation of Rs 2 crore from BMC||Actor Kangana Ranaut has amended her petition before the Bombay High Court to seek a compensation of Rs 2 crore from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for "illegal" demolition at her bungalow. After the BMC demolished what it termed as illegal alterations at the "Queen" actor's bungalow at Pali Hill in suburban Bandra on September 9, Ranaut moved the high court. A division bench led by Justice S J Kathawalla had stayed the demolition, saying that the civic body's actions seemed "malafide" (having dubious intentions). In her amended plea, Ranaut alleged that the BMC's decision to demolish her property was a direct consequence of her comments against the Maharashtra government. Recently she has been "at loggerheads with the Government of Maharashtra regarding herviews over the handling of certain issues which impact the public in general," it added. "The expression used by her has displeased certain quarters and caused angst in certain quarters particularly a political party which is a part of the government in Maharashtra," Ranaut's amended petition said. "In view of various threats been given to the petitioner, including threats of harm if she entered Mumbai, the petitioner was compelled to seek the assistance/security and was given protection by the Central Government in nature Y-plus category of CRPF security and the petitioner could only come to Mumbai under protection," it said. The "same party" is also the ruling party in the BMC, the petition said, without naming the Shiv Sena. The petition also contended that the Bollywood actor had sought the BMC's permission to carry out structural repairs at her bungalow, and the same was granted in 2018. The BMC sent her a demolition notice on September 7 and gave her just 24 hours to respond, the petition said, adding that while she did respond in time, it was quick to reject her reply and on the very next day, BMC and police officers were "already present outside the bungalow". Photos of the day showed that the BMC was ready with demolition equipment early in the morning, which proves that the civic body had malafide intentions and ulterior motives to demolish the bungalow, the petition claimed. The plea urged the court to declare the BMC's action as illegal and direct the civic body and its "concerned officials" to pay her Rs 2 crore in damages. The court is slated to hear the matter on September 22. The demolition at Ranaut's bungalow had followed her public spat with the Shiv Sena over her statement comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-seeks-compensation-of-rs-2-crore-from-bmc-887949.html
15-09-2020||West||Shiv Sainiks re-arrested for attacking Navy veteran Madan Sharma over cartoon on Uddhav Thackeray||Bowing down to pressure, the Maharashtra government on Friday ordered the re-arrest of six Shiv Sainiks who last week manhandled an Indian Navy veteran for allegedly circulating a cartoon on social media that portrayed Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in bad light. The victim Madan Sharma (65), a retired Chief Petty Officer, was attacked in the housing complex at Kandivali suburbs of Mumbai. The Mumbai police arrested six Shiv Sainiks hours after Sharma along with BJP leaders and veterans met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan here. The Samata Nagar police station arrested Kamlesh Kadam and Sanjay Manjare, both Shakha Pramukhs, besides activists Pratap Vera, Sunil Desai, Rakesh Mulik and Rakesh Belnekar. They were produced before the Borivali magistrate’s court, which remanded them to police custody for 14 days. The arrests came after the police invoked additional charges under Indian Penal Code section 452 pertaining to house trespassing after preparation of assault, hurt and wrongful restraint in the first information report lodged against them. The WhatsApp message had a cartoon mocking Thackeray, who was shown bowing before Congress president Sonia Gandhi and NCP founder Sharad Pawar. Incidentally, Uddhav’s father and late Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray, was himself a cartoonist and founder of Marmik, Saamana and Dophar ka Saamana. The opposition BJP had lashed out at the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and letting the Shiv Sainiks go scot free. Last week also, the Shiv Sainiks were arrested but they got bail in 24 hours. The issue snowballed into a political row when Defence Minister Rajnath Singh called up the 65-year old Sharma and ex-servicemen protesting in New Delhi and other parts of India to protest the assault. Maharashtra’s leader of opposition in the Assembly and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in the Council Pravin Darekar have launched a scathing attack on the government. Bollywood actors including Kangana Ranaut condemned the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sainiks-re-arrested-for-attacking-navy-veteran-madan-sharma-over-cartoon-on-uddhav-thackeray-887970.html
15-09-2020||West||NIA arrests Gujarat man for links with Pakistan-based spies||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested a 37-year-old man from Godhra town in central Gujarat in connection with an espionage case being investigated in Hyderabad. NIA has claimed that the suspect Imran Giteli, an auto-rickshaw driver, is involved in "international espionage racket in which Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding locations/movements of Indian Naval Ships and Submarines and other defence establishments." NIA said in a statement that Giteli was allegedly associated with Pakistan-based spy agencies and its agents "under the guise of cross-border cloth trade." Sources in Godhra said that Giteli used to run a tailoring shop which he shut a couple of years ago. Since then, he drives an auto-rickshaw to support his family. He lives in Polan Bazar area of the town. They added that the family left early morning to an unknown place. Sources also said that like many local residents, who have relatives in Pakistan, Giteli also used to go to Pakistan to meet his relatives. A statement issued by the NIA claims that Giteli deposited some amount in the account of Indian Navy personnel who were in contact with Pakistani agents. It said that these personnel were contacted by ISI agents through social media who shared "classified information in lieu of money" deposited in their bank accounts through "Indian associates of Pak ISI who had business interests in Pakistan." NIA has seized digital devices and incriminating documents from Giteli's house. The NIA statement alleges Giteli is a key accused who has been booked for conspiracy, sedition, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and official secrets act, among other charges. Last month, NIA arrested Razzak Kumbhar from Mundra, Katuch district on similar charges. Kumbhar is accused of depositing Rs 5,000 to an alleged ISI agent Rashid, a resident of Uttar Pradesh who was arrested by NIA in a separate spying case involving ISI agents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-arrests-gujarat-man-for-links-with-pakistan-based-spies-888003.html
15-09-2020||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 death toll tops 30,000; CM launches survey to combat spread of coronavirus||Concerns compounded manifold in Maharashtra with the Covid-19 death toll crossing the 30,000-mark with a record 515 casualties on Tuesday. Maharashtra is severely hit by the pandemic and the only state in India to cross the 10-lakh Covid-19 cases mark and 30,000-plus deaths. With 515 deaths on Tuesday, the toll shot up to 30,409. During the day, 20,482 fresh cases were reported taking the tally to 10,97,856. On the positive side, a record 19,423 patients were discharged during the day taking the tally to 7,75,273 patients who have recovered. Out of the 54,09,060 laboratory samples, 10,97,856 samples – 20.29 per cent have tested positive. As of now, 17,34,164 people are in-home quarantine and 37,225 people are in institutional quarantine. According to the data compiled by the Public Health department, the recovery rate is 70.62 per cent and case fatality rate of 2.77 per cent was recorded in the state. The jump in deaths came on a day when Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray launched the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign. The 'My Family, My Responsibility' is a state-wide survey - in a bid to combat the spread of Covid-19. In the first phase, house-to-house health inquiries will be conducted from September 15 to October 10. The second phase will be implemented from 12 -24 October. Twice in a month, these volunteers will visit each family. The duration of the first round will be 22 days and the second round 12 days - and twice in a month, these volunteers will visit each family. With the active involvement of several NGOs and people’s representatives to effectively control the pandemic and provide health education to all in the state, volunteers will aim to reach 2.25 crore households twice a month to check their fever and oxygen levels, provide health education and important health messages. The officials would also check on co-morbidities such as diabetes, heart and kidney ailments, and obesity, and would guide them. Half a dozen departments including public health and family welfare, medical education and drugs, rural development, urban development, revenue, women and child development are involved in the mega campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-death-toll-tops-30000-cm-launches-survey-to-combat-spread-of-coronavirus-888036.html
15-09-2020||West||Goa caps Covid-19 treatment charges in private hospitals||Amid complaints of steep fees charged by private hospitals for providing Covid-19 treatment, the Goa government on Tuesday ordered a capping of prices for private health facilities. Under the new capped rate chart for private hospitals, patients availing treatment in a general ward would be charged 12,000 per day for treatment, treatment in twin-shared rooms would cost Rs 15,000 and admission of a Covid-19 patient in a private room would cost Rs 25,000 per day. Price for utilising ICU facilities has been capped at Rs 25,000 per day. “Private hospitals were charging high rates to the tune of up to Rs 25,000 per night. We have decided these capped rates in consultation with the medical professionals and with the private facilities,” Sawant told reporters on Tuesday. The newly notified capped pricelist includes bed charges, nursing, resident doctor fees, diet, PPE kits for staff and routine medicine, but does not include any special medication or equipment, non-routine procedures or surgeries, etc. The Chief Minister, who has been in home isolation ever since he tested positive for Covid-19 on September 1, also said that he was keen on donating blood plasma if he qualified for the same, as far as his health parameters were concerned. “First let me complete 28 days of recovery. But of course, of course, if I am within the parameters I plan on donating plasma. I do have a (blood) pressure problem, but if I am eligible to donate, I will donate,” the Chief Minister said. Sawant also conceded that the state was witnessing a high level of mortality, with 25 deaths of Covid-19 patients occurring within the last 48 hours, but added that most of the fatalities occurred because of late admission of patients to designated health facilities. The state has a total tally of 25,511 confirmed Covid-19 cases, while 315 persons who tested positive have died in Goa ever since the pandemic broke out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-caps-covid-19-treatment-charges-in-private-hospitals-888039.html
