16-09-2020||First Edit||New BBMP Bill on city governance a dud||The Karnataka government has postponed elections to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which were due this month, ostensibly to facilitate adoption of a new law exclusively to govern the city. At present, Bengaluru comes under the purview of the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, which has been found to be inadequate to deal with some of the unique problems faced by a city with a population of 1.2 crore and an area over 700 sq km. The proposed Bill, which is expected to be introduced in the upcoming session of the legislature, can at best be described as window-dressing as it does not contain any far-reaching provisions that can drastically improve the quality of living in the city. Even the long-pending demand to free BBMP from the clutches of the state government by adopting the Mayor-in-Council system, in which Bengaluru will be governed by an autonomous city-legislature and the Mayor is  directly elected for a five-year term, has been ignored. Though the term of the Mayor will be extended to 2.5 years from the current one year, he will continue to remain a mere figurehead as the executive power is vested with the BBMP Commissioner, an IAS officer. By stipulating that the newly-formed zonal committees, too, will be headed by bureaucrats, and not elected representatives, the government has ensured that its stranglehold over BBMP will continue, with the civic body left with no real powers. While on paper, BBMP will now be charged with urban planning, in reality, crucial civic responsibilities like water and power supply, infrastructure development, lake management, sewage system, metro rail and local bus transport will continue to remain with other agencies. The new legislation has overlooked the urgent need to set up an umbrella organisation to coordinate multiple agencies which are currently working in silos and often at cross-purposes, leading to a complete breakdown in the management of the city. The Bill also proposes increasing the number of wards to 225 to bring recently urbanised villages in the city’s periphery under the control of BBMP. While such consolidation may help comprehensive planning, several villages which were merged with the city in 2007-8 have still not been provided with basic amenities. Ironically, an existing provision that hits at the very root of self-governance by permitting local MPs, MLAs and MLCs to vote in BBMP council meetings, is set to continue. This provision has often been misused to alter the composition of the corporation and create an artificial majority, especially in the election of the Mayor. The legislature should take a critical look at the new law which, in its present form, has nothing substantial to offer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/new-bbmp-bill-on-city-governance-a-dud-888146.html
16-09-2020||In Perspective||In US Presidential Election 2020, fear is the key||It is the world’s biggest economy, technological leader and leading military power, but paradoxically, the prevailing sentiment in the United States in the run-up to the November 3 presidential election is fear. President Donald Trump emphasises the fear of China, of mob violence, of socialism, while the rival Biden/Harris Democratic camp stoke fears of a flailing economy, racial tension, unchecked Covid-19, a stolen election with foreign interference by the usual suspects, and Trump’s refusal to exit quietly. Even if the Democrats win the Electoral College of States and the popular vote, they correctly anticipate Trump’s refusal to accept defeat and an acrimonious transfer of power involving the law courts. Al Gore, the former vice-president who conceded defeat to George W Bush, despite winning the popular vote in 2000, declared that Trump “is planting doubts to undermine people’s confidence. So, Americans have to gird ourselves against this despicable strategy.” On the first day of the Republican Party convention, Trump told his followers that the Democrats were using the Covid-19 pandemic to manipulate the election results and posted mail-in ballots could lead to election fraud – “the only way they can take this election away from us is if this is a rigged election.” But he had also warned of a rigged election in 2016 when he was trailing Hillary Clinton, before going on to win in the Electoral College, though not the popular vote. As far as the latter was concerned, Trump raised the absurd bogey of mass voting by illegal immigrants, claiming that three to five million of them had voted for Clinton. Trump, who is trailing in the polls, is already going beyond all the bounds of propriety to discredit the elections and has openly threatened to reject an unfavourable outcome. In so doing, he is playing to the fears and anxieties of the less educated, less well-to-do white American, his core support base. Trump wants to be seen as tough on crime at a time when the possible breakdown of law and order, along with racism, is an important election issue. There are four possible scenarios that could unfold: narrow wins by Trump or Biden, a large Biden win, or a closely contested outcome, but there is one common factor, which is that enraged partisan people in the street will not accept the result. Due to Trump’s authoritarian instincts, fully evident as the election date approaches, American politics have become hugely acrimonious on both sides of the Republican/Democrat divide. Former President Barack Obama has warned that democracy could not survive a Trump second term, and his wife Michelle advises Americans to “vote like your lives depend on it.” With polls showing Republicans more inclined to vote in person and the Democrats by post, contested ballots could take enormous time to litigate and lead to competing slates of electors in swing states like Florida, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan and Arizona, where Republicans control the legislatures. Election night might turn into election week or even election month because of the surge in postal balloting due to concerns about the Covid-19 pandemic. There is a genuine possibility that no winner will be declared on November 3 or 4 and the country will be left waiting to determine which of the two candidates will be the next president. The US Constitution gives authority to state legislatures to nominate electors and they could follow Trump’s lead in claiming improper procedures and fraud in postal balloting. The Governors in three of the swing states -- Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan – are Democrats, whose signatures are needed to authenticate the legislatures’ decisions, which further complicates the issue. Meanwhile, Trump has set the stage for a battle in the courts and on the streets if he loses. Republican well-wishers are hoping Trump will change course from fear-mongering to set out his plans for a second term, but he lacks credibility when he cannot justify the lack of progress on his agenda for the past three and a half years, even on his alleged key policies of immigration, healthcare, and massive spending on infrastructure. What he is offering to deliver in a second innings is the denigration of American ‘socialists’ and ‘liberals’, and deeper polarisation in society. Besides trailing in the polls behind the Biden/Harris ticket, the Republican convention attracted a smaller national viewership than the earlier Democratic one, which should cause Trump great concern. Polls must be treated with caution; in certain locations, it is socially desirable not to be seen voting Republican, and a large number of those polled believe their neighbours would vote for Trump. Nonetheless, the only events that could perhaps save Trump’s campaign is a waning of the pandemic, an economic upturn, a catastrophic mistake by Biden, or some entirely unexpected turn of domestic or international events that imparts momentum to the incumbent President. A further danger to the transfer of power exists if Trump were to lose the election by a huge margin in both the Electoral College and the popular vote, and if his manoeuvres fail to subvert the result. Such a scenario suggests that the outgoing president will, in the time between November and the January inauguration of his successor, use his position to make as much money from his position as possible, travel widely abroad to damage the reputation of the incoming administration among foreign leaders, prevail on the FBI to deny or delay the necessary clearances to incoming officials, and refuse to participate in any formal or informal transition briefings.   (The writer is a former foreign secretary)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/in-us-presidential-election-2020-fear-is-the-key-888147.html
16-09-2020||Kalaburagi||Tahsildar who was caught in flash floods rescued||Yadgir Tahslidar Pandit Biradar who caught in the flash floods near Ganapur of Chincholi taluk while returning to Bidar from Yadgir on Wednesday evening was rescued by the personnel of  Fire and Emergency Services Department. While on his way to Bidar from Yadgir, the tahsildar crossed the bridge but the car in which he was travelling was caught in the floodwaters. Pandit who got down the vehicle caught hold of a tree to rescue himself. Speaking to DH, the tahsildar said he was caught in the flash floods and was sitting on a branch of a tree. A team of officials including Tahsildar Arun Kumar Kulkarni, DySP Veerabhadraiah and Fire and Emergency Services Department personnel rushed to rescue the tahsildar. Finally, he was rescued late at night. Pandit Biradar is tahsildar at Deputy Commissioner's office in Yadgir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/tahsildar-who-was-caught-in-flash-floods-rescued-888582.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Senior KAS officer appointed new Zilla Panchayat CEO of Mysuru||Senior Karnataka Administrative Service (KAS) officer D Bharati has been appointed as Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in Mysuru. Bharati was serving as Secretary to Karnataka Election Commission.  The DC was holding the charge after the previous CEO, IAS officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra, was transferred after Dr Nagendra, in-charge Taluk Health Officer, died by suicide. Mishra is facing charges of harassing and pressuring the health officer. Bharati, a resident of Ramapattana in Hunsur taluk of Mysuru district, has served as Mandya Tahsildar, Assistant Commissioner, Mysuru, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Mysuru and as the Registrar of University of Mysore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/senior-kas-officer-appointed-new-zilla-panchayat-ceo-of-mysuru-888236.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sandalwood drugs case: African drug peddler nabbed by CCB||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police investigating into the Sandalwood drug scandal have arrested a foreign national who was supplying drugs to the big parties attended by celebrities, and VVIPs. The arrested has been identified as Benald Uddena, an African national. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) said, "Benald is the important peddler of the case. He was supplying drugs to the parties organised by the persons already arrested in the NDPS case. During the investigation, police got three other names of African drug peddlers who are supplying drugs to these parties. But, after zeroing down on Benald the police learned it was he who was peddling drugs in three other assumed names identified as Blackie, Coke and John." "He will be taken into police custody for further investigation," he added. According to an investigating officer, they are verifying if Beland was arrested earlier along with his passport and visa details. He is the second African to get arrested in this case. Earlier, they had arrested Loum Pepper Samba, who is currently in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sandalwood-drugs-case-african-drug-peddler-nabbed-by-ccb-888372.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||SS Rajamouli visits Himavad Gopalaswamy Hill||Director SS Rajamouli of Baahubali fame, along with this wife Rama, paid a visit to Himavad Gopalaswamy Hill and Bandipur forest in Gundlupet Taluk, Chamarajanagar District, on Wednesday. Rajamouli had reached Gundlupet on Tuesday and was staying at Serai resorts in Kaniyanapura, according to sources. He went on a safari in Bandipur on Wednesday morning, and later visited the Himavad Gopalaswamy Hill and offered prayers. The priests offered a shawl to the couple as a mark of respect. He spent some time walking around the temple and enjoying the greenery and the serene natural surroundings. Range Forest Officer Naveen Kumar accompanied the couple and acted as their guide. Expressing his happiness about the maintenance of the greenery, Rajamouli praised the Forest Department for its efforts in protecting the environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ss-rajamouli-visits-himavad-gopalaswamy-hill-888424.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka to seek extra compensation from Centre: R Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Wednesday that the state government will seek additional compensation to the state from the Centre as Rs 395 crore released for flood relief works is insufficient. Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi airport, he stated that the state government has announced a total of 130 taluks as flood-hit zones and the list of flood-hit taluks has been sent to the Centre. As the rains continued to lash in several parts of Karnataka including Kalaburagi, he will direct the officials for another round of survey on the extent of crop loss, the Minister added. No cabinet expansion before Assembly session, he said as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is flying to New Delhi to lay the foundation stone for some works at Karnataka Bhavan. "He will not hold discussions with the party top brass on the cabinet expansion. Inducting new faces and dropping some ministers from the cabinet is left to prerogative of the Chief Minister. Those who are responsible for the formation of the BJP government will definitely get the ministerial berth. The cabinet will not be expanded before the assembly session," Ashoka clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-to-seek-extra-compensation-from-centre-r-ashoka-888470.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Golden throne to be assembled one-month in advance at palace||This Dasara, the golden throne of the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru will be assembled much in advance, due to Adhika Ashwija Masa, an extra month in the Hindu calendar that is inserted to keep the lunar and solar calendars aligned. The erstwhile royal family has decided to assemble the diamond-studded golden throne on Friday (September 18). Palace secretary Lakshminarayan told DH, rituals like homa, will commence early in the morning and the throne will be assembled at the auspicious Tula Lagna, between 10 am and 10.15 am. During previous years, the throne used to be assembled only a few days prior to Dasara. This time, the throne is being assembled one-month earlier, owing to Adhika Ashwija Masa, which will be from September 18 to October 16. Dasara will commence on October 17 and concludes on October 26. Member of the erstwhile royal family Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar will perform Khasa Durbar, an integral part of Dasara at the Mysuru Palace, on nine days of Navarathri. The rituals will commence with Navagraha homa, Shanti homa and havans at the strong room in the cellar of the Palace, where parts of the throne are secured. The 14 parts of the dismantled throne will be brought to the Durbar Hall and assembled under the supervision of the royal family members. The parts to the golden throne includes steps leading to the throne, golden umbrella, main seat with cushions, and arm rest. As part of the rituals, puja will be offered to Pattada Aane (elephant), Pattada Kudure (horse) and Pattada Hasu (cow), adorned with royal cloths. Following the rituals, the throne will be kept covered using a white cloth. The throne will be brought out from the strong room under tight security. The Palace Board police will provide security and nearly 20 staff will assemble the throne.  In addition, no staff members, who are part of the assembling of the throne, are allowed to use mobile phones.  Entry to palace for visitors is restricted on September 18, till 2 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/golden-throne-to-be-assembled-one-month-in-advance-at-palace-888539.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Grassroots level corona warriors allege negligence by health dept||Corona warriors, working in the grassroots level day and night to fight Covid-19 pandemic, are expressing fear and feel that they are denied minimum care, even during emergencies. A few instances recently have pushed the workers into fear. An employee of a Gram Panchayat, also a corona warrior, was made to wait a whole night to get admission at a hospital, due to unavailability of beds. Besides, the death of a police constable has instilled fear among the workers. It has to be noted that 55-year-old K Basavaradhya, a second division accounts assistant working at Jayapura Gram Panchayat, was made to wait from midnight to early morning a few days back to get admission at the Covid Hospital. Basavaradhya, a diabetic, tested positive for Covid a week ago and was isolated at a Covid Care Centre at H D Kote. However, the health professionals decided to shift him to Mysuru as his sugar level was high. He was brought to Mysuru in an ambulance. “First, he was taken to Vikram Hospital and the authorities denied admission, claiming that there were no beds. Later, he was taken to the district hospital or Covid Hospital, but there too, he was not admitted till morning. The ambulance returned after dropping him at the district hospital and he was all alone,” said one of his colleagues. According to the family members of Basavaradhya, he was taken to Mysuru at 12 midnight in an ambulance. But, no hospital admitted him till morning. He was alone for a few hours. Later, his son reached the hospital. However, Mysuru Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer Krishna Kumar managed to get his admission. It may be recalled that a police constable of Nanjangud died while being shifted to the hospital. It was alleged that there was a delay in shifting him to hospital, due to non-availability of beds in Mysuru. A colleague of Basavaradhya said, “We are grassroots level workers. It is the responsibility of the higher-ups to ensure our safety. Basavaradhya called me and told me about the issue. Later, the issue was taken to the EO, who did the needful.” An Asha worker said, “Grassroot level workers are neglected by the departments. We are working round-the-clock. But, we are neglected during emergencies. The Health department must give us at least minimum attention.” District Health Officer (DHO) was not available for a comment. Another health officer denied the allegations and assured of taking measures, if there was any issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/grassroots-level-corona-warriors-allege-negligence-by-health-dept-888541.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||19 cases booked; 30 kg ganja seized, says Hassan SP||The police have booked 19 cases in connection with cultivation and sale of ganja in the last nine months in Hassan district and have seized around 30 kg of ganja, said Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda. Addressing media persons in the city on Wednesday, the SP said, “The police, along with Excise and Forest department officials, are conducting the operations.” Most of the ganja in Hassan district is grown amid ginger and other crops in Arsikere, Belur and other taluks. The people from neighbouring Kerala and Tamil Nadu encourage locals to grow ganja. Besides, ganja grown in Hassan is supplied to other states, he said. The police have registered 11 cases in the last 20 days and have recovered 18 kg of ganja. Cases have been filed at Alur, Arsikere, Hassan, Channarayapatna and Arkalgud taluks, the SP informed. There is a network supplying ganja to school and college students and also to those who are addicted. They have a connection with the people from Mysuru, Bengaluru and locals. The parents should keep a vigil on their children pursuing degree and professional courses like engineering. In case they are found to consume or are addicted to such habits, they should be admitted to rehabilitation centres for treatment, he said. As ganja cases are on the rise, a meeting of owners of resorts and homestays in Sakleshpur and surrounding region was held. They have been directed to ban the sales and use of narcotic substances. They have been warned against rave parties, Srinivas Gowda said. As homestay and resorts attract large number of tourists from other states, the Police department is strengthened and additional personnel are deployed at check points. All vehicles will be thoroughly checked before entry, he explained. In case, the public come across any sales of narcotic substances, they can contact him on his mobile phone 94808 04701. The identity of the informer will be confidential, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/19-cases-booked-30-kg-ganja-seized-says-hassan-sp-888543.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ambulance driver dies of Covid-19; Karnataka Govt to compensate family||Taluk general hospital ambulance driver Azmath died of Covid-19 in a private hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday. He was being treated in the district general hospital for the past five days. Later, he was shifted to Bengaluru as his condition deteriorated.  Health Minister B Sriramulu had tweeted that Azmath served as Corona warrior and his service saved the lives of many people. The government would provide compensation to his family members shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ambulance-driver-dies-of-covid-19-karnataka-govt-to-compensate-family-888559.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Vijayendra not meddling into government's affairs: B Sriramulu||Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu on Wednesday clarified that BJP state vice president B Y Vijayendra is not meddling in the affairs of the state government. Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi airport on Wednesday, he stated that Vijayendra has discussed with the doctors as the latter met him. He is working actively because of the son of the Chief Minister. "The state government will soon give good news to the doctors by fulfilling some of the demands. I hope they will not resort to protest henceforth", the Minister told. Sriramulu opined that the state cabinet may not be extended or reshuffled before the assembly session as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is not visiting New Delhi to discuss the cabinet expansion. Yediyurappa will fly to Delhi to hold a discussion about the floods and other preoccupied engagements, he said. Reacting to the allegations of some hospitals overcharging Covid-19 patients, the minister said the government will book criminal cases against such private hospitals and the license of the hospital will also be cancelled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/vijayendra-not-meddling-into-governments-affairs-b-sriramulu-888399.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Sira bypoll: Karnataka Congress gives ticket to TB Jayachandra||The Karnataka Congress on Wednesday decided to recommend the candidature of former minister TB Jayachandra for the Sira bypoll. The bypoll was necessitated following the death of JD(S) legislator B Sathyanarayana last month. The bypoll is yet to be announced. It will be fought under the chairmanship of former deputy chief minister G Parameshwara with former legislator KN Rajanna as the co-chair. “We held a discussion with leaders from the Tumakuru district. Rajanna proposed Jayachandra’s name, which was backed unanimously by the district leaders. So, we will convey this to the high command,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar told reporters. Jayachandra was a sitting minister when he lost in 2018, which is attributed to the consolidation of Vokkaliga votes against the Congress. Sira has witnessed a direct fight between the JD(S) and Congress. With Sathyanarayana as its candidate, the JD(S) won Sira twice in the last four elections, in 2004 and 2018, whereas the Congress won in 2008 and 2013 with Jayachandra as its candidate. The BJP, which has not performed very well in past elections in Sira, is looking to field a surprise candidate to ensure a 3-way contest, which it hopes will split the votes leading to electoral gains. “Irrespective of whether it will be a triangular or a straight fight, the Congress will fight the election all the same collectively,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sira-bypoll-karnataka-congress-gives-ticket-to-tb-jayachandra-888442.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Cabinet expansion unlikely till end of Karnataka Assembly's Monsoon Session||Ministerial berth aspirants will have to wait till the upcoming monsoon session of the legislature is over as cabinet expansion is unlikely before the session. Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu told media persons in Kalaburagi that the state cabinet may not be expanded or reshuffled before the session as the chief minister is not visiting New Delhi to discuss with party high command on the cabinet expansion but to discuss the floods situation and other pre-determined engagements, he said. Expressing the same opinion, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the chief minister is visiting New Delhi to lay the foundation stone for some works at Karnataka Bhavan. He will not hold discussions with the party top brass on the cabinet expansion. The cabinet will not be expanded before the session, he clarified. "Inducting new faces into the cabinet by dropping some ministers is left to the prerogative of the chief minister. Those who are responsible for the formation of the BJP government will definitely get the ministerial berth", the minister told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cabinet-expansion-unlikely-till-end-of-karnataka-assemblys-monsoon-session-888475.html
16-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Assembly Monsoon Session: Congress readies arsenal against BJP govt||The Congress on Wednesday readied its strategy to corner the BJP government on various issues in the upcoming session of the legislature that starts September 21. The Congress Legislature Party (CLP), which held its 6-hour-long meeting under the chairmanship of Siddaramaiah, decided to raise Covid-19, Bengaluru riots, floods, ordinances and other issues. “The government might bring up the drug racket in order to divert attention from other issues. We shouldn’t allow this to happen. We must make use of the 8-day session to expose the government’s failures,” Siddaramaiah said during the CLP meet, adding that the party should raise ordinances promulgated on land reforms, APMC and labour laws. “Last year, too, the state faced floods. Those victims are yet to get any relief. This year also there have been floods and victims can only dream about relief,” Siddaramaiah said, pointing out that the state’s financial position was worrisome. “The government said in the budget that Rs 53,000 crore will be borrowed. Now, they have decided to borrow an additional Rs 33,000 crore. In all this, the government announced financial aid for various communities, auto drivers and others who are yet to get them. We must raise all this,” he said. For the first time, the Congress has prepared a question bank. “All legislators should make use of the question bank,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar said. “Irregularities during the Covid-19 pandemic are the biggest weapons that we have to attack the government,” he said, urging legislators to make effective use of social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-assembly-monsoon-session-congress-readies-arsenal-against-bjp-govt-888565.html
16-09-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru's Chamundi Hill temple closed for three days||Sri Chamundeshwari temple, atop the Chamundi Hill, in Mysuru, will be closed for the public for three days from September 16 to 18, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, according to a press release issued by the Deputy Commissioner. Many, who had planned a visit to the temple, were disappointed as they were not allowed entry. As the number of devotees to the temple are expected to rise on account of 'Mahalaya Amavasye', on September 17, the district administration has restricted the entry of devotees from Wednesday, as a precautionary measure. The movement of private vehicles, except emergency vehicles are banned on the hill. The distribution of prasada by the donors and devotees has also been banned until further notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysurus-chamundi-hill-temple-closed-for-three-days-888331.html
16-09-2020||Mysuru||Eight dacoits arrested in Mysuru||City police have arrested a gang of eight persons who were allegedly involved in banditry and attempts to murder. With the arrest, the police solved five cases. Saraswatipuram Police arrested Sharat, Sumanth, Dharmesh, Dinesh, Shashank, Sunil Kumar, Karthik and Mahadev. The police team led by sub-inspector Bhavy took the accused into custody near Bhogalingeshwara Swamy temple near Bogadi, during routine patrolling. During the interrogation, they confessed to the crimes in which they were involved. According to the Police, the team was hatching a robbery plan. The accused were involved in Saraswatipuram, Vidyaranyapuram and Lakshmipuram and attempt to murder cases in Vijayanagar and K R police limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/eight-dacoits-arrested-in-mysuru-888346.html
16-09-2020||Mysuru||MUDA evicts illegal structures, stalls||The authorities of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) demolished illegal structures and shops, at Devanoor Layout in Mysuru, on Wednesday. The team, led by MUDA Commission D B Natesh, conducted the drive and cleared encroached corner sites worth crores of rupees. As many as six sites on Devanoor First stage were encroached.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/muda-evicts-illegal-structures-stalls-888367.html
16-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 16||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 50 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  5,103,663 as of September 16 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  83,072 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 39,42,360  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-16-888158.html
16-09-2020||National||DH TOON | Migrants' data: 'People who die become stars. Next to them is that planet where our govt resides!'||The government has no data about deaths and job loss of migrant labourers during the national lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19, the Ministry of Labour and Employment informed the Lok Sabha on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-migrants-data-people-who-die-become-stars-next-to-them-is-that-planet-where-our-govt-resides-888160.html
16-09-2020||National||India's coronavirus cases cross 50 lakh||India's total coronavirus cases passed 50 lakh on Wednesday, health ministry data showed, as the pandemic extends its grip on the vast country at an ever-faster rate. With its latest one million cases recorded in just 11 days, a world record, India now has 50.2 lakh infections. Only the United States has more, with 65.9 lakh. India has for some time been recording the world's biggest daily jumps in cases, and on Wednesday, the rise was just over 90,000 with a record 1,290 deaths. While India took 167 days to reach one million cases, the next million came in just 21 days, faster than the US and Brazil. Just 29 days later, India became only the third country after the US and Brazil to post four million infections. India passed Brazil earlier this month. Even so, and with India now testing around a million people daily, many experts say that this is not enough and that the true number of infections may be far higher. This has been borne out in several studies in recent weeks measuring antibodies against the virus among the cramped populations of megacities New Delhi and Mumbai. The India Council for Medical Research, the country's lead pandemic agency, said last week that its survey had suggested that already in May, 6.5 million people were infected. The same goes for deaths -- 82,066 as of Wednesday, less than half the US toll of 195,000 -- with many deaths not properly recorded by authorities even in normal times. India has one the world's most poorly funded healthcare systems and the nation of 1.3 billion people is home to some of the most densely populated cities and towns. The sharp rise in cases is despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government imposing in late March one of the world's strictest lockdowns, leaving tens of millions of people in the informal labour market jobless almost overnight.  The lockdown saw complete travel bans, shutting down of businesses and factories, and the flight of millions of poor migrant workers from big cities to their villages that experts say caused the virus to spread from urban centres to small towns. India's GDP slumped nearly 24 per cent in the first quarter, one of the steepest drops among major economies. The lockdown has been steadily eased even as infections soar, with schools set to open for some classes on Monday -- along with tourist hotspot the Taj Mahal. "Initially there was a fair amount of rigour in the lockdown but subsequently there was some relaxation before it was completely lifted," K. Srinath Reddy, head of health charity the Public Health Foundation of India, told AFP. "It sent a wrong signal to the people that possibly we have got things reasonably under control and now the economy takes precedence. The virus is now infecting more people and penetrating deeper into smaller towns."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-cases-cross-50-lakh-888205.html
16-09-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir administration to evict politicians from illegally occupied accommodations||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has directed officials to evict former ministers and legislators of various political parties, who are illegally holding government accommodation in Srinagar and Jammu cities. Sources said in this regard the Estates Department has issued final eviction notices to dozens of politicians, belonging to the BJP, Congress, National Conference, PDP and other smaller parties. Besides final eviction notices, intimation notices have also been issued to them asking them to vacate the government accommodation, of which they are no more entitled. While maximum of these politicians have been issued final eviction notices to vacate within one week, a few others have been issued initiation notices, which shall be followed by the final eviction notices as permissible period for retention of the allotted accommodation to them expires, they said. “Estates Department was authorized to forcibly evict the occupants if the accommodation is not vacated within one week since issuance of eviction notice,” sources added. The administration had recently said there are huge complaints of illegal occupation of government accommodation by political workers, former ministers, ex-legislators, retired officials and journalists in twin cities of Jammu and Srinagar and several of them have huge arrears of rent pending against them. As per J&K government order number 169- GAD of 2004, permissible period for retention of the official residential accommodation is one month since the completion of term as legislator and two month in case of death of the allottee. However, former ministers and legislators are occupying the government accommodation even after more than 21 months since dissolution of the Assembly. Last week former chief minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah announced that he was voluntarily vacating the government accommodation provided to him 18 years ago due to the change in rules of entitlement in the Union Territory. While in other states chief ministers are supposed to vacate their official residence at the end of their tenure, in J&K, they could retain them, owing to security reasons, thanks to an amendment in the rules made more than two decades ago. However, after the abrogation of special status of J&K under Article 370 last August, the law was scrapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-to-evict-politicians-from-illegally-occupied-accommodations-888207.html
16-09-2020||National||In 11 days, Covid-19 cases in India cross 50-lakh mark from 40 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally of cases galloped past 50 lakh, just 11 days after it crossed 40 lakh, with 90,123 infections being reported in a day, while recoveries surged to 39,42,360 on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 50,20,359, while the death toll climbed to 82,066 with a record 1,290 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. India's Covid-19 cases jumped from 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days. Then it took 16 more days to race past 30 lakh, 13 days more to cross the 40-lakh mark and 11 days to go past 50 lakh. It took 110 days for the Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh while it had taken 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh post.   The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection further dropped at 1.63 per cent. There are 9,95,933  active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 19.84 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 5,94,29,115 samples have been tested up to September 15 with 11,16,842 samples being tested on Tuesday. A total of 1,290 new deaths have been reported including 515 from Maharashtra, 216 from Karnataka, 113 from Uttar Pradesh, 90 from Punjab, 69 from Andhra Pradesh, 68 from Tamil Nadu , 59 from West Bengal and 36 from Delhi.  A total of 82,066 deaths have been reported so far in the country includes 30,409 from Maharashtra followed by 8,502 from Tamil Nadu, 7,481 from Karnataka, 5,041 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,806 from Delhi, 4,604 from Uttar Pradesh, 4,062 from West Bengal, 3,244 from Gujarat, 2,514 from Punjab and 1,820 from Madhya Pradesh.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-11-days-covid-19-cases-in-india-cross-50-lakh-mark-from-40-lakh-888225.html
16-09-2020||National||National emblem to sit atop Parliament building, replace spire: Report||While the tendering process is still underway, a Housing and Urban affairs Ministry official told the publication that the new design with the state emblem has been finalised. HCP Design Planning and Management Private Limited who are redesigning Delhi’s Central Vista, displayed the emblem instead of the spire in a recent presentation on the design, the publication reported. “We have narrowed down on the 17th version, and I think that’s the final one,” the company reportedly said in the presentation. The new Parliament building will be approximately 60,000 square meters, and will be located on plot number 118 of the Parliament House, and is expected to be ready for use by 2022. However, the year of completion may be pushed because of the coronavirus pandemic. “It will have sculptures of parliamentarians and images representing the diversity of India. At one side of the Constitution Hall will be the Constitution gallery, where the Constitution will be displayed,” HCP's presentation cited, the report elucidated. The structure of the new building is said to be triangular and will have 120 offices. Six entrances will be constructed for the public, Members of Parliament, VIPs such as the Speaker and Vice President. The emblem, drawn from the Lion Capital of Ashoka, consists of four lions facing four directions, and dates back to around 250 BC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-emblem-to-sit-atop-parliament-building-replace-spire-report-888237.html
16-09-2020||National||Government advertising campaign expenditure came down by 72.56% between 2017-18 and 2019-20||The government spent 72.56% less money on advertisement campaigns in print, TV and digital media to publicise its programmes and policies in 2019-20 compared to 2017-18, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry has said. According to statistics provided by Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar in Rajya Sabha on Monday, the government spent a total of Rs 1,196.89 crore in print, TV and digital media in the last three financial years between 2017-18 and 2019-20. This does not include other modes of publicity like outdoor, pamphlets and other modes. At a time the media sector has sought government support in terms of increasing its advertisement budget and clearing dues, the statistics showed that the expenditure fell from Rs 585.31 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 451.01 crore and Rs 160.57 crore in the next two fiscal. Of this, Rs 892.43 crore or 74.56% of the total amount spent on Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaigns by the Bureau of Outreach and Communications (BOC) during these years on print media. Only Rs 45.8 crore or 3.82% were spent on digital while the rest was spent on visual media, Javadekar said in a written response to BJD's Sasmit Patra on Monday. Patra had sought information on the total amount of government advertisements provided to newspapers, TV, magazines and digital media over the past three years, category-wise and year-wise. The BOC under the Ministry of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting undertakes IEC campaigns on behalf of the ministries and departments of Government of India with regard to their policies and programmes, Javadekar said. The statistics showed that expenditure on advertisements in print media was Rs 462.22 crore in 2017-18 but decreased to 301.03 crore and Rs 129.18 crore in the next two fiscals -- a 72.05% between 2017-18 and 2019-20. The TV saw an increase in advertisement revenue from the government in 2018-19 -- from 109.87 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 123.11 crore. However, 2019-20 saw a drastic reduction to Rs 25.68 crore. Digital media (internet, SMS) also saw a similar rise and steep fall. In 2017-18, the BOC spent Rs 13.22 crore, which rose to Rs 26.87 the next year while 2019-20 witnessed a sharp slide to Rs 5.71 crore. Expenditure on advt campaigns in print/TV/digital by Centre (Rs in crore)     2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 TOTAL PRINT 462.22 301.03 129.18 892.43 TV 109.87 123.11 25.68 258.66 Digital (Internet, SMS) 13.22 26.87 5.71 45.8 TOTAL 585.31 451.01 160.57 1196.89 Regarding the representation from print media and others, including the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) regarding payment of dues on advertisement, Javadekar said the government has placed funds at the disposal of BOC for making the requisite payments and is continuously monitoring the outstanding dues. BOC is also following up for dues with other Ministries and Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) concerned. The representation of Indian Newspaper Society (INS) for removal of 5% Basic Custom Duty on newsprint to help reduce the input cost of print media has been taken up with the Ministry of Finance for appropriate decision, he said in response to questions raised by MDMK's Vaiko among others. In its representation before Javadekar, the INS had said that the print media was one of the worst affected sectors in India "hardly any revenue coming in" from either advertising or circulation”. It demanded a "two year tax holiday for newspaper establishments" besides an increase of 50% in advertisement rate of BOC and 100% rise in budget spend for print media. It also wanted an immediate settlement of payment towards all outstanding bills of advertising from BOC. The News Broadcasters Association demanded a 50% hike in official advertisement rates, clearing dues of Rs 64.49 crore accumulated over the last ten years and a substantial increase in budgetary allocations of all central ministries and organisations for dissemination of information relating to Covid-19 through private satellite TV channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-advertising-campaign-expenditure-came-down-by-7256-between-2017-18-and-2019-20-888241.html
16-09-2020||National||Mahabharata of Covid-19 on but Modi govt missing: Congress as India tally tops 50 lakh||As India’s coronavirus case tally topped 50 lakh on Wednesday, the Congress asked the government to tell the nation how the pandemic will be controlled and if it will blame god to evade accountability. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also compared the battle against Covid-19 to the Mahabharata. "Mahabharata of coronavirus pandemic is on, but the Modi government is missing," he alleged. The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 50,20,359, just 11 days after it crossed 40 lakh, while the death toll climbed to 82,066 with 1,290 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry data on Wednesday. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Surjewala asked, "Facts about COVID-19, will the PM answer-: 1. In coronavirus infections per day - India at number 1 in the world (90,123 infections). 2. Coronavirus mortality rate per day - India ranks first in the world (1,290 deaths) 3. Coronavirus infection rate doubling - India at number 1 in the world (double in 31 days) 4. In total coronavirus cases - India ranks second in the world." He added that India ranks second in the world in terms of active cases (9,95,933 infections), while in terms of deaths it ranks third in the world (82,066 deaths). Demanding that the government tell the country how the coronavirus pandemic will be controlled, he asked, “Or will the government blame god to evade accountability?” It was an apparent reference to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's 'Act of God' remark while talking about the economy. Sitharaman had said the economy has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, which is an ''Act of God'', and it will see a contraction in the current fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahabharata-of-covid-19-on-but-modi-govt-missing-congress-as-india-tally-tops-50-lakh-888263.html
16-09-2020||National||SC asks Rajasthan police to probe mysterious death of NLU student afresh||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Rajasthan police to probe afresh into the mysterious death of Vikrant Nagaich, a student of National Law University, Jodhpur, in 2017. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee set aside the closure report filed by the state police and ordered for de novo investigation to be completed within two months, saying "much time has passed and there is undoubtedly an urgency in the matter now". The court noted it was only after its direction on July 8 to the police to complete the probe within two months, "suddenly a very lengthy investigation closure report has been filed before us taking a stand that though the death was homicidal there was no clue". The court said the entire investigation and the closure report, therefore, lacked bonafide.  "The interest of justice therefore requires a de novo investigation to be done, to sustain the confidence of the society in the rule of law irrespective of who the actors may be," the court ordered. The court said a fresh team of investigators to be headed by a senior police officer of the State consisting of efficient personnel well conversant with the use of modern investigation technology also should be employed in de novo investigation. "No officer who was part of the investigating team leading to the closure report shall be part of the team," it added. The court on September 8 reserved its judgement on a plea by Neetu Kumar Nagaich, the mother of the deceased, seeking a CBI probe into the matter. Vikrant, a third-year law student, was found dead on August 14, 2017, under unnatural circumstances near a railway track opposite the university. The authorities first tried to present the case as that of suicide due to alleged depression, though there was no such evidence.  After about 10 months of the incident, the FIR was lodged but the CID-CB failed to arrive at any outcome. Petitioner's husband, Colonel Jayant Nagaich procured an Internal Railway Enquiry Report, which showed no record of any incident or accident by any member of lobby crew, locomotive drivers or guards of the trains on the date. Advocates Sunil Fernandes and Astha Sharma, who appeared for the petitioner, have accused the state police of "lackadaisical and callous manner of probe" into the FIR lodged on June 29, 2018, with Jodhpur's Mandore police station. "The state police have not even investigated on the basis of 13 to 15 areas which were pointed to the Investigating Officer by the father of the deceased student, a retired colonel of the army," they said. The petitioner also approached the Rajasthan HC which on February 24, 2020, disposed of the matter, though the investigating agency amongst other things failed to create a digital footprint, including retrieval of mobile records, of the circumstances surrounding the place of the incident, which would have led to the apprehension of the offenders. "Unfortunately, the High Court despite noticing the long pendency of the investigation took a misguided approach that the petitioner had not expressed suspicion against anyone and neither had he alleged biased against the Investigating Officer, to pass an open-ended order to investigate the case and file a report," the court said. "In this manner, the investigation remained inconclusive for nearly three long years with the investigating agency sanguine of passing it off as an accidental death without coming to a firm conclusion avoiding to complete the investigation," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-rajasthan-police-to-probe-mysterious-death-of-nlu-student-afresh-888264.html
16-09-2020||National||Final word on content moderation not with public policy team, says Facebook||Facebook said that although other employees can offer their views on content moderation, they cannot sway the decisions which are only to be enforced by an independent team. This comes after a Delhi legislative panel on Tuesday warned Facebook that it could face contempt proceedings after it failed to show up at a hearing into its alleged role in fanning religious riots in Delhi earlier this year. The Delhi state parliament's committee had summoned Facebook's India Managing Director Ajit Mohan to answer allegations that the social media giant did not adequately apply hate speech rules and policies, which contributed to the violence that left 50 people dead. Facebook has been caught in the middle of accusations of bias from rival sides in India's feverish political battlefield. Opposition parties said it favours the BJP after the Wall Street Journal reported that Facebook's Ankhi Das refused to take down anti-Muslim comments by Raja Singh because it could damage the company's business interests. Mohan told the publication that there are robust internal mechanisms within Facebook to handle a difference of opinion on sensitive content.  “The reality is no individual — including some of those whose names have been mentioned, who are people who report to me — has that kind of unilateral decision-making power in this organisation to influence choices. “When it involves an elected official, we are pretty conscious that the process and mechanism need to be extremely robust, because these are people who are elected in democratic systems, and if anything, our bias would be that voters and citizens should be able to listen to their point of view and make a conclusion for themselves," he said. Facebook has also been accused by a former employee that it had ignored or was slow to take action on evidence that fake accounts on its platform have been undermining elections and political affairs globally. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-rejects-allegations-of-political-bias-at-parliament-panel-meet-881641.html Zhang claimed that she had worked hard to remove "a politically-sophisticated network of more than a thousand actors working to influence" the Delhi elections earlier this year. She, however, did not disclose details of the network, as per the report quoting the internal memo. “We don’t have an exception for hate speech for elected officials." “So, we did enforce our hate speech policies, not once but many times. To be extremely clear, no exceptions, it was enforced," Mohan told the publication. India is the American firm's biggest market in terms of the number of users. Social media giant Facebook admitted last month that it has to do better to curb hate speech as it battled a storm over how it handled comments by a member of India's ruling party who called Muslims traitors. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/final-word-on-content-moderation-not-with-public-policy-team-says-facebook-888266.html
16-09-2020||National||SC indicates to pass orders on completing pending trials in cases against MPs, MLAs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday indicated that it will pass orders for concluding trials against pending cases of former and sitting MPs and MLAs within one year and ask the High Courts to submit an action plan for its implementation. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy said that the court would seek a proper blue print from Chief Justices of the High Courts on how to go about disposing of pending trials. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, also submitted that there must be time bound disposal of these cases. The cases must reach its logical conclusion in a time bound manner, he said. The bench also expressed concern over allocation of all pending cases against the legislators to only one special court in a State, saying they may not be accessible. Senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, acting as amicus curiae, suggested for that each district in a State must be assigned one court to deal with the pending cases. He also pointed out that there was no uniformity with regard to special courts taking up cases pertaining to legislators. The court also noted that there were 4442 cases pending against former and sitting legislators but the figure has gone up on adding  pendening cases under special laws. Hansaria also pointed out that a big issue was that witnesses don't turn up and summons are not served. "We need to appoint a particular officer and make him responsible for carrying this out," he said. He also suggested that those cases, punishable with life sentence, must be given priority, followed up those cases having punishment with imprisonment of seven and more years. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for PIL petitioner Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, submitted that judicial officers may be appointed in accordance with the number of pending cases, so as not to allow wastage of resources. In a note prepared by Hansaria, along with advocate Sneha Kalita, he said the High Court should consider mechanism for expeditious trial of criminal cases against MPs and MLAs under special statutes namely the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Companies Act, 2013, Negotiable Instrument  Act, 1881 etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-indicates-to-pass-orders-on-completing-pending-trials-in-cases-against-mps-mlas-888269.html
16-09-2020||National||Manmohan Singh, Chidambaram to skip Monsoon Session, entirely||At least 16 Rajya Sabha MPs, including former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and former Finance Minister P Chidambaram, have informed the Upper House that they will not be attending the Monsoon Session of the Parliament. Of this, three will not be skipping the whole session but for some days. On Wednesday, the House approved leave for 14 MPs while on Monday it had sanctioned leave for two MPs -- Trinamool Congress' Sukhendu Shekhar Roy and Subhashish Chakrabarty. Singh, Chidambaram and Oscar Fernandes (Congress), Anmbumani Ramadoss (PMK), Manas Ranjan Bhunia (Trinamool), S D Gupta (AAP), Parimal Nathwani (independent), Roy and Chakrabarty are among the MPs who will be skipping the entire session. Nominated MP Narendra Jadhav sought leave from September 15 to October 1 while AIADMK floor leader A Navaneethakrishnan will be absent between September 14 and 24. Banda Prakash (TRS) has sought leave between September 14 and 26. All of them except Roy has sought leave on health grounds. In his letter seeking leave, Roy had cited the Covid-19 situation and the guidelines for phased re-opening on vulnerable persons, including those above 65 years who are advised not to venture out except for essential services. On Monday, Naidu said, "Attending Parliament is an essential responsibility. But, if any particular member, because of health reasons, desires to be absent, and they have written to me, I am getting all of them positively approved because it is a human problem." Around 10 Rajya Sabha MPs have also tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days. (ENDS)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singh-chidambaram-to-skip-monsoon-session-entirely-888271.html
16-09-2020||National||No infiltration along Sino-Indian border in last 6 months: Govt tells Rajya Sabha||The government on Wednesday said there has been no infiltration along the Sino-Indian border in the last six months, while 47 infiltration bids have been reported along the Indo-Pak border during the period. The Union Home Ministry also informed the Rajya Sabha that 594 attempts of infiltration into Jammu and Kashmir by Pakistani militants have been reported in the last three years, of which 312 were successful. "No infiltration has been reported along Indo-China border during last six months," Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said in a written response to a question. Replying a separate question, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said 582 terrorists were killed in Jammu and Kashmir by security forces in last three years, while 46 terrorists were arrested during the period. As many as 76 army personnel were also killed in Jammu and Kashmir from 2018 till September 8 this year, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-infiltration-along-sino-indian-border-in-last-6-months-govt-tells-rajya-sabha-888278.html
16-09-2020||National||Is PM Swasth scheme some kind of jumla of govt? asks SP leader Ram Gopal Yadav in Rajya Sabha||Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav on Wednesday asked the government from where will it arrange Rs 65,560.98 crore for the proposed Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, and wondered whether it was a kind of 'jumla'. Participating in a debate on a bill related to ayurveda institute in Rajya Sabha, Yadav said at a time when the entire Health Ministry's budget allocation was only about Rs 65,000 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal, how will it arrange funds for the scheme. In the 2020-21 budget, only about Rs 65,000 crore was allocated, 35 per cent lower than the ministry's demand of Rs 1,17,000 crore, he said in the Upper House. "When the ministry's full budget is about Rs 65,000 crore, from where will you get the money for this scheme? Is this a kind of jumla (rhetoric)? You are talking about (spending) more than the budget allocation," he said and asked the Health Minister to tell when the people will benefit from the scheme.   On the opening day of the Monsoon session of Parliament, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said in Lok Sabha that the government is launching the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana with an allocation of Rs 65,561 crore for proactively identifying gaps in dealing with challenges posed by Covid-19-like pandemics, epidemics and disasters in the future. “An Expenditure Finance Memorandum of Rs 65,560.98 crore under Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana is under consideration. This includes investment in research, healthcare and public health infrastructure with particular focus on pandemic management,” the minister had said. Stating that the government was doing its best during the Covid-19 pandemic, Yadav, however, expressed concern over the ill-treatment meted out to coronavirus patients in hospitals and how lack of counselling facility was forcing patients to commit suicide. "There should be some kind of regulation on states on how they are treating patients in hospitals. Medicines are thrown at them from a distance. There is no counselling. Some of the patients are committing suicide out of fear," he said. The patients can deal with the disease in a better way if there is proper counselling. "Seventy-eighty per cent patients are recovering without any proper medicine," he claimed. He further said that it is not known when the vaccine for Covid-19 will come. "China or Russia or the US will first bring the vaccines. And our ICMR will keep conducting trials," he said and urged the Centre to help states with resources in the current situation and make available medical facilities to the poor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-pm-swasth-scheme-some-kind-of-jumla-of-govt-asks-sp-leader-ram-gopal-yadav-in-rajya-sabha-888282.html
16-09-2020||National||NIA registers 17 Islamic State-related cases from Southern India||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered 17 cases related to the presence of the Islamic State (IS) in southern states of Telangana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and arrested 122 accused persons, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Wednesday. This was disclosed by Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy in a written reply in Rajya Sabha. "Some instances of individuals from different states, including southern states, having joined Islamic State (IS) have come to the notice of central and state security agencies," he said.  The Islamic State is using various internet based social media platforms to propagate its ideology. Cyber space is being closely watched in this regard by the agencies concerned and action is taken as per law, he said. Investigations by the NIA have revealed that the IS is most active in Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, Reddy said. "The Islamic State, Islamic State of Iraq and Levant, Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, Daish, Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), ISIS Wilayat Khorasan, Islamic State of Iraq and the Sham-Khorasan (ISIS-K) and all its manifestations have been notified as terrorist organisation under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-registers-17-islamic-state-related-cases-from-southern-india-888284.html
16-09-2020||National||5.4 crore Covid-19 samples tested; 40 lakh people under surveillance: Government||Around 40 lakh people have been kept under surveillance as part of Covid-19 preventive measures while the country is testing around a million samples a single day, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Tuesday. More than 30 vaccine candidates for Covid-19 have been supported, and three of them are in advance stages of trials now while four are in advanced pre-clinical development stage. Thirteen clinical trials of repurposed drugs have been undertaken to build a portfolio of therapeutic options for Covid-19 patients. However, the MHA has no data on death or injury caused to people while enforcing the countrywide lockdown to contain the spread of the virus infection. These inputs form part of a series of written replies Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai tabled in Rajya Sabha. He said India is following a "whole of Government and whole of society approach". As on September 10, a total of 15,290 Covid-19 treatment facilities with 13,14,171 dedicated isolation beds, without oxygen support, have been created. Also, 2,31,269 oxygen-supported isolation beds and 62,694 ICU beds (including 32,241 ventilator beds) are available in the country, he said. "States are being supported in terms of supply of logistics. So far 1.39 crore of PPE kits, 3.42 crores N-95 masks, 10.84 crore tablets of Hydroxychloroquine and 29,779 ventilators and 1,02,400 oxygen cylinders have been supplied to States/UTs/ Central government hospitals," he said. He also said 14,154 flights with 15,24,266 passengers have been screened at airports and screening was also done at 12 major and 65 minor ports and land border crossings, On vaccines, he said,13 clinical trials of repurposed drugs have been undertaken to build a portfolio of therapeutic options for Covid-19 patients. Responding to senior Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge's question, Rai said the Centre has no "data pertaining to complaints and cases registered, First Information Report (FIR) regarding harassment, injury, death of individuals in enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown across the country is not maintained centrally." Police and public order are State subjects as per 7th Schedule of the Constitution of India and hence, the actions are taken by the respective state governments. Kharge had asked whether there has been any instance of excessive police measures leading to harassment, injury, death of individuals in enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown across the country and if so, the details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/54-crore-covid-19-samples-tested-40-lakh-people-under-surveillance-government-888288.html
16-09-2020||National||Mandatory coronavirus testing for passengers landing at Indian airports: Report||International airports in Mumbai and Delhi are planning to arrange Covid-19 tests for incoming passengers under the assumption that testing will be made mandatory at the airports once the normal functioning of the flights resume. Currently, the ministry guidelines dictate RT-PCR tests at least 96 hours before the journey begins for all the incoming travellers.   At a minimum cost of Rs 1,600, Mumbai International Airport along with Suburban Diagnostics has arranged a coronavirus testing facility. The tests, which are available for international and domestic travellers, can be booked online or at the help desk and the results will be made available in 8 hours.  Suburban Diagnostics told the publication that they are setting up separate lab infrastructure for airport travellers. “We are testing 50 people per day now, but expect this number to go up,” said Anupa Dixit, lab director of Suburban Diagnostics. Meanwhile, at the Delhi airport on-site testing, in partnership with Genestring Diagnostic Centre, has been set up. With a walk-in facility, all travellers including international passengers who couldn't get a test before boarding the flight can book their tests online.  The results of the test will be declared in four to six hours and with a negative test, passenger can continue their journey. The cost for the test here would cost Rs 2,400 and for lounge access, an additional cost of Rs 2,600 would be charged.  “We understand this is a pilot to soon do away with institutional quarantine altogether in coming months as people get tested in the airport,” Chetan Kohli, COO of Genestring Diagnostics, said. However, if tested positive for coronavirus, they would be ordered home or institutional quarantine depending on the severity of their symptoms. While their samples are being tested, passengers can opt to wait in an isolated area or stay in an airport hotel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandatory-coronavirus-testing-for-passengers-landing-at-indian-airports-report-888290.html
16-09-2020||National||Shiv Sena backs Jaya Bachchan for standing up for Bollywood||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday came out in support of Rajya Sabha MP and veteran actor Jaya Bachchan for slamming those who claimed there was a problem of drug addiction in the film industry. "Those who make such claims are hypocrites and their statements smack of double standards," the Shiv Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. Bachchan on Tuesday criticised those tarnishing the image of the film industry. Her remarks came a day after BJP's Lok Sabha MP and Bhojpuri actor Ravi Kishan said there was a problem of drug addiction in the film industry. Supporting Bachchan's stand, the Marathi daily said, "A doping test should be conducted on those who claim that all artists and technicians in the film industry are under the influence of drugs." The Shiv Sena said the foundation of the Indian film industry was laid by Dadasaheb Phalke, a Maharashtrian. The industry made a start withsilent movies like 'Raja Harishchandra' and reached the present pinnacle of successdue to the hard work of lakhs of people. It also said actors like Sunil Dutt and his colleagues would tour the borders to entertain soldiers, Manoj Kumar always produced patriotic films while Raj Kapoor's films catered to social issues. "Several artistes raised their voice against the Emergency for which they had to pay a heavy price," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-backs-jaya-bachchan-for-standing-up-for-bollywood-888293.html
16-09-2020||National||CBI court verdict in Babri mosque demolition case on September 30; L K Advani, Uma Bharti, others asked to be present||The much awaited judgement in the Babri Masjid demolition case, in which several senior BJP leaders including L.K.Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh are accused, would be pronounced by a special CBI court on September 30. Special judge (CBI) S.K.Yadav has directed all the 32 accused persons to be present in the court on that day. There were total 49 accused persons in this case to start with but 17 of them have died since then. The accused persons, who died during the pendency of the trial, include former VHP international president Ashok Singhal, Giriraj Kishore, Vishnu Hari Dalmiya, Mahant Avaidyanath and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's father Bala Saheb Thackeray. According to the lawyers representing the CBI and the defendants, the special judge is currently busy writing the judgement.  The supreme court had directed the special CBI judge to deliver the verdict by September 30.  The cases, which pertained to the demolition of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, were heard on a daily basis by the special CBI judge.  Soon after the demolition of the disputed structure, two FIRs were registered at the Ram Janmabhoomi police station in Ayodhya against unidentified 'karsevaks', Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and BJP leaders. 47 other FIRs were also registered later. The CBI, which was handed over the investigation of the cases, had filed a single charge sheet in all the cases. The Allahabad high court, upon being approached by the BJP leaders, ordered to drop proceedings against them as the state government had not issued fresh notification for transferring the trial of FIR no 198 in which their names had found mention to the special CBI court.  Another reason behind the delay was that the cases were being heard separately at Raebareli and Lucknow. The Supreme Court later clubbed all the cases and ordered that they would be heard at Lucknow. It also set aside the HC order for dropping of charges against some BJP leaders. The keenly awaited verdict assumes added significance as it will come close on the heels of the ground breaking ceremony for the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya.  It would also have political significance in view of the forthcoming assembly polls in Bihar. It was in Bihar where the then chief minister of the state Lalu Prasad Yadav had stopped Advani's 'Rathyatra' for the Ram Temple and ordered his arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-court-verdict-in-babri-mosque-demolition-case-on-september-30-l-k-advani-uma-bharti-others-asked-to-be-present-888297.html
16-09-2020||National||Over 30 coronavirus vaccine candidates supported, 3 in advance trials, 4 in advanced pre-clinical stage:Centre in RS||The government on Wednesday said more than 30 vaccine candidates for coronavirus have been supported, and three of them are in advance stages of trials now, while four are in advanced pre-clinical development stage. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also told the Rajya Sabha that 13 clinical trials of repurposed drugs have been undertaken to build a portfolio of therapeutic options for Covid-19 patients. "More than 30 vaccine candidates have been supported which are in different stages of development, 3 candidates are in advanced stage of Phase I, II, III trials and more than 4 are in advanced pre-clinical development stage," he said. Rai said a national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 was constituted on August 7, under the NITI Aayog.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-30-coronavirus-vaccine-candidates-supported-3-in-advance-trials-4-in-advanced-pre-clinical-stagecentre-in-rs-888300.html
16-09-2020||National||CRPF assistant sub-inspector shoots himself dead in Chhattisgarh's Sukma||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Central Reserve Police Force allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself in Naxal-hit Sukma district of Chhattisgarh on Wednesday, a senior police official said. ASI K Shivanand (49), belonging to 2nd battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), shot himself with his AK-47 rifle around 7.15 am at his unit's camp in Gadiras police station premises, located around 500 km from the state capital Raipur, he said. When Shivanand's colleagues heard the gunshot, they rushed to his barrack and found him dead, the official said. No suicide note was found, he said, adding the exact reason behind the extreme step was yet to be ascertained. Shivanand was a native of Karnataka. His family members have been informed about the incident, the official added. The CRPF is extensively deployed in south Chhattisgarh, including Sukma, for anti-Naxal operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-assistant-sub-inspector-shoots-himself-dead-in-chhattisgarhs-sukma-888301.html
16-09-2020||National||Parliament nod to Bill for giving 'national importance' tag to Gujarat Ayurveda institutes||Parliament on Wednesday passed a bill to accord the status of an institution of national importance to a Jamnagar-based cluster of Ayurveda institutes. The Bill - 'The Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill, 2020' - was passed by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha. Lok Sabha has already approved the bill in the last session, in which three Jamnagar, Gujarat-based institutes -- Institute of Post Graduate Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Gulabkunwerba Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya and Institute of Ayurveda Pharmaceutical Sciences --would be conglomerated. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan expressed appreciation for Ayurveda and its usefulness for the society and also for strengthening the healthcare systems of the world. "Ayurveda is an ancient system of medicine in the country with so much of traditional wisdom attached," he said and added that under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', the government has approved Rs 4000 crore for cultivation of medicinal plants and supporting farmers. He said the selection of the Jamnagar institute was not "arbitrary" but it was chosen in a most objective manner being one of the oldest institutes under the category, established in 1956. It was the oldest collaborating centre with WHO in Ayurveda and has imparted training to students from 65 countries in 20 years, he said and added that the institute has inked 30 pacts with different countries in the last 20 years. The proposed institute would have a 15-member committee including the Minister of Ayush, Secretary of Ayush and Secretary of Health & Family Welfare of the Gujarat Government, along with three MPs in which two would be from Lok Sabha and one from Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-nod-to-bill-for-giving-national-importance-tag-to-gujarat-ayurveda-institutes-888304.html
16-09-2020||National||13 months down, PDP holds its first meeting after Article 370 abrogation||For the first time after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, regional People’s Democratic Party (PDP) held a meeting of party leaders in Srinagar on Wednesday. The meeting held at the party's headquarters in Srinagar was attended by former ministers Abdul Rehman Veeri and Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura former legislators Aijaz Mir and Khursheed Aalam, and PDP youth president Waheed-ur-Rehman Para. “Besides the prevailing political situation, the leaders discussed the way forward to fight for the restoration of special status of J&K through democratic means,” Tahir Sayeed, a spokesman of the PDP told DH. He said all the five leaders, who attended the meeting on Wednesday, were under house arrest till now. The meeting comes at a time when the party president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti continues to remain in detention since August 5 last year, when the Center revoked the erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370. Earlier on September 3, senior leaders of the PDP were disallowed from leaving their residences in Kashmir to attend the party’s first meeting since August 5 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-months-down-pdp-holds-its-first-meeting-after-article-370-abrogation-888311.html
16-09-2020||National||Woman dies as doctors at CHC 'clash' with police, 'delay treatment' in UP||A 45-year-old accident victim died at the Community Health Centre (CHC) in Bilsi here as doctors allegedly wasted precious time clashing with the policemen, who had brought her there, instead of extending immediate medical aid to the woman. According to a video that has gone viral on the social media, Sub-Inspector (SI) Sushil Pawar rushed the woman and her son, who were injured after their motorcycle was hit by a truck on the Badaun-Islamnagar highway on Monday, in his official jeep to the Bilsi CHC. The video shows that instead of attending to the injured, the staff at the CHC clashed with the SI ,wasting precious time in extending medical aid to the woman, leading to her death. In the video, the SI can be heard regretting that the woman died without getting treatment. Giving details of the incident, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said Pawar, posted at Ughaiti, had rushed the woman and her son to the CHC in his official jeep, but she died as treatment was delayed by the staff there. A case will be registered and an inquiry is on, the officer said, adding that the district magistrate has been informed about the "indecent" attitude of the doctor and the health staff at the CHC and the alleged negligence in treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-dies-as-doctors-at-chc-clash-with-police-delay-treatment-in-up-888314.html
16-09-2020||National||NGT earmarks 200 metre as minimum distance between stone quarries and residential structures||The National Green Tribunal Wednesday earmarked 200 metre as the minimum distance to be maintained between stone quarries and residential or public structures across the country. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel held that the stone quarries should maintain a minimum distance of 100 metre between them and the residential/public buildings, when blasting is not involved.  The order was passed after taking note of the report filed by the Central Pollution Control Board which also said that the regulations for danger zone (500 m) prescribed by Directorate General of Mines Safety also have to be complied compulsorily and necessary measures should be taken to minimise the impact on environment. “However, if any state is already having stringent criteria than the above for minor mineral mining (i.e. more prescribed distances than the above), the same shall be applicable,” the bench said. The tribunal directed the CPCB to monitor compliance and said criteria be followed throughout the country. The NGT was hearing a plea filed by Kerala resident Usha A alleging illegal quarrying and mining at Vazhappara Nanniyode Panchayath, Kurupuzha. The green panel had earlier noted that Kerala State PCB reiterated the distance criteria of 50 metres, and mentioned that no study is available with the CPCB in the issue. The NGT had said that the distance of 50 metres for stone quarry, particularly when blasts are involved, is highly inadequate and can have deleterious effect on noise and air pollution, environment and public health. It had directed the CPCB to examine and lay down more stringent conditions and appropriately longer distance and convey the same to the State Boards. In compliance to the NGT order, the CPCB examined the matter and prepared the report on Distance Criteria for Permitting Stone Quarrying and forwarded it to state pollution control boards. The CPCB has recommended a minimum distance of 100 meters, when blasting was not involved from residential, public buildings, inhabited sites, protected monuments, public roads, railway lines, bridges, dams, reservoirs, rivers, lakes or any other locations to be considered by states.  Where blasting was involved, CPCB has said that a minimum distance of 200 meters from residential buildings and others be followed||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-earmarks-200-metre-as-minimum-distance-between-stone-quarries-and-residential-structures-888318.html
16-09-2020||National||Three arrested for attack on Suresh Raina's relatives; former cricketer reaches Pathankot||The Punjab Police on Wednesday said three members of a gang have been arrested in connection with the attack on former cricketer Suresh Raina's relatives in which his uncle and a cousin were killed. Those arrested are members of an inter-state gang of robber-criminals, they added. Raina, meanwhile, arrived in Pathankot during the day to be with the family. The attack had taken place in Pathankot's Tharyal village on the intervening night of August 19 and 20. Eleven other accused are yet to be arrested, Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said her. Raina's uncle, Ashok Kumar, a contractor, had died on the spot, while Kumar's son, Kaushal, succumbed to injuries on August 31. Kumar's wife, Asha Rani, is in hospital in a critical condition. Two others injured in the attack had been discharged. The cricketer had described the attack as "beyond horrible" and had urged Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to look into this incident. A four-member Special Investigation Team was formed by the Punjab Police to investigate the matter. On September 15, the SIT received information that three suspects, who were seen near the Defence Road area on the morning after the incident, were staying near the Pathankot railway station. A raid was conducted and all three were nabbed, the DGP said in a statement here. A gold ring, a gold chain and Rs 1,530 cash were recovered, along with two wooden sticks, from the accused, he said. Those arrested were identified as Sawan, alias Matching, Muhobbat and Shahrukh Khan, all residents of district Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, the police said. Initial investigation revealed that they were operating as a gang along with others and had committed several such crimes earlier in Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and various parts of Punjab, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-arrested-for-attack-on-suresh-rainas-relatives-former-cricketer-reaches-pathankot-888322.html
16-09-2020||National||PM Modi congratulates newly-elected Japan's PM Yoshihide Suga||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated Yoshihide Suga on his appointment as Japan's Prime Minister and said he is looking forward to jointly take the "special strategic and global partnership" between the two countries to new heights. Suga was on Wednesday formally elected as Japan's new prime minister in a parliamentary vote. "Heartiest congratulations to Excellency Yoshihide Suga on the appointment as Prime Minister of Japan @kantei. I look forward to jointly taking our Special Strategic and Global Partnership to new heights. @sugawitter," Modi tweeted. He also posted a congratulatory tweet in Japanese to Suga. Suga succeeds Shinzo Abe, who resigned earlier in the day because of ill health. Suga was chosen as the leader of the ruling party on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-congratulates-newly-elected-japans-pm-yoshihide-suga-888333.html
16-09-2020||National||Raw caste data given to Social Justice ministry for classification, categorisation: MHA to Rajya Sabha||Raw caste census data collected in 2011 has been handed over to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment for classification and categorisation, Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said on Wednesday. The Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011 was conducted by the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) and the then Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation (HUPA) in rural and urban areas, respectively, the minister told the Rajya Sabha. He said the data, excluding the caste data, have since been finalised and published by MoRD and HUPA. "The raw caste data have been handed over to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment for classification and categorisation of data," he said replying a written question. The minister said the Office of the Registrar General, India, had provided logistic and technical support in conducting SECC-2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raw-caste-data-given-to-social-justice-ministry-for-classification-categorisation-mha-to-rajya-sabha-888338.html
16-09-2020||National||Government extends quality norms implementation deadline for domestic toy industry till Jan 2021||The government has provided four more months till January next year to the domestic toy industry to comply with quality norms amid the coronavirus pandemic, an official statement said on Wednesday. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), under the commerce and industry ministry, has issued a notification to extend the date of implementation of Toys (Quality Control) Order, 2020 "as January 1, 2021 in place of September 1 this year". "This decision allows domestic manufacturers four months of extra time to make necessary arrangements for compliance of standards in view of difficulties arising out of Covid-19 pandemic," it said. As the government is focusing on promoting domestic manufacturing of toys, it came out with a quality control order and also increased import duty in February. Quality control order on toys is one of the ways to stop flow of cheap sub-standard toys into the market. According to a study, about 67 per cent of toys failed all safety and standard tests, while about 30 per cent of plastic toys failed to meet the safety standards of admissible levels of heavy metals and phthalates. Phthalates are a group of chemicals. The toys industry in India is primarily in the unorganised sector comprising about 4,000 small and medium enterprises. About 85 per cent of toys are imported in the country, with the maximum coming from China. It is followed by Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Germany, Hongkong and the US. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that India has the talent and ability to become a toy hub for the entire world and called upon startups to work towards realising this potential while being "vocal about local toys". Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) is the government's nodal agency that frames quality standards in coordination with the ministries concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-extends-quality-norms-implementation-deadline-for-domestic-toy-industry-till-jan-2021-888339.html
16-09-2020||National||Mitra, the robot, helps Covid-19 patients speak to loved ones||A hospital in India has deployed a customer-service robot to patrol its wards, connecting coronavirus patients to friends and relatives. Mitra, meaning "friend" in Hindi, is best known for interacting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an event in 2017. Its piercing eyes are equipped with facial recognition technology to help it recall people it has previously interacted with. A tablet attached to Mitra's chest allows patients to see loved ones, as well as medical staff unable to access the wards. "It takes a lot of time to recover, and during this time, when patients need their families the most, they are unable to visit," said Dr Arun Lakhanpal, a doctor at the Yatharth Super Speciality Hospital in Noida Extension, a satellite city of the capital New Delhi. Mitra is mainly used by patients who are not able to communicate using their phones. "We mainly discuss my health," said Makhanlal Qazi, a retired government bureaucrat and coronavirus patient who has used the robot to communicate with relatives. "I came here on Friday and now I have started feeling better. I am feeling very happy now." The robot, developed by Bengaluru-based start-up Invento Robotics, cost the hospital Rs 10 lakh ($13,600), according Yatharth Tyagi, director of the company that runs the hospital. Mitra is also being used for remote consultations with specialists to reduce their risk of becoming infected, he added. "Normally it is very difficult for a psychologist or a dietician to see a Covid-19 patient," Tyagi said, adding the robot is "very useful". India's novel coronavirus cases surged past Rs 50 lakh on Wednesday, only the second country in the world to cross the grim milestone after the United States. ($1 = 73.6800 Indian rupees)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mitra-the-robot-helps-covid-19-patients-speak-to-loved-ones-888341.html
16-09-2020||National||MP: Some villagers declared coronavirus positive without tests||Two persons involved in collecting and analysing samples in Madhya Pradesh's Dhar district have been dismissed from service after some villagers received a message saying they had tested coronavirus positive even though they were never tested, an official said on Wednesday. The strict action was taken as this carelessness caused panic among residents in Tana village under Nisarpur block, district collector Alok Kumar Singh told reporters. "Initial investigation revealed the carelessness of a block community mobiliser (BCM) and a technician. Possibly, samples collected from some other persons got mixed with the test kits sent in the name of persons who never submitted their samples," he said. Services of BCM Bachchan Mujalda and technician Guman Singh have been terminated with the immediate effect, the collector said. He said a Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) has been sent for investigation. One of over 12 villagers, who was informed on Monday to have tested positive for coronavirus, said he was in Bhopal when samples were being collected in Tana village. "I was in Bhopal when samples were collected from the village. Only four samples were collected. A team of health department had collected the names and other details of 15 people without taking their samples. Most of them were not in the village at that time," he said. The sacked technician Guman Singh claimed residents of various villages have been complaining for a long about the incorrect results of the collected samples. When asked about the incident, he said 20 test kits without swab samples had been sent to laboratory. Madhya Pradesh's COVID-19 tally stood at 93,053 as on September 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-some-villagers-declared-coronavirus-positive-without-tests-888348.html
16-09-2020||National||Plea filed in SC for removal of HC judge for making letter on Suriya public||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court for removal a Madras High Court judge, Justice S M Subramaniam for having "damaged institution of judiciary destroyed judicial independence" by making public his letter to the Chief Justice, wherein he sought contempt action against actor Suriya for his statement on NEET. Advocate C R Jaya Sukin, who filed the petition in his own name, contended that letter was published in all electronic media, social networks for "cheap publicity in an arbitrary manner without proper perusal of the records and without proper application of mind on judicial administration". According to the petitioner, Justice Subramaniam, in his letter to Chief Justice A P Sahi on September 13, said that he saw the actor’s statement on NEET and entrance exams on TV and YouTube. “The statement reveals that the Hon'ble Judges are afraid of their own life and rendering justice through video conferencing. While doing so, they have no morale to pass orders directing the students to appear for NEET Exam without fear,” the petitioner quoted the judge. Defending the actor's statement, the petitioner submitted that bona fide expression of concern regarding the functioning of the court is the fundamental right of every citizen. "The intention of the actor was also to express concerns articulated by many regarding  the reluctance of the judiciary to play its constitutionally mandated role as a check on governmental excesses and violations of fundamental rights by the state," he added. The lawyer said in our judicial system, judges can only announce the law when deciding real disputes, they can’t just have a press conference and declare a set of legal rules. "The courts have  no power to decide issues unless those are presented by actual cases and controversies before the court," he said. The petitioner sought a direction of the court to the Union government to initiate process of removal of the judge as he published his letter "in all electronic media, social networks for cheap publicity, which is illegal, arbitrary, whimsical and unfair, abuse of Indian judiciary and against the principles of natural justice". After the letter by Justice Subramaniam, six former judges of the Madras High Court also wrote to the Chief Justice asking him to refrain from initiating criminal  contempt against actor Suriya over his remarks on the conduct of the NEET amid Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-removal-of-hc-judge-for-making-letter-on-suriya-public-888349.html
16-09-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB probe team member tests Covid-19 positive||A member of the NCB team probing drugs angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday following which questioning of the actor's former manager Shruti Modi was postponed, an official said. Modi reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in south Mumbai around 10 am for questioning by the Special Investigation Team (SIT). But, before the probe team could start recording her statement, the NCB received a report of one of its SIT members testing positive for coronavirus, the official said. The SIT member's antigen test came out positive, he said, adding that other members of the probe team will also be tested and all protocols will be followed. "Accordingly, we sent back Shruti Modi who had joined the investigation in the morning," he said. The NCB on Tuesday asked Shruti Modi and Rajput's talent manager Jaya Saha to join its investigation to get a clear picture on some aspects of the case. Saha will now be called later, the official said. So far, the apex drug law enforcement agency has arrested 18 people, including Rajput's girlfriend actress Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty. Earlier, statements of Shruti Modi and Jaya Saha were recorded by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is separately probing the Sushant death case. They were also quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Mumbai Police in connection with cases linked to the Rajput death probe. Some chats of Jaya Saha with Rhea Chakraborty had come to light during the ED's questioning, the official added. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-probe-team-member-tests-covid-19-positive-888355.html
16-09-2020||National||Hospital in Uttarakhand issues 'fake' Covid-free certificates, govt to probe allegations||A government hospital in Uttarakhand allegedly issued OPD slips to people certifying that they have no symptoms of Covid-19, without conducting an RT-PCR test, prompting the administration to launch an inquiry into the matter. Mostly such fake certificates were issued in violation of ICMR guidelines to migrant workers who wanted to go to other districts in search of work. The matter came to light on Wednesday at SPS Government Hospital, Rishikesh where a doctor was doing this for money, officials at the hospital said requesting anonymity. They also produced a sample of one such OPD slip issued by the doctor bearing his signature and the stamp of the hospital as a proof. When contacted Uttarakhand Chief Secretary Om Prakash on Wednesday said a detailed inquiry is being ordered into the matter. The probe will seek to find out for how long the racket was going on at the hospital and how many doctors were involved in it, he said. Chief Medical Superintendent NS Tomar said as per the guidelines of the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research an RT-PCR test alone can certify whether or not a person is suffering from Covid-19.  No other document has any legal validity in this matter, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hospital-in-uttarakhand-issues-fake-covid-free-certificates-govt-to-probe-allegations-888357.html
16-09-2020||National||All three farm sector bills brought by Modi govt far-sighted, will boost agricultural production: J P Nadda||The three bills related to agriculture introduced by the Modi government in Parliament will boost production and help farmers get better prices for the produce, BJP president J P Nadda said on Wednesday. Underlining that farmers are at the core of the government's policies, Nadda, addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters, said all three farm sector bills are far-sighted and will boost agriculture production. When asked about the minimum support price (MSP), the BJP leader asserted that it would continue to stay. The government on Monday introduced 'The Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill', 'The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill', and 'The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill' to replace the ordinances promulgated earlier. These bills will help farmers get betters price for their produce through a transparent system, Nadda said. Taking on the Congress, he said the party's opposition to the bills was nothing but politics. The BJP is doing what the opposition party had promised in its manifesto, Nadda added. Lok Sabha passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 on Tuesday via a voice vote. On the issue of the Akali Dal, an ally of the BJP, opposing the bill, Nadda said, "We have spoken to Akali Dal and have addressed its concerns." Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Badal had voted against the bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-three-farm-sector-bills-brought-by-modi-govt-far-sighted-will-boost-agricultural-production-j-p-nadda-888369.html
16-09-2020||National||Enactment of farm bills will lead to 'unrest' in Punjab: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said the enactment of farm sector bills now before Parliament would lead to "resentment and unrest" in the border state, which is already at the receiving end of Pakistan's concerted efforts to foment trouble. The chief minister led a Congress delegation to submit a memorandum in this regard to Governor V P Singh Badnore, seeking his intervention for non-pursuance of the agriculture bills by the Centre in Parliament. The Modi government on Monday introduced three bills in Lok Sabha on the farm sector, asserting that they will help farmers get a remunerative price for their produce as well as private investments and technology. Accompanied by Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and others, Singh told Badnore that any move to tinker with the present procurement system, in times of a nationwide crisis, might "deepen social unrest" among farmers of the state. "It may not be conducive for peace and development of the region, which faces serious challenges of public order due to a live international border," he added. Citing Pakistan's bid to disturb the state's peace and stability through narco-terror and other anti-India acts, the chief minister said "anti-farmer" legislations would lead to rise in the people's anger. "Why are we playing into the hands of Pakistan," he asked. These bills, one of which was passed by Lok Sabha on Tuesday, are against the "national interest" and particularly "detrimental" to Punjab, where the majority of farmers tilled less than five acres of land and would be worst hit, Singh said. He said the Centre had "failed" to take the interest of the farmers into account in introducing these bills and "instead, took a stand in favour of corporate houses". In a statement here, Singh said he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi thrice on the issue but was yet to receive a response. The enactment of the remaining two bills will "ruin" Punjab, he said. If MSP (minimum support price) ends, which is what the Centre seems to be moving towards, the agriculture sector will be ruined in Punjab and across the country, Singh claimed. Taking on the Akalis and Sukhbir Badal over their "U-turn" on the issue, the chief minister pointed out that all except the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were on board at the all-party meeting he had convened. The Congress and his government have been vocally and vehemently opposing the bills all through, Singh pointed out. Terming the passage of 'The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020', which seeks to deregulate food items, including cereals, pulses and onion, in Lok Sabha a "black day" in the history of Parliament, Jakhar warned that under pressure from the farmer unions, the Akalis may even go to the extent of "enacting the drama" of resigning from the central government. He praised the farmers of the country, especially in Punjab, who had compelled the Akalis to change their stance on the issue. The Centre on Monday had introduced 'The Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, 2020', 'The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020' and 'The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020' to replace the ordinances promulgated earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enactment-of-farm-bills-will-lead-to-unrest-in-punjab-amarinder-888371.html
16-09-2020||National||Record 82,961 recoveries in a day, a quarter from Maharashtra alone; recovery rate 78.53%||A record 82,961 new Covid-19 recoveries were reported on Wednesday, almost a quarter of them from Maharashtra alone, pushing the overall figures close to 39.5 lakh and the recovery rate to 78.53 per cent, Health Ministry data showed. In its figures updated at 8 am Wednesday, the ministry said the number of active cases stands at 9,95,933 (or 19.84 per cent of the total caseload ), while the number of recovered patients is 39,42,360. It said that nearly 59 per cent of the new recoveries came from five states -- 23.41 per cent from Maharashtra (19, 423 recoveries); and a cumulative 35.5 per cent from Andhra Pradesh (9,628 recoveries), Karnataka (7,406), Uttar Pradesh (6,680) and Tamil Nadu (5,735) A record 82,961 patients recovered and were discharged from home/facility isolation and hospitals in a day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of recovered patients so far exceeds that of the active cases by nearly four times (3.96), or in absolute terms by 29,46,427 cases, the ministry said. "The 7-day moving average of the recoveries shows a consistent increase," the ministry said. Twenty-seven states and union territories are reporting recovery rates of more than 70 per cent, the ministry highlighted. "Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu compose close to 60 per cent of the active cases," the ministry said. With more than 20,000 new cases in a span of 24 hours, Maharashtra is also leading the cases tally, followed by Andhra Pradesh (8,846) and Karnataka (7,576). India's tally of Covid-19 cases galloped past 50 lakh Wednesday, just 11 days after it crossed 40 lakh, with 90,123 infections reported in a day. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 50,20,359, while the death toll climbed to 82,066 with a record 1,290 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the updated data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-82961-recoveries-in-a-day-a-quarter-from-maharashtra-alone-recovery-rate-7853-888373.html
16-09-2020||National||Upcoming Mughal museum in Agra to house artefacts from Braj region: Official||An upcoming "Mughal museum" in Agra which has been renamed after Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji will house artefacts from Braj region of Uttar Pradesh as well, a senior government official said on Wednesday. However, a former chief secretary of the state claimed that Braj was part of the initial plan conceptualised in 2015. "The Braj region comes in Agra division. Braj region and Agra division will be included in the museum, and work will be done in a speedy manner," Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi told PTI here. Braj also is known as Brij or Brijbhoomi, is the region around Mathura-Vrindavan and is considered to be the land of Lord Krishna. The area stretches from Mathura, Jalesar, Agra, Hathras and Aligarh to Etah, Mainpuri and Farrukhabad districts. On Monday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath decided to name the upcoming "Mughal museum" in Agra after Chhatrapati Shivaji. Chairing a review meeting of Agra division (in Lucknow), the chief minister made it clear that his government "always nurtured nationalist ideology and anything which smacks of subservient mentality will be done away with", the UP government said in a statement. "How can Mughals be our heroes," the chief minister asked, adding that the very name of Maratha warrior Shivaji will invoke a "feeling of nationalism and self-esteem". Meanwhile, former chief secretary of the state Alok Ranjan told PTI that the project was conceptualised in 2015, and it was to be completed in 2017-18. "An interpretation centre is built there (in Agra). It consists of videos, books and audios about Taj Mahal and other monuments there. It also houses the art and craft of the local area. The local art, culture and heritage is available to the foreign tourists in their language. There were stalls of art and craft of Agra as well as the Braj area. A very good complex had come up," he said. Asked if Braj was included in the initial plan itself, Ranjan said, "I think it was." He said the basic objective behind planning the museum was to earn more revenue for Agra. "Tourists come from Delhi, visit Agra and then go back. As a result the hotel industry, restaurants, shops, craftsmen don't earn any revenue," Ranjan, a 1978-batch IAS officer, added. "We will get revenue when people spend a night in Agra. For a night halt, the attractions have to be increased. How long will people keep watching the Taj Mahal? Then certain things were thought of, and we developed the entire area around the Taj Mahal. "We built an interpretation centre, art and crafts centre on the lines of monuments abroad, cobble-stone pathways, antique lighting. One part of it was also to develop the Mughal museum. The idea was to reflect the Mughal history, their lifestyle and culture of that period, along with art, literature," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upcoming-mughal-museum-in-agra-to-house-artefacts-from-braj-region-official-888375.html
16-09-2020||National||Centre approved Remdesivir, Faviparivir to treat Covid-19 patients, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said there was an approval by the Central government on use of Remdesivir and Faviparivir as medicines to treat Covid-19. The top court was hearing a plea seeking registration of an FIR by the CBI against ten Indian pharmaceutical firms for manufacturing and selling these two medicines for treating Covid-19 patients allegedly without valid licences. Remdesivir and Favipiravir are antiviral drugs and their efficacy in treating Covid-19 patients have been a matter of debate among medical experts. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian referred to the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2018 and said these medicines have been permitted by the government for using in treatment of novel coronavirus patients. "You have not noticed this rule (New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules) and filed this petition. We are adjourning this matter, you see the rules and then come back," the bench told lawyer M Sharma who has filed the PIL. Adjourning the hearing by two weeks, the bench said, "There is approval by the Government of India for Remdesivir and Faviparivir". Seeking CBI probe, Sharma had filed the PIL alleging that these two medicines have been wrongly manufactured and sold for treating Covid-19 patients without any valid licences from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. "That respondent no.3 to 10 are Indian pharmaceutical company who have signed partnership agreements with foreign companies that are Gilead Sciences Inc-USA and Fujifilm Japan, to manufacture and sale impugned drug, Remdesivir and Avagin (Favipiravir) in India. Without having a licence, the are manufacturing and selling impugned drugs as a medicine for corona in India," the PIL alleged. Sharma has sought prosecution of the Indian companies for offences of cheating and criminal conspiracy besides under the provisions of the Drug Act, 1940. The PIL said that these medicines have not been certified as medicines for Covid-19 till date by any country. "They are under trial and no country, including India, have issued licence to manufacture and sale them in the country...," it said. The companies are manufacturing and selling them at very high rates in India and people are paying that "due to the fear of Covid-19 infection" and are dying, it said. More than 300 doctors have died in hospitals where these two medicines have been supplied and it amounted to "exploitation of public" due to the fear of death. Remdesivir was introduced by Gilead Sciences Inc. USA to treat Ebola Virus in Africa but it was not effective to treat Ebola virus as well, it said. Favipiravir was developed by Fujifilm Toyama Chemical and was actually approved to treat Influenza. The PIL has made the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation as parties. It has also made 10 pharmaceutical companies including Cipla Ltd, Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd, Hetero Labs Ltd and Zydus Cadila Healthcare Ltd as parties. Stressing that there were no effective medicines for the pandemic, the plea said, "the Prime Minister have already initiated process with Russia to import COVID-19 vaccine to manufacture/distribute in India through PSU Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Corporation Limited (BIBCOL)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approved-remdesivir-faviparivir-to-treat-covid-19-patients-says-sc-888380.html
16-09-2020||National||Delhi riots: Police file charge sheet against 15 accused under UAPA for larger conspiracy||Fifteen anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (anti-CAA) protesters were on Wednesday named by Delhi Police in a voluminous charge-sheet on riots in February that left 53 people killed and 583 people injured. Running into around 17,000 pages in 11 volumes, the first charge sheet in the riots in north-east Delhi filed by Delhi Police's Special Cell, however, does not name a single pro-CAA protester. Those who are named in the charge sheet are charged under sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Indian Penal Code. Of the 751 cases registered on Delhi riots, the Special Cell was investigating only a single case of the "larger conspiracy" behind the communal violence that ripped through north-east Delhi. Opposition leaders and activists have accused the Delhi Police of targeting anti-CAA protesters and linking them with the riots while ignoring the role played by Hindutva supporters and hate speeches by BJP leader Kapil Mishra among others. So far, police have not questioned Mishra though the riots started soon after his speech in north-east Delhi warning that they will clear the roads occupied by anti-CAA protesters if police could not do it. Suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, Mohd Parvez Ahmed, Mohd Illyas, Saifi Khalid, Ishrat Jahan, Miran Haider, Safoora Zargar, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Shahdab Ahmed, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Tasleem Ahmed, Saleem Malik, Mohd Saleem Khan and Athar Khan are named in the charge sheet. Six of the 21 arrested in connection with the case have not been named in the charge sheet with the investigators saying that they could figure in a supplementary charge sheet after collecting sufficient evidence and completing statutory and procedural requirements. The charge sheet claimed that the investigators have relied upon call records and WhatsApp chat. It has listed 747 witnesses, including 51 who have recorded their statements before the magistrate. Taking 195 days to complete the first phase of the investigation, the Special Cell said in the charge sheet that 75 electronic devices have been seized as part of the investigation. Sources said the charge-sheet provides the "chronology of conspiracy" and relevant events and it includes WhatsApp chats of February 24, the time when riots were happening. It claimed that the key conspirators, who were "directly in touch with their foot soldiers", were guiding them about violence in the area. “WhatsApp groups were used by conspirators for 'violence in Seelampur-Jafarabad area. There were 25 protest sites in 25 cities. 25 WhatsApp groups were especially created for each city. The impression was given that they were an anti-CAA protest group but through these sites conspirators were being guided,” sources said quoting from the charge-sheet. "Conspirators planned the riots while a middle ring of leaders at the area level executed the plan through the foot soldiers," police claimed. It said the anti-CAA protests were not democratic protests from the beginning and were instigating violence from the start. In a statement, Delhi Police said that there was destruction and damage to both Government as well as private properties on a huge scale. "Claims amounting to more than Rs 20crore to compensate for loss of property have been filed before the Delhi government, which indicates the scale and immense cost of the tragedy," it said. Over 16,000 calls were received at the Police Control Room and 751 cases were registered by Delhi Police in connection with these riots. Fifty-nine cases were assigned to the Special Investigation Team of the Crime Branch while 691 cases were investigated by the local police. During investigations, 12 pistols, 121 empty cartridges, 92 live cartridges, 61 glass bottles filled with noxious chemicals and an assortment of sharp-edged weapons have been seized so far by Delhi Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-police-file-charge-sheet-against-15-accused-under-uapa-for-larger-conspiracy-888386.html
16-09-2020||National||Indian Army fully geared up to fight full-fledged war in eastern Ladakh even in winters, says retired Brigadier||The Indian Army is fully prepared to fight a full-fledged war even in winters in eastern Ladakh and if China created conditions for war, they will face a better trained, better prepared, fully rested and psychologically hardened Indian troops, says Brig(retd) Hemant Mahajan. The assessment of the retired army officer titled ‘Operational logistic readiness of the Indian Army’ was contained in a statement circulated to the media by the Army’s Northern Command PRO in Udhampur earlier in the day. In email messages to the media in the evening, the Public Relations Officer(PRO) said the statement “doesn’t represent the views of either Northern Command or Indian Army” and that it may be treated as “cancelled”. In separate Whatsapp messages, the PRO further stated that the statement was the view of Brig(retd) Hemant Mahajan and it was "wrongly conveyed" as a statement of the Northern Command. According to Mahajan, compared to the physically and psychologically battle-hardened Indian troops, Chinese troops mostly are from urban areas and not used to hardships or prolonged deployment under field conditions. The comments by the retired officer came against the backdrop of a report by China’s official media outlet Global Times that India's operational logistics is not geared up adequately and it will not be able to fight through winters effectively. “This can best be attributed to ignorance. Indian Army is fully prepared and more than capable of fighting a full-fledged war even in winters in eastern Ladakh,” Brig(retd) Mahajan said. “India is a peace-loving country and wishes to have good relations with its neighbours. India always prefers to resolve issues through dialogue. While talks are in progress to resolve the border issues with China in eastern Ladakh, at the military level it is well prepared for the prolonged stand-off,” he said. He said altitudes in Ladakh range from “high to super-high altitude” and there is a lot of snowfall – up to 40 feet after November. “Coupled with this, the temperature dipping down to minus 30 to 40 degree Celsius is a usual phenomenon. Wind chill factor makes matters even worse for the troops. The roads also get closed due to the snow. But despite all this, the most encouraging part for India is that the Indian soldiers have a huge experience of winter warfare and are psychologically tuned to operate at short notice,” he added. While these facts are known to the world, he said, adding the operational logistics capabilities, however, are hardly known. “Logistic capability relates to mobility, habitat and billeting, quality services for health, special rations, repair and recovery, heating systems, high-quality weapons, ammunition, quality clothing, and so on. While much of these capabilities existed earlier and troops could simply plug and play, a lot has also been boosted since May this year when China showed first signs of aggression,” he said. The retired Brigadier said it is important to understand that the Indian Army has the experience of Siachen, the highest battleground in the world, where conditions are much more demanding than the frontiers with China. “Traditionally there were two routes for moving into Ladakh, that is through Zojila (Srinagar-Leh Highway) and Rohtang Passes (Manali-Leh). Recently India commissioned a third road from Darcha to Leh which is much shorter distance-wise and less prone to closure,” he added. He said completion of Atal tunnel on the Rohtang route has force multiplied the logistic capacities. “In addition, we have a large number of airbases with the help of which we can maintain the Army well. Modern snow clearing equipment has also been placed on these routes to keep them open beyond November, thus giving us more time for daily maintenance of the troops,” he added. Mahajan said special fuel and lubricants for tanks and armoured personnel carriers have also been stocked adequately, including spares for their maintenance. “Water points and tube wells have been established for the troops and animals like mules and yaks. The living barracks have also been prepared which are comfortable and warm,” he said. He said facilities such as the central heating system are some of the high points of these facilities. “Ammunition of various types including small arms, missiles and tank and artillery ammunition have also been adequately stocked. The medical system is also in place for any eventuality.” He further said “China's concept has always been to win the wars without fighting, hence if they create conditions for war, they will come across better trained, better prepared, fully rested and psychologically hardened Indian troops. “These worries have been percolating in the minds of Chinese troops and are visible in Chinese media.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-fully-geared-up-to-fight-full-fledged-war-in-eastern-ladakh-even-in-winters-says-retired-brigadier-888388.html
16-09-2020||National||SSR death: Nitesh Rane writes to Amit Shah on Disha Salian case||In a fresh development, BJP MLA Nitesh Rane has written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking security for Rohan Rai, whom he described as a “key link” between the alleged suicides of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and talent manager Disha Salian. Rohan, a small-time actor, was the live-in partner of Disha and they were to marry soon. He is said to be hiding in Mangalore in Karnataka. While Disha allegedly jumped from the 12th-floor apartment of Rohan at Malvani in Malad during a party on 8 June. Sushant was found dead on 14 June at his rented duplex apartment at Mount Blanc building at Carter Road in Bandra. Nitesh, the son of former Maharashtra Chief Minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane, has claimed that Rohan was never questioned by the Mumbai police. Requesting Shah to provide security to him, Rane said: “His statement to the CBI will be crucial on the ongoing investigation and a key link to the unraveling of both deaths – of Disha and Sushant, since it is my strong belief that both these deaths are linked.” According to him, Rohan was present in the house when Disha fell from the building but he went down only after 20 to 25 minutes later, which points to suspicious behaviour. “Rohan has subsequently fled Mumbai or may have been asked to leave Mumbai to avoid any scrutiny. I assume he is scared to return to Mumbai where the case is being investigated. This may be due to some pressure from influential people on him,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ssr-death-nitesh-rane-writes-to-amit-shah-on-disha-salian-case-888392.html
16-09-2020||National||Delhi HC dismisses plea for law exam from home, says possibility of manipulation can’t be ruled out||The possibility of home exams being compromised or manipulated by participants or coaching centres cannot be ruled out, the Delhi High Court has said while dismissing a plea that candidates be allowed to take Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 from their homes instead of exams centres due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The court said the problem of accessibility for 78,000 candidates to appropriate technology, internet connection, laptop or desktop computer would be doubtful and the plea for home exam cannot be accepted. The CLAT-2020 examination, to be held on August 22 earlier, will now be conducted on September 28. Justice Jayant Nath said it is clear that the pleas of the petitioner are misplaced and cannot be a ground for postponing the exams or change of mode to conduct the exam. “I may also note that the petitioner (V Govinda Ramanan) has completed his LLB in 2016. It is now after a gap of four years that he seeks to apply for a post graduation in law. The petitioner has hence waited for four years to give the exam. There is no merit in the present petition. The same is dismissed,” the judge said. While the order was passed on September 10, it was made available on the court website on Wednesday. The petition was filed by the petitioner seeking an appropriate direction to quash the CLAT- 2020 examination notification issued by the Consortium of National Law Universities (NLU) in so far as it mandates the petitioner to physically go to the examination centre and give the exam. CLAT is a centralised exam for admissions to bachelors and masters courses in law in 22 NLUs in the country and is conducted by the consortium. Under the CLAT 2020 notification, the exam would be held online at notified centres where computers would be set up for candidates to access the test. The petitioner, who is a law graduate and wishes to pursue his LLM, said he suffered from asthma and falls under the vulnerable category of individuals who are advised by the government not to go outside in the present time of COVID-19 pandemic. The consortium told the court that the decision to conduct CLAT-2020 at physical test centres was challenged by way of Public Interest Litigation before the Supreme Court which has dismissed it. The high court said, “Keeping in view the aforesaid, it is clear that the aforesaid order (of Supreme Court) would remain binding on this court.” “Even otherwise, it is clear that the plea of respondent no.1 (consortium) that a home-based exam may not be appropriate for approximately 78,000 candidates who are to take the exam. The possibility of the exams being compromised or manipulated by the participants/coaching centers cannot be ruled out. “That apart, the problem of accessibility for 78,000 candidates to appropriate technology, internet connection, laptop or desktop computer itself would be doubtful. Hence this plea of the petitioner cannot be accepted.” the high court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-for-law-exam-from-home-says-possibility-of-manipulation-can-t-be-ruled-out-888394.html
16-09-2020||National||NEP should be based on Constitutional values, not ancient culture: Kharge in Rajya Sabha||Describing the new National Education Policy (NEP) as "backward-looking", senior Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge on Wednesday said the policy document should be based on the principles of the Constitution and not on the ancient cultural values. Raising the issue in Rajya Sabha during the Zero Hour, Kharge said the NEP is looking 2,000 years back instead of planning and preparing children for the future. "The value or moral education in schools and higher education should be based on the principles of the Constitution and not on the ancient cultural values," he said. Emphasising that children in cities who have access to quality nursery education already learn to read and write by the time they join Class 1, he said poor children in towns and villages would start at a disadvantage as there is no proper policy defined to train the Anganwadi teachers. "Nearly 50 per cent of the students drop out after class 10. There is no plan that has been suggested to reduce this dropout." It is estimated that 32.4 % of these dropout students are Dalits, 25.7% are from minorities and 16.4% are tribals. Teachers are already burdened with several duties. By 2035, he said, India will lose the advantage of its young population and it is time to look at the future within a short time period of 15 years. "Priority should be on Maths, Science and English if we have to provide an opportunity of development to children of rural and backward areas," he said. Children belonging to weaker sections and rural areas are already facing a disadvantage in NEET and JEE examinations. "Indian culture will be learnt by students through their language and literature classes. Such kind of activism to promote a single culture of Sanskrit or Hindi by the  Government will only keep backward children out of modern education," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-should-be-based-on-constitutional-values-not-ancient-culture-kharge-in-rajya-sabha-888395.html
16-09-2020||National||BSP with govt, Army on China issue: Mayawati||BSP chief Mayawati Wednesday extended her party's full support to the government and the Army on the LAC standoff with China and said she is confident that India will give a befitting reply. In a tweet, she said, “The curiosity and concern in the country about the ongoing conflict, tension and deployment etc. on the border with China are natural and the government has made a statement in Parliament yesterday.” “The BSP is confident that the government will give a befitting reply to China as is expected by the country. The BSP is with the government and the Army,” she said in her tweet in Hindi. Making a statement in Lok Sabha on the issue, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had on Tuesday said that China has been very clearly conveyed that any attempt to "unilaterally" change the status quo along the LAC is not at all acceptable. There should be no doubt about the country's determination to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity, he had said, asserting that India's armed forces are ready to deal with "all contingencies" in the high-altitude region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsp-with-govt-army-on-china-issue-mayawati-888400.html
16-09-2020||National||1st phase of Census postponed due to Covid-19 outbreak: Govt||The first phase of the Census operations, which was supposed to be held from April 1 to September 30, has been postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak, Parliament was informed on Wednesday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said a multiple-layered security approach has been adopted for the security and safety of the Census data. The first phase of the Census operations (Census 2021) and other related field activities have been postponed due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. The minister said a multiple-layered security approach has been adopted for the security and safety of the Census data and the data collection will be done on registered devices of the enumerators appointed by the states and Union territories. "Data is encrypted at the device, during the transmission, and at servers/storage. The services of System Integrators have been hired for developing the Mobile Apps, management of Census portal and related activities," he said. Rai said the publicity campaigns are part of the Census operations and all the enumerators are to be registered on the portal before undertaking the enumeration work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1st-phase-of-census-postponed-due-to-covid-19-outbreak-govt-888404.html
16-09-2020||National||Art historian Kapila Vatsyayan dies aged 91||Kapila Vatsyayan, the doyenne of Indian art forms and founding director of Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), breathed her last at her residence in Delhi on Wednesday morning. She was 91. Vatsyayan, a former member of Parliament and lifetime trustee of the Indian International Centre (IIC), has been described as the ‘grand matriarch’ of cultural research. A trained dancer in Kathak and Manipuri dance traditions, Vatsyayan made her mark as an art historian and an administrator. Besides IGNCA, she was also associated with the Sangeet Natak Akademi and Lalit Kala Akademi and was honoured with the Padma Vibhushan in 2011. Vatsyayan’s tenure at IGNCA had its share of controversies and was forced into retirement as a trustee of the organisation during the Vajpayee government in 2000. She returned as a member of the IGNCA Trust and chairperson of the executive committee in 2005 after the Congress-led UPA formed government at the Centre. As chief patron of the Asia Project of the India International Centre, Vatsyayan wielded immense clout as a source of funds for scholars and academics. “I was pained to hear about the demise of Dr Kapila Vatsyayan. She made immense contributions to various institutions of the Ministry of Culture. My humble tributes to the departed soul,” Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said. “My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of former MP, Padma Vibhushan Kapila Vatsyayan ji, a leading scholar of Indian classical dance, architecture & art history. May God give strength to her family & friends to bear this loss. May her soul rest in peace,” Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/art-historian-kapila-vatsyayan-dies-aged-91-888412.html
16-09-2020||National||Air India earned over Rs 2550 crore revenue from Vande Bharat flights till Aug 31: Hardeep Singh Puri||Air India earned a revenue of Rs 2556.60 crore from flights that have been operated under the Vande Bharat mission till August 31, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, the Central government started the mission from May 6 to help people stranded in different countries reach their destinations through special international flights. "As on 31.08.2020, the total number of inbound and outbound special repatriation flights undertaken by the Air India group was 4,505," Puri said in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha. Out of a total of about 11 lakh Indian nationals repatriated till August 31, about four lakh passengers were carried by the Air India group into India, the minister mentioned. In addition, the Air India group also carried about 1.9 lakh outbound passengers (including foreigners) to foreign destinations from India, the minister noted. "The revenue generated by Air India group from Vande Bharat flights up to 31.08.2020 is Rs 2556.60 crore," Puri stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-earned-over-rs-2550-crore-revenue-from-vande-bharat-flights-till-aug-31-hardeep-singh-puri-888415.html
16-09-2020||National||Secret Tibetan military force raises stakes in India-China clash||By Sudhi Ranjan Sen and Archana Chaudhary At a funeral last week in the mountains of northern India, one of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s top aides paid respect to a Tibetan soldier killed on the front lines of deadly clashes with China. Surrounded by troops waving the flags of both India and Tibet, Ram Madhav laid a wreath before the coffin during a ceremony that gave the deceased man full military honors. In a now-deleted tweet, the general secretary of Modi’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party said he hoped the soldier’s death would lead to peace along the “Indo-Tibetan border.” The rare recognition of a secretive Indian military unit with Tibetan soldiers by itself threatened to escalate a border dispute that has killed dozens since May and tanked economic ties between the world’s most populous nations. Even more significant was the suggestion that India questioned China’s sovereignty over Tibet -- a red line for Beijing, which sees separatism as a cause also worth fighting for in places from Xinjiang to Hong Kong to Taiwan. “The Indians are sending a message -- a very strong message, which they probably have not sent for decades,” said Robbie Barnett, who headed Columbia University’s Modern Tibetan Studies Program until 2018 and has written about the region since the 1980s. “The involvement of exiled Tibetans and the use of exiled Tibetan icons, images, and flags, is hugely significant for China’s interpretation.” While India and China’s foreign ministers agreed on the need for restraint during a meeting in Moscow last week, tensions along the border remain higher than at any point since hostilities resumed. Both sides continue to ramp up forces in the disputed area, which is key to controlling vital Himalayan mountain passes, with warning shots fired this month along the Line of Actual Control for the first time in more than four decades. In the past few weeks, China moved fighter planes and heavy bombers to the Indian frontier from the Central Theater Command, Beijing’s strategic reserve, which wasn’t done even when the two sides went to war in 1962, according to Indian defense officials, who asked not to be identified due to rules for speaking with the media. China’s defense ministry didn’t reply to faxed questions. “An advertent or inadvertent incident at a local flashpoint could now really fuel a broader conflict that neither government wants,” said Narang, who wrote a book about the deterrence strategies of regional nuclear powers. India first established the military unit of Tibetan refugees, known as the Special Frontier Force, just after the 1962 India-China war to carry out covert operations behind Chinese lines, according to Jayadeva Ranade, a member of the National Security Council Advisory Board. Akin to U.S. special forces, every member is trained as a para-commando and operates undercover in conjunction with the Indian military. “The recognition is a clear message to China that your countrymen are fighting alongside us,” said Ranade, who heads the Centre of China Analysis and Strategy, a research group in New Delhi. “I don’t remember this force being acknowledged like this earlier.” The Special Frontier Force participated in a nighttime raid last month to capture strategic high ground and remain on the front lines, according to the Indian defense officials who asked not to be identified. Still, both India and China are seeking to downplay the significance of the Tibetan soldiers. Indian Army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand declined to respond to questions about the unit but said the military was committed to maintaining peace and tranquility while also protecting national integrity and sovereignty at all costs. The foreign ministry didn’t reply to a request seeking comment. China has downplayed reports of the Tibetans, with foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin telling reporters on Monday to ask India about the issue. “China’s position is clear,” he said. “We firmly oppose any country facilitating through any means the ‘Tibetan independence’ forces’ separatist activities.” While the government has avoided inflaming the situation, China’s state-owned media has released footage over the past week of live-fire military exercises in Tibet involving tanks, fighter jets, and even drones that could bring food to soldiers during the long winter expected to start soon. The coffin of Nyima Tenzin, the Tibetan soldier who died, was draped with the flags of India and Tibet. Madhav, the BJP official who attended, understood the significance: He wrote a book released in 2014 about the conflict called “Uneasy Neighbours: India and China After 50 years of the War.” Madhav didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment on why he deleted his tweet. Even though the Indian government hasn’t officially acknowledged the Tibetan forces, Tenzin’s public funeral and the attendance by Madhav has roused support for the unit with the Tibetan exile community, according to Gonpo Dhundup, president of the Tibetan Youth Congress, a body that has more 30,000 members and is fighting for the region’s freedom. “I strongly feel that the younger generation will join the SFF in larger numbers,” Dhundup said by phone from McLeod Ganj outside Dharamshala. “The acknowledgment, no matter how brief, has sent out a message that our contribution will be recognized.” --With assistance from Colum Murphy and Jing Li.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/secret-tibetan-military-force-raises-stakes-in-india-china-clash-888420.html
16-09-2020||National||Special Marriage Act: SC notice to Centre over pela to quash provisions||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea challenging the validity of provisions of the Special Marriage Act, requiring the man and woman to make public their intention of marriage 30 days prior, depriving their fundamental right to privacy. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Union government on a petition filed by Kochi-resident Nandini Praveen. The petitioner, led by advocates Kaleeswaram Raj and Nishe Rajen Shonker, claimed that the provisions of the Special Marriage Act were also discriminatory as such requisition of public notice intruding into privacy was absent in other personal laws like the Hindu Marriage Act and Islamic law, except the India Christian Marriage Act. The provisions seriously hampered the rights of the couple to marry with dignity, which formed the right to life guaranteed under the Constitution. The petitioner sought a direction to strike down the provisions of law, which required publication of the personal details of the parties to the proposed marriage, as "unjust, illegal and unconstitutional". She claimed unwarranted disclosure matrimonial plans was capable of endangering personal data and life of parties, particularly in case of inter-caste and inter-religious couples, who at times faced violence and honour killings. She submitted that the Law Commission in its 242nd report recommended for removing the time gap between notice and the marriage to avoid harassment faced by the couple from the family and other external sources. The petitioner cited the Justice K S Puttaswamy as well as Shakti Vahini judgements to contend the provisions went against personal autonomy and dignity of individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-marriage-act-sc-notice-to-centre-over-pela-to-quash-provisions-888421.html
16-09-2020||National||Indian, Chinese troops exchanged gunshots twice last week as tensions rose||Indian and Chinese border troops had an exchange of gunfire last week just days before a meeting of their foreign ministers, Indian officials said on Wednesday, in a further breach of a decades-old restraint at the frontier. The two sides have had a long-standing agreement for troops not to use firearms at the poorly defined Line of Actual Control or the informal border and for 45 years no shot has been fired. But since late last month, there have been three incidents of warning shots fired in the western Himalayas where troops are locked in a faceoff over competing territorial claims, often in close proximity, officials aware of the situation told Reuters. "In all these cases shots were fired in the air and not at each other thankfully," said one of the officials. One of them occurred on the north bank of the bitterly contested Pangong Tso lake in the run-up to a meeting between Indian Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar and Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow last Thursday. The shooting which neither side has made public was the most intense, a second official said. The official said he was not in a position to provide more details but the Indian Express newspaper said 100-200 rounds were fired. The two sides are jockeying for advantageous positions on the undemarcated mountain border in the Ladakh sector which adjoins Tibet. Last Monday, troops had fired in the air on the southern bank of the lake, the two sides said. Jaishankar and Wang agreed to dial down tensions and since then the situation has calmed, the Indian officials said. But there is no pulling back of troops yet. Former Indian military commander lieutenant general D. S. Hooda said distrust was so large now it would be difficult to get back to the agreement under which troops carried few firearms at the contested border during their patrols. "We should no longer be talking about peace and tranquillity along the LAC, but conflict prevention," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-troops-exchanged-gunshots-twice-last-week-as-tensions-rose-888422.html
16-09-2020||National||28.32 lakh domestic air passengers in Aug, 76% lower than in Aug 2019: DGCA||A total of 28.32 lakh domestic passengers travelled by air in August this year, 76 per cent lower than the corresponding period last year, aviation regulator DGCA said on Wednesday. While IndiGo carried 16.82 lakh passengers, a 59.4 per cent share of the total domestic market, SpiceJet flew 3.91 lakh passengers, which is 13.8 per cent share of the total market, the DGCA data noted. These two airlines were followed by Air India, AirAsia India, Vistara and GoAir at 2.78 lakh, 1.92 lakh, 1.42 lakh and 1.33 lakh passengers respectively in August, the data showed. As many as 21.07 lakh people travelled by air domestically this July, the regulator had said last month. The occupancy rate or load factor for five out of six major Indian airlines was between 58 and 69 per cent in August, it said Wednesday. "The passenger load factor in the month of Aug 2020 has shown some recovery due to increased demand after the opening of lockdown," said the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The occupancy rate in SpiceJet was 76 per cent in August, the regulator noted. However, the occupancy rate for other major airlines Vistara, IndiGo, AirAsia India, GoAir and Air India stood at 68.3 per cent, 65.6 per cent, 64.4 per cent, 61 per cent and 58.6 per cent, respectively, according to the DGCA. India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Indian airlines are allowed to operate a maximum of 60 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. A total of 19.84 lakh passengers travelled domestically in June this year. Between May 25 and May 31, 2.81 lakh air passengers had travelled domestically, the DGCA noted. The DGCA data mentioned that in August, IndiGo had the best on-time performance of 98.5 per cent at four metro airports - Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai. AirAsia India and Vistara were at number two and three at these four airports with 97.6 per cent and 95.9 per cent on-time performance, respectively, the regulator said. Vistara and Air India cancelled 14.99 per cent and 12.05 per cent of their flights in August, the DGCA mentioned. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firings of employees in order to conserve the cash flow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2832-lakh-domestic-air-passengers-in-aug-76-lower-than-in-aug-2019-dgca-888423.html
16-09-2020||National||Pilot slams govt's agri-related bills as 'anti-farmer'||Terming the three recently introduced agriculture sector-related bills as "anti-farmer", former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Wednesday demanded that the central government carry out extensive consultations with political parties, farmers' organisations, traders and agriculture experts and consider amending them. The government introduced the Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill in Parliament on Monday to replace ordinances promulgated earlier. The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 which seeks to deregulate food items, including cereals, pulses and onion. Attacking the Centre over the issue, Pilot accused the government of "betraying" the farmers and said the three ordinances, for which bills have been introduced, were "anti-farmer" and "anti-agriculture". The laws were introduced through ordinances during the pandemic even though there was no urgency, the Congress leader said in a statement. He said despite the issue being a state subject, neither the states nor political parties or agricultural organizations were consulted by the Centre. Alleging that the Modi government was "anti-farmer" from the beginning, he said an attempt was also made to end the compensation law for farmers through an ordinance, but the Congress under Rahul Gandhi's leadership forced them to back down. He said with the three bills farmers, farm labourers, commission agents and 'mandi' traders will be finished. Pilot said the biggest difficulty in contract farming will arise for small farmers as they will become "servants of companies". "Alternatively, the government should consider the option of mass farming by small farmers at the village level," he said. Pilot demanded that the Central government should hold detailed discussions with political parties, farmer organizations, 'mandi' traders and agricultural experts, and consider amending these laws so that the actual condition of the country's farmers can be improved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pilot-slams-govts-agri-related-bills-as-anti-farmer-888428.html
16-09-2020||National||Maharashtra: Safaris to resume at Chandrapur tiger reserve from Oct 1||After remaining closed for tourists for nearly seven months, Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Chandrapur district of Maharashtra will resume safaris from October 1, an official said on Wednesday. Safaris were suspended at the reserve in March following the coronavirus outbreak in the state. Safaris will resume as per guidelines issued by the state government and National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), said Dr Jitendra Ramgaonkar, TATR's chief conservator of forest and field director in a release. As per guidelines, open jeeps will accommodate a driver, a guide and four tourists during safaris, which will not be open to pregnant women, children below 10 years and senior citizens above the age of 65, the official said. Tourists, drivers and guides will have to undergo thermal screening, and precautionary measures including social distancing, wearing of masks and sanitisation will have to be followed, he said. People with symptoms of COVID-19 will not be allowed to enter the reserve and will immediately be sent to a care centre nearby, the official added. Starting Wednesday, the authorities have facilitated online bookings for safaris on the website www.mytadoba.org, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-safaris-to-resume-at-chandrapur-tiger-reserve-from-oct-1-888431.html
16-09-2020||National||Changes in banking regulation law aimed at improving governance in cooperative banks: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said amendments to the banking regulation law seeking to extend the supervision of RBI to cooperative banks are aimed at improving their governance and protecting depositors' money. Moving the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the Lok Sabha, Sitharaman said the government was compelled to come out with an ordinance during the lockdown period as the condition of the cooperative banks was "grave". Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) of cooperative banks increased from 7.27 per cent in March 2019, to over 10 per cent by March 2020, she said, adding as many as 277 urban cooperative banks have reported losses in 2018-19 fiscal. She further said over 100 urban cooperative banks were unable to meet the minimum regulatory capital requirement and 47 had negative networth at the end March 2019. In June, the Union Cabinet had approved an ordinance to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). It also extended the provisions applicable on commercial banks to cooperative banks. Responding to Congress' opposition to the ordinance route taken by the Centre to amend the banking regulation law, Sitharaman said the ordinance was brought in only because the financial health of many cooperative societies which were also performing the role of banks was becoming "very delicate". "Due to the pandemic, the stress in cooperative banks increased and the gross NPA ratio increased from 7.27 per cent in March 2019 to over 10 per cent in March 2020. Therefore it was felt that to protect depositors' interest we should have the ordinance brought in," she said. Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act is being amended to enable making of a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation of a banking company for protecting the interest of the public, depositors and the banking system and for securing its proper management, even without making an order of moratorium, so as to avoid disruption of the financial system. Besides, amendments in sections 3 and 56 extend the provisions applicable to scheduled commercial banks to cooperative banks and brings them within the RBI regulation. The amendments do not apply to Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) or co-operative societies whose primary object and principal business is long-term finance for agricultural development, and which do not use the words "bank", "banker" or "banking". "We are not doing anything to touch state cooperatives, we are not doing anything to primary agricultural credit societies, we are not doing anything to touch cooperative societies whose primary object and business is providing long-term finance for agricultural development," Sitharaman said. The amendments would be applicable only for those cooperative societies which are engaged in banking, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/changes-in-banking-regulation-law-aimed-at-improving-governance-in-cooperative-banks-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-888468.html
16-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Indian Army says 'fully prepared for war'; Babri Masjid demolition case judgement on September 30||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Indian Army says fully prepared to fight a full-fledged war even in winters; Babri Masjid demolition case judgement on September 30 and Delhi Police files charge sheet in northeast Delhi riots case.    Here are the top news of today, Wednesday: September 16, 2020: Asserting that it is fully prepared to fight a full-fledged war even in winters in eastern Ladakh, the Indian Army on Wednesday said if China created conditions for war, they will face a better trained, better prepared, fully rested and psychologically hardened Indian troops. In a statement, it said compared to physically and psychologically battle-hardened Indian troops, Chinese troops mostly are from urban areas and not used to hardships or prolonged deployment under field conditions. The Army' Northern Command headquarters made these assertions reacting to China’s official media Global Times reports that India's operational logistics is not geared up adequately and it will not be able to fight through winters effectively. “This can best be attributed to ignorance. Indian Army is fully prepared and more than capable of fighting a full-fledged war even in winters in eastern Ladakh,” a Northern Command spokesperson said here. “India is a peace-loving country and wishes to have good relations with its neighbours. India always prefers to resolve issues through dialogue. While talks are in progress to resolve the border issues with China in eastern Ladakh, at the military level it is well prepared for the prolonged stand-off,” he said. He said altitudes in Ladakh range from “high to super-high altitude” and there is a lot of snowfall – up to 40 feet after November. “Coupled with this, the temperature dipping down to minus 30 to 40 degree Celsius is a usual phenomenon. Wind chill factor makes matters even worse for the troops. The roads also get closed due to the snow. But despite all this, the most encouraging part for India is that the Indian soldiers have a huge experience of winter warfare and are psychologically tuned to operate at short notice,” the spokesperson said. While these facts are known to the world, he said, adding the operational logistics capabilities, however, are hardly known.   Delhi Police on Wednesday filed a charge sheet before a city court under the stringent law UAPA and various sections of the IPC against 15 persons for larger conspiracy in northeast Delhi riots in February.  According to the sources, those named in the charge sheet are Taahir Hussain, Mohd Parvez Ahmed, Mohd Illyas, Saifi Khalid, Ishrat Jahan, Miran Haider, Safoora Zargar, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Shahdab Ahmed, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Tasleem Ahmed, Saleem Malik, Mohd Saleem Khan and Athar Khan. Special cell of Delhi Police told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that it has relied upon CD-R and Whatsapp chats. In the charge sheet running into 10,000 pages, the police has listed 747 witnesses and of them 51 have recorded their statements under CRPC 164 (before the magistrate). The final report has been filed under stringent Unalawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), various sections of Indian Penal Codes and Arms Act. The police said it has given chronology of conspiracy and relevant events in its charge sheet which is likely to be taken up for consideration in the coming days. “The evidence includes WhatsApp chats of February 24, the time when riots were happening. At that point, key conspirators were guiding their foot soldiers about violence in the area. The key conspirators were directly in touch with their foot soldiers,” police said. “WhatsApp groups were used by conspirators for 'violence in Seelampur-Jafarabad area. There were 25 protest sites in 25 cities. 25 WhatsApp groups were especially created for each city. The impression was given that they were anti-CAA protest group but through these sites conspirators were being guided,” it said The Special Cell said that Tahir Hussain, Khalid Saifi and Umar Khalid had allegedly planned to carry out massive violence in the Capital during US President Donald Trump visit in Delhi.   The much awaited judgement in the Babri Masjid demolition case, in which several senior BJP leaders, including L.K.Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh  are accused, would be pronounced by a special CBI court here on September 30. Special Judge (CBI) S.K.Yadav has directed all the thirty two accused persons to be present in the court on that day. There were in all 49 accused persons in this case to start with but 17 of them have died since then. The accused persons, who died during the pendency of the trial, included, former VHP international president Ashok Singhal, Giriraj Kishore, Vishnu Hari Dalmiya, Mahant Avaidyanath and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's father Bala Saheb Thackeray. According to the lawyers representing the CBI and the defendants, the special judge was currently busy writing the judgement.  The supreme court had directed the special CBI judge to deliver the verdict by September 30.  The cases, which pertained to the demolition of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992 by thousands of 'karsevaks', were heard on a daily basis by the special CBI judge.  Soon after the demolition of the disputed structure two FIRs were registered at the Ram Janmabhoomi police station in Ayodhya against unidentified 'karsevaks', Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and BJP leaders. Forty seven other FIRs were also registered later.   The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russias sovereign wealth fund, and Dr Reddys Laboratories Ltd. have agreed to cooperate on clinical trials and distribution of Sputnik V vaccine in India. Upon regulatory approval in India, RDIF shall supply to Dr. Reddys 100 million doses of the vaccine, Dr Reddys said in a release on Wednesday. The Sputnik V vaccine, which is based on well-studied human adenoviral vector platform with proven safety, is undergoing clinical trials for the coronavirus pandemic, it said. Deliveries could potentially begin in late 2020, subject to completion of successful trials and registration of the vaccine by regulatory authorities in India, the release said. Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, said RDIF is very pleased to partner with Dr. Reddys in India. Dr. Reddys has had a very well established and respected presence in Russia for over 25 years and is one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in India, he said. "India is amongst most severely impacted countries from COVID-19 and we believe our human adenovirus dual vector platform will provide a safe and scientifically validated option to India in the battle against COVID 19," the release quoted Dmitriev as saying. RDIF partners will receive an effective and safe drug to fight the coronavirus. The platform of human adenoviral vectors, which is the core of the Russian vaccine, has been tested in more than 250 clinical studies over decades, and it has been found safe with no potential negative long-term consequences, Dmitriev said. Sandalwood actress Sanjjanaa Galrani, who has been arrested in a Sandalwood linked drug peddling case and is in police custody (PC), was taken to KC General hospital around 12.05 pm for a medical test including a Covid-19 test. The Sandalwood couple Aindrita Ray and Diganth appeared before the central crime branch (CCB) officials at CCB office on Wednesday. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-indian-army-says-fully-prepared-for-war-babri-masjid-demolition-case-judgement-on-september-30-888480.html
16-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha passes legislation to bring cooperative banks under RBI's supervision||In a bid to protect the interest of depositors, the Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed an amendment to the Banking Regulation Act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI. The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 replaces an ordinance that was promulgated on June 26. Replying to the debate on the bill, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said this legislation is for depositors' safety and not for undermining powers of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies. Powers of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies have not been encroached upon but banking activity of cooperatives will be regulated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), she said. Urban cooperative banks and multi-state cooperative banks will be brought under the RBI's supervision process applicable to commercial banks. There are about 1,482 urban cooperative banks and 58 multi-state co-operative banks with a depositors base of about 8.6 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-legislation-to-bring-cooperative-banks-under-rbis-supervision-888486.html
16-09-2020||National||PM to inaugurate Kosi rail mega bridge in Bihar on September 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate to the nation the "historic" Kosi rail mega-bridge through video-conference on Friday and also inaugurate 12 rail projects related to passenger facilities in Bihar, his office said. Modi has either inaugurated or laid the foundation stone of a number of development projects in the poll-bound state in the last few days with sources saying that the total cost of these infrastructure and other programmes would be about Rs 16,000 crore. The Prime Minister's Office said on Wednesday that the 'Kosi Rail Mahasetu' (mega-bridge) is a watershed moment in the history of Bihar as it will connect the region to the North East and described it as historic. In 1887, a meter gauge link was built between Nirmali and Bhaptiahi in the region but it was washed away during the heavy flood and severe Indo-Nepal earthquake in 1934, the PMO said, adding no attempt was made to restore this rail connectivity for a long period due to the meandering nature of Kosi river. The mega bridge project was sanctioned by the Union government during 2003-04. It is 1.9 km long and its construction cost is Rs 516 crore, the PMO said. "This bridge is of strategic importance along the India-Nepal border. The project was completed during the COVID-Pandemic where the migrant labour also participated in its completion," it added. The 12 other rail projects, which Modi will also inaugurate, include a new railway bridge on the Kiul River, two new railway lines, five electrification projects, one electric locomotive shed and third line project between Barh and Bakhtiyarpur. The inauguration of Kosi rail mega bridge will fulfil the 86-year-old dream and a long wait of the people of the region, the PMO said. The prime minister will also flag off the Saharsa-Asanpur Kupha train from the Supaul station. Once the regular train service begins, this would prove to be highly beneficial to Supaul, Arariya and Saharsa districts, making it easier for those on long distance travel to Kolkata, Delhi and Mumbai. He will also inaugurate the railway electrification projects of Muzaffarpur– Sitamarhi, Katihar–New Jalpaiguri, Samastipur-Darbhanga-Jaynagar, Samastipur-Khagaria, and Bhagalpur-Shivnarayanpur sections, the PMO said. Assembly polls in Bihar are slated to be held in October-November, and the Election Commission is expected to announce the schedule sometime this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-inaugurate-kosi-rail-mega-bridge-in-bihar-on-september-18-888492.html
16-09-2020||National||814 hectares of rail land under encroachment across country: Railway Minister||The Railway Ministry on Wednesday informed Parliament that 814 hectares of the national transporter's land is under encroachment across its 17 zones. Replying to a query in Lok Sabha, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal in a written reply said most of the encroachments are near railway stations. "Most of the encroachments on Railway land are in the approaches of stations in Metros and big cities in the form of slums around railway tracks. The State-wise details are not maintained by the Railways," he said, listing the zone-wise details of encroachments as on March 31 this year. The Supreme Court, in its order dated August 31 issued in the context of piling up of the waste/garbage beside the railway tracks in Delhi, has directed for preparation of a comprehensive plan for removal of jhuggis present along the tracks and removal of encroachments in the safety zone in the region of National Capital Territory of Delhi within a period of three months. According to the list presented by the Railways, the most encroached land -- 175 hectares -- is in the Northern Railway zone which serves the states of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and the union territories of Chandigarh and Delhi. This is followed by the South Eastern Railway zone with 141.16 hectares under encroachment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/814-hectares-of-rail-land-under-encroachment-across-country-railway-minister-888493.html
16-09-2020||National||Despite LAC stand-off, India-China relationship has not deteriorated, says Government||India’s relations with China has not deteriorated recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government on Wednesday informed the Lok Sabha, notwithstanding the four-month-long military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh.   The Modi Government denied any downslide in New Delhi’s relations with Beijing, although it earlier stated that the situation in India-China border areas could not be separated from the future of the ties between the two nations. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) shared with the Lok Sabha its view on the India-China relations in response to a question. Saugata Ray of the Trinamool Congress asked the government if India’s relations with China and Nepal as well as other neighbours like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Myanmar had deteriorated recently. “No”, Minister of State for External Affairs, V Muraleedharan, stated in a written reply to the question submitted by the MP from West Bengal. The MEA’s statement on the status of India-China relations came just a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh told the Lok Sabha that India was “facing a challenge” along its disputed boundary with China in Ladakh and prepared “to deal with all contingencies”, even as it would remain committed to peacefully resolve the military stand-off with the neighbouring communist country. Two days after the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had suffered casualties in a violent face-off in Galwan Valley on June 15, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had conveyed to his counterpart in the communist country, Wang Yi, that the incident would have “serious impact” on bilateral relationship. New Delhi’s envoy to Beijing, Vikram Mishri, had also said on June 26 that the Chinese PLA’s aggressive moves to unilaterally change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the India and China in western sector – had damaged “considerable trust” in bilateral relations. The External Affairs Minister had also recently said in an interview to a web portal that the state of the border could not be separated from the future of the relations between India and China. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla too had of late said that the “business cannot be as usual” between India and China unless and until the communist country pulls back its soldiers and restores the status quo ante that existed before the stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations started. The MEA, however, on Wednesday denied any deterioration in ties between India and China.     The Minister of State for External Affairs on Wednesday also made the same observation on India-Nepal relations, although ties between New Delhi and Kathmandu soured over the past few months as the K P Sharma Oli’s government in the neighbouring country ratcheted up territorial disputes between the two nations. Muraleedharan said that the government accorded the highest priority to India’s relations with its neighbouring countries. “India is an active political and economic partner of its neighbours and is involved in various projects, including development projects with these countries,” he stated in the written reply in the Lok Sabha. “India’s relations with other countries stand on their own footing and are independent of the relations of those countries with third countries.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-lac-standoff-india-china-relationship-has-not-deteriorated-says-government-888504.html
16-09-2020||National||DU cut-offs likely to go higher this year with many students scoring above 95% in CBSE exams: Officials||With the St Stephen's College pegging its highest cut-off at 99.25 pc for BA (Hons) Economics, Delhi University officials on Wednesday said cut-offs are going to be higher than last year as a large number of students have scored above 95 per cent in CBSE class 12 exams this year. The university has received a maximum of 2,85,128 applications from CBSE Board students. St Stephen's College released its first cut-off list for undergraduate courses on Tuesday night, with the highest cut-off being announced at 99.25 per cent for BA (Hons) Economics for students coming from a commerce background. This year's cut-offs are higher than last year. In 2019, the cut-off for BA(Hons) English and BA (Hons) Economics was pegged at 98.75 per cent for students from commerce background. The cut-off for BA (Hons) Economics stands at 99.25 per cent for commerce students, 98.75 per cent for humanities and 98 per cent for science stream students. The cut-off for BA English (Hons) stands at 99 per cent for commerce students, 98.75 per cent for science and humanities stream students. This year's cut-off for the course is higher by 0.25 per cent for commerce and science students. The experts said that the high cut-offs of St Stephen's College set a precedent for other colleges, indicating that the cut-offs are going to be on the higher side. Shobha Bagai, Dean (Admissions), DU, said, "The cut-offs are likely to be announced after October 12. We have sent the schedule to the administration. The administration is waiting for the UGC calendar. We should hopefully announce the schedule for cut-offs in this week." On being asked about the probability of cut-offs being on the higher side, she said that it's not that the university will be arbitrarily increasing the cut-offs. The official said the cut-offs will be determined by the number of applicants falling in a certain bracket. Anju Srivastava, the principal of Hindu College, said, "St Stephen's has a lot of riders and restrictions in its hand but other colleges don't. If St Stephen's which also an interview component in admissions has kept the cut-offs high, I don't see why we won't do anything similar." Explaining the procedure, Srivastava said St Stephen's cut-offs give an indication for other colleges and the cut-offs are not likely to go any lower. "We cannot have riders like St Stephen's. The university wants to keep it simple. The number of high-scorers is high and to limit the admissions we have to keep the cut-offs high," she added. Sharing similar sentiments, Manoj Khanna, the principal of Ramjas College, said, "We will have to go by approximation. The cut-offs will be higher in the first and second lists than last year. There is a lot of unpredictability also. We cannot have over admissions considering we have to maintain social distancing also. Where will we make students sit if there are extra admissions? So cut-offs are bound to be higher."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/du-cut-offs-likely-to-go-higher-this-year-with-many-students-scoring-above-95-in-cbse-exams-officials-888505.html
16-09-2020||National||Parliament passes Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill 2020||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill, 2020. This paves the way for the establishment of a state-of-the-art Ayurvedic institution called the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA) at Jamnagar, Gujarat, and conferment of the status of Institution of National Importance (INI) to it, the Ministry of AYUSH said in a statement. The bill was passed in the Lok Sabha on March 19. The ITRA is sought to be established by conglomerating the presently existing Ayurveda institutes at Gujarat Ayurved University campus in Jamnagar, the statement said. This is a cluster of highly-reputed institutions, namely Institute for Post Graduate Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Shree GulabKunverba Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya, and Institute of Ayurvedic Pharmaceutical sciences,  Maharshi Patanjali Institute for Yoga Naturopathy Education & Research (to be made part of the Department of Swasthvritta of the proposed ITRA). These institutions came up over many decades and together made a unique family of Ayurveda institutions existing in close proximity. "It is expected that the enactment of the proposal will further provide autonomy to the institute to develop patterns of teaching in undergraduate and postgraduate education in Ayurveda and pharmacy," the statement said. The synergies among the different constituent institutions will help ITRA to demonstrate high standards of such education and to emerge as a lighthouse institution to the entire AYUSH sector. It is expected to provide the highest level of training to personnel in all important branches of Ayurveda, including pharmacy, and to take up in-depth study and research in the field of Ayurveda, it said. "ITRA will be the first institution with INI status in the AYUSH sector, and this will enable the institution to be independent and innovative in the matter deciding course content and pedagogy," the statement said. The decision comes at a time when global interest in health solutions based on traditional wisdom is at an unprecedentedly high level and ITRA is poised to take Ayurveda education to new vistas, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-institute-of-teaching-and-research-in-ayurveda-bill-2020-888512.html
16-09-2020||National||Gujarat govt decides against reopening schools from September 21||The Gujarat government has decided against reopening schools from September 21 in light of the Covid-19 situation in the state, minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said on Wednesday. The state government took the decision "in the interest of students" during a cabinet meeting presided over by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani in Gandhinagar, the education minister said. While announcing the "Unlock-4" guidelines earlier this month, the Centre had clarified that the final call to reopen schools from September 21 for Classes 9 to 12 will be taken by respective states, Chudasama told reporters. As per the Centre's SOPs, students can visit schools to take guidance from teachers from September 21 with their parents' permission, he said. "The Centre had clarified that it's not compulsory for states to implement these SOPs from September 21. There is a risk of transmission of the virus if students gather at one place. It is not advisable for students to visit schools in the present situation," the minister said. Hence, the state government has decided not to reopen schools from September 21 and appropriate decision will be taken once the situation improves, he said, adding that online education will continue in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-decides-against-reopening-schools-from-september-21-888518.html
16-09-2020||National||SpiceJet launches 14 dedicated cargo flights connecting northeastern states||SpiceJet has launched 14 dedicated cargo flights, which will be operated using its Bombardier Q400 aircraft, to and from the northeastern states. In a statement, the airline said these 14 new flights will operate to and from Assam, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura. "The dedicated cargo flights will help transport fresh fruits, vegetables, flowers, perishables, fish seeds, fresh fish, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, express cargo and other general cargo," SpiceJet noted. The airline said it will operate daily cargo flights on Kolkata-Guwahati, Guwahati-Kolkata, Kolkata-Imphal and Imphal-Kolkata routes. SpiceJet has also introduced cargo flights between Kolkata and Guwahati via Aizawl and Dimapur and they will operate twice a week. "The airline will also operate cargo flights on the Kolkata-Agartala and Agartala-Guwahati sectors thrice-a-week and twice-a-week on Kolkata-Silchar and Silchar-Guwahati routes," it noted. SpiceJet has 13 cargo aircraft in its fleet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicejet-launches-14-dedicated-cargo-flights-connecting-northeastern-states-888519.html
16-09-2020||National||Rajnath Singh to make statement in RS on India-China standoff today||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday on the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, sources said. After his statement, opposition leaders will speak and if required Singh may give a clarification, the sources said. This was decided in a meeting of floor leaders of the Rajya Sabha which was attended by Singh along with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Leader of the House Thawwarchand Gehlot. "Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement at 12 noon on the standoff at LAC. Thereafter, opposition leaders will speak on the issue. If required thereafter, the minister may give clarification," a source elaborated. Singh already made a statement in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, saying Beijing has been very clearly conveyed that any attempt to "unilaterally" change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control is not at all acceptable and that India's armed forces are ready to deal with "all contingencies" in the high-altitude region. At the meeting on Wednesday, the opposition demanded that the three bills related to the agriculture sector be referred to committees of either Houses for detailed scrutiny. The government had on Monday introduced The Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill to replace the ordinances promulgated earlier. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill was passed by the Lower House on Wednesday amid objections by NDA ally Shiromani Akali Dal and various opposition parties. The government and the opposition agreed for a discussion on GST, economy, and National Education Policy-2020, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-to-make-statement-in-rs-on-india-china-standoff-today-888523.html
16-09-2020||National||2 women judges in SC, 78 in High Courts: Govt||There are only two women judges in the Supreme Court and 78 in various high courts of the country, the government informed Parliament on Wednesday. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Union Minister for Law and Justice Ravi Shankar Prasad said the details of the female judges in the tribunals are not maintained centrally as they are administered by different ministries or departments of the government. The details of the female judges in the subordinate judiciary are also not maintained centrally as the subject matter falls within the domain of the high courts and state governments, he added. "As on September 1, 2020, there are 2 women judges in the Supreme Court and 78 women judges in various High Courts," Prasad said. He said the Supreme Court has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges and two of them are women. According to the data provided by the minister, the maximum of 11 women judges are in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, followed by nine in the Madras High Court and eight each in the high courts of Delhi and Bombay. The data said the high courts of Patna, Manipur, Meghalaya, Telangana, Tripura and Uttarakhand do not have any woman judge. There is only a woman judge each in the high courts of Gauhati, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Sikkim. On whether the government is taking steps to increase the representation of women in the judiciary and whether reservation would be provided to boost their strength, the minister said the appointments of high court judges are made under Articles 217 and 224 of the Constitution. "These Articles do not provide for reservation for any caste or class of person including women. The Government has, however, been requesting the Chief Justices of the High Courts that while sending proposals for appointment of Judges, due consideration be given to suitable candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, Minorities and Women," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-women-judges-in-sc-78-in-high-courts-govt-888536.html
16-09-2020||National||Unlocking, norm violations to blame for Covid-19 spike: Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra public health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the spurt in Covid-19 cases was due to the way the unlocking process was undertaken and also people not following stipulated norms. Speaking to reporters, Tope said, The way we have undertaken unlocking and people not following rules have caused the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases." He said the state government is taking all possible measures to bring down the cases in Maharashtra, where the Covid-19 tally has crossed the 11.21-lakh mark. The state government has announced 'My Family, My Responsibility' campaign to curb the spread of Covid-19. Under the campaign, a door-to-door survey will be undertaken in two phases, he said. The survey will be completed by the last week of October, the minister added. In the first phase of the initiative (till October 10), the government with the help of ASHA (health) workers, medical assistants, and others will reach out to households to enquire about the health of people and spread awareness about the infection and its prevention. People from high-risk groups, having co-morbidity will also be traced during the campaign. The second phase will be undertaken from October 12 to 24 and volunteers will visit each household twice a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlocking-norm-violations-to-blame-for-covid-19-spike-rajesh-tope-888552.html
16-09-2020||National||India reports first scientifically documented Covid-19 reinfection cases||In what may be India's first scientifically documented cases of Covid-19 reinfection, CSIR biologists have reported two such instances in two healthcare workers at a Noida hospital. A 25-year-old male and a 28-year-old female were detected coronavirus positive on May 5 and May 17 respectively. Though both were asymptomatic, they were hospitalised as per the policy of the Noida hospital where they were working. During the regular subsequent surveillance, the two were again found coronavirus positive on August 25 and September 5 respectively. This time the viral load was higher. Eventually after the 14th day, the male, and after 6th day, the female tested negative. “This is possibly one of the first scientifically documented cases of reinfection in India. The reinfection was proven with a genetic test since only a genetic sequencing can tell us whether it is a case of coronavirus shedding from the old episode or a genuine case of re-infection,” Sridhar Sivasubbu, a scientist at Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi and a member of the team that detected the reinfection told DH. Genetic tests are needed to determine if two episodes (of infections) are caused by virus strains with clearly different genome sequences. The screening at the Noida hospital was carried out as a part of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research's pan-India Covid-19 surveillance project in which hospitals, industrial corridors and commercial hubs will be regularly checked for any sign of the virus. “Our analysis suggests that asymptomatic reinfection may be a potentially under-reported entity. Both individuals had a higher viral load during reinfection highlighting the need for continuous surveillance,” the scientists said in a paper that has been released in the public domain without a peer review. The reports of reinfection from India so far are anecdotal – be it a lone case at the Fortis hospital in Bengaluru or the cases of two cancer-affected children at Medanta Medicity in Gurugram or the suspected cases among doctors in two hospitals in Mumbai. The two kids at Medanta had the first and second Covid-19 reinfection at a gap of 71 and 42 days respectively. In both cases, their cancer treatment had to be stopped and the kids had to stay isolated till the respiratory infection goes away. But since genetic sequencing was not done, these two cases can't be definitively described as reinfection. The hospital has now reached out to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genome sequencing. “Reinfection in Covid-19 is very very rare. It is not a matter of serious concern,” Balram Bhargava, Director-General of Indian Council of Medical Research stated at a press conference here on Tuesday. The world's first documented case of Covid-19 reinfection was reported about three weeks ago in Hong Kong where an individual was re-infected after a gap of 142 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-first-scientifically-documented-covid-19-reinfection-cases-888557.html
16-09-2020||National||22 Army personnel lost lives serving in high-altitude areas from 2017-19||Twenty-two Army personnel were killed between 2017 and 2019 while serving in high-altitude areas like the Siachen Glacier, according to details provided by the government in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said six Army men were killed in 2017 followed by eight each in 2018 and 2019. He was replying to a written question on the number of Army personnel killed while serving in high-altitude areas. The Siachen Glacier in the Karakorum range is known as the highest militarised zone in the world where the soldiers have to battle frostbites and high winds. Avalanches and landslides are common at the glacier during the winter and temperatures can drop to as low as minus 60 degrees Celsius. India and Pakistan started deploying troops at the strategically important glacier in 1984. "Indian Army is deployed in highly treacherous terrain along the borders in Jammu and Kashmir, where there is constant threat of crevasses, avalanches and other weather related calamities to the troops," Naik said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-army-personnel-lost-lives-serving-in-high-altitude-areas-from-2017-19-888563.html
16-09-2020||National||Over 3 lakh Indian workers returned to India under Vande Bharat Mission: Govt||Over 3.08 lakh Indian workers returned from abroad as part of the Vande Bharat Mission, the government said on Wednesday, asserting that not all of them had lost their jobs, but returned on account of the Covid-19 situation. In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said the Vande Bharat Mission commenced on May 7 and since then, more than 13,74,237 Indians (as on September 10, 2020) have returned to India via air, land and sea. "Of them, 3,08,099 were workers, not all of them had lost their jobs, but returned on account of Covid-19 situation," the minister said. The minister also gave a break up of the workers who returned from various countries with the maximum of them returning from Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations. A total of 84,497 Indian workers returned from the UAE, 50,536 from Oman, 49,000 from Saudi Arabia, 44,248 from Kuwait, 30,509 from Qatar and 14,920 from Bahrain, according to the data provided by the minister. "In recent months, Indians have started to return to the Gulf and other countries to rejoin their jobs or for family reunions," Muraleedharan said. Asked whether the government has prepared any action plan for the workers who have returned, he said, "With the aim of making the best of our skilled workforce returning to the country due to the ongoing pandemic, the Government of India launched an initiative SWADES (Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support) to conduct a skill mapping exercise of the returning citizens under the Vande Bharat Mission." For facilitating employment opportunities, details of SWADES registrations have been integrated with Skill India's ASEEM (Aatmanirbhar Skilled Employee Employer Mapping) portal which was launched on July 10, 2020, he said. "Further, all data regarding Indians returning under Vande Bharat Mission was also shared with relevant state governments, on a real time basis," Muraleedharan said. In response to another question on Vande Bharat Mission, the minister said as on September 11, 2020, more than 13,85,670 Indians have returned to India under the Vande Bharat Mission from various countries. He also gave a break up of Indians returning from various countries as well as the break up that 11,89,077 returned by air, 1,28,165 by land and 3,987 by sea under the Vande Bharat Mission. In response to another question, Muraleedharan said of those repatriated under the Vande Bharat Mission, 85,348 were Tamilians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-3-lakh-indian-workers-returned-to-india-under-vande-bharat-mission-govt-888564.html
16-09-2020||National||Onus on India to resolve military stand-off along disputed boundaries: China||Less than a week after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi agreed on five points during a meeting in Moscow, Beijing on Wednesday put on New Delhi the onus of implementing the consensus to resolve the four military stand-offs along the disputed boundary between the two nations. The “most urgent task” is for the Indian Army to “correct its wrongdoing” in China-India border areas, “disengage” from the points of the face-off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) “as soon as possible” and take “concrete actions” to defuse tension, Wang Wenbin, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the communist country’s government, said in Beijing. He also said that India, not China, was responsible for the escalation of tension along the disputed boundary. He accused the Indian Army of first crossing the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and unilaterally changing the status quo and violating agreements and important consensus reached between the two sides as well as posing threat to the security of the Chinese PLA personnel. Jaishankar and Wang had a meeting on the side-line of a conclave of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Moscow last Thursday. They agreed that the current situation in India-China border areas was “not in the interest of either side” and hence the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA “should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease the tension”, according to a joint statement issued early on Friday. The meeting was expected to result in the resumption of the stalled dialogue between the senior military commanders of the two nations – Lt Gen Harinder Singh and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA – in order to end the impasse over the process of disengagement or mutual withdrawal of the troops from the face-off scenes. Singh and Liu earlier had five rounds of talks, but they did not have any meetings after the fifth on August 2. The talks were however stalled as the Chinese PLA declined to adhere to the process it mutually agreed with the Indian Army for pulling back soldiers from the face-off scenes.  “China is willing to continue to maintain dialogue and consultation with India through diplomatic and military channels, and work together to maintain peace and tranquility in the border area,” Wen said in Beijing. Though no fresh untoward incident was reported from the LAC over the past few days after the Jaishankar-Wang meeting, hopes for an early end to the stand-off are diminishing in New Delhi.  Sun Weidong, Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, on Monday, referred to the August 31 statement issued by the Ministry of Defence of the Government of India claiming that the Indian Army troops had pre-empted a military move by the Chinese PLA on the southern bank of Pangong Tso. He said that the statement itself “revealed” that the Indian Army had illegally crossed the LAC and changed the status quo in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/onus-on-india-to-resolve-military-stand-off-along-disputed-boundaries-china-888573.html
16-09-2020||National||India to probe snooping allegations against Chinese firm||The government on Wednesday constituted a committee of experts under the National Cyber Security Coordinator Lt Gen Rajesh Pant (retd) to examine reports of surveillance of prominent Indian nationals, including political leaders, by Chinese firm Zhenhua Data. "External Affairs Minister Dr. S Jaishankar informed us that the government has taken the matter seriously & constituted an expert committee to assess this within 30 days," AICC General Secretary and Rajya Sabha member K C Venugopal said in Delhi. The government also conveyed its concerns to China's Ambassador to India Sun Weidong about the alleged role of Zhenhua Data in snooping on prominent citizens of India. Congress leaders Venugopal and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had raised the issue of reports of surveillance by Zhenhua Data in both houses of Parliament and demanded action. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin noted that the company Zhenhua Data had rejected reports of surveillance of Indian nationals as "seriously untrue". "The company said clearly that it’s a private company, and its clients are research institutions and business groups. Instead of collecting data, it only mobilizes data which is open and available online." Weng said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-probe-snooping-allegations-against-chinese-firm-888577.html
16-09-2020||National||How many police stations have CCTV cameras installed? SC asks States||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought to know the exact position of CCTV cameras installed in police stations as well as the constitution of Oversight Committees, in accordance with the previous orders passed by it. "We also expect the Chief Secretary of the States and Union Territories to take this matter seriously and in right earnest, since it involves the fundamental rights of the citizen under Article 21 of the Constitution," a bench of Justices Rohinton F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee said. In case of D K Basu versus State of West Bengal and others (2015), the top court directed that with a view to check human rights abuse, CCTV cameras be installed in all police stations as well as in prisons.  In another case of Shafhi Mohammad versus State of Himachal Pradesh, the top court on April 3, 2018, said there is need for a further direction that in every state an oversight mechanism is created whereby an independent committee can study the CCTV camera footages and periodically publish a report of its observations.  On Wednesday, the court impleaded all States and Union Territories party to the matter. The bench sought the data before the next date of hearing, November 24. Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, appearing for the Union government, submitted that she would attempt to get whatever figures are with her and place them on affidavit before the next date of hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-many-police-stations-have-cctv-cameras-installed-sc-asks-states-888579.html
16-09-2020||National||97 people died in Shramik Special trains: Piyush Goyal||Ninty-seven people died while travelling in the Shramik Special trains, which were run to ferry stranded migrant workers during Covid-19 lockdown, the government informed Parliament on  Wednesday. “Based on the data provided by the State police, 97 persons were reported to have passed away till 09.09.2020 while travelling onboard Shramik Special trains during Covid-19," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said in a written reply in Lok Sabha. The State police had sent the bodies for post-mortem in 87 cases. 51 post-mortem reports have been received from respective state police so far, in which reasons for deaths have been shown as cardiac arrest/heart disease/brain haemorrhage/pre-existing chronic disease/chronic lung disease/chronic liver disease etc,” he said. In another reply on Shramik Special trains fare, the Minister said: “Fare of Rs 433 crore has been collected from the State governments and from the representatives of the State governments for running them from 01.05.2020 to 31.08.2020.” He also said the national transporter recovered only a small fraction of expenditure incurred on running them thereby incurring a loss. For Shramik Special trains the railways made special arrangements including enhanced sanitisation, security, medical arrangement, rake sanitisation, free meals and  water. This had added to the overall cost of running them, he said. The Railway Minister statement came two days after Union Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said that the government has no data about the workers who had lost their jobs and lives during the pandemic. As per the Railways data,  since May 1, it operated 4,621 Shramik Special trains transporting 63.19 lakh passengers to their home states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/97-people-died-in-shramik-special-trains-piyush-goyal-888580.html
16-09-2020||National||Chinese troops play Punjabi songs on loudspeaker at LAC for Indian soldiers: Report||Quoting sources, the report said that the unusual move by the Chinese troops may be either to distract Indian soliders or to just ease the tension to some  extent. Incidentally, over 100 rounds were reportedly fired between the two sides at Finger 4 recently, which had further escalated the tension along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-troops-play-punjabi-songs-on-loudspeaker-at-lac-for-indian-soldiers-report-888581.html
16-09-2020||National||Plea filed in SC for action against Justice Katju for derogatory statements before London court||A plea was filed on Wednesday in the Supreme Court seeking initiation of legal action against former top court judge, Justice (retired) Markandey Katju for tarnishing the image of entire judicial system of the country by his deposition before a court in the United Kingdom in the case of Nirav Modi. Petitioner Nand Kishore Garg, a Delhi BJP leader, contended Justice Katju by his statements had cast aspersion on the judiciary and questioned its integrity, and eroded the faith of the common people.  Justice Katju on Friday, last deposed in extradition proceedings before the Westminster Magistrate Court in London. He said the judiciary in India was corrupt and investigation agencies subservient to the central government. Notably, diamond merchant Modi is accused of duping banks of Rs 13,000 crore along with Mehul Choksi. The PIL, filed before the court by advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi on behalf of Garg, claimed the allegation, made by Justice Katju that 50% judiciary is corrupt in India and therefore a fair justice is not possible for fugitive accused  Nirav Modi in India, was highly derogatory.  Such derogatory deposition made the entire judiciary suspect in the eyes of the international community, the petition said. "It is high time that the Indian judiciary must come up with exemplary action against those people who are routinely lowering down the integrity of the judicial system by levelling extremely atrocious and fake allegation for their personal publicity," the plea stated. Besides seeking action against Justice Katju, the petitioner also sought to lay down a broad guideline on issues of public criticism and maligning of the judicial system and its serving judges especially from those who served the highest institution of the country.  The petitioner also sought a direction that a high powered court-monitored committee may be set up to look into the highly contemptuous and disparaging remarks made by the former Judge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-action-against-justice-katju-for-derogatory-statements-before-london-court-888596.html
16-09-2020||National Politics||The Lead: Parliament Session in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, get to know what's brewing in the Parliament and listen to Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on the government's plan to ensure safety from Covid-19 inside the Parliament.  Excerpts:  Ahmed Shariff: Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and today we are joined by DH correspondent from Delhi Sagar Kulkarni to know what's happening this Parliament Session. Hi Sagar, welcome to DH Radio Sagar Kulkarni: Hi. Ahmed: The Monsoon Session has already begun and we saw the first day being the fiery one, can you tell us what more can we expect? Sagar: See, the parliament session is taking place after six months and it's just in the nick of time to meet the constitutional obligation that parliament should meet at least once in six months. The high light of this session is a number of bills lined up by the government. 23 bills are there and of these 11 were ordinances that were issued by the government during the inter-session period. The previous session, the Budget session, had to be cut short due to the covid pandemic. There were certain laws that were required to be passed, for example, to cut the salaries of parliamentarians as a token gesture... Sagar Kulkarni: What are the challenges in convening the monsoon session? Pralhad Joshi: It has been a challenge not only for India but for the entire world. We are in the midst of an unprecedented situation. The disease itself is highly contagious. Even if one person is infected, it will create a problem. So, we have to ensure testing, asking members to bring certificates of negative tests. Sagar: What special arrangements have been made? Joshi: First of all, each House will sit only for four hours. The chambers of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will be used for the sittings with members occupying visitors’ galleries as well to ensure physical distancing. We have also used technology to link the chambers of both the Houses electronically so that the presiding officer can have seamless access to members seated in either of the chambers. Entry for the personal staff of MPs and ministers has been restricted. Ministers will be allowed to get along only one officer. Sanitisation of the chambers at regular intervals will also be done... To know more about the conversation, tune in to the podcast. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/the-lead-parliament-session-in-the-midst-of-covid-19-pandemic-888159.html
16-09-2020||National Politics||No central data on death, injury to people during Covid-19 lockdown: Centre in Rajya Sabha||The Centre on Wednesday said it has no data on death or injury caused to people in enforcing the countrywide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy's written reply in Rajya Sabha came in response to Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge's question in this regard. "Data pertaining to complaints and cases registered, First Information Report (FIR) regarding harassment, injury, death of individuals in enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown across the country is not maintained centrally," Reddy said. The minister also said police and public order are State subjects as per 7th schedule of the Constitution of India. Hence, the actions are taken by the respective State governments, he said. Kharge had asked whether there has been any instance of excessive police measures leading to harassment, injury, death of individuals in enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown across the country and if so, the details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-central-data-on-death-injury-to-people-during-covid-19-lockdown-centre-in-rajya-sabha-888273.html
16-09-2020||National Politics||Government considers closed-door meeting with Opposition on LAC issue: Report||For now, the government has been reluctant to discuss the issue with the Opposition in the monsoon session of the Parliament. As of yet, no final decision has been taken where the Opposition would be briefed on the military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by the government, the report said.  "A senior minister had called me to say that the government is thinking of a briefing meeting for floor leaders of different parties on the Indo-China situation if they agree. The proposal is at a nascent stage and needs further discussion," a senior non-NDA leader told the publication.  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh put out a statement in the Parliament on September 15 regarding the situation, however, Opposition leaders were not allowed to ask for clarification to avoid divisive debate sparking criticism and conflicting views.  The Prime Minister also requested the House to send a unanimous message of solidarity to the armed forces at the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-considers-closed-door-meeting-with-opposition-on-lac-issue-report-888287.html
16-09-2020||National Politics||NCP, Congress hit out at Centre over ban on onion export in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday termed the central government as "anti-farmer" after it banned the export of onions. Terming the decision as wrong, the NCP leader accused the Centre of committing "great sin" of pushing farmers, who were already hit hard by Covid-19, into deeper trouble. Maharashtra revenue minister and state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat said onion prices have collapsed due to the ban on export and asserted that his party will fight against this "injustice" meted out to farmers. The central government on Monday banned the export of all varieties of onions with immediate effect to increase availability and curb prices of the commodity in the domestic market. "The Centre banned onion export at a time when cultivators were getting good prices for their produce. It is absolutely wrong. It is obvious that the Centre is anti-farmer," Pawar alleged. He also referred to NCP president Sharad Pawar raising concerns over the decision before Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday, seeking its reversal. "Onion growers are already in trouble due to Covid-19. Add to that, the Centre has committed this maha paap (great sin) of pushing the farmers into deeper trouble by banning export," the deputy chief minister said while speaking at a programme in the NCP's head office here. Maharashtra revenue minister Thorat also criticised the Centre's decision and said onion prices have collapsed by Rs 700 to Rs 800 per tonne due to the ban on export. "Farmers in the state are tackling problems arising out of cyclone and floods, and the state government is doing all it can to help them. But, the Centre is not cooperating," he said. Earlier, the Centre allowed milk powder import when there was lakhs of tonnes of milk powder in the country. Due to this, milk prices came down, Thorat said. "Now, when there is scope for farmers to earn some money due to onion export, the central government has stopped it. We will fight this injustice against farmers," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ncp-congress-hit-out-at-centre-over-ban-on-onion-export-in-maharashtra-888305.html
16-09-2020||National Politics||Centre favours time-bound trial of pending cases against lawmakers before Supreme Court||The Centre favoured expeditious disposal of pending cases against former and sitting lawmakers on Wednesday before the Supreme Court and said these matters "must reach their logical conclusion" within a time frame. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kanta and Hrishikesh Roy was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, that he has no problems with the suggestions made for speedy disposal of case by senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, appointed as amicus curiae in the matter. Mehta said that if proceedings of any of these cases against lawmakers are stayed by the high court, then the top court may direct the it to decide the matter in a time bound manner. He told the bench that these cases "must reach their logical conclusion within a time bound manner" and if any central agency (like CBI or ED) is not proceeding with the matter despite there being no stay then he would take up the issue at another level. "Whatever directions will come from the Supreme Court, the Union of India will welcome them," Mehta said, adding that if there are any lacunae regarding infrastructure of special courts, then the top court may direct the state government concerned to do the needful within a maximum of one month. At the outset, Hansaria, along with advocate Sneha Kalita, referred to the details of cases against MPs and MLAs from his report. The bench asked Hansaria about the status of the cases being investigated by central agencies like CBI and ED, some of them pending since several years. Hansaria said that several Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA) cases have been stayed by the high courts like in Karnataka and many cases under the PC Act and the PMLA against elected representatives have been stayed by the Telangana high court. He said in some of these cases trials have not been expedited and many of them are pending at the stage of framing of charges. The bench observed that there may be cases where the central agencies have registered FIRs but nothing much has happened thereafter. To this, Hansaria said there are several cases where even charges have not been framed. The bench observed that there are several issues like non-appointment of public prosecutors, charge sheets not being filed and witnesses not being called. The apex court observed that if there is only one special court in one state then it may not be possible to conduct all these cases in a time bound manner. Mehta said that the court may consider having a particular number of cases in one special court. He also referred to the geographical aspect of a particular state and said that the chief justice of the high court of states may decide the number of cases to be dealt with by a special court. Hansaria said that there are states which are big and it is very difficult for the witnesses to travel from one part of the state to other part. Mehta said the Centre had released funds to the states for creation of special courts and several states have not yet filed the utilisation certificate with the Centre. The bench, which said it would consider the suggestions given by the solicitor general, said it will pass order on these issues which have also been raised in Hansaria's report. At the fag end of hearing, Mehta requested the court that direction regarding funding issue may be avoided at this stage as he will have to take instruction on this aspect. Mehta said he agreed with the demarcation that cases having offences attracting life sentence and under the PC Act should be given priority as suggested by the amicus curiae. Hansaria had suggested that after death or life sentence cases and corruption, money laundering cases, the special court should take up cases like SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Offences under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, (POCSO). He said that thereafter the special court may take up cases of offences punishable with imprisonment for seven years or more and other crime related matters. The top court was earlier informed that the politicians are facing criminal trials in 4,442 cases across the nation and out of these, sitting MPs and MLAs are undertrials in as many as 2,556 such matters, sought further information from all high courts about other pending cases against sitting and former lawmakers. Hansaria in his supplementary report said that more than 200 cases are pending against lawmakers under special laws such as the PCA, PMLA and the POCSO Act, 2012 in different states. Over a dozen cases are also pending against Members of Parliament or Members of Legislative Assembly (both former and sitting) for offences under the Income Tax Act, Companies Act, Prevention of Arms Act, Excise Act and NDPS Act, the apex court was informed. The report said the analysis of pending cases also shows that there is no uniformity on setting up of Special Courts for MPs/MLAs throughout the country. The plea filed by advocate Ashiwini Upadhyay has also sought a direction to the Centre to take appropriate steps to debar the person convicted for the offences specified under some provisions of the Representation of the People Act (RPA) from contesting “MLA or MP election, forming a political party or becoming office bearer of political party”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-favours-time-bound-trial-of-pending-cases-against-lawmakers-before-supreme-court-888337.html
16-09-2020||National Politics||Tata Projects Ltd wins bid to construct new Parliament building||Tata Projects Limited on Wednesday won the bid to construct a new Parliament building at a cost of Rs 861.9 crore. The company beat L&T Ltd, which had submitted a bid of Rs 865 crore, officials in the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) said.  CPWD bid document had offered an estimated cost of Rs 889 crore for the project. Existing Parliament building will continue to function whilst the project is being executed, said the department. The new Parliament building, which is a part of the Central Vista redevelopment project, will be built on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate, that currently houses a reception, boundary walls and other temporary structures. As per the plan, the government wanted to start the construction activities after Parliament's Winter session and complete the project within 21 months. The ground plus two-storey triangular structure will comprise of halls with an increased seating capacity for both houses of Parliament. There will also be a foyer, offices for members of Parliament, and a dining facility. The famed Parliament library will continue to be housed in the current Parliament building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tata-projects-ltd-wins-bid-to-construct-new-parliament-building-888473.html
16-09-2020||National Politics||Confrontation brews between Govt, Opposition over bills to replace ordinances||A confrontation is brewing between the Government and the Opposition over four bills to replace ordinances -- three on agriculture and one on cooperative banks -- with the former not agreeing to the demand for Parliamentary scrutiny of the bills. The Government's attempt to win over the Opposition did not succeed as Rajya Sabha floor leaders in a meeting with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Rajya Sabha Leader of House Tawarchand Gehlot, Deputy Leader of House Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi remained adamant that these bills with "far-reaching" impact could not be rushed through. This is the first time that the Government is meeting leaders in the Monsoon Session of Parliament, which started on September 14 and ending on October 1. The customary all-party meeting ahead of the Session could not be convened due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said the leaders were told that the Defence Minister will make a statement on the situation on India-China border in Rajya Sabha on Thursday following which there will be a window for the MPs to seek clarifications from him. In Lok Sabha, Opposition MPs had demanded that they be allowed to speak after Singh's statement but were not allowed, leading to a walkout by the Congress.  The discussion on Covid-19 situation will continue on Friday till 12 noon. Although the Opposition is ready to cooperate with the government to pass seven other bills to replace other ordinances, they said the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill and Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill should be sent to Parliamentary Standing Committees. The meeting was attended by Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma, Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh, Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien, DMK's Tiruchi Siva, CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem, TRS' K Keshava Rao, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav and RJD's Manoj K Jha among others. "These are very important bills. We cannot rush through. It needs Parliamentary scrutiny. The government wants to pass it in this Session itself. But we are opposed to any such hasty move," a senior Opposition leader said. However, there was agreement on both sides to hold short duration discussions on the economy and National Education Policy and a Calling Attention Motion on GST. The schedule for these discussions has not been drawn. As the Opposition leaders demanded more time to discuss these issues as two hours would not be sufficient, sources said, Joshi felt that it may lead to an extension of the Session by a week to get all the Bills passed. While two Opposition leaders said it was a "passing reference", another leader said the Opposition pointed out that it would turn out to be a "public spectacle" by forcing MPs over 70 years to be in Delhi for more time. Sources said another round of meeting is likely to be held on Friday to attempt a consensus on thorny issues. The meeting between the government and the Opposition came after a view emerged in the Business Advisory Committee of Rajya Sabha that there was a need for a consultation with floor leaders, as a difference of opinion over issues had emerged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/confrontation-brews-between-govt-opposition-over-bills-to-replace-ordinances-888496.html
16-09-2020||National Politics||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari tests positive for Covid-19||Union Transport Minister and senior BJP leader Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and isolated himself. Yesterday, I was feeling weak and consulted my Doctor. During the course of my check up, I have been tested COVID 19 positive. I am at present doing well with the blessings and good wishes of all. I have isolated myself. In a tweet, he said, "Yesterday, I was feeling weak and consulted my doctor. During the course of my check-up, I have been tested Covid-19 positive." Gadkari is presently "doing well with the blessings and good wishes of all" and has isolated himself. He also asked people who came in contact with him to be careful and follow protocol. A number of Union Ministers have tested positive for Covid-19 since August, including Home Minister Amit Shah and Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. Union Ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Arjun Meghwal, Shripad Yesso Naik, Kailash Chaudhary, Krishan Pal Gujjar and Suresh Angadi were also tested positive for Covid-19. After recovering from Covid-19, Shah was admitted twice to AIIMS. He is still in AIIMS where he was admitted on Saturday night for the second time with the hospital authorities claiming that he was asked to come for a check-up before the Parliament's Monsoon Session that started earlier this Monday. He has not attended the Monsoon Session while there was no health update from AIIMS about Shah's health except one on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-nitin-gadkari-tests-positive-for-covid-19-888522.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||At least 12 people missing as boat capsizes in Chambal river in Rajasthan's Kota||Nearly 12 people are missing after a boat carrying over 40 devotees to a temple in Bundi district of Rajasthan capsized in the Chambal river here on Wednesday morning, police said. Around 25 people were rescued, they added. The incident took place near the Dhibri Chambal area under the Khatoli police station limits of Kota. "A boat carrying over 40 devotees to a temple in Indergarh area of Bundi district capsized in Chambal river under Khatoli police station of Kota district at around 8.45 am on Wednesday," Superintendent of Police, Kota Rural, Sharad Choudhary told PTI. Around 20-25 people are reported to have managed to swim to the shore or have been rescued, while 10-12 people are reported missing, the SP said, adding that he and the Kota district collector were on the way to the spot. A rescue operation is underway, Choudhary said. According to locals, 40–50 people, including women and children, had left for the Kamleshwar Mahadev temple in Indergarh area of Bundi district from villages in Khatoli police station area on Wednesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-12-people-missing-as-boat-capsizes-in-chambal-river-in-rajasthans-kota-888245.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh government collecting charges for unloading, cleaning wheat: MP Javed Ali Khan||The Uttar Pradesh government is charging Rs 20 per quintal in cash in the name of unloading and cleaning charges for wheat procured from farmers and has not reimbursed them in the last three years, an MP in Rajya Sabha alleged. Raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, Javed Ali Khan of the Samajwadi Party said the government has fixed a minimum support price of Rs 1925 per quintal for wheat but farmers are being paid only Rs 1905. Narrating his own experience of selling wheat at a government-mandated procurement centre, he claimed that he was asked to pay Rs 20 per quintal in cash as cleaning and unloading charges. "When I demanded so see the order to this effect, the official at the procurement mandi showed me an Uttar Pradesh government order mandating Rs 20 per quintal as a charge for unloading and cleaning," he said. The order stated that this charge would be reimbursed to farmers once cleared by the Centre and approved by the chief minister, he said, adding farmers have not received any reimbursement in the last three years. "They don't take cheque or do an (RTGS) account transfer. They take cash and do not give a receipt," he alleged. He said 36 lakh tonnes of wheat was procured in Uttar Pradesh this year and Rs 72 crore has been collected from farmers as this charge. At the national level, Rs 780 crore may have been collected as part of these charges from farmers on 90 lakh tonnes of wheat procured, he said asking under what account can cash be taken and no receipt given. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asked the government to take note of the issue. Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad raised the issue of abolition of self-help groups for engineers in Jammu and Kashmir which has rendered 15,000 people unemployed. He said economic activity has come to a standstill and unemployment has risen since the time Jammu and Kashmir was downgraded to a UT 13 months ago. In 2003, the Congress-PDP government had constituted self-help groups for unemployed engineers so they could take up contracts. Initially, such groups could take contracts up to Rs 5 lakh and as they gained experience they could take up to Rs 1 crore of contracts. This helped give employment to 15,000 engineers, he said, adding four days back the UT administration has abolished these self-help groups, rendering them jobless. P Bhattacharya of the Congress sought that traditional system of medicines such as homeopathy should be encouraged alongside allopathy in the treatment of coronavirus. Vandana Chavan (NCP) raised the issue of students of vulnerable sections of society being unable to take benefit of online education as 27 per cent of students neither had smartphones nor TVs, nor laptops. She demanded that the government upgrade digital infrastructure and make available basic digital devices to such students. Digvijaya Singh of the Congress raised the issue of a spurt in the price of oxygen cylinders across states such as Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha, and Uttar Pradesh. The price of oxygen refill has risen from Rs 10 per cubic meter to Rs 50, he said, adding the government should strictly enforce the Rs 17 ceiling fixed for the same. Bhagwat Karad of the BJP too joined the issue, saying there was black marketing of oxygen. Swapan Dasgupta (Nominated) sought central forces for the security of Vishwa Bharti University as the local administration was "unresponsive" to the demand of the institution. The university, he said, has been closed since August 17 after vandalism on the campus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-government-collecting-charges-for-unloading-cleaning-wheat-mp-javed-ali-khan-888256.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi to get its first wild animal rescue center by end of 2020||Delhi is likely to get its first wild animal rescue centre by the end of the year, Forest department officials said on Wednesday. The facility will come up on a 1.24-acre plot in Rajokri where a monkey rescue centre is lying abandoned, they said. Three rapid response teams of five members each will be constituted to rescue stranded animals and rehabilitate them at the Rajokri facility, an official said. The Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority has sanctioned funds for these purposes. The teams will be constituted in a month, while the facility will be ready by year-end, the official said. The animal rescue centre will come up in place of a proposed facility for birds. "There was a proposal for a wild bird rescue centre pending before the Supreme Court-constituted Central Empowered Committee. The panel opined there was no need for it considering only kites, pigeons and other such birds will be treated there," an official told PTI. The panel was not quite convinced about setting aside government resources for birds which are not of great conservation value and asked the Forest department to provide data justifying the requirement of such a centre. "When we went through data of animals rescued, we came to know that birds alone did not justify a separate facility. But if we talk of wild animals rescued, such as nilgai, mongoose, monkeys and jackals, and reptiles, there is more than adequate justification," the official said. Approval of the Ridge Management Board was needed to "broaden" the proposal of a wild bird rescue centre to a wild animal rescue centre. The wild animal rescue centre will also be used for treating birds, he said. The proposal was to be discussed at a meeting of the Ridge Management Board on January 18 which could not be convened in view of the Assembly polls in February. Thereafter, it was delayed due to the Covid-19-triggered lockdown. "The proposal will now be discussed in a board meeting slated for Friday. Once we have the approval of the RMB, we will approach the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee (CEC) with adequate justification," the official said. Approval of the Supreme Court through the CEC is required to use Ridge land for any other purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-get-its-first-wild-animal-rescue-center-by-end-of-2020-888265.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir gears up for bypolls to 13,000 vacant Panchayat seats||Despite the prevailing Covid-19 crisis, Jammu and Kashmir government has set into motion an exercise to draw a road map and schedule for conduct of by-elections for nearly 13,000 vacant panchayat seats and large number of Block Development Councils (BDCs). Sources said in this regard, the government has framed apex and divisional-level committees who are likely to give a report by the end of this month. “The report of the apex committee will be tabled before J&K Lieutenant Governor, who in consultation with the Union Ministry of Home Affairs will take final decision about holding the bypolls most probably by the end of October,” they said. As per a government order, apex and divisional-level committees have been constituted to conduct preparatory work for elections to the vacant Panchayat and BDC seats. The apex-level committee, headed by Principal Secretary to the government Home Department, has been asked to draw a road map and detailed schedule for conduct of elections on the basis of inputs from the divisional-level committees and upon assessment of ground-level situation. The Committee will take into consideration various requirements including security, logistics, personnel and equipment, sources said. When the elections for panchayats were held in November-December 2018, close to 60% of the total seats in Kashmir had remained vacant due to lack of participation by the regional parties - National Conference (NC) and PDP - in the electoral process. The election was largely boycotted in Kashmir and over 12,600 panchayat seats are still lying vacant. Earlier on February 13, J&K Chief Electoral Officer Shalinder Kumar had announced to hold bypolls to fill the vacant Panchayat seats in eight-phase polls from March 5 to March 20. It was also declared that bypolls will be conducted on a party basis unlike the Panchayat polls in November-December 2018 which were held on a non-party basis. However, just five days later, Kumar announced that the bypolls were postponed for three weeks due to security reasons. And the exercises got further delayed after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-gears-up-for-bypolls-to-13000-vacant-panchayat-seats-888268.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Man arrested for duping over 2,500 people by offering phones on EMI||A 32-year-old man was arrested from Ghaziabad for allegedly duping over 2,500 people on the pretext of getting them mobile phones on EMI through fake websites, police said on Wednesday. Accused Jitender Singh disclosed to the police that he along with his associates -- Praveen Kumar and Rajat Shukla -- indulged in defrauding people by offering them to provide mobile phones on easy monthly installments. However, after taking a small amount as down payment from them, they would vanish, police said, adding Singh confessed to have duped over 2,500 people across the country this way. The police said that efforts are being made to trace Singh's associates Kumar and Shukla. The matter came to notice when a probe was initiated on January 9 on the complaint of one Irfan Pathan, who alleged that in December last year, he wanted to buy a mobile phone and came across a website -- www.mobilityworld.in -- which offered them on EMIs at cheap rates, the police said. In order to make a purchase, he was asked to deposit Rs 1,499 by Virtual Private Address (VPA) ''paymobile@upi''. He was then contacted by the “executives” of the website who asked him to deposit further money for getting the mobile phone delivered. He deposited Rs 5,998 in three transactions on VPA provided by the executive of the website. But he neither got any mobile phone nor did they return his the money, according to the complainant. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) RP Meena said that during the course of the investigation, call details of the mobile numbers mentioned on the website and those provided by the complainant were obtained. On analysis of the Call Detail Record, it was found that one of the mobile numbers used by the accused was registered on the name of Rajat Shukla. On analysing the details of VPA ‘paymobile@upi’, it was found that it was linked to a bank account of Rajat Shukla. However, the money from the said bank account used to be immediately credited into Singh’s account, he said. Singh was arrested later from his home in Ghaziabad on Tuesday and two mobile phones used by him in commission of crime were sized, he added. During interrogation, Singh disclosed that in last two years, he along with his associates have duped people through three fake websites created by them, the police said. They shifted their setup and domain name of the websites to avoid detection and took money through Virtual Private address to make detection difficult, they added. “They often took small amounts of Rs 1,999 to Rs 7,999 so that the victim would not approach the police," the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-for-duping-over-2500-people-by-offering-phones-on-emi-888308.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi government directs schools to observe 'dry day' once a week to prevent mosquito breeding||The Delhi government has directed all schools in the national capital to observe "dry day" once a week during which coolers, flower pots, bird pots, water containers, stagnant water and other possible sites be checked thoroughly to prevent mosquito breeding. The move is part of the awareness campaign for school students against vector-borne diseases like dengue, malaria and chikungunya. "The rainy season is most conducive for vector-borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya and malaria which spread during this time every year. These are all mosquito generated diseases and they sometimes gain epidemic proportions if preventive measures are not taken. "Prevention is the best method to control any disease. In order to control and prevent the outbreak, it is essential to prevent breeding of mosquitoes and students should be made aware of this," the Directorate of Education (DoE) said in a letter to school principals. In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic all the schools are closed for students and hence all heads of schools are directed to utilize the facilities of social media and mass messaging to give instructions to students to follow at home, it added. Wearing full-sleeved clothing, using mosquito repellents, putting wire mesh on doors and windows to prevent entry of mosquitoes, covering all water tanks and containers with well fitted lids to prevent breeding of mosquitoes, are among the measures listed in the awareness campaign. "Observance of dry day once in a week in all schools (preferably on last working day) during which coolers, flower pots, bird pots, water containers, any scrap, stagnant water and other possible breeding sites to be checked thoroughly for ensuring no possibility of mosquito breeding," the DoE said. All schools have also been directed to appoint a nodal officer who will be responsible for all activities related to the prevention and control of vector-borne diseases and monitor the activities being carried out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-directs-schools-to-observe-dry-day-once-a-week-to-prevent-mosquito-breeding-888319.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Wednesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. "Last week, I took a Covid test after having light fever. Its report was negative. I was tested again since I was feeling unwell. The report has now come as positive," he tweeted in Hindi. Gupta said he was already in quarantine during the last week and advised those who had come in his contact to get themselves tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-president-adesh-gupta-tests-positive-for-covid-19-888325.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan reports 7 more Covid-19 deaths, toll at 1271||Rajasthan on Wednesday recorded seven more coronavirus fatalities, taking the overall toll in the state to 1,271, according to a health department bulletin. The state also reported 802 new cases Wednesday, which pushed the total number of infection to 1,06,700, of whom 17,541 people are under treatment, it said. As per the bulletin, so far, 86,333 people have been discharged after treatment. In Jaipur, the death toll from the coronavirus infection has reached 304 till now, followed by 125 in Jodhpur, 99 in Bikaner, 90 in Ajmer, 89 in Kota, 73 in Bharatpur, 49 in Pali, 44 in Nagaur, 37 in Udaipur, 31 in Alwar, 26 in Barmer and 24 in Dholpur. The fresh cases included 116 in Jaipur, 113 in Jodhpur, 49 in Kota, 45 in Alwar, 43 in Ajmer, 37 in Pratapgarh besides cases reported in other districts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-reports-7-more-covid-19-deaths-toll-at-1271-888344.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Congress, BJP MPs raise black marketing of oxygen in Rajya Sabha||Black-marketing of oxygen during the Covid-19 pandemic was raised in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday with senior Congress MP Digvijaya Singh and BJP lawmaker Bhagwat Karad seeking the intervention of the government in curbing the practice. Raising the issue during Zero Hour, Singh said there is an exponential rise in the price of oxygen cylinders across the country and especially in states like Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. He said that the price of oxygen refill has risen from Rs 10 per cubic meter to Rs 50. He said the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority has set the ceiling at Rs 17 per cubic metre and the government should strictly enforce it. In Uttar Pradesh, he said that a small oxygen cylinder, which earlier cost Rs 130, is now being sold at Rs 350. The security deposit for cylinders has risen from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000. Referring to Gujarat, he said that the price has risen from Rs 8.50 per litre to Rs 25-28 per litre. Joining the issue, Karad said that there is black-marketing of oxygen and it should be curbed. Both Singh and Karad, who is a doctor, said oxygen is very essential in the treatment of Covid-19 as several patients suffer from low levels of oxygen. Singh said several patients have died in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas, Chhindwara and Jabalpur due to lack of oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-congress-bjp-mps-raise-black-marketing-of-oxygen-in-rajya-sabha-888359.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh Assembly condoles demise of ex-deputy speaker||The Himachal Pradesh Assembly Wednesday passed a condolence motion mourning the death of former deputy speaker Ram Nath Sharma, who breathed his last at a Chandigarh hospital after a prolonged illness. Sharma passed away on Tuesday at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. As soon as the House assembled in the morning on the eighth day of the ongoing monsoon session, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur presented the condolence motion. Several legislators including Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar spoke on the motion before it was passed. Sharma, after serving in the Indian Navy (medical corps) for eight years, was elected twice (in 1977 and 1985) for the state Assembly from Una's Kutlehar constituency. He served as the deputy speaker of Assembly from March 29, 1989, to March 3, 1990, during the Virbhadra Singh-led Congress government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-assembly-condoles-demise-of-ex-deputy-speaker-888379.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Terror incidents reduce in Jammu and Kashmir since Article 370 scrapped: Govt||As many as 71 civilians and 74 security personnel were killed in terror attacks and ceasefire violations by Pakistan since the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution a year ago, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy also said that terrorist incidents have come down since August 5, 2019 when the Article 370 was scrapped. A total of 45 civilians and 49 security personnel were killed due to terrorist incidents from August 5, 2019 to September 10, 2020 in Jammu and Kashmir and 26 civilians and 25 security personnel were killed due to ceasefire violation by Pakistani forces along the border in the same period. Prior to the abrogation of Article 370 -- from June 29, 2018 to August 4, 2019, (total 402 days), there were 455 terror incidents in Jammu and Kashmir while from August 5, 2019 to September 9, 2020 (402 days), there were 211 terror incidents in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terror-incidents-reduce-in-jammu-and-kashmir-since-article-370-scrapped-govt-888381.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Audio clips over bribery demand by suspended Mahoba SP appear on social media||Five audio clips with conversations on bribes being allegedly demanded from stone traders by suspended Mahoba SP Manilal Patidar have surfaced on social media. At least two of the purported audio clips are linked to slain trader Indrakant Tripathi, who died in Kanpur on Sunday after he was attacked by unidentified assailants. The incident took place soon after he levelled allegations of corruption against the ex-Mahoba SP. Patidar was suspended by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and a Vigilance inquiry was ordered against him. The UP DGP had also constituted an SIT to probe the matter. According to the murdered stone trader’s family, the audio clips pertain to the phone calls made for bribe on behalf of Patidar. In one of the audio clips, a person can be heard talking to the victim's brother-in-law Brijesh Shukla. He identifies himself as Ashu Bhadauria. “I am Ashu Bhadauria calling from Mahoba. Where is your brother-in-law Indrakant. Find out immediately. Tell him that Raja Sahib is angry. Wherever he is, ask him to call,” the man can be heard in the audio clip. The trader’s nephew, Abhinav Tripathi, alleged that Bhadauria is a confidante of the suspended SP and used to extort money for him from traders and had used “Raja Sahib” for Patidar. Another audio clip, according to Abhinav Tripathi, is that of a conversation between a former MLA and his uncle, in which there is a talk over the SP “taking a bribe of Rs 5 lakh”. The former MLA is allegedly heard saying that the SP wants Rs 15 lakh for every death in a stone mine and Rs 15,000 every month per mine. The ex-MLA says he has complained to the DGP in this regard. In other viral audio clips, traders can be heard talking about "deals" with the suspended SP. On a complaint by the trader's brother Ravikant, a case was registered against Patidar, former Kabrai SHO Devendra Shukla and two others -- Suresh Soni and Brahmadutt -- under various sections of the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-audio-clips-over-bribery-demand-by-suspended-mahoba-sp-appear-on-social-media-888435.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Ladakh row: Congress accuses Modi government of double-talk||Congress on Wednesday accused the Modi government of double-talk as it categorically denied any Chinese infiltration in the past six months, a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh admitted to the build-up of Chinese troops in “inner areas” along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. The main Opposition party also attacked the Modi government for taking loans to the tune of 750 million dollars from the Beijing-based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) to provide financial support to the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), at a time when the armed forces are fighting Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. “Understand the chronology: PM said-no one crossed the border; then took a huge loan from a China-based bank. Then, the Defence Minister said China occupied our land. Now MOS Home says there is no infiltration. Is Modi government with Indian Army or with China? Modi ji, why so scared,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said.  Understand the chronology: 🔹PM said- no one crossed the border🔹Then, took a huge loan from a China-based bank🔹Then, Def Min said- China occupied our land🔹Now, MOS Home says- there’s no infiltration. Is Modi Govt with Indian Army or with China? Modi ji, why so scared? Addressing reporters outside the Parliament, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera claimed that the Union ministers are speaking in different voices on the India-China standoff in Ladakh. “June 19 is a black day in the history of India because that was the first time that any Prime Minister lied to the nation. Not only did he give a clean chit to China that day, but also signed a loan agreement with the Beijing-based AIIB to the tune of $750 million,” he said. Khera expressed shock at Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai’s response to a question that categorically denies any infiltration by China during the last six months. “This is a shameless insult to the martyrdom of our brave soldiers on the night of June 15 in the Galwan valley,” he said. Congress questioned whether the government is trying to say that the Galwan clash happened in the Chinese territory. “The nation is shocked at such brazen duplicity of the Modi government in handling China's territorial aggression,” Khera said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-row-congress-accuses-modi-government-of-double-talk-888436.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand police launches another search for Kedarnath tragedy victims||The Uttarakhand police dispatched 10 teams to Kedarnath on Wednesday in search of the thousands of people who went missing after the devastating deluge of June, 2013. The teams will conduct their search for 10 days in different directions around the Himalayan temple for the victims of the tragedy who are still missing, Director General of Police (Law and Order) Ashok Kumar said. Each team, led by a police sub-inspector and consisting of two police constables, two SDRF personnel and a pharmacist, fanned out in different directions of Gaurikund, near the temple, from Sonprayag after taking necessary instructions from Rudraprayag Superintendent of Police (SP) Navneet Singh, he said. The pharmacists will take the DNA sample of any evidence related to the victims on the spot, the DGP said. The search operation is being conducted on the orders of the Uttarakhand High Court. Equipped with sleeping bags, tents and wireless sets for exchanging information, the teams will search for the missing people with the help of Google map or the GPS system, the DGP said, adding that the operation will also be videographed. Several such search operations for the missing people have been conducted by the police in the last seven years, which have led to the recovery of some skeletons or skeletal remains of disjointed body parts. Their DNA test results were sent to their families.  According to an official estimate, the tragedy left more than 4,000 people missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-police-launches-another-search-for-kedarnath-tragedy-victims-888437.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||At least 11 dead as boat overturns in Rajasthan's Kota||At least 11 people, including women and children, were killed after a boat carrying over 30 devotees to a temple in Rajasthan's Bundi district capsized in the Chambal river here on Wednesday morning, officials said. Three people are still missing while 20 devotees were rescued, they added. Belonging to the Khatoli–Itawa area of Kota, they were going to the Kamleshwar temple in Indergarh of Bundi to offer prayers. The accident took place around 8.45 am near Gotra village under the Khatoli police station, about 110 kilometres from Kota district headquarters. The depth of the river where the boat overturned is around 40-45 feet, an official said, adding a rescue operation was launched by the SDRF and the NDRF. “At least 11 people have been killed in the mishap in Khatoli while the search for three others is under way,” District Collector Ujjaval Rathore said, adding that 20 people were rescued. According to local residents, 35-50 people were on board with 14 to 15 motorbikes when the accident took place, he added. The district collector said prima facie, a weak structure of the boat caused the mishap. Area DSP Shubhkaran said the bodies were handed over to families after autopsy and they have lodged a case against the boat’s Sailor and owner. Describing the incident as “sorrowful and unfortunate”, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on his Twitter handle expressed condolences to the aggrieved families. The chief minister announced a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the kin of each deceased. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who is an MP from the Kota-Bundi constituency of Rajasthan, too expressed grief over the incident. Local Congress MLA Ramnarayan Meena expressed sorrow over the tragedy and demanded that the relief amount be increased. “I have written to CM Ashok Gehlot to increase the compensation,” Meena told PTI, alleging that negligence by local officials resulted in the mishap. When local officials were aware of the movement of the boat, they should have informed their seniors, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-11-dead-as-boat-overturns-in-rajasthans-kota-888490.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Video shows MP minister, Cong worker pushing each other||A video has surfaced on social media purportedly showing Madhya Pradesh Energy Minister Pradhuman Singh Tomar and a Congress worker pushing each other when the former tried to meet Manjhi community protesters in Gwalior's Phool Bagh area. The incident took place on Wednesday afternoon when Tomar came to accept a memorandum from Manjhi community members, who held an agitation over their demand. At that time, some Congress workers also came to the spot to protest against the removal of the party's hoardings by the local civic body. The video shows Tomar snatching the Congress flag from a party worker, after which minister and the opposition party worker can be seen pushing and shoving each other. Congress workers later raised slogans against the minister. The Congress workers were protesting against the removal of hoardings and banners put up to welcome state party chief Kamal Nath, who is scheduled to arrive here on September 18. Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Satyendra Singh Tomar said when the minister came to Phool Bagh to take a memorandum, a couple of protesting Congress workers came near him. "The security personnel took these protesters away and took the minister safely ahead to enable him to accept the memorandum," he said, adding that no case was registered in connection with the incident. The minister later said, "Congress workers created disorder in bid to reach the spot. But this will not deter a public servant. Kamal Nath, during his 15-month long tenure as chief minister, did not give even 15 minutes for Gwalior." He accused the previous Congress government of not sanctioning funds for hospitals here. "Now, the Congress is spending crores on advertisements and hoardings," the minister alleged. After the incident, former minister and Congress MLA Lakhan Yadav and Congress candidate from Gwalior (bypoll seat) Sunil Sharma staged a dharna at the site. "The posters-banners of the Congress are being removed due to fear of BJP leaders and ministers, but the common people are with us. How will the BJP take them away?" Sharma asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-shows-mp-minister-cong-worker-pushing-each-other-888506.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan minister flags off five bike ambulances||Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma flagged off five bike ambulances or first responder vehicles on Wednesday. The bike ambulances would be helpful in taking patients to the hospital from the narrow streets of the city, the minister said, adding that trained nursing staff will operate the vehicles. National Health Mission Director Naresh Thakran said the bike ambulances are equipped with state-of-the-art facilities like a first-aid box, an oxygen cylinder with flow meter, humidifier mask, fire retardant equipment, foldable hood and a three-tone siren. Each vehicle is worth Rs 1.7 lakh, he said. Senior officials of the department and Hero MotoCorp attended the ceremony at the minister's residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-minister-flags-off-five-bike-ambulances-888556.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||BJP responsible for northeast Delhi riots: AAP||The BJP is responsible for the Delhi riots and there are public records to show that its leaders had spread hatred between two communities, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said on Wednesday. Responding to a question on the recent arrests in the northeast Delhi riots case, Bhardwaj said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) holds the BJP responsible for instigating the riots. "AAP has a straight take on Delhi riots that the BJP and main people of the party are responsible,” he said. “This doesn’t even need investigation as public records are available to show how they spread hatred between two communities and they increased hatred to the extent that it led to riots. Everyone knows how the party contributed to the riots," he said. He further claimed that Delhi Police and other investigating agencies have become political wings of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "Everyone knows that the police, ED, CBI, Income Tax department they all are political wings of BJP. Like there is youth wing, women’s wing, traders’ wing so these are Delhi Police wing of BJP, CBI wing of BJP. Their credibility is minimum so there is no point commenting on them. Delhi Police can name anyone as per their imagination," Bhardwaj claimed. Hitting back, Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said, “The matter is in court and the enquiry is happening under court’s observation. Why is AAP so afraid of this inquiry and arrests?” He claimed that there are “links” between Tahir Hussain, suspended AAP leader who is an accused in the riots case, and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Communal riots had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violent clashes between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those against the legislation spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. In their attempt to prevent violence, 108 police personnel received injuries and two died. Bhardwaj also claimed that the Central government has taken a massive loan from China for the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana project. In response to this allegation, Khurana said Bhardwaj must trust constitutional bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-responsible-for-northeast-delhi-riots-aap-888561.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||SAD asks Rajya Sabha MPs to oppose farm Bills||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday issued a whip to its members in the Rajya Sabha, asking them to oppose the Centre’s farm-related legislations in the House. It was issued by the party’s chief whip Naresh Gujral. They were directed to opposed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020; Farmers' Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; and Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. SAD chief and Ferozepur Lok Sabha MP Sukhbir Singh Badal too had on Tuesday voted against the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the lower house of Parliament. The party has three members in the Rajya Sabha--Naresh Gujral, Balwinder Singh Bhunder and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa. Dhindsa is now a rebel Akali leader. He had floated another political outfit in July this year. Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, along with his son and former state finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa, was expelled from the SAD in February this year allegedly for “anti-party” activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-asks-rajya-sabha-mps-to-oppose-farm-bills-888572.html
16-09-2020||North and Central||Students of classes 9 to 12 can visit schools from September 21 in Haryana to consult teachers||From September 21, students of classes 9 to 12 will be allowed to visit their schools in Haryana on a voluntary basis for academic help. In a letter to district education officers (DEOs), the Directorate of School Education has mentioned the central government's guidelines under "Unlock-4", which permit students of classes 9 to 12 to visit their schools outside the containment zones on a voluntary basis, to consult their teachers and take their guidance. In view of the coronavirus outbreak, the SOPs will have to be followed by the schools when they partially reopen from Monday to allow the students to consult their teachers. The teachers will have to download Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones and take a Covid-19 test before partial reopening of the schools, which have remained shut since mid-March, as per the communique to the DEOs. The students will need written consent from their parents before coming to schools, where they will undergo thermal scanning before entering the premises and will have to wear masks and sanitize their hands, and social distancing will be ensured when they are seated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-of-classes-9-to-12-can-visit-schools-from-september-21-in-haryana-to-consult-teachers-888575.html
16-09-2020||Opinion||A novel way of lockdown||The lock-downs and shut-downs in many places recently days brought me back memories of a similar situation when I was working as Superintendent of Police of a district decades ago.  A clash between two communities during the celebration of a festival in a village had snowballed into a conflagration and had enveloped the entire district.  Since a small town was the epicentre of the problem, I rushed there with the District Magistrate and held discussions with community leaders of both sides and appealed for peace. When this didn’t bring the desired result, we promulgated prohibitory orders, deployed contingents of paramilitary police and held flag marches. Despite doing everything in the book to bring the situation under control, peace didn’t return. Defying the orders, miscreants would come on the roads and set fire to the houses of members of rival community in true guerrilla-style. I was worried and called an experienced Deputy Superintendent of Police and sought his advice. He said that drastic times call for drastic measures and suggested the imposition of curfew. When no incident occurred for a day, we relaxed the curfew for a few hours so that people could get essential commodities. However, during the relaxation, violence once again broke out and we had to repeatedly use force. I became worried because a curfew was the last weapon in our arsenal and if it failed there was no other solution in sight. I conferred with the Dy SP again. He said that he had a solution. I gave him a go-ahead provided it was not against law. Two days later, leaders of both communities sought an urgent meeting with me and promised that they would ensure peace if I withdrew the curfew forthwith. Though surprised, I agreed to their request and withdrew the curfew. When normalcy returned, I called the Dy SP and asked him how he had achieved the near-impossible.   He smiled and said, “It was simple. I knew very few houses in this town have toilets, and the citizens have to go to the nearby fields before sunrise. I deployed my men outside all such fields and ordered them to shoo away anyone who came there by threat of arrest. When some ‘bold’ mischief-mongers defied us and squatted in open places, they were treated to resounding lathi whacks on their bare bottoms and made to run leaving their lungies and lotas behind. I strictly enforced the curfew orders in letter and spirit and did nothing more. What a genius, I thought!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-novel-way-of-lockdown-888149.html
16-09-2020||Opinion||Why India should take the lead on Covid-19 vaccine delivery||By Mihir Sharma The pressures of the pandemic have fallen hardest on developing countries with weak governments. They’re struggling to determine who is being infected and why, and to mitigate the economic impact of lockdowns and social distancing measures. If dealing with Covid-19 is stressing those states, however, the effort required to end the pandemic may exhaust them. One critical challenge will be storage and transportation. Some of the vaccines that use the new messenger RNA technology will need to be stored at subzero temperatures, as low as minus-70 or minus-80 degrees Celsius. The vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca PLC, which the Serum Institute has licensed, can reportedly be stored in standard refrigerated environments. But even managing a regular vaccine cold chain is enormously difficult. To anyone with experience of developing-world public health infrastructure, the World Health Organization’s recommendations for managing vaccine transport make for depressing reading. The vaccine alliance GAVI’s briefing on the first-choice storage machinery — ice-lined refrigerators — is equally sobering. Each can cost thousands of dollars. Off-grid, solar-driven refrigerators, which might be needed in countries with unreliable power supply, are even more expensive. In the developed world, big investments are already being made in scaling up cold-chain infrastructure: UPS, for example, is putting millions of dollars into new “freezer farms” near air hubs in the U.S. and western Europe. Companies are unlikely to make similar investments on spec in the developing world, however. Even countries such as India, which have had some experience and success with “mission” projects in healthcare, might struggle at the expense involved in creating single-use transportation and storage infrastructure, at scale, on short notice. This is where the economic policy community needs to step in. Getting hundreds of millions of vaccine doses out to the poorest and most remote parts of the globe is in everyone’s interest; in the words of Merck and Co. Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Frazier, “none of us are safe until all of us are safe.” Solutions exist if governments, multilateral agencies, and private capital are willing to explore them. In India, for example, the government could collaborate with private capital and multilateral lenders to set up a holding company focused on developing, distributing and installing dual-use cold chain infrastructure. India’s National Centre for Cold-Chain Development — yes, it has one — has long argued that there are “synergies” between agricultural, processed-food, and medical cold-chain infrastructure.      Done right, a large network of refrigerated storage and transport created for the pandemic could have wider uses. An efficient cold chain would help permanently raise farmers’ access to markets, reduce wastage and control food inflation. Of course, this will require ministries to talk to one another, arrange de-risking mechanisms and guarantees, and then rope in possible investors. The effort will be worth it, though: If a mechanism can be evolved in India, other developing countries should be able to replicate it. Without one, it’s hard to see how those nations will escape the pandemic even with a vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-india-should-take-the-lead-on-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-888187.html
16-09-2020||Opinion||Indo-Pacific powers draw closer in response to China||On September 9, India, France and Australia held the first trilateral dialogue via videoconferencing. Senior-most officials from these three countries participated in the dialogue and issued a joint statement after the meeting. The trilateral dialogue between these countries was in the making for some time. In 2018, French President Emmanuel Macron had floated the idea of such a dialogue. There were active efforts initiated by leading analysts and think-tanks to further promote this idea. Therefore, the first trilateral dialogue is a welcome step. In the context of evolving geopolitics in the Indo-Pacific region, greater co-operation between these countries assumes particular strategic importance.  Maintaining stability of Indian Ocean region India, France and Australia are democracies and hold considerable stakes in the security and stability of the Indian Ocean. Australia and India are located in the Indian Ocean region, whereas France maintains its interests in the Indian Ocean through control over island territories such as Reunion and Mayotte. France considers itself as a legitimate Indian Ocean power and is working along with India to evolve a shared approach towards the Indian Ocean. India and Australia are particularly interested in the eastern reaches of the Indian Ocean and maritime geography allows these states to work together. Overall, these three countries face a similar outlook regarding the regional security issues and are supporters of rules-based international order. As China seeks to expand its military and economic presence in the Indian Ocean, countervailing groupings like these acquire relevance.    This sort of meeting was possible because, in the last decade, bilateral relations between these three powers have been strengthened considerably. Indo-French security co-operation spans areas such as joint military exercises with all three services, defence sales and providing logistics support. India and Australia are partners in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue and have recently signed logistics support agreement. There are indications that India is likely to invite the Australian Navy for the Malabar naval exercises held annually with the US and Japanese navies. To that end, there is strong support within both countries to further enhance their security co-operation.  France and Australia are now close strategic partners. Both countries hold significant stakes in the regional security of the Southern Pacific (France holds territories in the Southern Pacific) and are genuinely worried about the growing Chinese influence in that region. In 2016, Australia signed a major defence deal with France worth $38 billion for the supply of 12 submarines for the Australian Navy. Australia’s choice of France over Japan was significant as such relationships bind states in a long-term security partnership. The growing role of French defence hardware in the military strategies of India and Australia will allow these three countries to build on the objective of greater interoperability. Therefore, the idea of joint military exercises, in future, cannot be ruled out.    Response to China’s growing assertiveness This trilateral meeting has to be seen as part of a series of initiatives launched by the Indo-Pacific powers in the last few months as a response to China’s growing assertiveness. India and China are engaged in a tense border standoff since May. China’s ties with Australia are also undergoing significant change and there are serious strains in the relationship. Thus, China’s aggressive posturing and belligerent attitude have pushed regional powers in the Indo-Pacific to find ways to come closer and co-operate further. Underscoring the continued importance of the US in the geopolitics of the Indian Ocean, it has recently signed an agreement for defence co-operation with the Maldives. China’s influence in the Maldives has been a cause of worry for India. US-Maldives defence agreement is a welcome step from an Indian perspective. Moreover, Germany has released a document outlining its approach to the Indo-Pacific. Germany believes that order in the Indo-Pacific region should be shaped by ‘rules and international cooperation’. Growing German interest in Indo-Pacific and the launching of a strategy paper is considered as a departure from its China-friendly foreign policy.    All of these steps point towards the greater convergence of interests among the important actors towards maintaining peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific as well as to send out a clear message to Beijing. Whether Beijing is in a mood to listen or just wants to push forward on its objectives will be crucial in the evolution of such groupings. Continued aggressive behaviour by China is likely to strengthen such initiatives further.    (Sankalp Gurjar is a Research Fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi. Views are personal)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indo-pacific-powers-draw-closer-in-response-to-china-888323.html
16-09-2020||Panorama||Bracing for the burden of bad loans, NPAs||The economy shrank by nearly a quarter during the first three months of this fiscal year. Much of this was due to the harsh lockdown initiated in March. Roughly three-fourths of the economy was practically shut down for at least a month, after which there were a series of renewed lockdowns with partial relaxations. For this quarter, the economy suffered a triple shock, as demand, supply and finance collapsed. Unemployment rose close to 30% in April, rendering nearly 122 million people jobless. In cities, whose workforce consists of 40% migrants on an average, the toll on livelihoods was severe. With loss of jobs and income, it soon became a food crisis for many urban households, necessitating emergency measures from state governments. The central government’s initial relief package was to enhance food security by doubling the rations and extending them to November. The big Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the central government in May consisted largely of liquidity support. For instance, banks were to give Rs 3 lakh crore in loans to micro, small and medium enterprises, with the government standing guarantee. Of this, roughly half the amount has been sanctioned and loans are being disbursed. It is no wonder that the demand for loans is muted, since small businesses, already hit by zero demand, are not keen to take on additional debt burden. But those small businesses which have a cash management mismatch, i.e. they have pending invoices which have not been paid by their customers, are quite willing to take loan support to tide over their crisis. In effect, such small businesses face problem of illiquidity, not of insolvency. The situation is similar for all sectors of the economy. The Reserve Bank of India has injected liquidity worth nearly Rs 8 lakh crore cumulatively. This is a combination of interest rate cuts, buying up of government bonds from banks (called “open market operations”) and buying foreign exchange and releasing cash. The RBI has also given low-cost long-term funds to commercial banks as well as non-bank finance companies. This is called a long-term repo operation. Much of this excess liquidity, i.e. cash availability, has not resulted in loan growth, but instead probably gone into the stock market. The inflow of foreign funds plus excess liquidity in Indian banking are reasons why the stock market has recovered by more than 50% since the steep fall in March. To some extent, we have recovered from at least one of the three shocks in the triple shock, i.e. the financial shock. While GDP shrinks and supply and demand challenges remain, the second quarter GDP may show some improvement. But the growth numbers will still be negative. More than half the households, as per a survey, are reporting that their income this year will be lower than last year. Businesses, too, are struggling to catch up to pre-Covid-19 revenues. In such a situation, the bank credit to industry will be highly stressed. The bi-annual financial stability report of the RBI had already warned in its July report that non-performing assets ratio could rise a full 4% from March 2020 to March 2021. That is nearly a write-off of Rs 4 lakh crore of bank loans. If there was a “severely stressed scenario”, the NPA ratio could be 2% higher at 14.7%, which means a write-off of an additional Rs 2 lakh crore. The banks’ risk adjusted capital ratio is adequate to meet these write-offs in the aggregate. Under severe stress, this required capital buffer ratio could decline all the way to 9.4%, which is not enough as per Basel norms. But with rising bad loans, the banks will have to make a profit, and give a decent return to depositors and shareholders, by charging a profitable interest rate on the good quality loans. Hence, despite rate cuts by the RBI, the banks are unable to pass on lower interest costs to ‘good’ borrowers, since the burden of NPAs is rising. To add to these woes of banks, there has been the loan moratorium. To tide over the severe stress caused by the pandemic, the RBI announced a three-month moratorium on ‘good’ loans starting from March. This moratorium was then extended by another three months to the end of August. As of this writing, the moratorium matter is in the Supreme Court, and has been effectively extended till September 28, the date of the next hearing. he issue is that borrowers want an interest waiver, as well as a waiver on interest on interest, caused by the delay in repayments. It seems unfair to load this burden on bank depositors and shareholders. If indeed the borrowers deserve relief, then it should be given as explicit fiscal relief, i.e. from the central government’s treasury. But such a partial waiver to borrowers who opted for the moratorium and not others who did not is also problematic. The larger issue is, what is to be done about banking health in times of the pandemic. The RBI-constituted KV Kamath Committee has submitted a report identifying 26 sectors to which loans will need to be restructured, so that they are not counted as NPAs. The committee has carefully identified sectors affected directly by the pandemic which hence need relief. But those that were already doing badly pre-pandemic need to be dealt with differently. Nearly 72% of the banking sector debt has been affected by Covid-19 and will need some restructuring. The recommendations are based on clearly defined parameters and banks have been split into mild, moderate and severely stressed. Meanwhile, data from August shows that industrial credit demand is not increasing. In fact, in the first quarter, the demand for 13 out of 19 major industry groups had negative growth as per a CARE Ratings report. The other six were barely positive or zero. Banks need healthy growth in credit demand to remain viable, if not profitable. Most of the public sector banks will need a large infusion of equity from the treasury of the central government, especially on account of rising bad loans. There is simply no easy way to dodge this fiscal bullet. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bracing-for-the-burden-of-bad-loans-npas-888150.html
16-09-2020||Panorama||Breastfeeding can reduce breast cancer risk||Breast cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death in women worldwide accounting for almost 1 in 4 cancer cases among women. In India, more than 80,000 women lose their lives every year due to Breast Cancer.  However, certain factors can help in preventing or reducing the risk of breast cancer. Few studies suggest that breastfeeding can reduce the risk of breast cancer. Breastfeeding the child for a long duration after child-birth has been a common custom among Indian women. Changing lifestyle and urbanization, however, has resulted in a gradual decline in breastfeeding behaviour. Breastfeeding helps in lowering the risk of breast cancer in premenopausal women, especially when continued for 1.5 -2 years after childbirth. A prolonged breastfeeding period is associated with a longer period of lactational amenorrhea and thus reduced exposure to estrogen.  Several biological mechanisms have been proposed to explain the protective effect of breastfeeding on breast cancer risk. One of the proposed mechanisms is about how hormonal changes and alterations in molecular histology of breast that occur during breastfeeding may reduce an individual’s risk for breast cancer. Estrogen and progesterone hormones released during the menstrual cycle increase the mitotic activity in breast cells thereby increasing the risk of Breast Cancer.  Pregnancy and lactation reduce the number of lifetime menstrual cycles reducing exposure to these hormones. Thus, there is a total reduction in exposure to estrogen, which is associated with proliferative and carcinogenic effects in breast cancer. Differentiation or maturation of breast cells occurring during pregnancy is supported by breastfeeding. The differentiated cells have lesser chances of turning into cancerous cells.  The process involved during the cessation of breastfeeding (i.e. apoptosis) might reduce the risk of Breast Cancer by removing cells with initial DNA damage from the breast tissue.  Breastfeeding not only reduces the risk of breast cancer but also confers other health benefits to the mother such as the reduced risk for endometrial and ovarian cancers and reduced risk for chronic conditions such as hypertension and diabetes. Breastfeeding for a longer duration (> 12 months) is associated with more protection for breast cancer than lesser (< 6months and 6-12 months) duration when compared to no breastfeeding at all (Chowdhury et al., 2015). The longer the duration of breastfeeding is, the greater is the protection. The risk gets reduced by 4% for every 12 months of breastfeeding. An inverse relationship was found between the duration of breastfeeding and the risk of breast cancer among premenopausal women. According to various research papers, with prolonged breastfeeding, a reduction in the risk of breast cancer among premenopausal women has been reported. Younger age at first lactation was also found to be associated with reduced risk of premenopausal breast cancer. Breast-feeding also has a protective role in females with BRCA1 gene mutation who have an increased risk for the development of breast cancer. Breastfeeding for one or more years conferred a significant 32% reduction in risk in BRCA1 mutation carriers. Women with BRCA mutation should be advised of the benefits of breastfeeding in reducing the risk of breast cancer. As breastfeeding is one of the few known modifiable risk factors for breast cancer. Advocating breastfeeding and creating awareness in women will not only improve the child’s health but will also reduce the risk of breast cancer on the mother. The need of the hour is various health campaigns which can educate women about breastfeeding behaviour and explain its contribution in reducing the risk of breast cancer. While breastfeeding does reduce the risk of breast cancer, it doesn’t completely nullify the chances. It is important to screen your breast annually.    (The writer is CEO & CTO, NIRAMAI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/breastfeeding-can-reduce-breast-cancer-risk-888152.html
16-09-2020||Second Edit||AFSPA extension disappointing||Any hope that Assam would finally have a respite from the draconian Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act has been belied once again with its extension for another six months in the state. The state has not had any major incident related to militancy or insurgency in the last many months. In the past six months, there was nothing but the pandemic to fight and it is likely to be the major challenge in the near future. The AFSPA is not only going to be of no help in that fight but may actually do some harm because it has always stood between the people and the government, causing alienation, which hampers implementation of policies of any kind. The central and state governments have been claiming that the entire North-East is free of insurgency and that militancy has been brought under control. Almost every militant organisation is in talks with the government and so the need for continued use of the law is unclear and unconvincing.  The experience of every state where AFSPA has been implemented is bad, and it has been counterproductive. The persistent abuse of its provisions has turned the people against the government, led many of them to sympathise with militants and even to join them. Security forces have got away with many extrajudicial killings and other atrocities, with AFSPA for protection. Hundreds of such killings have been documented and the Supreme Court has taken note of them. Many offences against women have taken place and their rights have often been violated. Norms about treatment of women in custody or under detention are not applicable under the AFSPA. The normal human rights of individuals, man or woman, are not respected in areas where it is in force. The people of the states in the North-East and Kashmir have been deprived of their rights for decades. In Kashmir, the situation has only deteriorated with the use of AFSPA and other draconian measures. The status of Jammu and Kashmir was changed with the promise that the situation would soon be normalised. But AFSPA continues to be in force there, along with other stringent laws.  The armed forces have always claimed that AFSPA is essential for them to fight militancy and insurgency and to keep order. The government has also been in agreement with it. The argument is untenable and has been proved wrong everywhere. The Justice JS Verma Committee, which examined the law and its implementation, was scathing in its indictment and wanted the armed forces in disturbed areas to function under the normal laws. The law, whose use and misuse cannot even be distinguished, should have no place in a democratic system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/afspa-extension-disappointing-888145.html
16-09-2020||South||Joint mobile teams will enforce Covid-19 safety norms in Puducherry: Kiran Bedi||Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi on Wednesday said joint mobile teams comprising police, revenue and municipal officials would be constituted to ensure enforcement of Covid-19 safety norms and prevention of violations of the protocols in the union territory. The teams would serve legal notices, leading to prosecution and impose penalties on violators during festivals and social gatherings. In her WhatsApp message, the former IPS officer said, "Times ahead are challenging. Festivals and ceremonies in air-conditioned closed halls would be a big risk for all breathing the same air even when one wears mask." She further said there would also be a serious violation of social distancing norms. Appealing to the public to understand that prevention and precaution would be most important right now for oneself and also for loved ones, Bedi said, "there is no real cure to this virus still. All medical facilities are only a support system." The Lt Governor noted that to ensure enforcement of safety norms joint mobile teams would be formed, which would comprise police, revenue and municipal officials and they would be called "Covid Prevention teams." The teams would videograph violation of safety norms and legal notices would be served to lead to prosecution, trial and imposition of penalties on those violating the norms during festivals and social gatherings, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/joint-mobile-teams-will-enforce-covid-19-safety-norms-in-puducherry-kiran-bedi-888307.html
16-09-2020||South||Forest officials nab man for making crude bombs to kill animals||Forest officials on Wednesday apprehended a person who manufactures country bombs and weapons to use in hunting or killing wild animals that stray into farm land in rural areas and destroy produce, police said. The officials seized a few country bombs, gun powder and other raw materials besides three crude pistols from his house, they said. The country bombs are stuffed into fruits or meat and kept in the land and animals which bite them will get injured and their jaws torn off leading to a painful death, sources added. There were more than two incidents recently where a cow and two dogs died in a similar manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/forest-officials-nab-man-for-making-crude-bombs-to-kill-animals-888354.html
16-09-2020||South||TN to get one more govt varsity: CM Palaniswami||A new university will be set at Villupuram by bifurcating the state-run Vellore based Thiruvalluvar varsity, Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced in the Assembly on Wednesday. The new university would start functioning from the current academic year, he said, adding the move follows Villupuram people's long time request in addition to the plea of Law Minister C Ve Shanmugam who hails from the region. Late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa gave importance to higher education and established a slew of colleges including arts, polytechnic and engineering, he recalled. Continuing in her footsteps, the government carried on with the initiative to set up new institutions besides upgrading the infrastructure of existing facilities. In view of such initiatives, the Gross Enrolment Ratio in Tamil Nadu stood at 49 per cent, while the national average was 26.3 per cent, he noted. Replying to DMK deputy leader Duraimurugan on splitting the Thiruvallur varsity, Palaniswami said Villupuram was backward and the move was aimed at facilitating higher education of students from that region. The administration would be more efficient only if universities were restructured in keeping with the establishment of more and more affiliating colleges, he said. In Tamil Nadu, there are at least 20 state-run universities including separate ones for medicine, law, sports, fisheries and music.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-to-get-one-more-govt-varsity-cm-palaniswami-888405.html
16-09-2020||South||Oommen Chandy's golden jubilee in electoral politics||Oommen Chandy, one of the most popular politicians in Kerala, is achieving a rare feat of being a legislature for 50 years in a row from the same constituency - Puthuppally in Kottayam on Thursday. Only a few politicians, including Kerala Congress leader K M Mani who died last year, had such an achievement. Mass connect is the highlight of Chandy, fondly and popularly referred to as OC. He was a two-time Chief Minister of Kerala and was a minister in four Congress government. The popularity of Chandy is very well evident from the fact that his victory margin has kept on increasing in each election, except for the last one. Despite the strong allegations against him, Chandy's victory margin suffered only a marginal decrease, from 33,255 in 2011 to 27,092 in 2016. The 77-year-old leader is one of the Chief Minister probable if Congress regains power in Kerala in the upcoming Assembly polls. To queries in this regard, Chandy has avoided giving a direct reply stating that the high command will take a call on such matters after the polls. Chandy, who hails from Kottayam district, entered politics through students movements. He served as president of Kerala Students' Union, the students' wing of Congress, as well as state president of Youth Congress. Chandy made his electoral debut in 1970 and won with a majority of 7,288 votes. Thereafter, he successfully faced ten more elections. Chandy became a minister at the age of 33 with the labour portfolio. Later he served as State Home Minister and Finance Minister. He became the Chief Minister in 2004 for a brief-term of fewer than two years following the resignation of A K Antony. He was the Leader of the Opposition from 2006 to 2011 and became the Chief Minister again in 2011. A major highlight of the Oommen Chandy government was the mass contact programme in which the Chief Minister and ministers directly received petitions from public and assured immediate solutions in all possible cases. Nearly 11.5% applications were considered in the mass contact programmes and financial assistance amounting to Rs. 240 crore was disbursed. The programme received much attention. Chandy was often known for the huge crowd around him. During his term as Chief Minister, his office corridor often resembled a market owing to the crowd of people. Even as many of his well-wishers used to caution him against it, he used to say that he loves to be in the midst of people always. Introducing live web streaming of the Chief Minister's office room was a popular initiative of Chandy, which was discontinued by his successor. Chandy had received the United Nations Public Service Award in 2013. A senior IAS officer had once said that it was often difficult to get time to discuss any official matters with Chandy privately as he would always have a few visitors around him. But that was not an issue. If Chandy spares hardly one minute for an officer for any official discussion, that one minute was more than enough for Chandy to grasp the matter and it would be fully dedicated to that issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/oommen-chandys-golden-jubilee-in-electoral-politics-888449.html
16-09-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: Key accused gets bail||A court here on Wednesday granted bail with stringent conditions to a key accused in the gold smuggling case in Kerala. K T Ramees was granted bail by the special court (Economic Offences) in the case registered by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate. The Customs had alleged that smuggled gold was sold in Kerala and outside the state through a well-established channel in which Ramees is a key member. However, Ramees will continue to remain behind bars as he is facing the NIA investigation into the alleged terror link in the gold smuggling case. Granting bail, the court directed the accused to execute a bond of Rs 2,00,000 with two solvent sureties each for the like sum and the sureties shall produce their original title deeds for verification. He shall appear before the Investigating officer on all Mondays between 10 and 11 am for a period of three months or till filing of final report whichever is earlier, the court said. It also directed the accused to surrender his passport within a period of seven days or file an affidavit to the effect that he is not possessing a passport. The petitioner shall cooperate with the investigation, the court said in its bail order. Ramees, arrested by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate on July 11 in connection with the case, was described by the Central agencies as one of the "kingpins" of the gold smuggling case in which former employees of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, Swapna Suresh and Sarith P S are key accused. Ramees was later arrested by the NIA. Central agencies, including the NIA, Customs and Enforcement Directorate, are conducting a separate probe into the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" at the Thiruvananthapuram International airport on July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-key-accused-gets-bail-888457.html
16-09-2020||South||Malayali jawan killed in Jammu and Kashmir planned to visit home next week||A family at Kadakkal on the outskirts of Kollam district was eagerly awaiting the arrival of soldier Aneesh Thomas by September 25. Instead, they received the news of his killing and the mortal remain is expected to reach home soon. Aneesh, aged 36, was killed in ceasefire violation by Pakistan Army along the Line of Control at Rajouri in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday. Aneesh's father Thomas told a section of media that the family comprising Aneesh's wife Emily and daughter Hannah were eagerly awaiting his arrival on leave by September 25. Arrangements were also made for Aneesh to remain in quarantine owing to Covid-19. He last visited home in December 2019. The family came across the tragic news on Wednesday morning. Aneesh used to call home once or twice daily. But there was no call from him for nearly 24 hours and hence the family tried to contact him on Tuesday evening. But his mobile phone was switched off, said Thomas. Since his childhood days, Aneesh wanted to serve in the defence forces. He joined the Indian Army about 15 years back at the age of 21. He was serving with the Rashtriya Rifles. Aneesh's body is likely to be brought home by Thursday, said local sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayali-jawan-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-planned-to-visit-home-next-week-888494.html
16-09-2020||South||Anguk Zen Center donates 1 lakh masks to India||South Korea’s Anguk Zen Center, a social welfare corporation, has donated one lakh masks for free distribution to aid India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The consignment was on Wednesday handed over to Venu Srinivasan, Chairman, TVS Motor Company, and Managing Trustee, Srinivasan Services Trust for free distribution through the Srinivasan Services Trust, the social service arm of TVS Motor Company. “I would like to extend my sincere gratitude and deepest appreciation to the Venerable Abbot, my revered teacher, Subul Sunim for this compassionate gesture of donating 1 Lakh masks to InKo Centre. We welcome what is indeed a most timely and valuable donation in these challenging times, when wearing masks, following strict rules of sanitation and hygiene, and maintaining social distancing is the ‘new normal’,” Srinivasan said. He also said the trust will ensure that the masks are widely distributed to local communities across the country and added that the unique civilian gesture of goodwill and support from Busan to Chennai truly epitomizes the warmth and depth of the valued relationship between the two nations. “These high-quality masks produced by BlueIndus Co. Ltd were specially provided by CEO Jeong Cheon-sik for distribution in India. The masks were shipped to India, courtesy Mr. Yang Jae-saeng, CEO of Eunsan Shipping Air, Korea,” a statement said. The Anguk Zen Center in Korea, headed by the Venerable Abbot, Subul Sunim, is a social welfare corporation founded in 2014, which runs a Support Center for Abused Children as its core programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/anguk-zen-center-donates-1-lakh-masks-to-india-888499.html
16-09-2020||South||Tirumala Brahmotsavams schedule: Celestial event to be held in solitude||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams is conducting the annual Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara from September 19-27 in Ekantham (solitude) in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation and the prescribed restrictions. During the festival, 12,000 devotees would be provided darshan every day. SVBC will provide a live telecast of the Brahmotsavam vahana sevas being conducted in Ekantham.  The following is the schedule of events and vahana sevas of the Salakatla Brahmotsavams. 18.09.2020-Friday-Ankurarpanam (evening)  19.09.2020-Saturday-Dhwajarohanam (Mithuna lagnam between 6 pm and 6.30 pm  Pedda Shesha vahanam-8.30 pm - 9.30 pm. 20.09.2020 - Sunday - 9 am and 10 am Chinna Sesha Vahanam  Afternoon 1pm and 3 pm Snapana Tirumanjanam  Evening 7pm-8 pm Hamsa Vahanam 21.09.2020-Monday  9 am and 10 am Simha vahana Afternoon 1pm and 3 pm Snapana Tirumanjanam 7 pm and 8 pm- Muthypu Pandiri vahanam. 22.09.2020 - Tuesday 9 am and 10 am-Kalpavruksa vahana Afternoon 1pm and 3 pm - Snapana Tiirumanjanam 7 pm and 8 pm- Sarvabhupala Vahanam 23.09.2020 - Wednesday  9 am and 10 am- Mohini avataram Evening 7.00-8.30 pm- Garuda vahanam 24.09.2020 - Thursday 9 am and 10 am-Hanumanta vahanam 4 pm and 5 pm - Sarvabhupala  vahanam 7 pm and 8 pm - Gaja vahanam 25.09.2020 - Friday  9 am and 10 am-Suryaprabha vahanam 7 pm and 8 pm-Chandraprabha vahanam 26.09.2020 - Saturday  9 am and 10 am -Sarvabhupala vahanam 7 pm and 8 pm -Aswa vahanam 27.09.2020 - Sunday  4am and 6am Pallaki Utsavam and Tiruchi Utsavam  6am-9am - Snapana Tirumanjanam and Chakra Snanam at Ayina mahal 8pm-9am- Dhwajavarohanam  Because of adhika-maasam, there would be two brahmotsavams this year -  Navaratri Brahmotsavams will be held in October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirumala-brahmotsavams-schedule-celestial-event-to-be-held-in-solitude-888503.html
16-09-2020||South||Tirupati YSRCP MP Balli Durga Prasad Rao passes away||Tirupati sitting Member of Parliament Balli Durga Prasad Rao died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Chennai. Rao’s death is attributed to a massive heart attack. According to the local reports, Rao was infected with Covid-19 but had tested negative later. Rao (64), from Nellore and a lawyer by profession, had represented the Gudur assembly constituency four times, elected for the first time in 1985. He had served as school education minister from 1996 to 98 in the TDP’s Chandrababu Naidu government in united Andhra Pradesh. Rao has joined the YSRCP before the 2019 elections. Winning from the Scheduled Caste reserved Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, Rao became a first time MP in the present Lok Sabha.   “Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP, Balli Durga Prasad Rao Garu. He was an experienced leader, who made effective contributions towards the progress of Andhra Pradesh. My thoughts are with his family and well-wishers in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has expressed grief over the demise of Prasad Rao. He telephoned his son and consoled him over the bereavement while conveying his condolences to the family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-ysrcp-mp-balli-durga-prasad-rao-passes-away-888531.html
16-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu seeks enhancement of punishment for crimes against women||Tamil Nadu Government will request the Centre to bring amendments to the Indian Penal Code to increase the punishment for offences against women and children, including demanding dowry and stalking, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said here on Wednesday. Speaking in the Assembly, Palaniswami said the move to seek stringent punishment for the aforesaid crimes is aimed at ensuring better safety and security for women and children. He said that the state government will propose enhancing the minimum punishment for dowry deaths from the present seven years to ten years the minimum punishment for disrobing from the current three to five and the maximum from seven to ten years. “Similarly, stalking (IPC 354-D), on a second or subsequent conviction would see a maximum of seven years imprisonment from the present five,” Palaniswami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-seeks-enhancement-of-punishment-for-crimes-against-women-888542.html
16-09-2020||South||This testing device can check Covid-19 in five minutes||A Covid-19 antigen test device that will provide results in just about five minutes using saliva has been developed by the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M) and Ricovr Healthcare, a US-based diagnostics platform company. The project has won the prestigious ‘Ignition Grants’ Award from the US India Science and Technology Endowment Fund (USISTEF) and if all goes well, the testing device will reach the market in the next six months. The hand-held device will allow healthcare professionals to check whether the person has Covid-19 infection by testing his saliva. The Ricovr-IIT-M team was chosen for its “innovative idea to address the Covid-19 challenge” after going through over 400 proposals. The grant will help the team to test the devices on a larger scale and bring them to the commercial market.  “With the grant, we hope to scale up the processes and go in for commercialisation. This is a new technology and we need to go in for more tests before it is available in the market. We hope to start the clinical trials by October-end after receiving necessary permission from the ICMR,” Dr V V Raghavendra Sai, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Department of Applied Mechanics, IIT-M, told Deccan Herald. This technology is differentiated from the other molecular and antibody-based test in that it can detect the presence of active viral particles on the spot without needing a specialized apparatus, Dr Sai said, adding that efforts are on to bring the Point-of-care Fiber-optic Biosensor (P-FAB) Device from the lab to the market in the next six months. The innovative approach of detection and simple use of saliva will help bring a cost-effective, accurate, and user-friendly device to global markets in need of more immediate diagnostic tools, he added. “Since regulations do not permit any Covid-19 testing at home, we hope our devices will come in handy for deployment at primary health centres in the country. The technology that we have developed has improved on the complaints of poor sensitivity in such devices or tests,” Dr Sai said. Dr Himanshu Bhatia, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, RICOVR Healthcare Inc., said that given the scientific vetting process' rigour, this achievement adds credibility to the company’s already-proven technology. “Our scientific approach and methodical steps continue to propel RICOVR in the right direction,” he said. US Ambassador to India Mr Kenneth I. Juster was quoted as saying by IIT-M that the US Government was pleased to partner with the Government of India's Department of Science and Technology to provide initial financing to almost a dozen promising technologies, chosen from over 400 proposals, which seek to help the world in its global fight against Covid-19. “This is just one area where American and Indian ingenuity is working together to serve our peoples and the broader international community,” Reiterating the relevance of mutual cooperation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/this-testing-device-can-check-covid-19-in-five-minutes-888546.html
16-09-2020||South||Lie detector test may unravel mystery behind Kerala musician Balabhaskar's death||In a bid to unravel the mystery behind the death of noted fusion musician from Kerala, Balabhaskar, a CBI team probing the case is gearing up to subject four key persons associated with the case to lie detection tests. Balabhaskar and his daughter Thejaswani Bala were killed in a road accident during the wee hours of September 25, 2018, in Thiruvananthapuram. His wife Lakshmi and driver Arjun suffered serious injuries after their car rammed into a tree at Pallipuram, about 15 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city. Though prima facie it looked like a road accident, mysteries shrouded around Balabhaskar's family raised suspicion. Recently, two close aides of Balabhaskar were found to be linked to an international gold smuggling racket surfaced. There were also conflicting versions of Lakshmi and Arjun over who drove the car. While Lakshmi said it was Arjun who was driving, Arjun said Balabhaskar was driving. The Kerala Police's crime branch that probed the case reportedly came to the conclusion that Arjun was driving at the time of the mishap. The Kerala Government sought a CBI probe into the incident considering a request of Balabhaskar's father K C Unni. The CBI took over the probe into the case and registered a fresh FIR in June. Balabhaskar's friends and managers Prakashan Thampi and Vishnu Somasundaram, who were allegedly involved in gold smuggling, artist Kalabhavan Soby, who claimed that he noticed suspicion activities near the accident spot, and driver Arjun were being subjected the layered voice analysis based lie-detection test. All four on Wednesday gave their consent at a CBI court to undergo the test. Meanwhile, another noted musician from Kerala is likely to be quizzed by the CBI soon in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lie-detector-test-may-unravel-mystery-behind-kerala-musician-balabhaskars-death-888555.html
16-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu BJP members celebrate PM Modi's birthday; offer 70 kg laddu, distribute welfare aid||An eye-catching 70 kg laddu, distribution of welfare aid and conducting 'Thamarai' medical camp by BJP workers in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday marked the birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Prime Minister will be celebrating his 70th birthday on Thursday. The rank and file in the saffron party went into a celebratory mood on the eve of Modi's birthday and the cadres made a 70 kg laddu, signifying the 70th birthday of the Prime Minister and offered it to Lord Shiva at the Sivan Kamatchi Amman Temple in Coimbatore. The huge laddu was taken in a procession outside the temple to mark the occasion and later distributed to the public. The party supporters offered prayers for a long and prosperous life for their leader. "The party launched a week-long programme to celebrate the 70th birthday of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji," Tamil Nadu state BJP president L Murugan said after inaugurating a welfare distribution programme in Chennai. The programmes are in tune with the week-long campaign launched on September 14 by the BJP president J P Nadda at Chhaprauli village in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh. Murugan also inaugurated a "Thamarai (Lotus) Clinic" a free medical camp at Saidapet in Chennai. During the week-long campaign, the party members would highlight the achievements by the Modi government and also concentrate upon Covid-19 relief work. Actress Namitha, the BJP;s state executive member, too joined the celebrations by distributing fish free of cost to the members of the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-bjp-members-celebrate-pm-modis-birthday-offer-70-kg-laddu-distribute-welfare-aid-888560.html
16-09-2020||South||Media barred from reporting trial of rape case against Franco Mulakkal||The trial in the rape case against former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal commenced at a court at Kottayam district in Kerala on Wednesday.  The court restrained the media from reporting the trial procedures which are being considered in-camera. Considering a plea of the accused, the court also imposed restrictions on discussions over pieces of evidence in the case. A nun of a convent at Kuravilangad in Kottayam district alleged that Franco sexually assaulted her 13 times between 2014 and 2016 at the convent. He was charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for rape, unnatural sex, illegal detention, and criminal intimidation. Franco had denied the charges. The Supreme Court earlier rejected Franco's discharge petition. The case witnessed a major row in Kerala. The police initiated a probe into the nun's petition after a group of nuns staged a demonstration that received much attention. Franco was arrested on September 21, 2018, and later released on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/media-barred-from-reporting-trial-of-rape-case-against-franco-mulakkal-888562.html
16-09-2020||State||MTB, Shankar will be ministers: B C Patil||Agriculture Minister B C Patil said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has not left anybody in the lurch as he has done justice to all 17 members who are responsible for the formation of the government. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, he exuded confidence that MLCs M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar will also get ministerial berths. Reacting on the drug mafia, the minister said sandalwood was different this earlier. "Younger generation addicting to bad habits is painful and are ruining the sanctity of society. Drug addicted artists are detrimental to the country. Namaste culture has now been bid adieu in the film industry after the onset of hai...bye culture,"(sic) he regretted. "One should not misunderstand that those who visit casino will consume drug. Whether MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan has links with the drug peddlers or not will be known after a probe. Zameer will often give statement for publicity. Earlier, he had stated he will work as security guard of Yediyurappa's house if the latter becomes chief minister. Now, he has said he will hand over his asset to the government if the charges against him are proved,"(sic) Patil told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mtb-shankar-will-be-ministers-b-c-patil-888509.html
16-09-2020||State||Train services on Konkan route restored||Passenger train service along the Konkan route was restored following the completion of repair works on Pernem tunnel between Madure and Pernem stations of Karwar region. On August 7, heavy rains resulted in the collapse of tunnel lined wall inside Pernem tunnel at km 384/6-7 on Konkan railway route. According to sources the work was completed and the track fitness certificate was issued on Tuesday. Southern Railway, Palakkad Division, public relations officer M K Gopinath in a press release stated that the services of Trains (06345/06346) Lokmanya Tilak (T)-Thiruvananthapuram Central and (02432/02431) New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central Rajdhani special train will resume from Wednesday onwards (from Thiruvananthapuram on Sep 17). Trains including Ernakulam Junction – Hazrat Nizamuddin (02617) daily superfast special train will run on the normal route via Madgaon-Roha-Panvel-Kalyan;  Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Junction (02618) train will run on its normal route; Duronto weekly special trains Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Junction (02284), starting Sept 19,  and Ernakulam Junction-H Nizamuddin (02283), scheduled to leave Ernakulam Junction from September 22. will operate in its scheduled route, according to the press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/train-services-on-konkan-route-restored-888537.html
16-09-2020||State||Meet with doctors: Vijayendra hits back at Congress||BJP state vice president B Y Vijayendra issued an angry retort on Wednesday, after the Congress questioned his local standi to meet with medicalpersonnel. In a tweet, Vijayendra said Congress had a ‘slave culture,’ where even prime ministers were mistreated. “More than being the second son of (Chief Minister) B S Yediyurappa, I am a responsible vice president of the state BJP unit,” he said. “It is my duty to respond to anyone who comes to me out of respect, trust. Rather than keeping a jaundiced eye on my movements, opposition parties should provide constructive advice to the government. That is the true democratic move for a political party,” he said. The furious response came after Congress tweeted an image of Vijayendra with government doctors. They had earlier met Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu, urging that their demands be fulfilled. Following the same, Congress tweeted, “B Y Vijayendra, you are neither chief minister, nor a minister or MLA or MP. (You are) not even a gram panchayat member. Without holding any constitutional post, why did you hold a meeting with government health officers. Who authorised you?,” adding that such a move had disgraced the democratic set up of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/meet-with-doctors-vijayendra-hits-back-at-congress-888540.html
16-09-2020||State||State to seek more flood aid from Centre: Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Wednesday that the government would seek an additional compensation to the state from the Centre for flood relief works as the Rs 395 crore that was released was insufficient. Speaking to reporters at the Kalaburagi airport, he said the government had declared a total of 130 taluks as flood-hit and the list of flood-hit taluks had been sent to the Centre. As rains continued to lash several parts of the state, including Kalaburagi, he would direct the officials to conduct another round of survey on the extent of crop loss, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-to-seek-more-flood-aid-from-centre-ashoka-888544.html
16-09-2020||State||Overnight rain showers misery on Kalyana K'taka districts||Heavy rain on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday has damaged vast tracts of standing crops in Kalaburagi, Bidar, Yadgir and Raichur districts. The region has been receiving incessant rain for the past two days. Kalaburagi city and many parts of the districts, including Chittapur, Kalagi, Wadi, Afzalpur and Kamalapur, experienced spells of heavy rain through the day on Wednesday. Kagina and Manjra rivers are in spate and so are rivulet and streams in Kalaburagi and Bidar districts. With Kagina river submerging the bridge between Ingalagi and Shahabad, traffic on the route has been affected badly. The swollen Kagina has inundated acres of farmland in the district. The overflowing Manjra river has triggered flood fears in the villages on its banks. Many villages in Aurad taluk are facing a flood-like situation. Kamalnagar in Bidar district has received a whopping 220 mm (22 CM) of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Wednesday) Overnight showers have damaged cotton, tur and paddy crops in Raichur taluk. A minor railway bridge between Shaktinagar and Kaadluru has been flooded. Copious rain has left many houses and acres of farmland waterlogged in Shahpur taluk of Yadgir district. Meanwhile, Hosapete and Hagaribommanahalli taluks continued to receive sporadic spells of heavy rain. The Danayakanakere lake near Mariyammanahalli has breached on Wednesday as the spillover flooded acres of jowar crop in the lake vicinity.  Many pushkarinis in the Unesco world heritage site Hampi, including the one en route Vijaya Vittala Temple, have come alive following torrential rain in the region in recent past.  Kottigehara in Chikkamagaluru and parts of Udupi district received heavy showers while parts of Bagalkot, Gadag, Davangere, Shivamogga and Dakshina Kannada witnessed mild to moderate rainfall. Fishing boats sinks Twenty-nine crew and fishermen were rescued from the fishing boat ‘Hanumatheertha’ that sank in Arabian Sea off Malpe coast on Tuesday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/overnight-rain-showers-misery-on-kalyana-ktaka-districts-888545.html
16-09-2020||State||Karnataka requests Centre to approve Mekedatu project||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkhiholi on Wednesday met Union Jala Shakthi Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and requested him to give early clearances to Mahadayi and Mekedatu projects. He also requested the Minister to notify the Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal Award. In his memorandum, he requested the Union Minister to declare Upper Bhadra Project as a National Project and sanction Rs 218 crore for 2020-21 for take up Narayanpura Left Bank Canal network works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-requests-centre-to-approve-mekedatu-project-888574.html
16-09-2020||State||Sira bypoll: Cong bats for Jayachandra as nominee||The state Congress on Wednesday decided to recommend the candidature of former minister T B Jayachandra for the Sira bypoll.  The bypoll was necessitated following the death of JD(S) legislator B Sathyanarayana last month. The bypoll is yet to be announced.  The bypoll will be fought under the chairmanship of former deputy chief minister G Parameshwara with former legislator K N Rajanna as the co-chair.  “We held a discussion with leaders from Tumakuru district. Rajanna proposed Jayachandra’s name, which was backed unanimously by the district leaders. So, we will convey this to the high command,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar told reporters.  Jayachandra was a sitting minister when he lost the election in 2018, which is attributed to the consolidation of Vokkaliga votes against the Congress.  Sira has witnessed a direct fight between the JD(S) and the Congress. With Sathyanarayana as its candidate, the JD(S) won Sira twice in the last four elections - 2004 and 2018 - whereas the Congress won in 2008 and 2013 with Jayachandra as its candidate.  The BJP, which has not performed very well in the past elections to Sira, is looking to field a surprise candidate to ensure a 3-way contest, which it hopes will split the votes, leading to electoral gains.  “Irrespective of whether it will be a triangular or a straight fight, the Congress will fight the election collectively,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sira-bypoll-cong-bats-for-jayachandra-as-nominee-888589.html
16-09-2020||State||Atrocities on SC/STs: 134 convictions in 4 yrs, govt tells HC||The High Court on Wednesday passed a detailed order directing the government to implement the provisions under the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act 1989 and Rules of 1995. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi was hearing the PIL filed by Committee for Monitoring and Strengthening SC and STs in Karnataka. Examining the affidavit filed by the government, the bench took a judicial note of the fact that even several years after the Constitution was adopted and the Act was enforced, several cases are being reported in the country.  The data submitted by the government showed that out of the total 35,091 cases registered between 2015 and 2019, charge sheets have been filed only in 6,461 cases. Of the cases chargesheeted, 3,198 cases ended in acquittal while 134 cases ended in conviction.  The counsel appearing for the petitioner stated that the rule mandates the Investigating Officer (IO) to file the charge sheet within 60 days or submit explanation for the delay. The bench directed the state to clarify whether the IOs have submitted explanations for delay in investigation and also to take a call as to why there is so much delay in filing charge sheets. The petition had requested for setting up of special courts. The bench observed the huge pendency of criminal cases under the Atrocities Act. “There is a request placed to Registrar General (High Court) to consider setting up nine more special courts. Registrar General will file a report to this court on the issue of setting up of more special courts for cases of atrocities,’’ the bench said. It directed the Registrar General to consider issuing a circular to all special courts set up under the Atrocities Act on the time line.  The bench observed that the low conviction rate is a complicated issue and can be dealt with by constantly monitoring the progress of the cases. “As far as delay in investigation and large number of acquittals are concerned, the issue will have to be tackled by the state. Firstly, by undertaking regular training of IOs and regular training of special public prosecutors (SPPs) appointed under the Act,’’ the bench said.  The bench observed that meetings of the district level vigilance and monitoring committees constituted under Rule 17 have not been conducted regularly. Under Rule 16, the state level vigilance and monitoring committee has also been constituted. It directed the government to place on record details of cash relief extended to complainants/victims when FIR is registered or charge sheet is filed. The court gave time to the government to file supplementary affidavit and posted hearing to October 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/atrocities-on-sc/sts-134-convictions-in-4-yrs-govt-tells-hc-888591.html
16-09-2020||State||SSLC repeat exam: KSRTC, BMTC provide free bus service||SSLC students writing the supplementary exams can travel free in KSRTC buses between their residence and examination centre from September 21 to 28. Students have to produce their admission ticket to avail services in the city, suburban, ordinary and express buses, the KSRTC said in a release.  The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corportion (BMTC) too has provided similar facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sslc-repeat-exam-ksrtc-bmtc-provide-free-bus-service-888595.html
16-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ministers Basavaraj Bommai, K Gopalaiah test positive for Covid-19||Karnataka’s Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah have tested positive for Covid-19.  While Bommai is under home isolation, Gopalaiah has been hospitalised for treatment.  Bommai said he got himself tested after a work boy at his home tested positive for Covid-19. “While I have tested positive, I don’t have any symptoms, I’m healthy and isolated at home,” Bommai asked everybody who came in contact with him recently to get tested and take precautionary measures.  With this, Bommai might skip his visit to Delhi along with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.  Gopalaiah said he was hospitalised as a precaution on doctor’s advice, adding that he was doing fine. He also requested people who came in contact with him to take precautions.  Earlier this week, Urban Development Minister BA Basavaraja (Byrathi) said he tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ministers-basavaraj-bommai-k-gopalaiah-test-positive-for-covid-19-888240.html
16-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Drugs case: Sandalwood couple Aindrita Ray and Diganth to be summoned again for interrogation||The Sandalwood couple Aindrita Ray and Diganth have got relief for a short period as they will not be arrested today. The Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials who are inquiring them in connection with the Sandalwood drug scandal case registered at Cottonpet police station under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act have clarified that the couple will be summoned again for interrogation. The couple had appeared before the CCB officials around 11.10 am and was questioned till 2.50 pm. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) said, "The couple are being questioned about many things in the case, they have informed most of the things to the investigating officers. They will be summoned again for further interrogation." Diganth addressed the press stating, "The investigation is on, we are cooperating with the officials. We will come if we are called again." The police inspector Mallesh S Bolletin and inspector Anjumala T Nayak questioned Aindrita Ray while Diganth was questioned by Puneeth Kumar and his team. According to the officials, Aindrita initially acted innocent and tried to defend herself. But, when officials asked a few specific questions including her link with film producer and businessman Shiva Prakash and the parties they attended in the past, she started revealing few facts. The couple on Tuesday had claimed to be on a Kerala trip, reached the city in the early hours on Wednesday and stayed in a hotel. They also approached an advocate to get guidance on how to face police interrogation. Aindrita is questioned even about the parties she attended abroad organised by a suspect Shaik Fazil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drugs-case-sandalwood-couple-aindrita-ray-and-diganth-to-be-summoned-again-for-interrogation-888317.html
16-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||9,725 cases new Covid-19 cases, 70 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 9,725 new Covid cases and 70 deaths. This took the active case tally to 1,01,626. This is the second time in the past few days when the active cases in the state have been above the one-lakh mark.  The total discharges were 6,583. Many districts reported zero discharges. It is unknown if this is because of lack of discharge reports being submitted by government medical officers or if there were genuinely no recoveries in Bagalkot, Belagavi, Ballari, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru and 12 other districts.  The total number of recoveries are now more than 3.75 lakh. The death toll is 7,536, excluding 19 deaths due to non-Covid causes. The total number of positive cases are more than 4.84 lakh. As many as 818 patients are in the ICUs across the state, with 267 in Bengaluru Urban alone. A total of 70,981 tests were done, with 34,336 tests being rapid antigen tests.  Bengaluru accounted for 3,571 new cases and 27 deaths, taking the active cases to 39,472 and death toll to 2,522. Mysuru reported 748 cases, Dakshina Kannada 466, Tumakuru 401 and Ballari 381.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/9725-cases-new-covid-19-cases-70-deaths-in-karnataka-888538.html
16-09-2020||West||Walls used to teach math to poor students in Maharashtra villages||Amid the Covid-19 crisis when poor students are unable to take up online classes, the zilla parishad here in Maharashtra has started an innovative way of imparting education to them by painting walls on streets and public places with mathematical concepts. If 'Mission Mathematics' becomes successful, the initiative will be extended to other subjects also, Chandrapur zilla parishad chief executive officer Rahul Kardile told PTI. "We are trying to make children continue their education at home since schools are closed, and build an academic atmosphere in rural areas. The idea behind 'Mission Mathematics' is to impart lessons to children in a playful manner," he said. As part of the initiative, officials of the zilla parishad's education department have painted mathematical lessons taught in classes 1 to 5 on walls located at the main squares of villages in Pomburna, Ballarpur, Nagbhid and Bramhapuri teshils, he said. "Children are finding the method attractive and they are learning maths while playing with their friends. The objective of the mission is to make them understand various mathematical concepts and build their interest in the subject, while focusing on developing an overall atmosphere of education in rural areas," Kardile said. He said Ashay Wakulkar, an alumnus of a zilla parishad school in Ghosri village who is now an engineer, was the first to launch 'Mission Mathematics' in his native place. "He created an academic atmosphere in the village and students started gaining from the idea," Kardile said, adding that he took the initiative forward at the district level after being impressed by Wakulkar's effort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/walls-used-to-teach-math-to-poor-students-in-maharashtra-villages-888252.html
16-09-2020||West||Mumbai: Building with 10 or more Covid-19 cases to be sealed||In a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Mumbai, the city civic body has decided to seal an entire building if 10 or more coronavirus infection cases are found there. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) health department issued the revised protocols on Tuesday after civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal held a meeting to review the the Covid-19 situation. Earlier, the BMC in July said if there is a Covid-19 case in a society or building, only the particular floor will be sealed and the entire building need not be sealed. According to the revised BMC protocols, the whole building will be sealed if 10 or more cases are reported from two or more floors, and will be sealed partially if one or more cases are found in a single home. The respective assistant municipal commissioner or medical health officer can take a call on sealing the entire building to prevent the spread of Covid-19, if sealing of a particular floor or wing is not sufficient, it said. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 1,585 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 1,73,534. The city's death toll increased to 8,227 with 49 more patients succumbing to the infection. In the wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases, the number of buildings sealed in the city has also gone up. As per official figures, 8,763 buildings here were sealed as of Tuesday, as compared to 6,171 till August 31. As of now, there are 592 Covid-19 containment zones in the city as compared to 567 in August end, according to BMC data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-building-with-10-or-more-covid-19-cases-to-be-sealed-888270.html
16-09-2020||West||Maharashtra archaeology department takes up restoration of Dharashiv cave||The Maharashtra archaeology department has taken up restoration of one of the seven Dharashiv caves in Osmanabad district after rains caused damage to the sixth century structure, an official said. The caves, located around eight km from Osmanabad city in Balaghat mountains, have artistic carvings which attract tourists to the area. One of the caves suffered damage following rains in the area. To avoid further degradation, work has been undertaken to construct 12 pillars to support the structure, state archaeology department's assistant director Ajit Khandare told PTI. "The upper rock of the cave will get support with these pillars and help in increasing the life of this monument. The restoration work will continue for next two months," Khandare said. Asked about the significance of these caves, Nanded-based historian Prabhakar Dev said they were carved in the sixth century and are located near Ter, which was a bustling trade centre during the Satavahana period (230 BC to 200 AD). "The first reference of these caves was found in a book written in 931 AD which shows the caves are older than that period. There is a still a debate among historians on whether the caves are Buddhist or of Jain religion," he said. The caves were also mentioned in a book by archaeologist James Burgess and many historians also wrote about these caves, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-archaeology-department-takes-up-restoration-of-dharashiv-cave-888277.html
16-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Naxals block road in Gadchiroli ahead of foundation week||Naxals have blocked a road in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district and put up banners there asking people to observe the foundation week of the outlawed movement, police said on Wednesday. The CPI(Maoist) observes its foundation week from September 21 to 27. The Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) and People's War Group (PWG) merged to form CPI(Maoist) on September 21, 2004, and since then it has been observing the foundation week every year during this period. On Tuesday night, Naxals blocked Dubbaguda-Malampodur road in Bhamragadh taluka of Gadchiroli and put up banners and pamphlets on trees in the area, asking people to observe their foundation week with enthusiasm, a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-naxals-block-road-in-gadchiroli-ahead-of-foundation-week-888330.html
16-09-2020||West||NCB team member tests coronavirus positive||The hectic investigations by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) into the larger Bollywood-drug mafia nexus slowed down a bit as a member of the probe team tested Covid-19 positive. As part of the investigations of the drug angle into the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the actor’s former manager Shruti Modi and Rhea Chakraborty’s friend and talent manager Jaya Saha were to be grilled over the next few days at the NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate in Mumbai. On Wednesday, Shruti Modi reached the NCB office. However, even before the recording of statements could commence, they received the report of one of the members testing positive. Shruti Modi was sent back and would be called again. Once her statement is recorded, Jaya Saha will be summoned. NCB’s deputy director (operations) KPS Malhotra confirmed the development. “We will follow the protocol and summon them,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-team-member-tests-coronavirus-positive-888416.html
16-09-2020||West||Cases of assault on women at Covid-19 care centres on rise: Devendra Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday alleged that cases of assault on women at Covid care centres are increasing in the state. Despite several complaints, the state government is not taking any effective action to prevent such incidents, the BJP leader alleged in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. "There has been an increase in cases of assault on women (at Covid care centres) and the state government should formulate a Standard Operating Procedure to address the issue," he said. He also listed about a dozen such incidents. "I had raised the issue earlier as well but did not see any steps being taken by the authorities. Several women have faced harassment at Covid care centres, but hardly any action has been initiated," he alleged. The former chief minister also raised the issue of crimes against women in general, and pointed out that the Shiv Sena-led government had promised to bring in a law on the lines of `Disha Act' in Andhra Pradesh. The 2019 Act provides for speedy trial of crimes against women and the capital punishment in certain cases. "At least seven cases of women being burnt alive took place in February this year. A Disha Act was promised, but now it has gone into cold storage," Fadnavis said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cases-of-assault-on-women-at-covid-19-care-centres-on-rise-devendra-fadnavis-888511.html
16-09-2020||West||HC raps Gujarat again over handling of Covid-19 cases, says govt getting caught 'unaware'||The Gujarat High Court has once again taken a critical view of the Vijay Rupani-led state government on its handling of coronavirus pandemic which is spreading in cities. As Rajkot city in Saurashtra region is emerging as a new hotspot after Ahmedabad and Surat, the high court has noted that despite "working hard" the government is getting "caught unaware" as it gets into action only after the situation worsens." "We take cognizance of the deteriorating situation prevailing in Saurashtra, more particularly, the city of Rajkot etc. We expect the state government and the authorities of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation to ensure that the situation does not go out of their control. The line of action and model adopted in the city of Ahmedabad should be made applicable in all other major cities, more particularly, the big cities like Vadodara, Rajkot etc," the division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice J B Pardiwala said in an order on a suo motu public interest litigation which the court is hearing on Covid-19 situation prevailing in the state. The bench has been constantly monitoring the situation, taking cognisance of media reports and instructing the government to take appropriate steps. The bench said that the government has been "working hard" to control the pandemic but "we are constrained to observe that despite putting best of its efforts, the government has been getting caught unaware and it gets into action only after the situation worsens. In other words or rather in simple words, we may say that the state government should now stop playing on the back foot." The court gave an example of how only after the situation in Ahmedabad became serious, the government woke up and gave "extra attention" to bring the situation under control. The order says that the same situation was repeated in Surat and the officials had to rush from Gandhinagar.  "Today Rajkot and Jamnagar are the two cities which are hit extremely bad. This situation could definitely have been averted if timely action and precautions would have been taken. Unfortunately, the same was not done and it has resulted in a situationbeyond control," the the bench has stated in the order while directing the government to issue appropriate orders to curb the spread of virus. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani hails from Rajkot where Member of Parliament C R Patil had toured for the first time after being appointed as state BJP president. He held several major rallies attended by thousands of party workers on August 20-21. He also visited several other cities of Saurashtra where covid-19 norms including social distancing were thrown to the winds.  The high court has criticised the politicians, without naming any individual or party, and said, "The political leaders of the state are expected to lead their masses and not by themselves flout the norms or the rules and regulations prescribed to combat the pandemic. The flouting of the norms at the end of the political leaders would set a bad example for the people at large, and the same may prompt the people to defy the norms."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-raps-gujarat-again-over-handling-of-covid-19-cases-says-govt-getting-caught-unaware-888527.html
16-09-2020||West||Maharashtra govt to write to Centre for onion export ban roll-back||Amid protests in parts of Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said the state government will write to the Centre seeking lifting of the ban imposed on export of onions. Thackeray made the commentin a cabinet meeting after state ministers expressed resentment over the Centre's decision to ban the export of onions, a statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. According to the statement, the CM said his government will write to the Centre seeking a roll-back of the ban which will affect a large number of onion growers in Maharashtra, a key producer of the commodity. The statementsaid principal secretary Anup Kumar informed the cabinet that in 2018-19, 21.83 lakh metric tonne of onion was exported from Maharashtra and the outbound shipment was 18.50 lakh metric tonne in 2019-20. Minister Eknath Shinde said four lakh metric tonne of export-bound onion was stranded at JNPTnear Mumbai, while 500 onion-laden trucks from the state were stuck at borders with Nepal and Bangladesh, it said. The Centre on Monday banned the export of all varieties of onions with immediate effect, a move aimed at increasing availability and curbing prices of the commodity in the domestic market. Meanwhile, the Congress, a constituent of the MVA government in Maharashtra, on Wednesday held state-wide protests against the Centre's decision. "Even as farmers in the state had just started to recover from Covid-19-induced losses, the Modi government has once again dashed their hopes. "At a time when onion crop was fetching good price in the market, the Modi government suddenly decided to ban its export, causing huge losses to farmers," said state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. "There is intense anger among farmers against this decision of the Modi government and the state government stands firmly with them. "The Congress agitation will continue till the Union government revokes the ban on onion export," Thorat said. In Nashik district, the onion hub of the state, Congress workers protested against "anti-farmer policies" of the central government by wearing onion garlands around their necks. Protests were also held in Pune, Ahmednagar Thane and Solapur, among other districts of Maharashtra. Thorat said the MVA government is extending a helping hand to farmers who have suffered losses due to floods or heavy rains, but the Modi dispensation has not come to their aid. The earlier decision by the Centre to import milk powder resulted in thousands of tonnes of the food item lying with dairy farmers, resulting in a drop in prices, the Congress leader said. Now, the just imposed ban on export has led to onion prices crashing by Rs 700-800 per quintal, Thorat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-write-to-centre-for-onion-export-ban-roll-back-888548.html
