17-09-2020||Comment||India-China relations on thin ice: Stand tough, stand tall||The military confrontation between India and China, both nuclear powers, seems to rest on the thin ice of political and diplomatic hope floating in muddied waters. The situation bears an uncanny resemblance to India’s military action, christened Operation Chequerboard, that followed the Sumdurong Chu incident in Arunachal Pradesh in 1987. The lesson for India from it was that a firm military stand paved the way for improving political relations that resulted in Rajiv Gandhi’s China visit in 1988, which in turn led to a thaw in Sino-Indian relations. Let alone a thaw, the situation has been progressively deteriorating over the past few months. The present situation may differ in detail. But there is hope after the successful pre-emptive action by the Indian Army of occupying the Spanggur heights, and some other heights on the northern bank of Pangong Tso. The action confers a measure of tactical advantage, but more importantly conveys to China that India’s military will adopt a pro-active approach. This Indian reaction could provide diplomatic space for negotiations at the political level, unless China decides to escalate matters by aggressive military action. Military escalation could take many forms and span the spectrum of confrontation and conflict, including a limited war. Confrontation is the technique that China has been exercising for more than a decade. It has a record of maritime confrontations with Japan, Vietnam, Philippines and Taiwan. Its present land confrontations are majorly with India and Bhutan. Confrontation is its means to coercion, heightening tensions and forcing a crisis to develop to indicate that the confrontation is at a critical transition stage. The possible resultant intense clash of interests could open the doors for the perilous threshold to be breached, leading to a conflict situation. China is using the Ladakh confrontation as a tool of statecraft but has by now realised that its efforts at brinkmanship have run aground due to India’s latest military moves. China perhaps has three choices. First, it could continue and prolong the confrontation through the winter and even over a couple of years and eat away India’s military and financial resources in defending its northern border. Its calculation could be that it would slow down India’s efforts directed at strengthening its maritime power. It could therefore continue its brinkmanship and apply force to signal its sensitivity to any of India’s moves that it perceives as being against its interests, especially in the context of China’s maritime confrontation with the United States. However, a prolonged confrontation may not be conducive to demonstrating China’s assertion that its strength is uncontestable. Second, it could launch a limited offensive in Ladakh with the objective of signalling to the medium and smaller states that China’s military power cannot be contested and Asia is now China’s sphere of influence. This option could at best remain a threat as part of psychological pressure in a mind game. It would be extremely difficult to translate this option into fruitful action. Militarily, both sides have mobilised their troops, and the use of force will invite Indian resistance carrying inherent advantages that accrue to the defender in the high-altitude mountains. Moreover, even if limited success is achieved, Indian airpower, along with the onset of winter, will pose tremendous challenges for China by way of logistics sustenance. Politically, India can be expected to intensify cooperation with the United States and other powers. This, in fact, is the very outcome that China is trying to avert. Thirdly, China could find a face saver and return to the territorial status quo ante but after an assurance from India that it will not weigh in with any grouping or coalition that acts against China’s interests. Such demands will be made behind closed doors. Considering the devastating impact of Covid-19 on the Indian economy, this might seem tempting to New Delhi for short-term relief. It could be devastating in the long term, as it could pave the way and hasten the process for a China-dominated Asia. This round of China’s aggressive political and military thrusts must evoke an Indian response that is willing to deal with brinkmanship and not being risk averse. Doklam, Wuhan and Mammalapuram only add to China’s continued perfidy and proclivity for mischief. This time, the stakes are too high, not only for India but also for the rest of Asia and many other countries that are being subjected to China’s coercion by different forms of power, rooted in its self-image of an economic and military giant that must be respected and obeyed. Its ability to impose psychological dominance is backed by an elaborate propaganda infrastructure. For India, the outcome of the present situation should not merely be judged by a return to the territorial status quo and re-establishing sanctity of the border agreements. Instead, it should be judged by India’s adoption of an approach to dealing with China on the basis of coexistence. If we adopt a policy of coexistence that is driven by benign indifference, the first priority ought to be to help ourselves while being cognisant of doing no harm to China. Competition within an international rules-based framework is acceptable, with dialogue as the platform to resolve differences. Confrontation in any sphere could incite an issue-based shift in Indian stance to deepen partnerships to promote sovereignty, stability, security and peace. The plain message to China has to be that coercion in any form is unacceptable and intolerable. One sincerely hopes that India’s political leadership is willing to take such a stand, for it could well determine the future of Asia in many ways. (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former Military Adviser, National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/india-china-relations-on-thin-ice-stand-tough-stand-tall-888608.html
17-09-2020||First Edit||Sudarshan News case: Dangerous, shameful abuse of media freedom||The Supreme Court has barred television channel Sudarshan News from telecasting a controversial programme on the entry of Muslims into the country’s civil services on the ground that the programme is “insidious’’ and is aimed at vilifying the Muslim community. Four episodes of the programme, called “Bindas Bol”, have been aired and the ban will apply to the remaining six episodes. The court was scathing in its order and its observations about the programme, which insinuated that the rising number of Muslims taking the civil services exams and succeeding in recent years is, in fact, part of a conspiracy on the part of the community. The head of the news channel called this “UPSC jihad”. The court rightly saw this as an attempt to bring the community into public hatred and disrepute and asserted that as a custodian of constitutional values, the court had to stop the programme.  Usually, courts do not prevent the telecast of programmes or the publication of books, respecting freedom of speech and expression of citizens. In fact, the Supreme Court had, in an earlier hearing, declined to impose a pre-broadcast ban on the programme. But it has now noted that there is a change in circumstances because of the tone and tenor of the programme that emerged after four episodes were telecast from September 11 to 14. The court also held that the channel’s claims cast aspersions on the credibility of the exams conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), which applied the same standards to every candidate, irrespective of caste, community and other considerations. The channel’s claims are wrong also because there has been no unusual increase in the number of Muslim candidates. Some rise in the success that Muslim candidates are seeing is only a reflection of the improvement in the educational standards and aspirations of members of the community. The fact is, there is only a 3% representation of the community in the services while it forms 15% of the population. It is clear that the Sudarshan News programme is part of a hate campaign, based on falsehood and disinformation. The channel head warned in public about the consequences of “jihadis from Jamia’’ holding positions of authority in the country. The campaign against the minorities is rising in the country and the campaigners are inventing new themes and topics to spread hatred and to harass them. The most blatant falsehoods are being peddled, tainting the whole community in an attempt to exclude them from society, government, legislature and jobs. The court’s observations on the misuse of media freedom in this context deserve consideration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/sudarshan-news-case-dangerous-shameful-abuse-of-media-freedom-888607.html
17-09-2020||In Perspective||Electric Vehicles: Fuel cell tech the way to go||Be it the Union government’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles (FAME) scheme, or the Karnataka Electric Vehicle and Energy Storage Policy 2017, there is a conscious attempt to cut the fuel import bill and arrest the impact of transportation on environment and climate change and instead encourage eco-friendliness, cheaper fuel costs and lower maintenance expenses. On offer are incentives and concessions, including tax subsidies, to Electric Vehicle (EV) battery manufacturers, assemblers and the rest of the ecosystem, including manufacturers of charging infrastructure. Why only Karnataka, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal recently offered purchase incentives, such as concessions up to Rs 1.5 Lakh, for people buying EVs, which may be registered  without batteries now so that the EV become notionally cheaper. Not surprisingly, a Bloomberg report predicts that by 2040, EVs will comprise 31% of all cars on the road and make up 67% of municipal buses, 47% of two-wheeled vehicles and 24% of light commercial vehicles. Unfortunately, what powers an electric vehicle is also its Achilles heel. Battery technology powering EVs limits its mass adoption. Lithium ion-based batteries that power vehicles today are costly, heavy and have limited life. Even lithium, the raw material needed to make these batteries, is limited. Some 65% of the world’s lithium reserves are in Bolivia and Chile, with most mines in these countries now  owned by China, which today has a commanding market lead and a near monopoly on lithium ion batteries. These batteries account for approximately 70% of the cost of electric two-wheelers and 50% of electric cars. Sales of electric vehicles powered by lithium-ion batteries have, however, increased 10-fold in the past five years, with future demand only projected to increase, even as China is firmly in the driver’s seat of this industry, enjoying 73% global lithium cell manufacturing capacity (the US, with only 12% of that capacity, is far behind in second place). Obviously, China is focused on controlling the world’s production of lithium ion batteries, with speculators ensuring that prices shoot skywards due to increased use of lithium ion batteries. As for mining for lithium, China ranks third, behind Australia and Chile, with production rates nearly 10 times that of the US.  India, on the other hand, is one of the largest importers of lithium and lithium ion batteries in the world. Popular EV cars in India such as the Hyundai Kona, Mahindra E Verito and Tata Tigor EV are all equipped with lithium ion batteries. But what are the perils and pitfalls of continuing the way we are currently doing? Firstly, battery life is fixed, and batteries will eventually need replacement, arguably in 5-10 years’ time. Secondly, lithium is extremely toxic. When batteries are disposed of, lithium will leech into groundwater. How is India equipped to counter water poisoning that will invariably enter the food chain? Thirdly, the Indian government, despite the current anti-China phase, is indirectly enriching China by subsidizing EVs, given that India has no lithium and our dependence on China will be perpetual.  So what should India do? Making hydrogen the final answer for clean fuel technology and to cut fossil fuel import bill, India should proceed towards Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles (FCEVs), powered by hydrogen, with no tailpipe emissions except water vapour and warm air. Undoubtedly, hydrogen infrastructure will need to be built as these are in early stages of implementation, but the same is true for lithium ion batteries as well. Its use is uncommon in India, but hydrogen is a proven source for energy generators, US spacecraft, forklifts, German submarines and even hydrogen fuel cell golf carts built way back in 1965. Used as a fuel, hydrogen is highly efficient and leaves no carbon emissions behind. It is virtually everywhere -- water, plants, manure. Hydrogen binds to almost everything, so before it can be used it must be separated. Separation is done by steam reforming, gasification or electrolysis, three simple methods of producing hydrogen. A flag-bearer of hydrogen cars, the Toyota Mirai Hydrogen EV is popular today. Highly energy efficient and rigorously tested, it uses a fuel cell system generating power by combining hydrogen with oxygen from the outside air, reducing vehicle CO2 emissions. Wider adoption of such hydrogen-powered fuel cell EVs will lead to reduced emissions of greenhouse gases, creating a better environment for all. Buying into clean energy doesn’t mean buying into the unknown. Currently, hydrogen-based vehicles are perhaps not economical compared to the cars on the road today. Hydrogen is comparatively difficult to handle, hazardous in nature and it will be several years before hydrogen-based vehicles are launched in all sizes to develop an economical ecosystem, but this is true for the lithium battery EVs as well. Instead of subsidizing an ecosystem for lithium ion EVs, we urgently need to become aatmanirbhar in hydrogen, the least polluting fuel, non-toxic at disposal time, easy to produce and which does not require a perpetual dependence on China. By continuing to subsidize EVs with lithium, we are walking into China’s very smartly laid trap! (The writer is a former director on the Board of BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/electric-vehicles-fuel-cell-tech-the-way-to-go-888609.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||BJP to rid Dakshina Kannada of drugs, sand mafia: Nalin Kumar Kateel||BJP Karnataka president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel on Thursday said the party would work to make Dakshina Kannada district free of drug menace and the sand mafia. Addressing party workers after inaugurating a blood donation camp organised as part of the 'Seva Saptah' marking Prime Minister Narendra Modis 70th birthday, he said under the previous Congress rule, law and order had collapsed and mafias on the rise in the district. He alleged that the district had witnessed a series of crimes, including murders, assaults and cattle thefts, under the Congress regime. Congress legislators were also backing the sand mafia, he said. He further said since the BJP government took over in the state, no communal violence was reported in the district. The violence over the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was contained within no time, he said. Kateel said the BJP government has succeeded in preventing crimes and is striving hard to check the drug menace. Attempts are also being made to free the district of plastic, he said. MLAs Vedavyas Kamath, Bharath Y Shetty and city Mayor Diwakar were among those present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-to-rid-dakshina-kannada-of-drugs-sand-mafia-nalin-kumar-kateel-888898.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man, son arrest for peddling marijuana in Kollegal||Police arrested a man and his son for peddling marijuana and seized half kilo cannabis from the duo, on Thursday. The Police arrested Neelasidda shetty and his son Somanna of Ikkadahalli in the taluk. The police team, led by Kollegal Circle inspector Rajendra, arrested the duo when they were peddling the substance. The accused were sent to judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-son-arrest-for-peddling-marijuana-in-kollegal-888967.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Forest officials bust sandalwood smuggling gang in Karnataka||The Forest department officials took a 30-year-old man into custody in connection with sandalwood smuggling, on Thursday. The authorities seized 16 kg of sandalwood. Mahadeva and three others were involved in sandalwood smuggling. While the officials took Mahadeva into custody, the others are absconding. The accused were looting sandalwood trees at forests in Kollegal and Hanur taluks. On a tip-off, the officials arrested Mahadeva when the accused were smuggling the trees via PG Palaya Forest Range of MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary. The team led by Assistant Conservator of Forests R Vanitha and Range Forest Officer Syed Sab Nadaf arrested the accused. According to the authorities, the gang has been active for five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-officials-bust-sandalwood-smuggling-gang-in-karnataka-889015.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gescom assistant executive engineer washed away in stream||An assistant executive engineer of Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company Limited (Gescom) was washed away in a stream while trying to cross the stream in a car between Vaijapura-Bammanalli villages of Aland taluk on Thursday evening. He has been identified as Siddarama Danappa Avate, the assistant executive engineer of Afzalpur. The stream is overflowing because of the incessant rains lashing for the past two days. Rajashekhar Basavaraj Kumbar, another person who accompanied the engineer in the car, swam to safety. The search operation is going on by the police from Afzalpur-Dhudani side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gescom-assistant-executive-engineer-washed-away-in-stream-889107.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) Supremo Deve Gowda, CM Yediyurappa greet PM Modi on his birthday||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday joined millions in greeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday. In his message, Gowda extended fullest support to Modi in his efforts to manage the peace and prosperity of the nation. The 87-year old leader said the Prime Minister was leading the nation amidst a global pandemic, economic crisis and an adventurous China at the border. "You lead our nation in difficult times -- amidst a global pandemic, a looming economic crisis, and adventurous China at the border," Gowda said in his message. Praying God to bless Modi with great health and happiness, the JD(S) supremo said, "On the occasion, as a citizen and a colleague, I reiterate my fullest support to all your efforts to manage the peace and prosperity of this great nation." Greeting Modi on his birthday, Yediyurappa tweeted, "Happy birthday to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. May God bless you to keep you healthy to serve the country for many more years." Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coals and Mines, Pralhad Joshi too greeted Modi. "I join crores of greetings, pouring in from every corner of the world to wish PM Shri @NarendraModi ji on his birthday," he tweeted. He said that it is an absolute honour to be led by a statesman like Modi, on the path to realise hopes and aspirations of over a billion Indians. Several ministers, MPs and MLAs in Karnataka greeted the Prime Minister including deputy chief ministers C N Ashwath Narayan, Govind Karjol and Lakshman Savadi, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-supremo-deve-gowda-cm-yediyurappa-greet-pm-modi-on-his-birthday-888803.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa arrives in Delhi to discuss cabinet expansion||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa arrived in the national capital on Thursday to discuss cabinet expansion in the state with the BJP top brass. During his two-day visit, the chief minister is scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP national president J P Nadda as well as Union Ministers to discuss the state's issues. "I have come to Delhi to discuss with several Union Ministers about developmental works of the state. At the same time, I will also discuss the cabinet expansion with the party leaders to ascertain their views," Yediyurappa told reporters here. He is likely to meet Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday, and Modi, Nadda and other Union Ministers on Friday. The chief minister's son and BJP state vice-president BY Vijayendra is accompanying him. Yediyurappa is under pressure to expand Karnataka's cabinet at the earliest to appease disgruntled legislators although he is not keen to make any such changes right now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-arrives-in-delhi-to-discuss-cabinet-expansion-888890.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Centre must include Kannada and other regional languages in administration: Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday urged the Centre to include Kannada and other regional languages in administration,as he objected to its stand that there was no proposal to amend the Official Languages Act. The former Chief Minister even reminded the centre that all languages are equal in India's federal system as he asked the ruling BJP to amend the law to give equal primacy to regional languages. "The Centre has said 'No' to a question on whether it proposes to amend the constitution to give primacy to Kannada and other regional languages on par with Hindi. This is an indication of rejection of a language," Kumaraswamy said in a statement. Pointing out that Kannada, like Hindi is also a recognised language, he said Kannada is also a national language and the centre should include it and other regional languages in administration. "Article 343, 344 and 345 in the Constitution encourages promotion of Hindi. Let BJP leaders, who talk about changing the Constitution, make an effort to amend the law to give equal primacy to regional languages on par with Hindi," he added. In a written reply to an unstarred question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home Nityanad Rai on Wednesday had said that there was no proposal to amend the official languages act to include scheduled languages other than Hindi and English as its official languages. The centre which is refusing to give equal primacy to regional languages must remember that they have formed the government with the support of the non-Hindi speaking Parliamentarians, Kumaraswamy said. Recently, the Supreme Court while hearing a case has directed the centre that all government orders and publications should be in all recognised and official languages, he said, adding that "Besides, the centre must keep in mind that all languages are equal in a federal system in India." Kumaraswamy has recently been very critical of the alleged Hindi imposition and discrimination against the people of other languages, especially from the south. Terming 'Hindi Diwas' celebration as an "underhand method" to impose the language on people speaking other languages, he had on Monday demanded its cancellation. The JD(S) leader had recently asked as to how much more people of other languages including Kannadigas have to "sacrifice" in this country for not knowing Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/centre-must-include-kannada-and-other-regional-languages-in-administration-kumaraswamy-888988.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||BS Yediyurappa’s son Vijayendra is ‘de facto’ CM, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday said Chief Minister’s BS Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra was the ‘de facto’ chief minister, accusing him of interfering with the administration.  “There are two CMs in the state,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. “Vijayendra is the de facto CM, whereas Yediyurappa is the de jure CM.”  Siddaramaiah was responding to a question on Vijayendra holding a meeting with government doctors, to which the Congress had raised an objection. The party questioned Vijayendra’s locus standi in holding such a meeting given that he did not occupy any constitutional post. Vijayendra has since clarified that he was the BJP vice-president first and Yediyurappa’s son later.  “In what capacity will he hold meetings? Aren't there other vice-presidents? Don’t they have general secretaries? Don’t they have a president? Have they made a resolution authorizing Vijayendra to hold such meetings? Or, have ministers stopped doing their work by asking Vijayendra to take over?” Siddaramaiah asked.  Ever since the BJP came to power last year, Vijayendra has been accused of “interfering” in the administration and dubbed ‘super CM’. In a recent interview to DH, Vijayendra clarified thus: “All that I’ve tried to do is act as a bridge between Yediyurappa and party workers.” Siddaramaiah also hit out at the Modi administration for “bad” economic policies. “After Modi became the PM, India’s economy has become bankrupt. Thanks to demonetisation, unscientific GST implementation and bad economic policies, India today has gone economically lower,” he said, citing GDP contraction by 23.9% as an example.  “Except agriculture, all other sectors have seen minus growth - services, industries, manufacturing, construction and others,” the former CM said.  The Congress observed September 17, PM Modi’s birthday, as national unemployment day. “India was promised two crore jobs every year. Forget new jobs, existing jobs are getting lost,” Siddaramaiah said. “Youngsters supported Modi hoping that he’d do something. Today, with unemployment rising, the youth are disoriented.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bs-yediyurappa-s-son-vijayendra-is-de-facto-cm-says-siddaramaiah-889019.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||CM B S Yediyurappa has confined himself to Shivamogga, says BJP MLA Katti||Senior BJP MLA Umesh Katti who has been sulking for not being inducted into Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa cabinet alleged that the Chief Minister wasn’t concerned about the entire state and has confined himself to his home district of Shivamogga. He alleged that attention was not being given for the development of North Karnataka. Katti told DH on Thursday that chief minister not responding for the needs of entire state has hurt him. “Development of North Karnataka region is my priority. We should ask or not ask, shout or not.” "Since a year we had been waiting that something good would be done for the region, but none of the expectations have been realised, hence myself have been raising voice. Irrigation schemes for the region have been neglected. Huge sum of funds were released for Shivamogga and as representative of the region, it has hurt me,"(sic) he said. "Development has been sidelined in the guise of Covid-19 pandemic and drugs menace," he rued. "Myself was made cabinet minister or not was not important. During the coming elections, myself will decide on contesting as candidate of which party and anything could happen in the meantime. Until then myself will continue to raise voice for the developmental needs of North Karnataka and was not worried about what the party high command or chief minister thinks," Katti stated. "Chief Minister Yediyurappa had been in the year 2008 was different person now," he said expressing his dissatisfaction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-has-confined-himself-to-shivamogga-says-bjp-mla-katti-889037.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||CM B S Yediyurappa, J P Nadda to decide whether to rejig cabinet or expand it||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said he would meet party national president J P Nadda and discuss whether to reshuffle his cabinet or expand it. The CM, who is in Delhi for a three-day tour, told reporters that he would discuss the matter with party leaders.  “I will go by the advice of the party leaders on whether to reshuffle or expand the ministry,” he said. MLC H Vishwanath, who quit JD(S) to join the BJP, former minister and CM’s political secretary Renukacharya, have also landed in Delhi. They are among the ministerial aspirants.  Sericulture Minister Seemanth Patil also arrived in Delhi and is meeting party leaders. The CM is scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday morning and seek funds to the state for relief works in flood-hitareas. Karnataka Bhavan Yediyurappa will lay the foundation stone for the new building of the Karnataka Bhavan in the national capital on Friday. This will be the second time that the work will be launched as the ceremony had been held once last year.  Though the CM’s official programme says he will attend “puja for the commencement of the construction work of Cauvery Karnataka Bhavan-1,” Parliamentary Affairs J C Madhuswamy said after the Cabinet meeting in Bengaluru on Wednesday that the CM will lay the foundation stone for the new building. The work was approved by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government after the old building was demolished. Later, the Kumaraswamy-led government approved the building plan last year.  Kumaraswamy had laid the foundation stone for the building on March 8, 2019. The estimated construction cost of the building, which was Rs 82 crore then, has been increased to Rs 120 crore now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-j-p-nadda-to-decide-whether-to-rejig-cabinet-or-expand-it-889073.html
17-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Sriramulu writes letter to goddess to become Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister||As soon as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's visit to New Delhi confirms, Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu visited famous Gade Durgadevi Temple located at Gonal village in Wadagera taluk of Yadgir district on Wednesday evening and reportedly prayed before the goddess to make him Deputy Chief Minister by writing a letter. According to temple sources, the minister visited the temple at around 5:30 pm on Wednesday evening and wrote two lines in a paper and put it at the feet of the goddess. Speaking to reporters, Sriramulu said "as I am aware of the power of the goddess, I wrote what have in my mind in a paper sheet and surrendered it at the feet of Durgadevi. What I have prayed before the goddess should not be made public. I came to the temple and took darshan of the goddess on learning about the power of the deity. It is the prerogative of the Chief Minister to make me deputy chief minister. Time is not rife to talk about the DyCM's post", he told. Mahadevappa Poojari Gonal, the chief priest of the temple told DH that he is not aware of what the minister prayed before the goddess. D K Shivakumar visited the temple in January this year and he became KPCC president. The politician continues to visit the temple often to seek the blessings of the deity, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sriramulu-writes-letter-to-goddess-to-become-karnataka-deputy-chief-minister-889111.html
17-09-2020||Mysuru||Three of seven thieves test positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru||Three thieves of seven, who were arrested on Wednesday by Saligrama police, in K R Nagar taluk, in Mysuru district, tested positive for Covid-19. The police arrested Pradeep, Somashekar, Raju, Prajwal, Mahadev, Yogesh and Abhi from K R Nagar in Mysuru district and Holenarsipur taluk in Hassan district. The accused had involved in five theft cases. Saligrama Sub-inspector T Aarathi said, three of the accused tested positive for Covid-19 and are isolated at a COVID care centre in K R Nagar and remain four are under judicial custody. According to the SI, the accused had involved in tobacco, coconut and other theft cases under Saligrama police station limit||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/three-of-seven-thieves-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mysuru-888866.html
17-09-2020||Mysuru||B V Karanth's birth anniversary to be observed as Bharatiya Theatre Music Day||Birth anniversary of the late theatre person, B V Karanth, which falls on September 19, will be declared as Bharatiya Theatre Music Day or ‘Bharatiya Ranga Sangeetha Dina’ in Kannada. This is the 91st birth anniversary of Karanth. Director of Rangayana Addanda C Cariyappa said nonagenarian Paramashivan, who was music director in Gubbi Nataka Company of Gubbi Veeranna, will make an announcement to this effect on Saturday, at 4.30 pm, at Rangayana in Mysuru. “Theatre person Srinivas G Kappanna will launch the uploading of Karanth’s theatre music audio on internet social media. Rangayana artists will sing songs, tuned by Karanth. Its video recording will be uploaded on Facebook and YouTube. The links will be available on www.rangayana.org,” he said. Cariyappa said Indian theatre is based on music and dance. “This is noticed in theatre forms of all states and communities. In Karnataka, we have Hari Katha, Kamsale, Suggi Kunitha, Veeragase, Yakshagana, etc. Even professional or company theatre and folk theatre stress on music. Modern theatre, which is influenced by Western theatre, has also retained music as its integral part. Theatre music is part of performance that appears for small duration, yet haunts the audience long after the play,” he said. “Karanth, founder of Rangayana and also Neelakanteshwara Natya Seva Sangha (Ninasam), liberated himself from the shackles of ideologies and strived to strengthen theatre. He used to say, our words should be like a song and songs should be like our words from the heart; music knows no religion, its a part of all faiths; theatre music does not need scholars, one should just understand rhythm and melody. Thus, he gave a new dimension to Indian theatre music, on basis of tradition,” Cariyappa said. He said, “Karanth, who was also director of Bharat Bhavan Rang Mandal in Bhopal, gave a fresh perspective and added value to Kannada theatre, at a time when it was being overshadowed by other forms of entertainment, including cinema. He introduced the colourful magical technical grandiosity to theatre, accompanied by music and dance to enhance audience experience.” Cariyappa said, “We plan to organise seminars on theatre music, felicitate senior artistes related to theatre music and conduct workshops on theatre music. We wish other theatre organisations and enthusiasts will engage in similar activities, to mark the Indian Theatre Music Day, in memory of Karanth.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/b-v-karanths-birth-anniversary-to-be-observed-as-bharatiya-theatre-music-day-889123.html
17-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 17||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 51 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  5,205,044 as of September 17 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  84,311 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->    No. of people discharged: 40,25,079Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-17-888638.html
17-09-2020||National||DH Toon | 'Conspiracy to defame Bollywood'||A day after actor-turned-BJP MP Ravi Kishan raised the issue of drug abuse in the film industry in Lok Sabha, actress-turned Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan on Tuesday said that it was a "shame" that people who are benefited from the sector are "biting the hands that feed them".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-conspiracy-to-defame-bollywood-888639.html
17-09-2020||National||Regulate digital media 1st as it has faster reach: Centre to Supreme Court||The Union government has asked the Supreme Court that it should not undertake an exercise to lay down guidelines for Television news channels based on one episode or few episodes of one channel, as sufficient framework and judicial pronouncements already exist with regard to electronic and print media. If this court at all considers it appropriate to undertake the said exercise, it is desirable that the decision should first be undertaken with regard to digital media, due its "serious impact and the potential", the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said. In an affidavit to the matter related to telecast of a series of programmes as 'UPSC Jihad' by Sudarshan TV, the government said, "there is no justification to confine this exercise only to mainstream electronic media. The media includes mainstream electronic media, mainstream print media as well as a parallel media namely digital print media and digital web-based news portal and YouTube channels as well as ‘Over The Top’ (OTTs) platforms."  While in a mainstream media, whether electronic or print, the publication or telecast is a one-time act, the digital media has faster reach and wider range of viewership and readership and has the potential to become viral because of several electronic applications like Whatsapp, Twitter, Facebook etc, the government explained. It said the present petition filed by an advocate, Firoz Iqbal Khan, to restrain the channel from running the programme, should be confined to only one channel namely Sudarshan TV. "This court should not undertake the exercise of laying down any further guidelines with or without appointment of an amicus or a committee of persons as amicus," it said. "The present petition namely balancing between the journalist freedom and responsible journalism is a field already occupied either by the statutory provisions made by the Parliament or by the judgments of this court," the government said. It further maintained that since the issue has already received attention of Parliament and the top court in the past, each case should have to be decided on a case-to-case basis and "a broader exercise which is too general in nature is neither warranted nor permissible".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/regulate-digital-media-1st-as-it-has-faster-reach-centre-to-supreme-court-888644.html
17-09-2020||National||Ayurveda expert P R Krishnakumar passes away||The Managing Director of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy and Chancellor of city-based Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women, P R Krishnakumar passed away here on Wednesday night. The 69-year old Padma Shree recipient was undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection in a private hospital here and he breathed his last on Wednesday night, sources close to him said on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled Krishnakumar's death, describing him as "an extremely humble and knowledgeable person" and expressed grief over his demise. Modi had on an earlier occasion conversed with Krishnakumar, through video conference, on the role of Ayurveda to treat coronavirus during lockdown. Krishnakumar, awarded the Padma Shree in 2009 for his contributions to Ayurveda, is the son of P V Rama Varier, the founder of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy. He was born in Shoranur, Kerala. In a tweet, Modi mourned Krishnakumar's death. "Shri P R KrishnaKumar's persistent, enterprising and mission-mode efforts contributed to Ayurveda's global popularity. He was an extremely humble and knowledgeable person. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti," the Prime Minister said. He also shared a photograph of him with Krishnakumar. Krishnakumar established an institute by the name AVP Research Foundation (AVPRF) to conduct clinical, literary, field and drug researches and to train aspiring ayurvedic scholars. AVPRF launched the RUDRA clinical documentation programme in 2003 to promote practice-based evidence in the field of Ayurveda. He conceived and implemented a unique seven and a half year educational programme for Ayurveda totally free of cost, affiliated to Madras University and later to Bharathiar University and also approved by the Central Council for Indian Medicine (CCCIM), which created a unique breed of Ayurveda scholars. The government honoured him in the year 2016 with the prestigious Dhanwanthari Puraskar for his contributions in the field of Ayurveda Education, Health and Community Services. He is also the recipient of awards like Patanjali Puraskar of Patanjali Vidya Peetam among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayurveda-expert-p-r-krishnakumar-passes-away-888705.html
17-09-2020||National||Nepal PM Oli wishes PM Modi on his 70th birthday||Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli on Thursday greeted his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday and vowed to continue to work closely together towards strengthening bilateral relations. Prime Minister Modi, who was born on September 17 in 1950, turned 70 on Thursday. "Warm greetings to Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji on the auspicious occasion of your birthday. I wish you good health and happiness. We will continue working closely together to further strengthen relations between our two countries," Oli tweeted. We will continue working closely together to further strengthen relations between our two countries. Oli held a telephonic conversation with Modi on India's 74th Independence Day on August 15, in the first high-level contact after the bilateral relations between the two countries came under strain following the issuance of a new political map by the Himalayan nation in May. The ties between the two countries came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal protested the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through its territory. Days later, Nepal published a new political map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territories. In June, Nepal's Parliament approved the new political map of the country featuring areas which India maintains belong to it. India has termed Nepal's "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims as untenable. New Delhi has also said that Kathmandu's action violated an understanding reached between the two countries to resolve the boundary issues through talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-pm-oli-wishes-pm-modi-on-his-70th-birthday-888706.html
17-09-2020||National||Opposition leaders to meet President over Delhi riots case||Opposition leaders like Congress' Ahmed Patel, CPI's D Raja, CPI(M)'s Sitaram Yechury, DMK's Kanimozhi and RJD's Manoj Jha will meet the president on Thursday to highlight their concerns over the probe into the Delhi riots, a senior leader told PTI. The leaders will meet President Ram Nath Kovind at 12:30 pm, Raja confirmed. "We will submit a memorandum regarding the Delhi police's investigation and inquiry into the Delhi riots and how they are handling the inquiry. "We will also explain to him what is happening and seek his intervention," said the CPI general secretary. In a recent supplementary charge sheet, the Delhi Police, citing statements of those arrested, had named Yechury along with other activists in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-leaders-to-meet-president-over-delhi-riots-case-888710.html
17-09-2020||National||With record 97,894 new infections, India's Covid-19 tally crosses 51-lakh mark||A record single-day increase of 97,894 infections pushed India's Covid-19 tally to over 51 lakh, while the number of people who  have recuperated from the disease crossed 40 lakh on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 51,18,253, while the death toll climbed to 83,198 with the virus claiming 1,132 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries surged to 40,25,079 while the active cases of Covid-19 crossed 10 lakh for the first time. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection was recorded  at 1.63 per cent. There are 10,09,976  active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 19.73 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 6,05,65,728 samples have been tested up to September 16 with 11,36,613 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-record-97894-new-infections-indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-51-lakh-mark-888728.html
17-09-2020||National||2,500 social media accounts under govt's radar for spreading disinformation: Report||Over 2,500 social media accounts are under the government's radar for allegedly spreading Chinese propaganda and disinformation as tensions along the eastern Ladakh region continue to rise. “In some countries where the social media is banned, it is being accessed through virtual private network (VPN),” added the official. The issue of fake news and disinformation prevails in India and the problem has been flagged to social media companies. Some of these fake accounts have been blocked, however, a large number of handles are still under surveillance. “Many banned accounts reappear by changing handle names and details in the bio-data. In multiple cases, e-mail IDs and contacts numbers required for opening accounts on social networking sites were found identical,” the official said. The India-China border row began in June after 20 Indian soldiers were killed at the Galwan Valley. India retaliated by banning 177 apps, citing “activities are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the state and public order”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2500-social-media-accounts-under-govts-radar-for-spreading-disinformation-report-888743.html
17-09-2020||National||The Seva Saptah drive: What is it? What are BJP's initiatives? Here's all you need to know||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has organised a week-long community service Seva Saptah to honour PM Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday. Starting from September 14, the drive will continue till September 20. The theme for the Seva Saptah is ‘seventy’, in line with PM’s 70th birthday this year. Here’s everything you need to know about the Seva Saptah: * Various community services will be taken up by the party leaders throughout this week. * 70 differently-abled people will be presented with artificial limbs and other equipment, while spectacles will be provided to 70 blind people. * BJP president J P Nadda kick-started this drive at Chhaprauli village in western Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district.  * BJP’s Youth wing, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha will be organising 70 blood donation camps in big Indian states and one donation camp in every small district of the small Indian states. * 70 saplings are also to be planted by party workers in every booth. * The BJP party workers have also been directed to arrange cleanliness drives in 70 villages of every district, while pledging to get rid of single-use plastics. * 70 slides on the ‘Life and Mission’ of the prime minister will be displayed in 70 virtual conferences. They will be advertised through the media on September 17. * JP Nadda said that crores of BJP workers will be serving people across India for this whole week.   सेवा परमोधर्म:   * Union Ministers G Kishan Reddy and Nityanand Rai has already felicitated 70 workers of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on September 16. * BJP MPs in Goa distributed pulse oximeter, sanitisers and face shields to schools from the Cortalim Constituency. * BJP workers in Kerala had initiated a cleanliness drive on September 15. * BJP president JP Nadda has inaugurated an exhibition inspired by PM Modi's life, as part of the Seva Saptah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-seva-saptah-drive-what-is-it-what-are-bjps-initiatives-heres-all-you-need-to-know-888751.html
17-09-2020||National||Data collected by Shenzen 'no different' than US peers: Report||This comes after a report claimed that a Shenzen-based firm with links to the Chinese government is monitoring over 10,000 Indian individuals and organisations in its global database of "foreign targets". DH could not independently verify this report. Although the firm did not deny that its clients include government and military, it told the publication that its “current clients include higher education institutions and think tanks” in China. “The Overseas Key Information Database (OKIDB) does exist, but not as magical as media reported, it merely connects individuals to the social media they use. “There is nothing about the operations that are illegal or unreasonable. We collect information from public sources that are accessible to everyone. But we do not get private information from confidential sources such as chat histories, psychological profiles or anything that the user chooses to conceal,” a representative of Zhenhua said. Amid reports of the snooping on some Indian leaders, the Indian government had taken up the issue with the Chinese envoy, according to a letter by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to Congress leader K C Venugopal. Jaishankar in his letter said that in their statement, a representative of Shenzen Zhenhua has stated that the data collected was from open sources and is no different from its peer organisations in western countries. The minister said they have denied accessing private information from confidential sources. “Zhenhua is a privately owned company established in April 2018. All of its partners are natural persons without backgrounds in the Chinese military or the government, and some were previously in the information technology business." “Our data are all public data on the internet. This is just data integration. Its operations, which involve collecting and ‘mobilising’ data, are 100 per cent from open sources with no data mining and is no different from its Western peers, such as US public tracking platforms called EveryPolitician and GovTrack,” a representative told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-collected-by-shenzen-no-different-than-us-peers-report-888771.html
17-09-2020||National||SSR case: HC seeks Centre's stand on Rakul Preet's plea on media reports||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre on actor Rakul Preet Singh's plea to stop media reports from connecting her with the Rhea Chakraborty drug case. Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Prasar Bharti and the Press Council of India, seeking their stand on the actor's petition. The court also asked the authorities to treat her plea as a representation and take a decision on it before the next date of hearing on October 15. It also expressed hope that "media houses would show restraint in their reports and would abide by the cable TV regulations, program code and various guidelines, statutory and self regulatory, while making any reports with regard to the petitioner" (Rakul Preet). The actor, represented by advocate Aman Hingorani, has claimed in her plea that Rhea Chakraborty had already retracted the statement in which she was allegedly named and yet the media reports were connecting her to the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ssr-case-hc-seeks-centres-stand-on-rakul-preets-plea-on-media-reports-888774.html
17-09-2020||National||SC declines to consider plea overt time relaxation for students to pay fee||A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and Justice M R Shah, however, gave liberty to the petitioners to approach the jurisdictional High Court for the purpose. A fourth year law student, Ramey Krishan Rana, contended that the guidelines issued by the UGC and and BCI were unheeded to by Universities. UGC and BCI on May 27 and July 27 respectively issued regulations for sympathetically dealing with payment by students. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that petition was filed for larger interest of the students he did not seek forfeiture of fees, but only relaxation. The court, however, said it had earlier dismissed similar matters. However, the petitioner may approach the High Courts since all Universities, States might have different conditions, and requirements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-overt-time-relaxation-for-students-to-pay-fee-888779.html
17-09-2020||National||PM Modi's birthday: Why is #NationalUnemploymentDay trending on Twitter?||While a week-long Seva Saptah has been organised by the BJP party workers starting from September 14 to September 20 to honour Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, twitterati took it upon themselves to mark the day as the National Unemployment Day. The hashtag 'Rashtriya Berojgar Diwas' or National Unemployment Day is currently trending on Twitter, here’s why: The National Statistical Office (NSO) reported that India's April-June quarter GDP contracted by 23.9 per cent. This is the first major contraction in 40 years. As the unemployment rate keeps increasing in India, day-after-day, the youth of the nation demanded various employment reforms throughout the week. The Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated the pre-existing inequities in urban India and has left the "lockdown generation" with lower employment rates, according to a London School of Economics report. According to the report, workers in the bottom half of pre-COVID labour income group suffered bigger income losses than the top half following the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The report surveyed 8,500 workers aged 18 to 40 in urban India to understand their experiences at work during Covid-19. The survey was conducted between May and July 2020. Terming the week as the Rashtriya Berojgar Saptah, which is on September 17, Indian youth have been using the National Unemployment Day hashtag more than ever. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has also taken a dig at the Centre and has tweeted about the same using the trending hashtag. Here are some of them:    Don't underestimate the Power of a Student.       Moody's Investors Service on Friday said India's economy is expected to contract for the first time in more than four decades saying economic damage owing to the coronavirus-induced lockdown will be significant with lower consumption and sluggish business activity. The government's Rs 20.97 lakh crore Covid-19 package lacks in addressing immediate concerns of the economy as the actual fiscal impact of the additional stimulus is only about 1 per cent of GDP as opposed to the claim of 10 per cent, Fitch Solutions said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-birthday-why-is-nationalunemploymentday-trending-on-twitter-888780.html
17-09-2020||National||Centre should release funds to states from PM Cares Fund to deal with Covid-19: Shiv Sena||Stressing that there should no politicisation of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the Shiv Sena on Thursday asked the Centre to release money to states from the PM Cares Fund and also clear GST dues to help them deal with the coronavirus situation. During the second day of discussion in Rajya Sabha on the pandemic and steps taken by the Centre, Sanjay Raut (Shiv Sena) took exception to the criticism by some BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, of the measures taken by the Maharashtra government to control the pandemic. "More than 30,000 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Maharashtra. How did it happen?," he said In an apparent dig at Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal, Raut said did those people recover by eating "Bhabhi Ji Papad". Meghwal had come under fire after he reportedly claimed that the ingredients of a papad brand 'Bhabhi Ji Papad' helps in formation of antibodies needed to fight Covid-19. Raut further said all states were doing their best to deal with the pandemic. It's not that opposition ruled states like Maharashtra, West Bengal and Delhi were doing bad, and only BJP-led NDA states were excelling in the fight, he added. "We should not be pointing fingers at each other," he said, and stressed that the Shiv Sena has been been maintaining that the battle against Covid has to be fought under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He charged that from September 1 onwards, the Centre has stopped supplies of medical equipment like PPE Kits and masks, putting an additional burden of Rs 350 crore on the Maharashtra government. If the Centre wants the states to fight the Covid battle on their own, it should clear all GST dues, he demanded. The PM Cares Fund too is for all states, and money should be released to them, he said. His party colleague, Priyanka Chaturvedi, a first time MP, also expressed disappointment over politicisation of the fight against the pandemic. She said every single state has been asked to take care of medical equipment on their own "Considering that state governments are already under tremendous financial burden of not getting their due GST, how do you expect the states to give its response," she said. Chaturvedi wanted to speak with her face mask off. However, on insistence of Deputy Chairman Harivansh, she put it back and participated in the discussion. Praful Patel of the NCP, which is in a coalition government with the Shiva Sena and the Congress in Maharashtra, voiced concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country and called for a joint effort to deal with the pandemic. He said all states have been following the central guidelines on lockdown as well as the unlocking process. "When we all are fighting together, there is no need of pointing fingers at each other," Patel said. He said the states were facing a fund crunch and sought release of GST dues from the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-release-funds-to-states-from-pm-cares-fund-to-deal-with-covid-19-shiv-sena-888783.html
17-09-2020||National||Sushant not a Rajput, they don't hang themselves: RJD MLA Arun Yadav||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput is not a Rajput as those belonging to Maharana Prataps clan do not die by suicide, RJD MLA Arun Yadav has said, triggering a controversy. Hitting out, the JD(U) and BJP asked Yadav to apologise to the people of Bihar and Sushants fans for the casteist comment. "I say that he (Sushant) was not a Rajput. Please dont mind but a Rajput who belongs to Maharana Prataps clan cannot hang himself by a rope," Yadav said on Wednesday while inaugurating a newly-built road in Saharsa, his assembly constituency. "I am pained... Sushant Singh Rajput should not have hanged himself with a rope. He was a Rajput and should have fought instead... Rajputs first kill others before dying, he said. Maharana Pratap was not only the ancestor of Rajputs but also that of the Yadavs, the legislator said. The comments triggered widespread criticism as the actor's death has turned into a major issue in the state ahead of the elections that is likely to be held in October- November. "There cannot be a more bizarre and shameful statement than the one made by the RJD MLA on the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, which has moved the entire nation. The MLA should seek an apology from the people of the state and Sushant's fans," JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Condemning the remark, BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said RJD leaders and workers are "habitual offenders" and this is evident from the humiliation meted out to senior leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh by Lalu Prasads eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav who compared him to "ek lota pani" (a pot of water). Tejashwi must clarify and explain his position whether he supports the likes of MLA Arun Yadav and Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Choudhary on the issue of Sushant Singh Rajput, Kangana Ranaut and Rhea Chakraborty, Anand said. People will give a befitting reply at an "appropriate time", he said, referring to the assembly election. Sushant Singh Rajput's death case is currently being probed by CBI and other central agencies. KK Singh, the actors father, lodged an FIR at the Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna in July, nearly 40 days after his son was found hanging from the ceiling of his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-not-a-rajput-they-dont-hang-themselves-rjd-mla-arun-yadav-888798.html
17-09-2020||National||No plan to drop aptitude test from civil services examination: Govt||There is no plan to drop the civil services aptitude test (CSAT) from the civil services examination, the government said on Thursday. The civil services examination is conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) annually in three stages -- preliminary, main and interview -- to select officers for Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) among others. The CSAT is part of the civil services preliminary examination. "No sir," was the response given by Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha to a query on the plans to drop the CSAT. He also responded in negative when asked whether the government was going to change the pattern of the UPSC civil services examination, including the replacement of interviews with a psychological test. In a separate reply, the minister said that there is no such test which has not been conducted even after one year of its registration by the National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts entrance examinations for admission/fellowship in higher education institutions. "National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts entrance examinations for admission/fellowship in higher education institutions, has informed that there is no such entrance exam which has not been conducted even after one year of registration for the same," Singh said. He said due to Covid-19 pandemic, the schedule of release of notification of examinations for the year 2020 could not be maintained from the month of April, 2020 onwards. "Due to Covid-19 pandemic situation, the declaration of result of Tier-III of Combined Graduate Level Examination – 2018 has been delayed. However, every effort is being made to complete the process of declaration of result at the earliest," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plan-to-drop-aptitude-test-from-civil-services-examination-govt-888800.html
17-09-2020||National||Mismatch between what China says and does: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said China attempted to change the status quo along the LAC with its provocative military manoeuvres late last month and that there is a mismatch between what Beijing says and does. Making a statement on the situation in eastern Ladakh in Rajya Sabha, the minister said India wants a peaceful solution to the boundary issue, but will not shy away from any action required to defend the sovereignty of the country. While the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military dialogues, Singh said the "Chinese side again engaged in provocative military manoeuvres on the night of 29th and 30th August in an attempt to change the status quo in the South Bank area of Pangong Lake". "But yet again, timely and firm actions by our armed forces along the LAC prevented such attempts from succeeding," he said, adding that, "Unki kathani aur karni alag hai (their actions are at variance with their words".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mismatch-between-what-china-says-and-does-rajnath-singh-888822.html
17-09-2020||National||Legal aid provided in 2,878 domestic violence cases by NALSA during lockdown: WCD Ministry||Legal assistance was provided in a total of 2,878 cases of domestic violence by the NALSA in the lockdown period of April to June, the government informed Parliament on Thursday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said 694 cases were resolved through counselling and mediation in the said period. "As per the information received from NALSA (National Legal Services Authority) for the period from April 2020 to June 2020, legal aid and assistance have been provided in 2,878 domestic violence cases and petitions have been filed in 452 cases under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 (PWDVA)," she said. Irani said the government ensured that during the nationwide lockdown, the one-stop centres (OSCs) and women helplines (WHL), which support women on matters pertaining to safety, remained operational. The protection officers under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 and the dowry prohibition officers under the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 were also directed to continue with their services related to providing protection and support to the women affected by violence during the lockdown, she added. Responding to another question, Irani said all the Anganwadi centres in the country were closed to limit the impact of Covid-19. "During the consultation held with states and UTs in the month of July 2020, most of the states had also expressed their inability to open Anganwadi centres in the light of increasing incidents of Covid-19. However, to ensure continuous nutritional support to Anganwadi beneficiaries, Anganwadi workers and helpers have been distributing supplementary nutrition at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries," she said. Irani said the ministry has issued necessary directions to the states and Union territories to ensure distribution of food and nutrition support by Anganwadi workers at the doorstep of the beneficiaries once in 15 days. "In addition, Anganwadi workers and Anganwadi helpers have been assisting the local administration in community surveillance, creating awareness or other works assigned to them from time to time," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legal-aid-provided-in-2878-domestic-violence-cases-by-nalsa-during-lockdown-wcd-ministry-888823.html
17-09-2020||National||Centre not required to seek Delhi HC nod before granting recognition to sports bodies, says SC||In a relief to the Centre and the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), the Supreme Court said on Thursday that they are not required to seek the prior consent of the Delhi High Court before granting recognition to various sports federations in the country. The apex court was hearing the Sports Ministry's appeal against the high court order which prohibited the authorities from taking a decision on granting recognition to national federations without its prior nod. The high court order was passed on a 2010 PIL filed by lawyer Rahul Mehra seeking observance of the National Sports Code and directions to the Sports Ministry and the IOA to ensure that National Sports Federations (NSFs) perform their duties well. A bench comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph said the Centre was not required to seek the consent of the high court before granting recognition to various sports federations under the National Sports Code. In the hearing conducted through video conferencing, the bench said if anyone is aggrieved by the non-grant of recognition, they can move the court. The counsel for the Centre said there are several federations and if it was to seek the consent of the High Court before granting recognition to any federation, the whole process will come to a standstill. The government also argued that the issue of granting recognition fell solely in the executive's domain and the High Court shouldn't have entered into it. The top court took note of the fact that the PIL was pending since 2010 in the High Court and requested it that the plea be adjudicated upon expeditiously once and for all. Earlier, the Sports Ministry and the IOA had said they have decided to approach the Supreme Court to challenge the Delhi High Court order which prohibits the ministry from taking any decision on grant of recognition to national federations. On August 7, the ministry had requested the high court to modify the order and allow at least the grant of recognition to the NSFs but the court rejected that plea and asked for a National Sports Code compliance report. The ministry had then sent across a questionnaire to the NSFs seeking the age and tenure details of their office-bearers. A total of 56 NSFs responded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-not-required-to-seek-delhi-hc-nod-before-granting-recognition-to-sports-bodies-says-sc-888840.html
17-09-2020||National||Aiming to bring down Covid-19 mortality rate to less than 1%: Harsh Vardhan||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said India's Covid-19 mortality rate at 1.64 per cent is lowest in the world and the government is targeting to bring it down to less than 1 per cent. Replying to a debate in the Rajya Sabha, he said India's recovery rate of 78-79 per cent is one of the highest in the world. He said though total cases may have crossed 50 lakh, active cases are less than 20 per cent. Deaths in India due to coronavirus pandemic are less than many nations in Europe, he said, adding the government was determined to cross the US in testing rate as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiming-to-bring-down-covid-19-mortality-rate-to-less-than-1-harsh-vardhan-888843.html
17-09-2020||National||Govt child helpline received 2.39 crore calls from 2018 to Aug 2020: WCD Ministry||A total of 2.39 crore calls were received by the government's child helpline service from 2018 till August this year, the Centre informed Parliament on Thursday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani presented data, according to which the child helpline received 1.12 crore calls in 2018, 78.64 lakh calls in 2019 and 48.18 lakh calls till August this year. According to the data, a total of 2,39,70,624 calls have been received by the helpline since 2018. "Presently, CHILDLINE services are available in 594 districts. As on January 1, 2018, CHILDLINE services were available in 413 districts. As on September 15, 2020, the coverage has been enhanced to 594 districts," the minister said. "Average wait time and duration for the Child Helpline depends on the traffic of calls at a particular time. The mandate for the Childline team is to reach the incident spot within 60 minutes of receiving a case complaint. However, the actual response time depends also on factors such as geographical location (hilly area, metro city), availability of transport etc.," she added. Irani said a committee under the chairpersonship of the Minister of State for Women and Child Development has been formed to look into re-organising the functionality of the Childline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-child-helpline-received-239-crore-calls-from-2018-to-aug-2020-wcd-ministry-888845.html
17-09-2020||National||Common Services Center partners with WhatsApp to deliver digital literacy services||The Common Services Centers (CSC) on Thursday launched a WhatsApp chatbot for citizens to receive a range of digital literacy services and resources with an aim to bridge the digital divide and spur rural entrepreneurship. Speaking on the launch of CSC’s WhatsApp chatbot, CEO, CSC  Dinesh Tyagi said, “ The ability to deliver digital literacy modules through WhatsApp will help us in extension of the programme to those still unreached in rural as well as urban areas. The partnership will redefine the delivery model of education and skill-related content, especially for rural India.” To date, over 500 unique users have accessed CSC’s WhatsApp chatbot and it is expected to be used by 10 million beneficiaries by August 2021. The Digital Beti initiative aims to train 5,000 rural entrepreneurs on digital literacy in over 3,000 villages across 10 Indian states, while the PMGDisha initiative focuses on making at least 40% of rural households digitally literate.Elaborating on the partnership, Head of Public Policy, WhatsApp India, Shivnath Thukral said,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/common-services-center-partners-with-whatsapp-to-deliver-digital-literacy-services-888861.html
17-09-2020||National||India should get Covid-19 vaccine at affordable rate: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Noting that several countries have already secured favourable commitment for supply of a Covid-19 vaccine, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad on Thursday said India should be well placed to get the vaccine at an "affordable price" and at an "early stage" through a mechanism like pooled procurement. However, the government should be "over cautious" about the quality, safety and efficacy of a new vaccine as any long term side effects would impact India which has a large and young population, he said. Participating in a debate on Covid-19 pandemic in the Upper House, the former health minister attacked the government for losing "golden months" to stop the spread of the disease despite a warning from the World Health Organisation (WHO) in December 2019 about the spread of a mysterious pneumonia in neighbouring China. "It was happening in our neighbourhood, we should have been alert," he said, adding that even former Congress President Rahul Gandhi had warned about the coming of a pandemic of this nature in March. Making suggestions to the government on procurement and post procurement strategy for last mile delivery of Covid-19 vaccine across the country, the  senior Congress leader said: "We are all aware that several vaccine candidates are in advanced clinical trial phase-2 and 3 and that the vaccine will be introduced sometime in near future. It may take 3-4 months or 6-8 months, but a vaccine will come sooner or later." The government should closely follow the vaccine development globally as there will be very high demand for a vaccine developed anywhere in the world, he said. "We should be well placed to get the vaccine at an affordable price and at an early stage through mechanisms such as pooled procurement....," he said. Several nations are already in talks with frontrunners and secured favourable commitment for supply of vaccine for their population, he said, adding there is a need to have discussions and engagement with manufacturers and bilateral dialogue with countries developing the vaccine.     While procuring a new vaccine, the senior Congress leader said the government should also be aware of the fact that Covid-19 vaccine would be a new vaccine and there is a global race for developing it within a shortest time possible. "There could be adverse or side effects, even long term effects which may need time to be identified and which have not been appropriately discovered in Phase 1, 2 and 3 trials. India needs to be cautious," he said. "Since India is a large and young country, the government should be over cautious and should rigorously monitor the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine," he noted. On the vaccination strategy, Azad suggested the government make preparation right now on how to deliver to the last mile. The country cannot afford to lose time in preparing a vaccination strategy after the procurement of vaccines. A preparedness plan needs to be developed for deployment of future Covid-19 vaccines. For instance, identifying the priority target groups like health workers, elderly people and security personnel, he said. Regulatory pathways, vaccine safety monitoring mechanism, communication strategy, logistics support like cold storage -- all need to be put in place for last mile delivery of the vaccine, he added. The Congress leader also demanded the government to reduce the price of sanitisers and soaps by half to ensure that the poor can afford them. That apart, the Leader of Opposition emphasised on the need to think about short, medium and long term preparedness plans in consultation with state governments. He suggested that the government should set up a dedicated infectious disease hospital and fever clinics and not call them as Covid-19 hospitals to avoid stigma and use the term 'physical distancing' instead of 'social distancing'. Stressing on the need to enhance public health and research capacities, Azad said the government should set up four more BSL-Level 4 and BSL-Level-3 labs in each medical college in the country besides Centre for Disease Control and Health Centre for diagnostic facilities at district and community level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-get-covid-19-vaccine-at-affordable-rate-ghulam-nabi-azad-888862.html
17-09-2020||National||Recoveries exceed active cases of Covid-19 by over 30 lakh, active cases comprise 19.73% of total caseload||India's Covid-19 recoveries have crossed 40 lakh and exceed the active cases of infection by 30,15,103, taking the recovery rate to 78.64 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The total number of active cases in the country has crossed 10 lakh as on date. There are 10,09,976  active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprise 19.73 per cent of the total caseload, the data updated at 8 am showed.  Close to half -- 48.45 per cent -- of the active cases are concentrated in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.  "Together with the states of Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, these five states contribute nearly 60 per cent of the total active infections," the ministry underlined. Maharashtra (17,559) contributed more than one-fifth of the new recoveries (21.22 per cent) while the states of Andhra Pradesh (10,845), Karnataka (6,580), Uttar Pradesh (6,476) and Tamil Nadu (5,768) contributed 35.87 per cent of the new recoveries. These states together account for 57.1 per cent of total new recoveries, the ministry said adding, "Spurred by high recoveries, the national recovery rate continues to follow its rising curve. It has risen to 78.64 per cent as on date." India has been registering very high recoveries for two consecutive days, the ministry said. More than 82,000 Covid-19 patients have been cured and discharged in the past two days. "These high levels of recovery have resulted in a 100 per cent increase in the number of recovered cases in the past 30 days," it highlighted.  As many as 1,132 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. With 474 new cases of mortality, Maharashtra accounts for more than 40 per cent of the new deaths.  The four states of Uttar Pradesh (86), Punjab (78), Andhra Pradesh (64), West Bengal (61) contributed 25.5 per cent of the fatalities during the same period, the ministry said. A record single-day increase of 97,894 infections pushed India' s Covid-19 tally to  51,18,253, while the death toll climbed to 83,198, with the virus claiming 1,132 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recoveries-exceed-active-cases-of-covid-19-by-over-30-lakh-active-cases-comprise-1973-of-total-caseload-888870.html
17-09-2020||National||Less than 3% population in tribal-dominated districts Covid-19 positive: Government||Less than 3 per cent population in 177 tribal-dominated districts in the county has been detected as positive for coronavirus, the government told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Union Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda also told the Upper House that so far, there has been "no report of a major outbreak of the disease in tribal areas". Citing a recent study conducted by IIT Delhi, the minister said, “Less than 3 per cent of the population in 177 districts with 25 per cent tribal population or more has been detected as corona positive”. The minister also said the Covid-19 response team of his ministry has formulated a pandemic response plan to protect the livelihoods and health of Scheduled Tribes. “The same has been approved by the Secretary, Tribal Affairs, and circulated among various stakeholders for necessary action. States and Union Territories have been asked to utilize funds from state-tribal sub plans and submit a comprehensive proposal on these lines under various schemes of the ministry,” he said. Measures in the response plan include the provision of community kitchens in tribal areas, ensuring the supply of ration, basic financial support through direct benefit transfer, improving village-level water availability, and support towards the creation of isolation and quarantine facilities in areas with ST population. The Ministry of Tribal Affairs has also done the mapping of sectoral gaps down to the level of gram panchayats and villages in collaboration with the Ministry of Rural Development, Munda said. The data has been shared with all states, who have been asked to work out strategies for mitigating sectoral gaps at the village-level including in the field of healthcare. This ministry has also prepared a Tribal Health Action Plan which was shared with NITI Aayog, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, AYUSH and the states in November 2019, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-3-population-in-tribal-dominated-districts-covid-19-positive-government-888875.html
17-09-2020||National||Congress raises Facebook hate speech issue in Rajya Sabha; demands probe into its 'interference in India's electoral democracy'||The allegations against Facebook of turning a blind eye to the hate speeches of BJP and Hindutva supporters were raised in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday with the Congress demanding a probe by a Parliamentary committee into the social media giant's interference in the country's electoral democracy. The issue was raised by senior Congress MP KC Venugopal through a special mention in the Rajya Sabha in which he said Facebook India's "blatant biases and dubious practices" have come out through media reports. "This is a damning and serious allegation of Facebook India's interference in India's electoral democracy," he said. He also demanded the publishing of all instances of hate speech posts since 2014 that were allowed on the platform. A parliamentary committee should be initiated to probe this very serious issue of Facebook's interference in our electoral democracy, he added. Emphasising that India was one of the biggest markets in terms of users for Facebook and WhatsApp, Venugopal said that the expectations of social and moral responsibility of Facebook were even higher in nations such as ours. Referring to reports about Facebook not taking action against hate posts by BJP leaders, he said they had repeatedly raised the issue of bias with many executives of Facebook and WhatsApp over the past few years that have fallen on "mostly deaf ears". "In this regard, the government should ask for a high-level inquiry by Facebook Headquarters into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations and submit a report to the board of Facebook Inc. within a reasonable period of time," Venugopal, who had earlier written to Facebook Chief Mark Zuckerberg demanding action, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-raises-facebook-hate-speech-issue-in-rajya-sabha-demands-probe-into-its-interference-in-indias-electoral-democracy-888878.html
17-09-2020||National||No plans to amend Official Languages Act to include regional languages in official language list: Nityanand Rai tell Rajya Sabha||The government has said that there was no proposal to amend the Official Languages Act to include languages other than Hindi and English in its official languages' list. This was disclosed by Minister of State for Home Nityanad Rai in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha in response to questions from MDMK MP Vaiko. Vaiko also asked if the government had no plans to include languages other than English and Hindi identified in the Schedule of Constitution as official languages, how were the people in the south and the northeast, especially villagers, supposed to understand the communications, rules and regulations published by the government. To this, Rai said that there was a provision of three languages (Hindi, English and regional language) as per point No 3 of the Official Language Resolution, 1968, which was prepared in consultation with the state governments. "The order of usage of language in the name-boards/notice boards to be displayed for the information of the public by the Central government offices, which are located in non-Hindi speaking areas is to be in the order of (1) regional language 2) Hindi and 3) English," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plans-to-amend-official-languages-act-to-include-regional-languages-in-official-language-list-nityanand-rai-tell-rajya-sabha-888887.html
17-09-2020||National||Petrol demand returns to pre-Covid-19 levels, diesel demand still down||India's petrol sales rose for the first time in the first half of September since the country's lockdown in late March, signalling demand may have returned to pre-Covid-19 levels. Petrol sales between September 1 and 15 rose 2.2 per cent year-on-year and were up 7 per cent over the previous month, according to preliminary industry data. Diesel sales continue to be in negative territory, with demand falling 6 per cent year-on-year. But the demand was 19.3 per cent higher over August 2020. This is the first time that petrol sales in the world's third-largest oil importer have risen since the March 25 nationwide lockdown crippled economic activity and sent demand plummeting. Petrol sales rose to 9,65,000 tonnes during the first half of September as compared to 9,45,000 tonnes in the same period a year back and 9,00,000 tonnes during August 1-15, 2020. Demand for diesel, the most consumed fuel in the country, fell to 2.13 million tonnes from 2.25 million tonnes in September 1-15, 2019. Sales were 1.78 million tonnes during the first half of August this year. Industry sources said while the Indian economy has started to pick up with lockdown restrictions being lifted since June, local lockdowns by states have hampered the demand quickly picking up. Petrol sales have picked up as commuters are increasingly preferring to personal transport to public transport. The September rise in petrol is a turnaround from the sharp drop witnessed in August. Diesel and petrol sales have fallen by 21 per cent and 7.4 per cent, respectively in August from a year earlier. Jet fuel sales at 1,25,000 tonnes were down 60 per cent in the first half of September but was 15 per cent higher than 1,03,000 tonnes sales in August. Cooking gas LPG sales were up 12.5 per cent at 1.13 million tonnes year-on-year and 13.5 per cent month-on-month. Car sales rose 14 per cent in August from a year earlier, while two-wheeler sales increased by 3 per cent. Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, Chairman of Indian Oil Corp (IOC) - the country's largest fuel retailer, earlier this week stated that there were signs of demand recovery, but the pandemic's impact could linger and monthly consumption may edge back to pre-virus levels by the end of the year. Fuel demand is expected to further rise in October as the festive season kicks in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-demand-returns-to-pre-covid-19-levels-diesel-demand-still-down-888889.html
17-09-2020||National||Selling LIC stakes will adversely impact economy: LJD MP M V Shreyams Kumar in Rajya Sabha||Emphasising that the move to sell equity of Life Insurance Corporation will severely impact the economy and vulnerable sections, LJD MP M V Shreyams Kumar on Thursday demanded that the company be retained under full government control. Raising the issue as a Special Mention in the Rajya Sabha, Kumar said the move will give way to profit maximization for the shareholders, reducing the concept of people's money for people's welfare take. "This is neither in the interest of the LIC's 40 crore policyholders, nor in the interest of the national economy. In a situation where the country needs huge resources for development, it is necessary that the government should exercise its control over the household savings," the Kerala MP said. He said the policyholders of the LIC as well as the public are deeply disturbed with the reports that the government had  initiated the process of selling parts of its stake in the country's largest insurance company. Seeking the Finance Minister's intervention at the earliest before it makes "severe damage" to the economy, he said the LIC was created through an Act of the Parliament. "It is unfortunate that the government is proceeding with a move, which will have a wide-ranging impact on the national economy, without a thorough discussion in Parliament," he said adding that the LIC was presently managing assets worth over Rs 32 lakh crore while it had a meagre capital base of Rs 5 crore in 1956. "The move to sell equity of LIC will severely impact the economy and vulnerable sections of society. I request the government to retain LIC as a 100% government-owned institution," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/selling-lic-stakes-will-adversely-impact-economy-ljd-mp-m-v-shreyams-kumar-in-rajya-sabha-888895.html
17-09-2020||National||Indian cities drop in Global Smart City Index; Singapore on top||Four Indian cities -- New Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru -- witnessed a significant drop in their rankings in the global listing of smart cities that was topped by Singapore. The Institute for Management Development (IMD), in collaboration with Singapore University for Technology and Design (SUTD), has released the 2020 Smart City Index, with key findings on how technology is playing a role in the Covid-19 era. In the 2020 Smart City Index, Hyderabad was placed at the 85th position (down from 67 in 2019), New Delhi at 86th rank (down from 68 in 2019), Mumbai was at 93rd place (in 2019 it was at 78) and Bengaluru at 95th (79 in 2019). "Cities in India (New Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru) suffer significant drops this year. This can be attributed to the detrimental effect that the pandemic has had where the technological advancement was not up to date," the report said. It further added that "Indian cities have suffered more from the pandemic because they were not prepared". From 15 indicators that the respondents perceive as the priority areas for their city, all four cities highlighted air pollution as one of the key areas that they felt their city needed to prioritise on. For cities like Bangalore and Mumbai, this was closely followed by road congestion while for Delhi and Hyderabad it was basic amenities, the report said. The 2020 Smart City Index (SCI) was topped by Singapore, followed by Helsinki and Zurich in the second and the third place respectively. Others in the top 10 list include Auckland (4th), Oslo (5th), Copenhagen (6th), Geneva (7th), Taipei City (8th), Amsterdam (9th) and New York at the 10th place. In SCI's context, 'smart city' describes an urban setting that apply technology to enhance the benefits and diminish the shortcomings of urbanization. The second edition of the SCI ranked 109 cities worldwide by capturing perceptions of randomly chosen 120 residents in each city. Hundreds of citizens from 109 cities were surveyed in April and May 2020 and asked questions on the technological provisions of their city across five key areas: health and safety, mobility, activities, opportunities and governance. Reflected in this year's rankings is that cities have ever differing approaches to technology as managing the pandemic has become increasingly important in local politics, the report said. "We cannot ignore the impact of Covid-19," said IMD's Professor Arturo Bris, who led the work of the ranking as the Director of the World Competitiveness Center at the Swiss management institute which is behind it. Those with better technology manage the pandemic better. Smart cities are not the solution, but technology helps,” he explained. "Smart cities closer to the top of the rankings seem to deal with unexpected challenges of the devastating pandemic with a better outcome," remarked Professor Heng Chee Chan, Chairperson of the Lee Kuan Yew Centre for Innovative Cities at SUTD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-cities-drop-in-global-smart-city-index-singapore-on-top-888904.html
17-09-2020||National||Congress MPs from Punjab burn copies of farm bills, party protests in Parliament||Congress MPs from Punjab burnt copies of the farm bills proposed by the government inside the Parliament complex on Thursday even as the party staged a protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue. The Congress is opposed to the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 that the NDA government has proposed in Parliament during the ongoing monsoon session, replacing the ordinances issued by it earlier. Congress MPs Jasbir Singh Gill, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Gurjit Singh Aujla and Amar Singh burnt copies of the bills and said they will oppose the proposed legislations tooth and nail. They also wore black robes, saying "I am a farmer and farm labourer and don't betray me". They also criticised the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership for being in the BJP-led NDA even after these bills were proposed by the government. "We will oppose these bills from Parliament to panchayats. We also appeal to all MPs to vote against the bills, hearing the inner voice of their conscience for the sake of 'zameer and zameen' (conscience and land)," Gill said. Bittu said the BJP would be reduced to ashes if they play with the lives of farmers and their land. "The BJP will be finished if it tries to kill farmers and their mother (land)," he said. During the protest by Congress MPs in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue in the Parliament complex, the opposition party's leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said the farmer community in the country is under severe stress due to the "anti-farmer" and "wrong" policies of the NDA government. "We are protesting against these anti-farmer legislations. The entire farming community is out on the road in Punjab and Haryana and they are protesting against these bills," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-mps-from-punjab-burn-copies-of-farm-bills-party-protests-in-parliament-888905.html
17-09-2020||National||Zakat Foundation, supporting Muslim UPSC aspirants, got funds from terror-linked outfits: Sudarshan TV editor to SC||Sudarshan News Editor-in-Chief Suresh Chavhanke defended before the Supreme Court his TV series Bindas Bol, its UPSC Jihad episode and the claim that the Zakat Foundation, which supported Muslim aspirants for the IAS and IPS services in the country, had received funds from terror-linked organisations across the world. “It is not that all contributors to the Foundation are terror-linked," Chavhanke said. "However, some contributors are linked to organisations or are organisations that fund extremist groups. The funds received by the Zakat Foundation, in turn, are used to support aspirants for IAS, IPS or UPSC."   Maintaining that there was no justification for the pre-telecast ban on his remaining programme episodes, Chavhanke said the issue was a “matter of grave public interest” and “national security” must be subject to public debate and discussion.  “Consistent with the national security requirements of our country, there ought to be a public debate and discussion on the source of such funding," he said. “There is no statement or message in the four episodes broadcast that members of a particular community should not join UPSC, which is an open competitive examination and members of every community may participate in the entrance exam and qualify.”  The thrust of the particular programme episode is that there appears to be a conspiracy which needs to be investigated by NIA or CBI, he said. "It appears that terror-linked organisations are funding the Zakat Foundation of India, which in turn is supporting the UPSC aspirants,” Chavhanke said. He contended that Syed Zafar Mahmood, founder of the Zakat Foundation of India is “closely associated with...Zakir Naik,” whose Islamic Research Foundation was banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. "As per GOI records, Zakat Foundation received donations from Madina Trust UK, which is also a trustee with Islamic Foundation (IF)," Chavhanke said. "The Times, UK, reported that two IF trustees were on the UN sanctions list of people associated with the Taliban and Al-Qaeda." Chavhanke claimed that the Zakat Foundation also received donations from Muslim Aid (UK). According to Middle East Forum’s Islamist Watch Director Sam Westrop, Muslim Aid (Pakistan) head Gen Khalid Latif was with Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence. Muslim Aid (Pak) also allegedly works closely with the Hizbul Mujahideen. Chavhanke said, "Following a probe by the British media and inquiry by Britain’s charity regulator in 2010, Muslim Aid, UK, was found (and admitted) to have been funding a number of front organisations for terrorist groups Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad." Chavhanke said that the Zakat Foundation India received funds from the Zakat Foundation of America whose Executive Director Khalil Demir had signed US Internal Revenue Service 990 forms for the Benevolence International Foundation, which the US Treasury (US Govt) had found guilty in 2002 of funding Al-Qaeda. Chavhanke said, “I have no ill will against any community or any individual and do not oppose the selection of any meritorious candidate in the service of the Union or the States but my thrust and endeavour is to expose anti-national activities.” Among other reasons, Chavhanke expressed that he had raised a political and social issue about whether the benefits granted to OBC minority candidates must be reviewed.  Chavhanke also addressed objections that he had falsely propagated the claim that Muslim candidates were granted age relaxations in the UPSC. He explained that there was a graphic of a 32-year-old General Category candidate compared with a 35-year-old OBC minority candidate and it was to look at Muslim OBCs. "If a news channel is raising an objection to Muslims taking benefit of OBC quota, the same cannot be communal and in this country, time and again these questions and these debates are in the public domain," Chavhanke said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zakat-foundation-supporting-muslim-upsc-aspirants-got-funds-from-terror-linked-outfits-sudarshan-tv-editor-to-sc-888908.html
17-09-2020||National||Accorded highest priority to getting permanent membership of UNSC: India||India on Thursday said it has accorded the "highest priority" to getting permanent membership in an expanded UN Security Council that reflects contemporary global realities. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said India is actively engaged in the ongoing inter-governmental negotiations on reform of the powerful body at the UN and has been working alongside other like-minded countries and groupings. Muraleedharan was replying to a question in the Rajya Sabha on whether the government was making serious efforts to acquire a permanent seat for India at the UN Security Council (UNSC). "Government has accorded the highest priority to getting permanent membership for India in an expanded UN Security Council that reflects contemporary global realities," he said. "India in collaboration with other pro-reform countries has been consistently making efforts to build support among the UN member states for expansion of the UNSC, in both permanent and non-permanent categories," the minister said. On Wednesday, the grouping of India, Brazil and South Africa (IBSA) expressed "frustration" over the "slow" pace of progress on reform of the UN Security Council and said the time has come to move towards a result-oriented process to expand the key global body. The three countries, in a joint statement, strongly called for expediting reform of the UNSC, saying any failure to do so may have serious implications for international peace and security. At present, the UNSC comprises five permanent members and 10 non-permanent member countries which are elected for a two-year term by the General Assembly of the United Nations. The five permanent members are Russia, the UK, China, France and the United States and these countries can veto any substantive resolution. There has been growing demand to increase the number of permanent members to reflect the contemporary global reality. India, Brazil, South Africa, Germany and Japan are strong contenders for permanent membership of the UNSC which has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Muraleedharan said there was a section in the UN that supports expansion only in the non-permanent category and is opposed to an expansion of permanent membership. "The question of India’s permanent membership of the UNSC would be considered only after an agreement on the nature and extent of expansion of the Council is arrived at in accordance with the provisions of the UN Charter which requires approval by two-third of the membership of the UN," he said. An Inter-Governmental Negotiation (IGN) process of the UN has been working on various aspects of the reform, including categories of membership, issues relating to the veto power and regional representation. Muraleedharan said India is actively engaged in the ongoing IGN and has been working alongside other reform-oriented countries through its membership of the G-4 bloc as well as with cross-regional grouping of developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America. The G4 comprises India, Japan, Brazil and Germany. "UNSC reforms are discussed in all pertinent bilateral and multilateral meetings, including at the highest levels," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accorded-highest-priority-to-getting-permanent-membership-of-unsc-india-888909.html
17-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: India's Covid-19 recoveries over 40 lakh; Govt aims to reduce coronavirus fatality rate to under 1%||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Rajnath Singh says India and China have different perceptions of LAC; the government aims to bring the Covid-19 mortality rate down to less than 1% and India's Covid-19 recoveries have crossed 40 lakh.  India's Covid-19 recoveries have crossed 40 lakh. This exceeds the active cases of infection by 30,15,103, taking the recovery rate to 78.64 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said. Close to half -- 48.45 per cent, to be precise, of the active cases are concentrated in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.  Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said India's Covid-19 mortality rate at 1.64 per cent is the lowest in the world and the government is targeting to bring it down to less than 1 per cent. Replying to a debate in the Rajya Sabha, he said India's recovery rate of 78-79 per cent is one of the highest in the world. He said though total cases may have crossed 50 lakh, active cases are less than 20 per cent. Deaths in India due to coronavirus pandemic are less than many nations in Europe, he said, adding the government was determined to cross the US in testing rate as well.  Fifteen anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (anti-CAA) protesters were on Wednesday named by Delhi Police in a voluminous charge-sheet on riots in February that left 53 people killed and 583 people injured. Running into around 17,000 pages in 11 volumes, the first charge sheet in the riots in north-east Delhi filed by Delhi Police's Special Cell, however, does not name a single a CAA supporter. Those who are named in the charge sheet are charged under sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Indian Penal Code. Opposition leaders and activists have accused the Delhi Police of targeting anti-CAA protesters and linking them with the riots while ignoring the role played by Hindutva supporters and hate speeches by BJP leader Kapil Mishra among others.   Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that China continues to be in illegal occupation of approximately 38,000 sq kms in the Union Territory of Ladakh. He added that Chinese actions reflect a disregard of various bilateral agreements and the amassing of the troops by China goes against the 1993 and 1996 Agreements. for peace and tranquility in the border areas, the minister said. The defence minister added that India and China have different perceptions of the LAC.  Stepping up attack on the BJP government, Congress on Thursday marked Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 70th birthday as ‘National Unemployment Day’. AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra kick-started a dialogue with the youth on the issue of employment, seeking to reach out to the section of voters who had supported Modi overwhelmingly in the 2014 and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-indias-covid-19-recoveries-over-40-lakh-govt-aims-to-reduce-coronavirus-fatality-rate-to-under-1-888917.html
17-09-2020||National||Attorney General K K Venugopal declines to give consent to initiate contempt against Rajdeep Sardesai for tweets against SC||Attorney General K K Venugopal on Thursday said that the reputation of the Supreme Court has been built assiduously for over 70 years and trifling remarks and passing criticism, though perhaps distasteful, are unlikely to tarnish the image of the institution. The A-G made the observation while declining to grant consent for initiating contempt proceedings against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai.  Advocate Omprakash Parihar made a request to the Attorney General to give his consent, as mandated under the Contempt of Courts Act, for initiating proceedings against Sardesai for his tweets against the Supreme Court. "I have given careful consideration to the tweets. I find that the statements made by Sardesai are not of so serious a nature as to undermine the majesty of the Supreme Court or lower its stature in the minds of the public," he said. The lawyer had sought consent from the A-G on behalf of petitioner Astha Khurana who claimed Sardesai had willingly disrespected the Supreme Court and attempted to defame the institution through a series of five tweets. Under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, consent from the Attorney General or Solicitor General was required to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against anyone. Earlier, both the A-G and the Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had declined to grant their nod for the initiation of contempt proceedings against actor Swara Bhasker for her comments against the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attorney-general-k-k-venugopal-declines-to-give-consent-to-initiate-contempt-against-rajdeep-sardesai-for-tweets-against-sc-888922.html
17-09-2020||National||Delhi airport opens exclusive terminal for private jets||Delhi international airport on Thursday opened an exclusive terminal to handle the flight operations of private jets. The terminal has 57 parking bays and can handle up to 150 private jet flights per day. It was inaugurated by Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday afternoon. The minister said the Delhi airport was handling around 40 "general aviation" flights per day before the pandemic, and it is currently handling around 20 such flights per day. Flight operations of private jets are classified under the "general aviation" category. "This terminal looks good. People like me use the other terminals (earmarked for commercial passenger flights) but those who use this terminal, I am sure their feedback - when they start using it - will also be very positive," Puri said. "I am sure this (terminal) will be a small but significant boost to general aviation," Puri added. The new terminal has spacious passenger lounges, retail and food and beverage sections and 24x7 personal concierge services, said Delhi airport's operator DIAL in a press release on Thursday. There is a common processing area with customs and immigrations and there is an immediate access to private jet aircraft stands from the terminal, the DIAL noted. The terminal can handle over 50 passengers every hour, stated the GMR group-led DIAL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-airport-opens-exclusive-terminal-for-private-jets-888931.html
17-09-2020||National||Delhi HC seeks Centre's stand on Rakul's plea against media linking her to Rhea drug case||The Delhi High Court Thursday sought the Centre's reply on actor Rakul Preet Singh's plea to stop media reports from connecting her with the Rhea Chakraborty drug case and said leaks to the media need to be investigated as "someone's reputation is totally destroyed by it". Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Prasar Bharti, the Press Council of India and the News Broadcasters Association seeking their stand on the actor's petition. The court also asked all the four respondents to treat her plea as a representation and take a decision on it expeditiously before the next date of hearing on October 15. It also expressed hope that "media houses would show restraint in their reports and would abide by the cable TV regulations, programme code and various guidelines, statutory and self regulatory, while making any reports with regard to the petitioner". During the hearing, the court observed that "there has to be some kind of restraint (by media)". "There is an ongoing investigation. Someone should investigate how things get leaked to the media before even the concerned officer knows it. Someone's reputation is totally destroyed by this," the court further observed. The central government, represented by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, said the actor was seeking a blanket ban or injunction which ought not to be granted. The ASG said the actor made no complaint to the government or any other authority and there are no specific allegations against a media house or channel by her. The actor, represented by advocate Aman Hingorani, has claimed in her plea that Chakraborty had already retracted the statement in which she was allegedly named and yet the media reports were connecting her to the case. She has contended that based on unsubstantiated allegations defamatory programs were being run in the media against her which was causing irreparable harm and injury to her. Hingorani, during the hearing via video conference, said if such programs are not stopped the actor might lose all her endorsements and it might also adversely affect her films which are on the floor presently. He also said that there was no time to move the ministry or any other authority as with each passing day the defamatory programs were spreading at fast pace on social media. He further said that his client came to know about her being named in the case from "breaking news" on TV channels which said that she along with actor Sara Ali Khan and designer Simone Khambatta, have been named by Chakraborty as the individuals who take drugs. Chakraborty, according to the news reports, made the statement in the ongoing investigation by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Mumbai, the petition has said. "The petitioner categorically states that she does not take drugs at all, and has, to the best of her recollection, has only met Sara Ali Khan twice (once at IIFA Awards and once while working out in a gym) and has not met Simone Khambatta at all," the petition has also said. The actor has also contended in her plea that the TV channels "have deliberately used sensational headlines and photographs and video-footage with a view to enhance their TRPs, without any regard to the irreparable damage they are causing to her reputation, her dignity, her privacy and her commercial interests". The petition had also alleged that the ministry, PCI and NBA "have failed to discharge their statutory functions of ensuring compliance of their own directives, which has resulted in the flagrant violation of the fundamental rights of the petitioner".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-seeks-centres-stand-on-rakuls-plea-against-media-linking-her-to-rhea-drug-case-888934.html
17-09-2020||National||Border standoff: India says China should work with it for complete disengagement in eastern Ladakh||India on Thursday said China should sincerely work with it for complete disengagement of troops at the earliest from all friction areas including Pangong lake and take steps to de-escalate the situation in eastern Ladakh. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India hoped the Chinese side would strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and not make further attempts to "unilaterally" change the status quo. At a media briefing, the MEA spokesperson also referred to the consensus arrived at separate meetings between defence ministers and foreign ministers of the two countries in Moscow on September 4 and September 10 respectively. "There was consensus between the ministers of the two sides, during both the meetings, that there should be quick and complete disengagement of troops from all friction areas along the LAC," Srivastava said. "Both sides should, therefore, focus on easing tensions in the friction areas by refraining from any actions that may lead to an escalation in the situation. This requires strict adherence to the bilateral agreements and protocols and not making unilateral attempts to change the status quo," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/border-standoff-india-says-china-should-work-with-it-for-complete-disengagement-in-eastern-ladakh-888950.html
17-09-2020||National||Onus on Pakistan to create conducive atmosphere to resolve issues peacefully: India||India on Thursday said it desires to have normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan and issues, if any, between the two countries should be resolved bilaterally and peacefully in an atmosphere free of terror, hostility and violence. At the same time, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said the onus is on Pakistan to create such a conducive atmosphere, including by taking "credible, verifiable and irreversible" action to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross-border terrorism against India. The minister was replying to a question in Rajya Sabha on India's policy towards Pakistan, and its foreign policy initiatives to counter that country on the issue of terrorism. He said India has consistently raised the issue of Pakistan's continued support to cross-border terrorism in bilateral, regional and multilateral platforms. As a result of India's efforts, he said there is now enhanced concern globally on terrorism emanating from Pakistan, including the continuing activities of internationally designated terrorist entities and individuals like Jamaat-ud Dawa (JuD), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad, Hizbul Mujahideen etc. "India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan. Our consistent position is that issues, if any, between India and Pakistan should be resolved bilaterally and peacefully, in an atmosphere free of terror, hostility and violence," he said. Muraleedharan said many terrorist entities and individuals, operating from Pakistan and engaged in terror activities in India, have been proscribed by the UN, the European Union and other countries. He also referred to a decision by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) in February to retain Pakistan in the 'Grey List' due to continuing terror financing related concerns. "These vindicate India's consistent stand that internationally designated terrorist groups and individuals continue to operate from and raise financial resources with impunity in Pakistan, and use territories under its control for carrying out cross-border terrorism in India and elsewhere in South Asia," the minister said. He said India's call to condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestation and delink terror from religion has found greater acceptance among the international community, and is reflected in a number of outcome documents issued after bilateral and multilateral summits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/onus-on-pakistan-to-create-conducive-atmosphere-to-resolve-issues-peacefully-india-888958.html
17-09-2020||National||Govt to increase Janaushadhi stores from 6,606 to 10,500: Sadananda Gowda||Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda on Thursday said that the government has set a target to increase the number of Pradhanmantri Janaushadhi Kendras (PMBJK) to 10,500 by the of March 2025.  At present, there are 6,606 stores spread across the country. Once the number of stores was increased to 10,500, it will ensure easy reach of affordable medicines to people in every nook and corner of the country, he said. "At present, four warehouses of (Janaushadhi) exist at Gurugram, Chennai, Bengaluru and  Guwahati. The government is planning to open two more warehouses in Western and Central India. In addition, the appointment of distributors in states/UTs is also being envisioned to strengthen the supply chain system," a statement said. "Despite the Covid-19 lockdown, Janaushadhi Kendras achieved an appreciable sales turnover of Rs.146.59 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21 compared to Rs. 75.48 crore achieved in the first quarter of 2019-20," he said From July to September, 2020 (till  September15), the stores added sales worth Rs.109.43 crore. The total sales up to September 15, 2020 was Rs. 256.02 crore, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-increase-janaushadhi-stores-from-6606-to-10500-sadananda-gowda-888959.html
17-09-2020||National||Nitin Gadkari undergoes medical check-up||Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who has tested positive for coronavirus infection, on Thursday underwent medical check-up here. The senior BJP leader visited a medical facility in the morning and was in good health, a source close to him said. Gadkari had tweeted on Wednesday that he had contracted the infection. Other members of his family have tested negative, the source added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-undergoes-medical-check-up-888962.html
17-09-2020||National||We reject Islamabad's obsession with territorial aggrandisement: Govt on Pakistan's new map||The government on Thursday said it has rejected Pakistan's "obsession" with "territorial aggrandisement" supported by cross border terrorism, in a reference to Islamabad unveiling a new political map laying claim to Indian territories. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said the government continues to respond "appropriately" to Pakistan's malicious actions and propaganda, including on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir, at various international fora. He was replying to a written question on the issue in Rajya Sabha. Pakistan released the new map on August 4 laying claim to union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and parts of Gujarat. "Government has rejected Pakistan's obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross border terrorism," Muraleedharan said in the written reply, calling the release of the map by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan as "absurd". "It has also been emphasised that Pakistan should desist from laying untenable claims to Indian territories, which have neither legal validity nor international credibility," he said. Replying to a separate question on the suspension of work visas like H1B by the Trump administration, he said India is engaged with Washington and the US Congress on the issue. The minister said the decision may temporarily affect movement of Indian skilled professionals who avail non-immigrant visa programmes of the US. "Government of India closely consulted all stakeholders and engaged with the US administration and Congress on issues related to movement of Indian professionals, including those pertaining to the H-1B programme," Muraleedharan said. "These issues were also raised during the India-US Foreign Office Consultations held virtually on July 7. We have emphasised that this is a mutually-beneficial partnership which should be nurtured by easing mobility of skilled professionals," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-reject-islamabads-obsession-with-territorial-aggrandisement-govt-on-pakistans-new-map-888968.html
17-09-2020||National||11,616 Indians abroad infected with coronavirus: Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan||Over 11,600 Indians abroad have been infected with coronavirus as per details available with the country's missions, the government informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. In a written reply to a question in the Upper House, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said Indian Missions arranged for the welfare of Indian nationals, where required, including through the Indian community associations. In some cases, arrangements were also made for screening and testing of stranded Indian nationals to enable them to return to India, as also for movement of patients via air ambulances for their treatment in India, he said. "As on September 10, 2020, as per the details available with Indian missions, the total number of Indian citizens abroad infected with coronavirus stood at 11,616," he said. Out of the 11,616 Indians infected with Covid-19 abroad, 4,618 were in Singapore, 2,639 in Bahrain, 1,769 in Kuwait, 907 in Oman, 420 in Qatar, 308 in Iran, 238 in the UAE and 192 in Italy. During the Covid-19 pandemic, India has supported 150 countries with medicines and medical equipment, including around 80 countries under grants-in-aid, he said. In response to another question on the Vande Bharat Mission, Muraleedharan said the mission was launched on May 7, 2020 and more than 14,12,835 Indian nationals have returned to India via air, land and sea. To another question on the number of Indians abroad at present who have registered with the Vande Bharat Mission to return to India but have still not returned, Muraleedharan said according to the information available with the ministry, 4,80,738 Indians who have registered on MEA's online 'REPAT' portal have not yet returned. "The actual number of people wishing to return may differ. As per information provided by the missions, many people who have registered may no longer wish to return. Moreover, as per latest guidelines of Government of India, passengers are no longer required to register for Air Bubble flights," he said. "Most people with compelling reasons have safely returned to their homes by air, land and sea. The exercise to bring back stranded Indians is ongoing under the Vande Bharat Mission," he said. "Our Missions have assisted more than 62,000 Indian nationals in distress involving an expenditure of nearly Rs 22.5 crores from the Indian Community Welfare Fund," he said. Responding to a separate question on the number of students and workers brought back under the Vande Bharat Mission, Muraleedharan said 56,630 students and 3,08,099 workers had been brought back. Asked about the details of the facilities being given to the workers brought back to the country, the minister said, "With the aim of making the best of our skilled workforce returning to the country due to the ongoing pandemic, the Government of India launched an initiative SWADES (Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support) to conduct a skill mapping exercise of the returning citizens under the Vande Bharat Mission." SWADES, a joint initiative of the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of External Affairs, is aimed to create a database of qualified citizens based on their skill sets and experience to tap into and fulfil demand of Indian and foreign companies. This was done to facilitate reintegration of migrant workers into the labour market and promote effective employment opportunities, he said. "For facilitating employment opportunities, details of SWADES registrations have been integrated with Skill India's ASEEM (Aatmanirbhar Skilled Employee Employer Mapping) portal which was launched on July 10, 2020," he said. All data regarding Indians returning under Vande Bharat Mission was also shared with relevant state governments, on a real time basis, he said. Muraleedharan also asserted that there was no delay in bringing back workers who were stuck in various countries in the Gulf region. He said priority has been given to countries in the Gulf region for scheduling flights to bring back the stranded workers under the Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11616-indians-abroad-infected-with-coronavirus-minister-of-state-for-external-affairs-v-muraleedharan-888973.html
17-09-2020||National||Harsimrat Kaur Badal quits Modi government over agricultural reform bills||Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned on Thursday from the Modi government even as the Lok Sabha passed the controversial farm sector reform bills that allow farmers to sell their produce beyond APMC limits and paves way for contract farming. Akali Dal is the second ally of the BJP to part ways with the Modi government, the first being Shiv Sena who quit the ruling alliance last year. Like Shiv Sena, Akali Dal was also among the earliest allies of the BJP. “I have resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter and sister,” Harsimrat Kaur Badal said. The bitter parting of ways came during the debate in the Lok Sabha on the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill – legislations touted as farm sector reforms by the government. “Harsimrat Kaur Badal will resign from the government to protest the farm bills,” Akali Dal President Sukhbir Singh Badal announced in the Lok Sabha while participating in the discussion on the bills. Soon after Sukhbir made the announcement, the minister’s aide submitted her resignation to the Prime Minister’s Office. Facing sharp attacks from Congress, Akali Dal was under pressure since the two laws were promulgated through the Ordinance route by the government on June 5. The opposition to the laws is so severe that farmers had warned Akali Dal leaders that they would not be allowed to enter villages if they continued to support the contentious laws. Harsimrat told reporters that she had been telling Prime Minister Narendra Modi about concerns voiced by farmers in Punjab but to no avail. The Lok Sabha passed the two bills by voice vote amid a walkout by Congress and other opposition parties. Earlier, Congress leaders Ravneet Singh Bittu and Gurjeet Singh Aujla made impassioned speeches in Punjabi terming the two bills as “black law” and targeting Akali Dal and Minister Badal in particular. “I appreciate the sentiment and emotions of madam Harsimrat Kaur who has displayed her guts and gumption by opposing this draconian legislation. The three ordinances are nothing but toxic triangle,” Chowdhury said. Besides the Congress, the bills were opposed by NCP, Samajwadi Party, TRS, BJD, Trinamool, AIMIM even as farmers had hit the streets in Punjab and Haryana against the legislation. The opposition leaders accused the Modi government of dismantling the minimum support regime and encroaching upon the state government’s rights to govern the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). Replying to the nearly five-hour debate, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar rejected opposition claims of dismantling the MSP regime and snatching the rights of APMCs. “Government would continue to buy at MSP rates and this bill merely gives farmers the option to sell their produce beyond the APMC limits,” Tomar said. The Minister dubbed the opposition to the bill as political in nature, contending that the Congress had made similar promises of ushering in reforms in its party manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Apart from BJP, the bills were supported by YSRCP, Shiv Sena, JD (U), and AIADMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsimrat-kaur-badal-quits-modi-government-over-agricultural-reform-bills-888982.html
17-09-2020||National||SC rejects SBI plea for resuming insolvency proceedings against Anil Ambani||The Supreme Court Thursday dismissed a plea by State Bank of India seeking resumption of insolvency proceedings against the then chairman of Reliance Communications (RCom), Anil Ambani, to recover Rs 1,200 crore loan granted to his two firms. The top court refused to vacate the stay granted by the Delhi High Court by its interim order on the personal insolvency proceedings against Ambani. Ambani had given personal guarantees for the SBI loans of Rs 565 crore and Rs 635 crore to RCom and Reliance Infratel Ltd (RITL) in August 2016. A bench of Justices L N Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhatt asked the high court to take up the matter on October 6 and without any adjournment decide the case “in view of the importance of the issue”. The bench said SBI is at liberty to seek modification of stay order before the high court. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Ambani, contended that to declare a man bankrupt has serious consequences and opposed vacation of stay on insolvency process. On August 27, the high court had stayed the insolvency proceedings against Ambani in relation to recovery of Rs 1,200 crore loans given by SBI to his two firms. It had also restrained Ambani from "transferring, alienating, encumbering or disposing of his assets or legal rights and interests therein till the next date of hearing". It had issued notice to the Centre, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) and SBI seeking their stand on the plea by October 6, the next date of hearing. The court had also said that the proceedings would continue in relation to the corporate debtor (the companies), and while dealing with those proceedings, the liability of the petitioner-personal guarantor (Ambani) may also be examined by the IRP. Ambani in his plea has challenged the constitutionality of the IBBI (Insolvency Resolution Process for Personal Guarantors to Corporate Debtors) Regulations, 2019. The Centre and the IBBI had opposed the stay of the insolvency process saying it could lead to the guarantor "frittering" away his assets. SBI too had raised similar apprehensions during the hearing. It also urged the court to allow the resolution professional appointed by the NCLT to go on with his work and give a report, but the bench did not agree to it. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on August 20 had directed initiation of insolvency proceedings against Ambani under the personal guarantee clause of the bankruptcy law. It had ordered the appointment of a resolution professional and asked SBI to take the necessary action. The NCLT had also said both RCom and RITL committed default in repayment around January 2017. The accounts were retrospectively declared as non-performing account (NPA) with effect from August 26, 2016, even before loan agreements had been entered into. According to the NCLT order, around 2015-16, RCom had sought credit facilities of Rs 565 crore for repayment of certain existing financial debts and for credit facilities of Rs 635 crore for its sister concern RITL, also for the repayment of existing financial debts. RCom filed for bankruptcy last year, consequently, its secured debt was estimated at around Rs 33,000 crore, while lenders submitted claims of around Rs 49,000 crore in August 2019. In March this year the SBI board had approved a resolution plan for RCom that envisaged lenders recovering around Rs 23,000 crore, entailing a haircut of nearly 50 per cent. RCom owes nearly Rs 5,000 crore to SBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-sbi-plea-for-resuming-insolvency-proceedings-against-anil-ambani-888984.html
17-09-2020||National||Delhi HC declines to entertain Deepak Kochhar's plea to be shifted to private hospital||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to entertain the plea of Deepak Virendra Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, seeking to be transferred to a private hospital here or in Gurugram for treatment as he has tested positive for Covid-19 and suffers from other ailments. Kochhar, presently admitted at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) run by AIIMS at Jhajjar in Haryana, wanted to be shifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram or Max Hospital or Sir Gangaram Hospital here, or any other private hospital in a private ward at his expense. Justice A J Bhambhani declined to entertain the matter, saying that Kochhar was presently in the judicial custody of a special PMLA court in Mumbai and therefore, the high court cannot shuffle him from one place to another. The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which arrested him on September 7 under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case probe, said it has no objection to him being moved to a private hospital for treatment at his expense. The ED counsel further said that the only problem was that he was presently in the judicial custody of the Mumbai court which will have to pass orders for moving him. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, who appeared for Kochhar, said that his client was infected by Covid-19 as he was locked up in a police cell at Chanakyapuri police station when ED was not questioning him and thereafter, he was admitted to AIIMS Delhi which referred him to NCI, Jhajjar. He said if he can be admitted in AIIMS, Delhi and then be shifted to NCI, Jhajjar without the Mumbai court's permission, then he can be shifted to a private hospital. Aggarwal also said that while his client was arrested in Mumbai, the ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) against him was lodged in Delhi. Justice Bhambhani, however, did not agree with his contentions saying if ED committed a wrong, "I cannot perpetuate it by shuffling you around". "If you were in police custody, you would have had a case. Since you are in judicial custody of the Mumbai court, I cannot shuffle you around. You are barking up the wrong tree," the judge said. The high court suggested that the petition be withdrawn and moved before the Mumbai court. Subsequently, Aggarwal said he will withdraw the petition in view of the ED stand that it was not opposed to his client being shifted to a private hospital. "Petition dismissed as withdrawn," the high court said. Aggarwal also urged the court that some directions be passed with regard to lack of social distancing or any other precautions in the lock ups of police stations as lot of people are kept in small cells there which increases risks of Covid infection. Justice Bhambhani declined to pass any such order saying when he was not entertaining the matter, he cannot issue any directions in it. The Mumbai court had sent him to ED custody till September 19. According to Kochhar's plea in the high court, ED on September 14 informed his wife that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and the very same day it moved an application before the special court seeking that he be sent to judicial custody and the prayer was granted. The ED, while pressing for his remand, had told the court that the investigation has revealed that on September 7, 2009, the ICICI bank sanctioned a loan worth Rs 300 crore to Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL). Kocchar's wife was the chairman of the bank's sanctioning committee when this loan was given to VIEL, it had contended. The ED had filed its case pursuant to an FIR registered by the CBI against Chanda Kochhar and Deepak Kochhar, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and others. ED has accused the Kochhars and their business entities of "illegal sanctioning of loans amounting to Rs 1,875 crore to the Videocon Group of companies".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-declines-to-entertain-deepak-kochhars-plea-to-be-shifted-to-private-hospital-888985.html
17-09-2020||National||Six companies under CBI radar for profiteering off non-existent computer problems||Six private companies have come under the CBI radar for making people install malware on computers to resolve "non-existent" technical problems and taking money for it. The CBI has registered the case against Delhi-based Softwill Infotech and Saburi TLC Worldwide Services, Jaipur-based Innovana Think Labs and Systweak Software, Noida-based Benovellient Technologies and Gurugram-based Saburi Global Services. The agency conducted searches on Thursday at ten locations in Jaipur, Delhi, Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Mainpuri (UP) at the premises of these companies and the residential premises of other people. According to CBI officials, these companies display pop-ups to victims' personal computers with warnings and bogus messages about serious technical problems, including malware infection in their Windows computers. "The employees of these companies allegedly advise the victims to install certain anti-malwares or anti-virus, which are essentially PUPs (Potentially Unwanted Programs). Victims are allegedly given the option to activate PUPs by paying the fee online or by calling a support number advertised in the interface of the programme," the officials said. "The victims are fraudulently influenced in this manner and allegedly fall in their trap to maintain their systems properly. It was also alleged that the victims were made to pay online by clicking the link on the interface for resolving the non-existent problem or when they ask the call centres to seek resolution of the fake problems," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-companies-under-cbi-radar-for-profiteering-off-non-existent-computer-problems-888992.html
17-09-2020||National||India imposes security condition on defence FDI||Direct foreign investment in India's defence sector will require security clearances, the government said in a notification on Thursday. The government had allowed foreign firms to directly invest up to 74% ownership in the defence sector from an earlier cap of 49%. "Foreign Investments in the Defence Sector shall be subject to scrutiny on grounds of National Security and Government reserves the right to review any foreign investment in the Defence Sector that affects or may affect national security," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-imposes-security-condition-on-defence-fdi-888998.html
17-09-2020||National||India still depends China for electronics, smartphone components||Despite India promoting domestic production of electronics, a large number of electronics and smartphone components are still imported from China. Of the total import, 37% of electronic components and 45% smartphone components were imported from China in the last financial year, Union Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology Sanjay Dhotre informed Rajya Sabha. Replying to BJP member K C Ramamurthy, he said, "As per the data available from the Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics (DGCI&S), of the total Rs 1,15,558 crore electronic component imports in 2019-20, the import from China was Rs 42,983 crore, which amounts to about 37%." Of the total Rs 56,039 crore worth of smartphone components import in 2019-20, Rs 25,441 crore, which amounts to about 45%, imported from China. The shutdown of factories for about two months has impacted the domestic electronics manufacturing sector. According to the India Electronics & Semiconductor Association (IESA), there will be production loss of 20-25% in 2020-21, compared to 2019-20, the Minister said. "Steps are being taken to broad-base the sources of electronic components / raw material imports in India while promoting domestic electronics production at the same time, in order to reduce dependency on a single market/geographical region, so that any sudden/abrupt/unforeseen event such as the Covid-19 outbreak in China does not cause a large-scale shortage of inventory in the domestic market," he said. To promote domestic electronics manufacturing, Ministry of Electronics snd Information Technology (MeitY) has launched three new schemes, viz., Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for Large Scale Electronics Manufacturing, Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS) and Modified Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (EMC 2.0) Scheme, on April 1, 2020, to attract and incentivize large investments in the electronics value chain and promote domestic value addition and exports. "Alternate supply lines are also being explored in coordination with Indian Embassies, Industry Associations and domestic Industry. Electronics industry is also being encouraged to takeadvantage of the aforementioned new schemes to strengthen the domestic electronics sector,"  the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-still-depends-china-for-electronics-smartphone-components-889004.html
17-09-2020||National||BharatNet's Phase 2 completion timeline to be extended: Dhotre||The timeline for the second phase of BharatNet project, earlier slated to be completed by August 2021, will now be extended as its pace was affected by the lockdown and movement curbs imposed by various governments due to Covid-19, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Thursday. As on September 1, 2020, close to 23,133 Gram Panchayats (including block headquarters) have been made service ready, and 1.47 lakh km of optical fibre cable has been laid under BharatNet phase-2, Minister of State for Communications Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. "The BharatNet Phase-II project was envisaged to be completed by August 2021. However, this time will now be extended as the pace of completion is affected by lockdown and restrictions on movement imposed by the various Governments due to Covid-19," Dhotre said. Citing reasons for delay in the implementation of the BharatNet phase-II, he said in March, pursuant to the lockdown and movement restrictions due to Covid-19 in the country, the project progress was affected. "However, with the beginning of unlock phase, all efforts are being made to expedite the project implementation," he said. Noting that BharatNet is a "challenging project of mega nature" and the Gram Panchayats (GPs) are widely dispersed across the country in rural and also remote areas, the minister said that implementation of the second phase was being done under state-led and Central Public Sector Enterprises led model. Under the CPSU-led model, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd's (BSNL) work was also delayed due to its difficult financial condition, the minister said. As many as 65,000 Gram Panchayats in eight states are under implementation under the state-led model. "The delay in the implementation by the states is also adversely affecting the completion of the project. For other states, not being implemented under the state-led model, the implementation strategy is under the process of review," he informed. It is planned to cover nearly 6 lakh villages in the country in 1,000 days from August 15, 2020, he said in a reply to a question related to Bharat Net project. The total cost of BharatNet, approved by the cabinet in July 2017, stands at Rs 42,068 crore, and as on September 1, 2020, Rs 24,473 crore has been disbursed by Bharat Broadband Network Limited (BBNL).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharatnets-phase-2-completion-timeline-to-be-extended-dhotre-889006.html
17-09-2020||National||Union Home Minister Amit Shah discharged from AIIMS||Union Home Minister Amit Shah was on Thursday discharged from AIIMS where he was admitted five days ago for a post Covid-19 "check-up" before the start of Parliament Session. The 55-year-old top BJP leader is likely to attend Parliament from Monday onwards, sources said. He was taken to AIIMS for the second time on Saturday night after he complained of breathing trouble. However, an AIIMS statement had said that he was asked to come to the hospital for a "complete medical check-up before Parliament Session for 1-2 days". The Monsoon Session of Parliament started last Monday and official papers and Bills listed in his name were tabled by Ministers of State for Home. Shah was detected with Covid-19 on August 2 and was discharged from Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after recovery on August 14. However, he was admitted to AIIMS-Delhi on August 18 after he complained of fatigue and body ache. He was later discharged on August 31 only to get back to the hospital again on September 12 night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-home-minister-amit-shah-discharged-from-aiims-889011.html
17-09-2020||National||Delhi govt forcing colleges to pay salaries from students' fund, alleges DUPA||The Delhi University Principal's Association (DUPA) on Thursday accused the AAP government of forcing colleges fully funded by it to pay salaries from the students' fund, saying this would amount to misappropriation. Reacting to DUPA's assertions, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in a statement questioned the source of funds for these colleges and said when they have sufficient money in their fixed deposits, why are they struggling to pay salaries to their staffers. In an online briefing on Thursday, DUPA said the city government gives grant under two heads – Plan and Non-Plan.  "It is clearly mentioned in every sanction letter that funds cannot be transferred from one head to the other. How come the Deputy CM is asking the colleges to pay the salaries from the Student' Society Fund, which is collected from the students for specific activities and purpose?" they said. Any diversion of funds, would amount to misappropriation, "which we are not doing but the Deputy CM is forcing us to do", they alleged.  "It is very unfortunate that he misled by saying that enough funds have been provided in the current financial year," the DUPA said. At a press conference on Wednesday, Sisodia had alleged misappropriation of funds in DU colleges and said they have enough funds in their Fixed Deposits and are still not paying salaries. He had said that the government has provided enough funds to colleges for their projected salary needs. According to the figures shared by the DUPA, the government had released a grant of Rs 245 crore to the 12 colleges fully funded by it. The requirement for the financial year 2020-21 stands at Rs. 270 crore, which has been calculated by adding 10 per cent on account of increment and DA. "Ideally, 75 per cent of the required grant (Rs. 270 crore) i.e. Rs. 202.5 crores, should have been released before July, 2020, whereas only Rs. 37.5 crore has been released till date. This is violation of pattern of assistance for release of Grant-in-aid to 100 per cent funded colleges, communicated to us by the Directorate of Higher Education, Delhi government in January this year," they said. The Students' Society Fund and Development Fund are collected from from the students every year by all colleges, in the country, which are governed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) Regulations and nowhere, are salaries paid out of these funds, the DUPA explained. These are used for organising students activities and supplementing heads where the government grant is either insufficient or not available, they explained.  The Delhi government is also conducting a special audit of six colleges -- Aditi Mahavidyalaya, Maharishi Valmiki College of Education, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Bhagini Nivedita College, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College. "It is also a matter of concern, as to the basis of identifying the six colleges for the special audit – Is it because the members of their choice could not elected as chairperson in the governing body of these colleges? – If that is so, it amounts to scuttling the democratic process," the DUPA said. Reacting to the DUPA's assertions, Sisodia, in a statement on Thursday, said some colleges of the Delhi University are depositing their funds in FDs and incessantly demanding money from the Delhi government.  "According to the rules regarding pattern of assistance, these colleges need to meet all thier expenses from the funds they get from various other sources and only after that, if there is any shortage, they will be compensated by the Delhi government. "Unfortunately, when the Delhi government asked for the accounts for sources of income from these colleges, they denied to present those accounts," he claimed. The Delhi government has increased the budget for these colleges by two-three times already. Despite that, these colleges have failed to pay the salaries of their staff, he said. "If these colleges do not disclose how they have spent their money, on what basis can the Delhi government release funds?" he said. On one hand, these colleges have been saying that they do not have sufficient funds to pay the salaries of their staff, and on the other hand, the money in their FDs is consistently increasing, he said.  "This money is not provided by the Delhi government to deposit in the FD. Some colleges have FDs that have up to Rs 15 to 30 crore".  He questioned the source of these funds and how they are being used. "What portion of this money has come from which sources? How is it being used? This needs to be investigated by the audit team. I hope that the Delhi University administration will co-operate with the audit team in investigating the possibility of corruption in the college funds," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-forcing-colleges-to-pay-salaries-from-students-fund-alleges-dupa-889016.html
17-09-2020||National||Decide cases of stay on trial against MP/MLAs: Supreme Court asks High Courts||In possible trouble to legislators facing criminal cases, the Supreme Court has asked Chief Justices of all High Courts to decide within two months all cases where a stay has been granted in trial against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. Holding that ensuring the purity of democratically elected institutions is the hallmark of the present proceedings, the court said the legislators are the repositories of the faith and trust of their electorate, there is a necessity to be aware of the antecedents of the elected person.  A bench presided over by Justice N V Ramana asked Chief Justices of all the High Courts to list forthwith all pending criminal cases, involving sitting and former MPs and MLAs, particularly those wherein a stay has been granted before an appropriate bench. "The court must first decide whether the stay granted, if any, should continue...In the event that a stay is considered necessary, the court should hear the matter on a day­-to­-day basis and dispose of the same expeditiously, preferably within a period of two months, without any unnecessary adjournment," the bench said. "The court noted a report furnished by amicus curiae senior advocate Vijay Hansaria and advocate Sneha Kalita stating there are about 175 cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and 14 cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 against sitting and former legislators. These are in addition to the 4442 criminal cases. The court said, "It goes without saying that the Covid­-19 condition should not be an impediment to the compliance of this direction, as these matters could be conveniently heard through video conferencing."  In an order passed in a PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy, said despite all the initiatives taken by this court in the present petition, there has been no substantial improvement in the situation when it comes to the disposal of pending criminal cases against sitting and former legislators.  The court noted that various orders have been passed time to time by this court, was to ensure that criminal prosecutions against elected representatives are concluded expeditiously.   "The court was of the opinion that such special consideration was required not only because of the rising wave of criminalisation that was occurring in the politics in the country, but also due to the power that elected representatives, sitting or former, wield, to influence or hamper effective prosecution," the bench said.  In a series of directions, the court also asked the High Court to submit an action plan for rationalisation of the number of special courts set up to deal with the cases against MP/ MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decide-cases-of-stay-on-trial-against-mp/mlas-supreme-court-asks-high-courts-889023.html
17-09-2020||National||Court orders FIR against ex-minister Shourie for Udaipur hotel sale||A special court here has asked the CBI to file cases against former Union minister Arun Shourie and the then disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal over the sale of an ITDC hotel, allegedly at a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. The CBI court also directed the filing of cases against three others associated with the sale two decades back of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur, during the term of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre. Shourie, was the minister in charge of divestment when the property, owned by the public sector India Tourism Development Corporation, was sold to Bharat Hotels Ltd, a private company. The court recalled Shourie’s background as a journalist who has spoken against corruption in debates and interviews. “This proved his double standards on the issue of corruption,” special judge Puran Kumar Sharma said. In Wednesday’s order, Sharma rejected the closure report submitted in the case by the Central Bureau of Investigation in August 2019, and asked the agency to reinvestigate it. He also ordered immediate attachment of Laxmi Vilas Palace by the Udaipur district magistrate. The hotel will remain under Rajasthan government’s custody until the matter is disposed of, he ordered. Along with Shourie and Baijal, the court ordered the registration of cases against Ashish Guha, the managing director of Lazard India Ltd who was the financial adviser, valuer Kantilal Karamsey of Kantilal Karamsey & Company and Jyotsana Suri, director of Bharat Hotels Ltd. All five will be summoned before the court, the judge said. The hotel was sold to the private company for Rs 7.52 crore. During the CBI investigation, it was valued at Rs 252 crore, suggesting a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. The CBI registered a case on August 13, 2014 that some unknown officers from Department of Disinvestment, in connivance with a private hotelier during 1999-2002 renovated and then sold Laxmi Vilas Palace at a throwaway price. The court criticised the CBI for filing a closure report despite finding in its preliminary inquiry that the property was sold wrongly. The judge said this was deplorable. He said the entire country looks up to the CBI as a prestigious agency. Appointing the district magistrate as the receiver of the property, the judge said he would produce a report on its movable and immovable assets within three months. He will also arrange that the hotel is run by a central government institution with experience in this industry. The accounts will be submitted to the court on a quarterly basis, the judge directed. The court said those engaged in the disinvestment process were IAS officers and not expected to have no idea about the worth of property like this in a city like Udaipur. The preliminary investigation validated the accusations and revealed that Pradip Baijal abused his position, entering into a conspiracy with Guha, Karamsey and Bharat Hotels Limited, the court said. Kantilal Karamsey & Company valued the land at just Rs 45 per square feet against the going rate of Rs 500-1000 per square feet then for commercial plots, it said, citing the preliminary report. It said Shourie and Baijal took the decision to appoint the valuers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-orders-fir-against-ex-minister-shourie-for-udaipur-hotel-sale-889027.html
17-09-2020||National||Respect LAC, India tells China week after Jaishankar-Wang statement skips references to it||India on Thursday once again asked China to respect the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations, although the joint statement issued after a meeting of the foreign ministers of the two nations a week ago had no reference to it. New Delhi also asked Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) not to make any further attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two neighbouring nations in the western sector. The joint statement issued after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, in Moscow on September 10, however, had no reference to the LAC. The joint statement also had no commitment from the Chinese PLA to pull back troops from the face-off points to restore the status quo along the LAC. Though a week has passed after Jaishankar and Wang agreed on five points during the meeting in Moscow, India and China could not yet make any noticeable progress in implementing the consensus and resolve the four-month-long military stand-off between the two nations along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), told journalists in New Delhi that China should “sincerely work” with India for “complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas including Pangong Tso (lake) as well as de-escalation in border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols on the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas”.     The five-point consensus reached during Jaishankar-Wang meeting included restarting stalled talks between senior military commanders to defuse tension along the LAC. They also agreed that the diplomats of the two nations would also continue to hold talks to resolve the stand-off. But no talks between the senior military commanders or the diplomat was held in the past seven days since the meeting in Moscow. India hopes that China would “strictly respect and observe” the LAC and not make a further attempt to unilaterally change the status quo, the MEA spokesperson said during a routine media briefing on Thursday. The Jaishankar-Wang meeting was preceded by talks between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his counterpart in the communist country, Wei Fenghe, in the capital of Russia. Srivastava on Wednesday noted that India and China had agreed on “quick and complete disengagement of troops from all friction areas along the LAC” during both the meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/respect-lac-india-tells-china-week-after-jaishankar-wang-statement-skips-references-to-it-889029.html
17-09-2020||National||Soon, like flight fares, train fares to include 'user charge' at redeveloped, high footfall stations||The Indian Railways on Thursday said it will levy ''user fees'' as part of train fares for the stations that have been redeveloped and those with high footfall to generate revenue to provide better facilities for passengers. "The charges will be nominal and will be applicable in about 10-15% of the 7,000 railway stations across the country," Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told reporters here. The user fee similar to that is being collected at some of private airports.  The public transporter will soon issue a notification in this regard, he said adding that to provide world-class service the railways have to mobilise funds. Though the railways will not collect user charge from all the stations, it will levy charges where the footfall of passengers will increase over the next five years. Indian Railways has plans to redevelop 50 railway stations and monetize its land. It will lease the land out for 60 years for commercial purposes. The Indian Railway Station Redevelopment Corporation Ltd (IRSDC) the implementing agency of the station redevelopment project earlier handed over two railway stations -- Habibganj in Madhya Pradesh and Gandhinagar in Gujarat -- to private parties for development under public-private partnership plans. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said that since railways allow the private firms to operate passengers trains, this will help to increase competition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soon-like-flight-fares-train-fares-to-include-user-charge-at-redeveloped-high-footfall-stations-889038.html
17-09-2020||National||Indian lawyer or Queen's counsel must represent Jadhav in Pakistan: MEA||India on Thursday called for the appointment of an Indian lawyer or a Queen's counsel for Indian death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav to ensure a free and fair trial in the review of his death sentence in Pakistan. The assertion by India comes days after Pakistan's Parliament has extended for four months an ordinance that allowed Jadhav to file an appeal against his conviction in a high court as required by the International Court of Justice. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the government of Pakistan has not been able to fulfil its obligations on implementation of the ICJ judgment in letter and spirit. "It has not yet addressed the core issues, which include the provision of all documents related to the case, providing unconditional and unimpeded consular access to Kulbhusan Jadhav and appointment of an Indian lawyer or a Queen's counsel to ensure a free and fair trial," he said at an online media briefing. Queen's Counsel is a barrister or advocate, appointed Counsel to the UK Crown on the recommendation of the Lord Chancellor. Earlier this month, the Islamabad High Court in Pakistan directed the federal government to give India another chance to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav and adjourned hearing for a month. In 2017, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence handed to him by a military court. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. India has slammed Pakistan for adopting a "farcical" approach in denying available legal remedies to Jadhav against his death sentence in contravention of the ICJ order. Fifty-year-old retired Indian Navy officer Jadhav was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. In response to questions on India walking out of a meeting of the national security advisors of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in protest after the Pakistani representative used a "fictitious" map showing Indian territories as part of Pakistan, Srivastava said before, during and after this meeting, India had conveyed its strong objection to the chair as well as to the SCO member states. "Our objection was noted by the chair. The use of this fictitious map by Pakistan is in complete disregard to the advisory by the chair as well as it is in violation of the norms of the meeting," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-lawyer-or-queens-counsel-must-represent-jadhav-in-pakistan-mea-889045.html
17-09-2020||National||NLSIU, Bengaluru justifies separate entrance test; SC reserves verdict on its validity||India's one of the most prestigious National Law School of India University (NLSIU) of Bengaluru Thursday strongly defended in the Supreme Court the decision to hold separate entrance examination NLAT-2020 instead of CLAT. Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) is a centralised national level entrance test for admissions to twenty two National Law Universities (NLUs) in India and Bengaluru's NLSIU was one of them. The top court, which reserved its order for pronouncement on September 21 on a plea challenging the separate NLAT, was told by senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for the NLSIU, Bengaluru, that the institution has been removed from the consortium of 22 NLUs and moreover the fact that it has the “trimester system” was not considered while fixing the date for CLAT by the consortium. “Number of times, I had mentioned that we have a trimester system, do not postpone CLAT further. This was a knee-jerk reaction,” the senior lawyer told the bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan. The bench, which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah, heard the arguments through video conferencing on the plea filed by former NLSIU vice chancellor Professor R Venkata Rao and a parent of an aspirant. During the hearing, Datar said that the NLSIU cannot be asked to accept students on the basis of CLAT score as it has been removed from the consortium of NLUs. The bench intervened and said that NLSIU has been removed from the office and “not from the consortium”. Datar said that on Wednesday, the governing council of the NLU consortium had asked the Bengaluru institution to “transfer funds to NALSAR, Hyderabad, which was made the new Secretariat of the consortium”. The apex court had on September 11 given its go ahead to NLSIU, Bengaluru to hold its separate exam, which was to be held on September 12, but restrained it from announcing the results and admitting any student till the pendency of the plea. The bench had said that it is an important matter which needs to be decided. It had issued notice to the university and its vice chancellor Professor Sudhir Krishnaswamy and sought their response on the plea. The plea has termed holding of separate examination as "manifestly arbitrary and illegal decision". The NLSIU action has created an unprecedented uncertainty and has imposed an onerous burden and obligations upon thousands of aspirants, who are now uncertain about the future course of action, the plea has claimed. It has said such a unilateral decision to hold National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) as entrance exam to the university was taken without any application of mind, “thereby completely prejudicing the students at the final hour and has put their career at jeopardy for purely whimsical reasons”. The plea has claimed it is apparent that the decision is solely directed at creating an “elitist institution” which caters to those who are able to afford to take the test, while “completely ignoring the aspirations of poor, marginalized, and less privileged candidates”. It has sought quashing of notification for admission to the five-year integrated BA, LLB (Hons.) programme, 2020-21 read with the press release on NLSIU Admissions 2020-21 dated September 4, 2020. “Through the impugned notification, the Respondent No. 1 University is in direct violation of the fundamental rights of the students who are desirous of gaining admission into the Respondent University, especially during the current and ongoing Covid-19 Pandemic,” it said. It further said that an executive council of NLSIU at its 91st meeting unanimously authorized the university to develop an alternative admissions process in the event that CLAT 2020 was further postponed due to the pandemic. “However, it is respectfully submitted that the Executive Council of the Respondent No. 1 University did not have any such powers vested in it and therefore meeting of the Executive Council for this very purpose was illegal and without any basis under its own bylaws,” the plea has said. The impugned notification provides that the NLSIU shall not accept the scores of CLAT 2020 for admission to academic year 2020-21 and an examination called NLAT be conducted online. “The sudden and capricious decision of the NLSIU has not only thrown the aspirants of CLAT 2020 into frenzy and in a state of fear and confusion, it has also severely jeopardized the position of the university in the Consortium. Due to the whimsical conduct of the University, the children are put to extreme pressure and mental stress,” the plea has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nlsiu-bengaluru-justifies-separate-entrance-test-sc-reserves-verdict-on-its-validity-889050.html
17-09-2020||National||Last hostage from group of 7 Indians kidnapped in Afghanistan has returned to India: MEA||The last person from the group of seven Indians, who were kidnapped in Afghanistan in May 2018, was released from captivity and returned to India on September 12, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said all seven Indian nationals have now been brought back home safely. The seven Indians were kidnapped by Taliban militants in the restive northern Baghlan province. Two of those Indians had returned to India last month. The last remaining Indian national (out of the seven) was released from captivity in Afghanistan and returned to India on September 12, Srivastava said at an online briefing. "We convey our grateful thanks to the Government of Afghanistan for the assistance extended over the past two years in securing the release of all seven Indian nationals," he said. To a separate question on the Kerala gold smuggling case as to whether the UAE government has requested permission from the Indian government for its probe team to visit India to carry forward its investigation, Srivastava said no such request had been made. "We have been briefing on the case and NIA investigations are presently underway," he said. On the MoU between the Kerala government and the UAE Red Crescent Authority - an NGO, Srivastava said the MEA is looking at "legal issues" which are involved. On whether India will hold a meeting of the Quad grouping (India, Australia, US and Japan), he said, "I have confirmed earlier that we look forward to holding the Quad meeting later this year and as of now details are being worked out."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/last-hostage-from-group-of-7-indians-kidnapped-in-afghanistan-has-returned-to-india-mea-889052.html
17-09-2020||National||ITAT disposes of 5,392 cases between Apr-August||The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) disposed of more than 5,000 cases between April to August, an official statement said on Thursday. "During the period starting from partial lifting of lockdown in April, 2020 and up to 31st August, 2020, as many as 5,392 cases were disposed of as against filing of 3,078 cases during such period," it said. The innovative and aggressive use of techniques of Information Technology to dispense justice in the field of direct taxes, in such times when physical hearing of cases was not found feasible on concerns of safety, has been seamlessly adopted by the ITAT, it added. The 63 benches of ITAT are spread over 28 regular stations and 2 circuit benches at Varanasi and Dehradun. Administratively, the benches are divided in 10 zones, each headed by a vice president. All the zones functioned during this period strictly in compliance with the guidelines and instructions issued by the Central and/or state governments. ITAT President Justice P P Bhatt had directed to start judicial proceedings through video conferencing upon lifting of lockdown, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itat-disposes-of-5392-cases-between-apr-august-889054.html
17-09-2020||National||829 staff of Air India group have tested positive for Covid-19 till Sept 10: Hardeep Singh Puri||Air India group's 829 employees, which include pilots and cabin crew members, have tested positive for Covid-19 during flight operations till September 10, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Thursday. "All affected pilots and cabin crew have since recovered," Puri stated in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. Between May 6 and August 31, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express have operated a total of 2,292 special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended since March 23 in India due to the coronavirus pandemic. "As on September 10, 2020, the total number of Air India group staff including pilots and cabin crews found affected with coronavirus during operations are 829," Puri stated in Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/829-staff-of-air-india-group-have-tested-positive-for-covid-19-till-sept-10-hardeep-singh-puri-889059.html
17-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha passes two agricultural sector bills, Modi loses minister||Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned on Thursday from the Modi government even as the Lok Sabha passed controversial farm sector reform bills that allow farmers to sell their produce beyond APMC limits and paves the way for contract farming. The Lok Sabha passed the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill amid a walkout by Congress and other opposition parties. Congress leaders Ravneet Singh Bittu and Gurjeet Singh Aujla made impassioned speeches in Punjabi terming the two Bills as “black law” and targeting Punjab rival Akali Dal and Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal in particular. Akali Dal was uncomfortable with the farm sector initiatives rolled out by the government during the lockdown and had made her opposition known to the Prime Minister on several occasions. “Harsimrat Kaur Badal will resign from the government to protest the farm bills,” Akali Dal President Sukhbir Singh Badal announced in the Lok Sabha while participating in the discussion. Soon after Sukhbir made the announcement, the minister’s aide submitted her resignation to the Prime Minister’s office. “I have resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter & sister,” Harsimrat Kaur Badal said. Akali Dal had been facing the heat over the two bills and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which together have been touted by the Modi government as the panacea for farmers’ woes and the key to doubling their income. The farm sector ordinances were promulgated on June 5 and are now being replaced by Acts of Parliament. “I appreciate the sentiment and emotions of madam Harsimrat Kaur who has displayed her guts and gumption by opposing this draconian legislation. The three ordinances are nothing but a toxic triangle,” Chowdhury said. Besides the Congress, the bills were opposed by NCP, Samajwadi Party, TRS, BJD, Trinamool, AIMIM even as farmers had hit the streets in Punjab and Haryana against the legislation. The opposition leaders accused the Modi government of dismantling the minimum support regime and encroaching upon the state government’s rights to govern the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). Replying to the nearly five-hour debate, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar rejected opposition claims of dismantling the MSP regime and snatching the rights of APMCs. “Government would continue to buy at MSP rates and this bill merely gives farmers the option to sell their produce beyond the APMC limits,” Tomar said. The Minister dubbed the opposition to the bill as political in nature, contending that the Congress had made similar promises of ushering in reforms in its party manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Apart from BJP, the bills were supported by YSRCP, Shiv Sena, JD (U), and AIADMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-two-agricultural-sector-bills-modi-loses-minister-889074.html
17-09-2020||National||Let Modi retire after 2029 elections: Bhyrappa||Novelist S L Bhyrappa wished that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should win 2024 and 2029 elections with full majority and let him retire, after holding office for some time.   He was speaking after inaugurating ‘Namo Divas Namaskara’ a programme organised by MLA S A Ramadass to mark Modi’s 70th birthday, in the city on Thursday. "Modi must groom an efficient leader before announcing retirement. No prime minister worked like Modi. He has dedicated his life for the country's prosperity,” Bhyrappa said. When asked about the delay in releasing compensation for loss of revenue in GST, the writer said Modi paid GST compensation in different forms. Bhyrappa blamed the opposition parties for criticising Modi government. "The opposition party leaders must not limit to criticism. The opposition parties in foreign countries never behave like our opposition leaders. It is disgusting,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-modi-retire-after-2029-elections-bhyrappa-889077.html
17-09-2020||National||India welcomes pacts by UAE, Bahrain to normalise ties with Israel||India on Thursday welcomed the signing of agreements by the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain to establish formal ties with Israel and said it has always supported peace and stability in West Asia. The UAE and Bahrain became the first Arab countries to normalise ties with Israel without a resolution of its decades-old dispute with the Palestinians who are demanding a separate state. "We have followed the Abraham accords signed in Washington DC by UAE, Bahrain, Israel and the US. As I have said earlier, India has always supported peace and stability in West Asia which is our extended neighbourhood," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. The pacts were inked on Tuesday in Washington in the presence of US President Donald Trump. "As such we welcome these agreements for normalization of relations between Israel and UAE and Bahrain," he added. At a media briefing, Srivastava also said India continues its "traditional support" for the Palestinian cause, and hopes for early resumption of direct negotiations for an acceptable "two-state solution".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-welcomes-pacts-by-uae-bahrain-to-normalise-ties-with-israel-889087.html
17-09-2020||National||CM B S Yediyurappa to lay foundation stone at Karnataka Bhavan for second time||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will lay a foundation stone to new Karnataka Bhavan building in the national capital on September 18 for the second time after he did it in last year when he was Opposition Leader. Though the CM's official programme says he will attend "Pooja for Commencement of Construction work of Cauvery Karnataka Bhavan-1," Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said in Bengaluru on Wednesday after a cabinet meeting that the CM will lay foundation stone for the new building. Though the proposal of constructing a new building was approved by Siddaramaiah headed Congress government after demolishing the old building, Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy headed government last year approved the building plan and announced groundbreaking ceremony scheduled on March 8, 2019. Though official foundation stone laying programme was scheduled for the evening of March 8, the then PWD Minister H D Revanna, who has strong belief in astrology,  made arranged a pooja in the morning condering  "auspicious" time. When Revanna was busy in Pooja, he noticed Yediyurappa, who also stayed in Karnataka Bhavan, going for a morning walk. Immediately Revanna invited Yediyurappa to the event and pleaded him to lay the foundation stone. Though Yediyurappa's name was not mentioned in the invitation card for the function, he laid the foundation stone. In the evening Kumaraswamy again laid the foundation stone as per the official programme. Though Kumaraswamy-led government estimated construction cost of the building was Rs 82 crore, now the BJP government raised it to Rs 120 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-lay-foundation-stone-at-karnataka-bhavan-for-second-time-889108.html
17-09-2020||National||Prahlad Singh Patel and Vinay Sahasrabuddhe test positive for Covid-19||Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel and Rajya Sabha member Vinay Sahasrabuddhe on Thursday said they had tested positive for Covid-19 and isolated themselves. “My Covid report has come positive last night (Wednesday), those who have met me on Tuesday should be cautious,” Patel said. Sahasrabuddhe, who participated in the discussion in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday on the Covid-19 situation, also informed about his condition. “Last Friday had got examined and was tested negative. Hence, attended Parliament. But last night I had headache and mild fever, so, got examined and have tested positive for Covid-19. Operating under strict protocols and medication as advised by Doctors.Those who interacted with me may please consult doctors,” Sahasrabuddhe said. Several Union ministers including Home Minister Amit Shah, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Arjun Meghwal, Shripad Yesso Naik, Kailash Choudhary, Krishan Pal Gujjar, Suresh Angadi had tested positive for Covid-19. Most of them have recovered. On the first day of the Monsoon Session, 25 parliamentarians had tested positive for Covid-19 in the tests that were conducted at the Parliament House premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prahlad-singh-patel-and-vinay-sahasrabuddhe-test-positive-for-covid-19-889109.html
17-09-2020||National||Covid-19 vaccine may be available in India by early next year, says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that a vaccine against Covid-19 might be available in India by the first part of next year. “A vaccine should be available in India by the first half of 2021,” Vardhan said in the Rajya Sabha responding to a debate on Covid-19. The minister, however, did not share any further details on what vaccine he had on his mind. While two Indian vaccines have just completed the phase-1 of the clinical trial and nowhere close to a commercial launch, Pune-based Serum Institute of India received the Drugs Controller General of India’s permission to restart a bridging study of a vaccine developed by the researchers at the Oxford University. The study will be conducted on nearly 1,500 individuals at 14 sites in collaboration with an ICMR institute. The company hopes that the trials may be over by the end of 2020. The Indian trial was briefly paused after one recipient of the vaccine reported complications in a parallel trial of the same vaccine in the UK. The Oxford vaccine is one of the few that are ahead in the global race to get a shot against the pandemic virus. Russian authorities too signed an agreement with Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratory – a prominent pharmaceutical firm. The Indian company will carry out the large scale clinical trial and sell the doses in India if the trial results are successful. Vardhan’s assertion comes days after the minister in a social media interaction observed that the ministry might consider “emergency authorisation” once a vaccine is proven efficacious and ready for a commercial roll out. The minister said India’s Covid-19 fatality rate is 1.64% which the government intended to bring down to 1%. On Thursday, India’s official toll was 83,198, out of which 1,132 were added in the last 24 hours.  The number of active people crossed a million with 97,894 new cases added in the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-may-be-available-in-india-by-early-next-year-says-harsh-vardhan-889118.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Govt has taken up Chinese firms' snooping on Indian leaders with China: Jaishankar to Congress leader||The Centre has set up an expert committee under the National Cyber Security Coordinator to study reports about a China-based company engaged in mining data and snooping of hundreds of Indian politicians and leaders, including the President of India, Prime Minister and Chief Justice of India. The committee will submit its report to the Government in one month after studying the report after evaluating its implications. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar communicated to Congress leader K C Venugopal about the government decision to set up a panel to study the issue. "The matter was taken up by the Ministry of External Affairs with the Chinese Ambassador today. Our Embassy in Beijing also raised it with the Foreign Ministry of China. The Chinese side conveyed that Shenzen Zhenhua is a private company and had stated its position publicly," the minister told Venugopal. "In their part, the Chinese Foreign ministry maintained that there was no connection between the company concerned and the Chinese government," he also said. Jaishankar's remarks came after Venugopal, during Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha, raised the issue that some Indian leaders were being spied on by Chinese companies and asked the government what it was doing in this regard. Jaishankar in his letter said that in their statement, a representative of Shenzen Zhenhua has stated that the data collected was from open sources and is no different from its peer organisations in western countries. The the minster said they have denied accessing private information from confidential sources. "The Government of India takes very seriously the protection of the privacy and personal data of Indian citizens. It is deeply concerned at any report that suggests that foreign sources are accessing or seeking to access the personal data of our citizens without their consent," the External Affairs Minister told the Congress leader. Jaishankar said the government has constituted an expert committee under the National Cyber Security Coordinator to study these reports and evaluate their implications. The panel will assess any violations of law and submit its recommendations within 30 days, he said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-has-taken-up-chinese-firms-snooping-on-indian-leaders-with-china-jaishankar-to-congress-leader-888634.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi marks his 70th birthday today; wishes pour in from all corners||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is celebrating his 70th birthday today and leaders from across all political parties have poured in wishes. From Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, several bigwigs have posted birthday greetings for Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Apart from the wishes, 70,000 samplings, 70 kg laddoo have been offered in a Coimbatore temple and BJP is targetting to create a million selfie videos, all to wish the Prime Minister Narendra Modi a happy 70th birthday. Narendra Modi, born on September 17, 1950, marks a personal milestone during his tenure as the Prime Minister.  Here are some of his loyalists who wished the PM well on achieving the septuagenarian title: Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted that the "most popular leader is devoted to the nation's service" and welfare of the poor, adding that the country has received "a leadership that connected the deprived class". मोदी जी के रूप में देश को एक ऐसा नेतृत्व मिला है जिसने लोक-कल्याणकारी नीतियों से वंचित वर्ग को विकास की मुख्यधारा से जोड़ा और एक मजबूत भारत की नींव रखी। Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers Sadananda Gowda wished the PM good health and a long life, hoping to see the country rise under Modi's leadership. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal sent in birthday wishes, praying for the PM's 'long life'. Former circketer Gautam Gambhir said that Modi has "triumphed against all odds", tweeting: The man who showed 1.3 billion Indians that it doesn’t matter where you come from as long as you have the will to do something & touch people’s lives! You have inspired nationalists to dedicate themselves for the cause of motherland. Karanataka Chief Minister B S Yedurrappa also wished the septuagenarian. Opposition leader Rahul Gandhi too sent in his twitter wishes, saying: Wishing PM Narendra Modi ji a happy birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-marks-his-70th-birthday-today-wishes-pour-in-from-all-corners-888667.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||President Ram Nath Kovind greets PM Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday||President Ram Nath Kovind greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday on Thursday, saying he has presented an ideal in showing commitment to India's life values and democratic traditions. The Prime Minister turned 70 on Thursday. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji congratulations on your birthday and best wishes. You have presented an ideal in showing commitment to India's life values and democratic traditions. My compliments and prayers that the almighty keeps you healthy and joyous always, and the country keeps getting your valuable services," Kovind tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/president-ram-nath-kovind-greets-pm-narendra-modi-on-his-70th-birthday-888673.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi greets PM Modi on his birthday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday on Thursday. The Prime Minister turned 70. "Wishing PM Narendra Modi ji a happy birthday," Gandhi said in a tweet. Wishing PM Narendra Modi ji a happy birthday. The former Congress chief is accompanying his mother Sonia Gandhi during her trip to the US for a routine medical check-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-greets-pm-modi-on-his-birthday-888712.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Arvind Kejriwal terms three farming-related bills 'anti-farmer', says party will vote against them in Parliament||Terming three bills related to agriculture "anti-farmer", AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday demanded that the Centre withdraw them, saying his party will vote against the bills in Parliament. The AAP has three Rajya Sabha MPs and one LoK Sabha MP. "The three bills related to farming and farmers brought in the Parliament are anti-farmer. Farmers all over the country are opposing them. The central government should withdraw these three bills. The AAP will vote against them in Parliament," he tweeted in Hindi. The Centre had on Monday introduced The Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and 'The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill to replace the ordinances promulgated earlier. These bills seek to provide barrier-free trade for farmers' produce outside notified farm mandis, and empower farmers to enter into farming agreements with private players prior to production for sale of agri-produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/arvind-kejriwal-terms-three-farming-related-bills-anti-farmer-says-party-will-vote-against-them-in-parliament-888719.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||BJP leaders wish PM Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday||Wishing Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday, top BJP leaders on Thursday said India's stature rose on the world stage under his leadership and his life dedicated to the welfare of nation is an inspiration for them. In a series of tweets, BJP president JP Nadda wished Modi, saying that under his leadership India moved swiftly on the path of progress and raised its stature at the world stage. Modi's life is dedicated to nation building and he is an inspiration for all party workers, Nadda said. Echoing similar sentiments, Home Minister Amit Shah hailed Modi as most popular leader of the country and said he connected deprived sections of the society with mainstream of development. Shah said Modi has dedicated his entire life for the welfare of the country and is laying down a foundation of strong and self-reliant India. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said India has benefited tremendously from his astute leadership, firm conviction and decisive action. "He has been working assiduously towards empowering the poor and marginalised. Praying for his good health and long life," Singh said. The ruling BJP celebrates Modi's birthday as 'Sewa Diwas' and organises public welfare activities across the country for a week. Wishes poured in from across the world for Modi who turned 70 on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leaders-wish-pm-narendra-modi-on-his-70th-birthday-888720.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Employment is dignity, for how long will the government deny it to people: Rahul Gandhi||Attacking the Centre over the alleged rise in unemployment, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said employment is dignity and asked for how long will the government "deny" this to people. In his attack against the government on Twitter, Gandhi also tagged a media report which claimed that over one crore people had registered on a government portal seeking jobs, but only 1.77 lakh jobs were available. "Massive unemployment has forced the youth to call today #NationalUnemploymentDay. Employment is dignity. For how long will the govt deny it?" the former Congress chief tweeted. Gandhi has been critical of the Modi government's handling of the economy and has called on the Centre to provide jobs to the youth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/employment-is-dignity-for-how-long-will-the-government-deny-it-to-people-rahul-gandhi-888721.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi devoted to service of the nation, welfare of poor: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday extended birthday greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said the country's most popular leader is devoted to the service of the nation and welfare of the poor. Shah also said that under Modi's leadership, the poor and deprived sections of the society have been given a respectable life. "Birthday greetings to country's most popular leader Prime Minister @narendramodi, who is devoted to the service of the nation and welfare of poor. "In the form of Modi ji, the country has got a leader who has connected the deprived class with the mainstream of development and laid the foundation of a strong India," he said in a series of tweets in Hindi. मैं देश के करोड़ों लोगों के साथ मोदी जी के उत्तम स्वास्थ्य और दीर्घायु की कामना करता हूँ। The home minister said the poor of the country, who have been deprived of their rights for decades, have been provided with houses, electricity, bank accounts and toilets, while poor mothers were provided with gas connections through Ujjwala scheme. "All of them have been given a respectable life. All this have been possible only due to the unwavering determination and strong will of Prime Minister @narendramodi," he said. Shah said it is a privilege to have the opportunity to serve 'Maa Bharati' under the leadership of "such a great leader @narendramodi ji who spends every moment of his life making a strong, secure, self-reliant India". "I, along with crores of people of the country, wish Modi ji good health and a long life," he said. The prime minister turned 70 on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-devoted-to-service-of-the-nation-welfare-of-poor-amit-shah-888732.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Nitish Kumar wishes PM Narendra Modi on 70th birthday||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday on Thursday. Apart from Kumar, Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Giriraj Singh and Nityanand Rai and other NDA leaders in Bihar wished good health and long life to the Prime Minister. "Greetings to honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday. I wish for his good health and long life," Kumar tweeted in Hindi. As part of the celebrations on the Prime Minister's birthday, the state BJP doctors' cell has organised a health camp at the party office, BJP media in-charge Pankaj Singh said. Also, a blood donation camp will be organised by the Patna unit of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, the saffron party's youth wing, at Sahitya Sammelan Bhawan here. It will be inaugurated by state BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal, Singh said. BJP Minority Morcha national president Abdul Rasheed Ansari will offer 'chadar' at Mazar Sharif near Patna High Court, praying for the Prime Minister's long and healthy life, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumar-wishes-pm-narendra-modi-on-70th-birthday-888737.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Political muscle being flexed to make states agree to GST options: Amit Mitra||Hitting out at the Centre over the GST compensation issue, West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra alleged that political muscle was being flexed to make the states agree to the options offered to meet the revenue shortfall. If the two options made available by the Centre are forced through with a majority vote at the next GST Council meeting, "it will be a historic mistake for India", Mitra said. The Centre has presented two options to the states under which they can borrow from the market to make up for the estimated deficit of Rs 2.35 lakh crore this fiscal. After the 41st meeting of the GST Council on August 27, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the Covid-19 pandemic, which is an "Act of God", has hit the economy and GST collection. "...what happened in the five hours of discussion in the GST Council, no options were discussed. All of a sudden at the end of the meeting, two options were placed and the meeting ends. In other words, you are forcing the states into two options rather than three or four options. We felt there was a third option but nobody was there to listen," Mitra said in an interview to news website The Wire recently. "Now, political muscle is being used what I would call muscular majoritarianism to get to states agree to one or two of the options. I cannot reveal whether we will go to court as a strategy," he added. He said the Centre's move would challenge the very foundation of the Goods and Services Tax, and if the GST Council becomes a divided house, "the federalist spirit will breakdown". "There will be distrust in place of trust. Therefore, the whole GST experiment on a consensus basis on the federalist polity will become a problem," Mitra said. Of the estimated deficit, Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST shortfall, while the rest is due to the impact of Covid-19 on the economy, according to Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey. A special window can be provided to the states, in consultation with the RBI, at a reasonable interest rate for the borrowing of Rs 97,000 crore. The second option before the states is to borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall, the top official had said. Mitra said the states do not have the headroom to borrow to make up for the GST shortfall and, compelled by the Covid-19 pandemic and cyclone 'Amphan' in West Bengal particularly, to just survive. "I have gathered from the media that the Reserve Bank of India is saying it is much easier for the Government of India to borrow. I would also say that if they have a problem, they can monetise their debt but states cannot," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-muscle-being-flexed-to-make-states-agree-to-gst-options-amit-mitra-888739.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Delhi LG Baijal, Kejriwal wish PM Narendra Modi on 70th birthday||Delhi's Lt Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday and wished him good health and a long life. मैं ईश्वर से आपके उत्तम स्वास्थ्य, दीर्घायु एवं ऊर्जावान जीवन की कामना करता हूँ ! Baijal tweeted in Hindi, "Hearty congratulations to the honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday. I pray to the Almighty for good health, and a long and dynamic life for you."  "@narendramodi Wishing you a very happy birthday sir. I pray for your long and healthy life," Kejriwal tweeted||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-lg-baijal-kejriwal-wish-pm-narendra-modi-on-70th-birthday-888740.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||India will not accept any change in patrolling pattern: Rajnath Singh on India-China border row||India will not accept any change in the traditional and well-defined patrolling routes on the Line of Actual Control — the 3,488 km long disputed boundary betweenIndia and China — Defence Minister Rajnath Singh informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. “No power on earth can stop the Indian Army from patrolling. The (patrolling) routes are traditional and well-defined. Any changes in the patrolling pattern are not acceptable,” Singh said responding to the opposition members’ queries. Blocking the Indian Army to reach its traditional patrolling points at the beginning of the summer was the starting point of the ongoing Sino-Indian confrontation in eastern Ladakh, which is showing no sign of getting abated even after six months. China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) blocked Indian soldiers on the northern banks of the Pangong lake as well as in multiple points in the Galwan Valley and Depsang plains, near the Daulat Beg Oldie airbase. “I want to make it clear (that) skirmishes and face-offs are because of this (issue of patrolling),” Singh said. China, the minister said, made “provocative military manoeuvres” on August 29/30 in an attempt to change the status quo in the south bank area of Pangong Lake at a time when the two sides were engaged in military and diplomatic talks to de-escalate tensions. The defence minister said there was a mismatch between what China says and does. “Unki kathani aur karni alag hai (their actions are at variance with their words),” he said, reflecting the mistrust that the Indian armed forces have with the PLA at the moment. Singh’s assertion on patrolling came when he responded to a clarification sought by former defence minister and senior Congress leader A K Antony on the issue of Indian forces not being allowed to patrol in the Galwan Valley, which was never a disputed territory. Antony and his party colleague Anand Sharma also raised the issue of restoration of the status quo ante on the LAC in eastern Ladakh while negotiating with China. The minister’s statement was almost identical to what he said in the Lok Sabha earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-will-not-accept-any-change-in-patrolling-pattern-rajnath-singh-on-india-china-border-row-888759.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||BJP, AAP clash over Covid-19 management during Rajya Sabha debate||The Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP clashed over the issue of Covid-19 management in Rajya Sabha on Thursday, with the AAP terming the Prime Minister's call to clap and beat utensils in honour of coronavirus warriors as "foolish". BJP's Sudhanshu Trivedi hit back, saying the PM's move was symbolic and sought to unite the country socially just like Mahatma Gandhi chose the symbol of 'charkha' for national cohesion during the freedom struggle. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in March asked people to clap, beat steel plates and ring bells to express gratitude towards those risking their lives and working tirelessly during the coronavirus outbreak. Singh, while participating in the debate on Covid-19, further used the occasion to accuse the government of looking for an opportunity in times of disaster and alleged corruption in the procurement of equipment to fight the disease including thermometers and oximeters. "I want to ask this government, tell me anyone research in the world that shows Covid-19 can be prevented by clamping utensils and by clapping. "The entire opposition will not go home but will clap with the Prime Minister and light 'diyas' in Parliament premises. "You bring such absurd and foolish schemes and expect the entire country to be befooled by you," Singh said. Countering him, Trivedi said, "Burning diyas and beating utensils and clapping were symbolic in the fight against coronavirus... "Would the British have run away by the use of the 'charkha' (spinning wheel). The 'charkha' was symbolic which Mahatma Gandhi chose in uniting the country against the British. The same way, PM Modi made the 'diyas' and beating utensils symbolic in bringing together all Indians in the fight against Covid-19," Trivedi said. The BJP member, without naming Rahul Gandhi, also took a swipe at the former Congress president for his vision of giving an early warning about Covid-19 and said he was himself not even in the country when the Congress was seeking a ban on international flights. He also countered the opposition charge that the lockdown was not imposed early as the BJP wanted to topple the Madhya Pradesh government of the Congress, saying at that time there were only 29 coronavirus cases in the country and not a single case was reported in Madhya Pradesh at that time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-aap-clash-over-covid-19-management-during-rajya-sabha-debate-888776.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi extends Mahalaya greetings to countrymen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted people on the occasion of Mahalaya on Thursday. "This Mahalaya, we pray to Maa Durga to bless with strength to overcome the global pandemic. May the divine blessings of Maa Durga ensure good health and happiness in everyone's life. May our planet prosper! Shubho Mahalaya!" he said in a tweet.  Incidentally, it is also the Prime Minister's birthday on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-extends-mahalaya-greetings-to-countrymen-888781.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Sanjay Raut asks govt to reconsider decision to privatise Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday asked the government to reconsider its decision to privatise the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) at Navi Mumbai, saying it would be a loss of national property. Raising the issue as part of a Zero Hour mention in Rajya Sabha, Raut said everyone knows that the economic situation of the country is serious. In such a backdrop, Raut said the government has decided to put the Railways, Air India, and LIC on the block. "There is a very big sale. JNPT has also been put on sale," he said. The member of the Shiv Sena, which is running a coalition government in Maharashtra along with Congress and NCP, said giving this important port to private players would be a big loss of national property. He pointed out that JNPT is also very important from the viewpoint of national security. Raut said with the privatisation of JNPT, about 7,000-acre valuable land would also go in the hands of private players. He said the JNPT provides employment to a large number of people and privatisation would lead to retrenchments. "I believe the government should not privatise JNPT," Raut said. In his Zero Hour mention, D P Vats (BJP) made a case for peacetime gallantry award to frontline corona warriors of the country. He said the Covid-19 pandemic has created a war-like situation globally. Frontline Covid-19 warriors, especially doctors and paramedics, doing duties in Covid-19 ICUs, operation theatres, labour rooms and isolation wards are akin to soldiers crossing the minefield forsaking their personal safety, Vats said. The fatality rate among frontline corona warriors is the highest all over the world and India was no exception, he said and added various incentives, including insurance cover, given to them are insufficient. "Through You (Chairman) I recommend that frontline corona warriors should be awarded service/gallantry peace medal at par with military or police services like air hostess Neerja Bhanot was awarded," he said. Bhanot, the senior-most flight attendant on board a Pan Am Mumbai-New York flight, was shot dead by terrorists, who hijacked the flight at Karachi in 1986, in her courageous bid to save the lives of passengers. She became the youngest recipient of India's highest peacetime military award for bravery, the Ashok Chakra. Vishambhar Prasad Nishad (SP) raised the issue of filling up of vacancies against quota for backward classes in the central government. He said vacancies were not being filed up and there was a huge disappointment among the youth belonging to backward classes. The 27 per cent quota for backward classes is not being filed up by departments leading to despair among educated youth, he said. According to him, only 10 per cent quota has been filled up till date since 1994 and in central universities, the number is almost zero. He demanded action against officials responsible for not filing up such vacancies. N Gokulakrishnan (AIADMK) said the backward class of society is feeling increasingly insecure in terms of employment in central government offices and educational opportunities in higher education like medicine. Though the Mandal Commission recommendations have been implemented, they are only on paper and hardly five per cent of the central sector employees belong to the backward class despite over 20 years of implementation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sanjay-raut-asks-govt-to-reconsider-decision-to-privatise-jawaharlal-nehru-port-trust-888784.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi's birthday: PM improved lives of 60 crore poor citizens, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi improved the lives of 60 crore poor people in the country. What the Congress could not do for the poor in its 70 -year rule, Modi did it in five years, Shah said while greeting the Prime Minister on his 70th birthday, and wished for his long life so that he can "serve the nation". Shah was attending the ground-breaking ceremony of a 24X7 water supply project for Gandhinagar, which is his Lok Sabha constituency, through video-conference. He said citizens of this country made Modi the prime minister in 2014 due to numerous pro-people works he had carried out as the chief minister of Gujarat. "After Modiji became the prime minister, crores of people, around 60 crore poor citizens received electricity connections, gas connections, toilets, bank accounts and better health care under the Prime Minister Jan Arogya scheme," Shah said while attending the Gujarat government's event from Delhi. "Modiji improved lives of 60 crore poor citizens. What the Congress couldn't do in 70 years of its rule, Modiji did it in just five years. He also strengthened our security by ordering surgical as well as air strikes. He has put India on the forefront of the world map," the senior BJP leader said. The Gujarat government on Thursday held the ground- breaking ceremony of its ambitious project of providing drinking water round-the-clock to nearly seven lakh people of Gandhinagar city and surrounding areas. मोदी जी के रूप में देश को एक ऐसा नेतृत्व मिला है जिसने लोक-कल्याणकारी नीतियों से वंचित वर्ग को विकास की मुख्यधारा से जोड़ा और एक मजबूत भारत की नींव रखी। This project is a part of the Smart City project and would be complete in 36 months at a cost of Rs 229 crore, a government release said. Apart from the construction of filtration plants, the project encompasses laying water pipeline having total length of 27 kilometres, it said. To encourage judicious use of water, meters will also be installed for each connection. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on completion of this project, Gandhinagar will become the first city in the country providing 24X7 drinking water facility in every household. Shah thanked Rupani, his government and the entire administration for implementing this project in his constituency Gandhinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modis-birthday-pm-improved-lives-of-60-crore-poor-citizens-says-amit-shah-888809.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Congress walks out of Himachal Pradesh Assembly for not allowing adjournment motion to discuss Dalit issues||The Congress walked out from the Himachal Pradesh Assembly on the ninth day of the monsoon session on Thursday as it had not been allowed to move adjournment motion to discuss Dalit issues. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said Jagat Singh Negi and some other Congress legislators submitted him a notice in the morning to move an adjournment motion under Rule 67 to discuss two Dalit-related issues. Parmar said the walkout by the opposition party was premeditated as its legislators started raising slogans without waiting for the ruling of the Chair on the notice for adjournment. The Speaker said the notice was given to discuss two different topics, adding that the Congress legislators tried to create a scene instead of presenting the context for adjournment motion. Chief Minister Jairam Thakur and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj also criticised the Congress for staging the walkout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-walks-out-of-himachal-pradesh-assembly-for-not-allowing-adjournment-motion-to-discuss-dalit-issues-888818.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Unemployment not a political issue, but a humanitarian one: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Thursday that the problem of unemployment was not a political issue, but a humanitarian one and promised to extend all possible help in the matter. Holding a video conference with around 50 youths, who hailed from different districts of Uttar Pradesh and had cleared the test for teaching posts but have not got their appointment, Priyanka Gandhi said it was her belief that the government would have to listen to the voice of the youth. "We will have to fight from the roads to the legislature. The Congress is not going to back out on this," a party release quoted Priyanka Gandhi as saying. "This is not a political issue for us, but a humanitarian matter. This is a question of justice." The Congress general secretary assured the youth that her party would extend all possible help in this matter. The video conference, which lasted for over one-and-a-half hour, was attended by over 50 youths, state Congress media convenor Lalan Kumar said, adding that event was a part of the dialogue over unemployment. Speaking to Priyanka Gandhi, a woman candidate said she had given the exam in 2016 and was happy on her selection, but has still to get appointment. The woman said she had faced depression for two years and her family was facing immense hardships because of this. One of the youths said he was somehow earning his livelihood by giving tuition, but that has also stopped because of the novel coronavirus pandemic, while another said his marriage was called off as he did not get the job. The youths said they worked hard and performed well in the exam, but the government is "continuously changing rules", according to the statement. During the interaction, Priyanka Gandhi also sought their views over reports that the state government was mulling a five-year contractual service for employees of Group B and C.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/unemployment-not-a-political-issue-but-a-humanitarian-one-priyanka-gandhi-888825.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Congress marks PM Narendra Modi's birthday as 'National Unemployment Day'||Stepping up attack on the BJP government, Congress on Thursday marked Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 70th birthday as ‘National Unemployment Day’. “Massive unemployment has forced the youth to call today #NationalUnemploymentDay. Employment is dignity. For how long will the govt deny it?” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said on Twitter.  AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra kick-started a dialogue with the youth on the issue of employment, seeking to reach out to the section of voters who had supported Modi overwhelmingly in the 2014 and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In her interaction with youth who had enrolled for appointment as teachers in government schools, Priyanka assured them that a Congress government would stop the recruitment of teachers on contract, if elected to power. “The youth had pinned huge hopes on the Prime Minister. But, the prime minister has shattered the hopes of the youth,” senior Congress leader Mohan Prakash said. Youth Congress activists carried out a nationwide campaign by taking out protest marches and unfurling huge banners demanding jobs and commemorating Modi’s birthday as ‘National Unemployment Day’. Congress had launched the ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign on last month to highlight growing unemployment under the Modi government. Rahul had recalled that in the run-up to the Lok Sabha elections, Modi had promised to create two crore new jobs every year. The former Congress President claimed that India had lost 14 crore jobs due to the "faulty" policies pursued by the Modi government. He claimed that the unemployment crisis in the country was due to policies such as demonetisation, wrong GST implementation and the lockdown to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. “These three together destroyed the economic structure of the country,” Rahul had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-marks-pm-narendra-modis-birthday-as-national-unemployment-day-888831.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Chief Minister Jairam Thakur wish PM Narendra Modi on 70th birthday||Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and Chief Minister Jairam Thakur extended wishes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday on Thursday, an official spokesperson said. In a statement, Dattatraya said Modi's vision, untiring effort and strong leadership helped India scale new heights and the nation was bound to attain its "past glory". Wishing a long and healthy life, Dattatraya said the prime minister's efforts and determination to make India a self-reliant nation and world power was an inspiration for all. "Modi, as a reformist not only gave a new direction to the development of the country, but also made everyone proud by finding a permanent solution to the problems that have been prevailing for decades along with economic reforms," he added. Thakur said that the nation was fortunate to have Modi as the prime minister to guide this nation on the path of progress and prosperity. The state has immensely benefited by the benevolence of the prime minister, the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/himachal-pradesh-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-chief-minister-jairam-thakur-wish-pm-narendra-modi-on-70th-birthday-888842.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Centre says it did not incur expenses for 'Howdy Modi' event in Houston last year||The Central government on Thursday said it did not incur any expenses for the 'Howdy Modi' event in the US city of Houston in September last year and that it was organised by a not-for-profit group. Prime Minister Narendra Modi received a thunderous reception when he, accompanied by US President Donald Trump, addressed a crowd of over 50,000 Indian-Americans at the event in a stadium in Houston on September 22, 2019. "A US-based not-for-profit organisation namely the Texas India Forum Inc. organised an event titled, ‘Howdy, Modi! Shared Dreams, Bright Futures’ in Houston on September 22, 2019," Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said in the Lok Sabha. He was replying to a written question on the event. Specifically asked whether the government incurred any financial expenses for the event or funded its organisers, Muraleedharan said "no". He said the chairperson of the Texas India Forum Inc. was Jugal Malani, an Indian community member based in Texas. "Prime Minister, as part of his visit to the US, participated in the event at the invitation of the organisers and addressed a gathering of members of the Indian-American community and many of their elected representatives," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-says-it-did-not-incur-expenses-for-howdy-modi-event-in-houston-last-year-888882.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition demands restoration of status quo ante of April on LAC with China||Opposition leaders in the Rajya Sabha asked the government on Thursday to restore status quo ante as on April this year on the India-China border. Cutting across party lines, members in the Upper House of Parliament expressed their solidarity and support to the armed forces, which are facing a standoff situation against the Chinese army in eastern Ladakh. Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and former defence minister A K Antony of the Congress asked the government to take efforts to restore the status quo ante of April and resolve the over-three-month-old border standoff. Some members such as Prasanna Acharya of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and Sanjay Raut of the Shiv Sena cautioned the government while entering into any agreement with China over the present situation. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a statement in the Rajya Sabha after the government and opposition agreed that there will be no discussion on the sensitive issue. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, however, allowed the members to seek a few clarifications on the statement, which was almost identical to the one Singh made in the Lok Sabha on September 15. Sharma said the country is proud of its Army and the sacrifices made by the soldiers to protect the border. "There should be no doubt on this and the entire nation would stand together," he said. Referring to the recent talks between the Indian defence minister and foreign minister with their Chinese counterparts and a statement on September 11, Sharma asked: "Do we understand that the restoration of the status quo ante will remain a non-negotiable and final objective for India?" Antony sought a clarification over Singh's statement in the Upper House. "You have to clarify that sovereignty means status quo ante as on the middle of April. That is the meaning of sovereignty," he said. Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh was never a disputed site, the former defence minister said. "Even at Galwan Valley, our soldiers are now not allowed to patrol at the point at which they used to patrol earlier. In the Pangong area, in a more than eight-kilometre area they are not allowing us to patrol, the area which we used to patrol. Previously, we used to patrol till Finger 8 and now we are not being allowed to patrol till Finger 8," he added. The Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) should be allowed to patrol at the point where they used to patrol earlier, the Congress leader said. Azad said he stands with the armed forces and salute their valour. Being a citizen of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Azad said the people from there are ready to sacrifice themselves to defend the territory and integrity of the nation. "On behalf of my party, I would say at least on this China issue, we stand with the government. There should be no compromise. They should go back to the position where they were in April," the Congress leader said. RCP Singh of the Janata Dal (United) said China is an "ungrateful' country that always follows a "policy of aggression". He suggested that the government should negotiate with the neighbouring country from a position of strength. Tiruchi Siva and P Wilson of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) expressed their solidarity with the armed forces. Raut said patience and valour are the traditions of India, but not of China. The neighbouring country has a "tradition of betrayal and we should always be careful with them," the Shiv Sena leader said. BP Baishya of the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) said the people of the northeast are with the armed forces and salute their sacrifice. Ravi Prakash Verma of the Samajwadi Party (SP), K Keshava Rao of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Binoy Viswam of the Communist Party of India (CPI), Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Veer Singh of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) also participated in the debate and expressed their solidarity with the armed forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-demands-restoration-of-status-quo-ante-of-april-on-lac-with-china-888883.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Eight opposition parties protest non-payment of GST dues, Congress not invited||The leaders of eight opposition parties held a protest in the Parliament complex against the government on Thursday, demanding GST dues. Congress leaders were absent from the protest. Addressing a press briefing after the protest, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP and national spokesperson Derek O'Brien said the largest opposition party was not invited for the agitation. Leaders from the TMC, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party (SP), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena took part in the protest. "It is increasingly becoming clear to us that in Parliament, the regional parties are finding it easier to coordinate with each other to strategise. The Congress can no longer decide the subject and then the dosage of opposition strategy. They cannot do something in the states and seek support in Parliament," O'Brien said. The protest that lasted for around 15 minutes saw leaders like Akhilesh Yadav, Supriya Sule, Manoj Jha, Sanjay Singh, among others holding banners and thalis to show what the states were paid by the Centre as GST dues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/eight-opposition-parties-protest-non-payment-of-gst-dues-congress-not-invited-888918.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Onion export ban akin to surgical strike on farmers: NCP||The Narendra Modi government at the Centre has conducted a surgical strike on farmers by banning onion export, the NCP alleged on Thursday and demanded reversal of the move. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) spokesperson Mahesh Tapase termed the decision as Tughlaqi (ill-thought) as it deprived onion growers of a good price for their produce at a time when there was an increasing demand for the commodity in the international market. The NCP is a key constituent in the MVA government in Maharashtra, a major producer of onion in the country. The Centre on Monday banned the export of all varieties of onions with immediate effect, a move aimed at increasing availability and curbing prices of the commodity in the domestic market. Speaking to reporters here, Tapase also said the party will try to give justice to ex-serviceman Sonu Mahajan, who was allegedly thrashed by BJP MP Unmesh Patil and his supporters four years ago. Tapase was accompanied by other party spokespersons Sanjay Tatkare, Clyde Crasto and Mahesh Chavan on the occasion. The Modi government has conducted a surgical strike on farmers in Maharashtra and elsewhere in the country by banning onion export, Tapase charged. The NCP leader said party president Sharad Pawar had on Tuesday flagged the concerns before Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal. Goyal, Tapase added, had assured farmers through Pawar that the Centre will take positive steps on the issue. It has been four days since the decision was taken, but the government has not reconsidered it yet. "As a result, the issue is a burning one now, he added,apparently referring to protests by farmers on the issue in the state. Tapase claimed that owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, onion export has come down by 13 per cent, aggregating a business loss of around Rs 1,150 crore. He noted that five lakh metric tonne onion is rotting at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Nhava Sheva (in outskirts of Mumbai) and asked who is responsible for such a loss. Since the business has come to a halt, farmers naturally have found themselves in trouble. Hence, Prime Minister Modi and Goyal should withdraw the decision, he dded. Workers of the Congress, another partner in the MVA government, had on Wednesday staged statewide protests over the Centre's decision. Tapase also said Mahajan met Home Minister Anil Deshmukh at the party office here earlier in the day and demanded "justice". The home minister has said that justice will be given to Mahajan in an unbiased manner, Tapase added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/onion-export-ban-akin-to-surgical-strike-on-farmers-ncp-888966.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Centre's panel to study ancient Indian culture kicks off row||A government panel to study the origin and evolution of Indian culture has triggered a political row for alleged lack of diversity in representation. The 16-member panel has leading archaeologists, linguists, anthropologists and historians, including K N Dikshit, Chairman, Indian Archaeological Society and B R Mani, former Director-General, National Museums, as members. “A committee has been set up for conducting a holistic study of origin and evolution of Indian culture since 12,000 years before present and its interface with other cultures of the world,” Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel told the Lok Sabha. Former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy objected to the composition of the committee contending that it did not have any representation from south India who would know about Dravidian culture and called for its reconstitution. “There are doubts about the objectiveness of the proposed study as the committee is full of those who appear to be having prejudices over culture, history and heritage besides being fully occupied by north Indians. There is a dire need to reconstitute the study committee,” he said. DMK leader Kanimozhi took exception to the absence of Dalits and minorities on the committee. “Shouldn’t Dalits and minorities talk about Indian culture? Or are they ineligible,” Kanimozhi said. “Is it possible to conduct a fair and unbiased study of Karnataka’s culture and heritage without having Kannadiga representatives in the committee? How can we think of studying the history and culture of the entire country by keeping South Indians out,” Kumaraswamy said. The former chief minister also objected to the absence of a woman representative on the committee. “This committee constituted by the Govt of India to study Indian Culture is proof if its bigoted, casteist, patriarchal nature. Culture is where the most damage is being done. We are ignoring it at our own peril,” Carnatic vocalist T M Krishna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-panel-to-study-ancient-indian-culture-kicks-off-row-889042.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Congress 'worst pest' for agriculture sector: BJP||The BJP on Thursday rejected the allegations of the Congress against the Union government over three agriculture sector bills as "complete lies" and alleged that the opposition party was the "worst pest". The Congress had earlier said that the farm sector legislations brought in by the government defeat the purpose of the Green Revolution and will be "a death knell for the future of farming" as it alleged that the Modi dispensation, akin to the coronavirus pandemic, was attacking lives and livelihood of farmers. Hitting back, BJP spokesperson G V L Narasimha Rao said, "All Congress allegations on the agricultural marketing bill are complete lies. Congress is the worst 'pest' that has damaged Indian agriculture. Our soldiers and farmers make us proud and safe. Congress always makes cynical statements to lower the morale of the soldiers & farmers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-worst-pest-for-agriculture-sector-bjp-889071.html
17-09-2020||National Politics||Cracks in Opposition ranks amid Parliament session||Cracks have surfaced in the Opposition ranks in the middle of Parliament’s monsoon session with a section of regional parties seeking to keep a distance from the Congress by organising joint protests and strategising together on issues. On Thursday, eight regional parties held a joint protest near Gandhi Statue in Parliament House charging the Centre with not paying GST dues while the Congress and four other parties knocked the Rashtrapati Bhavan’s doors against Delhi Police’s investigations in the riots in the national capital this February. The Congress held a protest on its own against three contentious Bills on the agriculture sector too. Interestingly, all Opposition parties are on the same page on these three issues but are not willing to come on a common platform. Congress’ Ahmed Patel, CPM’s Sitaram Yechury, CPI’s D Raja, DMK’s Kanimozhi and RJD’s Manoj K Jha met President Ram Nath Kovind at around 12:30 pm to submit a memorandum against the Delhi Police, accusing it of working under the directions of Home Minister Amit Shah to target anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protesters and implicate them in the riots cases. At 2 pm, eight regional parties— Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi Party, DMK, RJD, Shiv Sena, TRS, AAP and NCP— held the protest against the Centre on GST in which the Congress was not invited. RJD and DMK were part of both the initiatives. One of the main drivers of the GST protest, the Trinamool Congress confirmed that the Congress was not invited to the protest and said that it cannot act like a “big brother” and other parties cannot follow their “we will do and you follow” attitude. Some parties like Samajwadi Party, whose chief Akhilesh Yadav was present in the protest, and TRS were also not comfortable with joining hands with the Congress. “It is increasingly becoming clear to us that in Parliament, the regional parties are finding it easier to coordinate with each other to strategise. The Congress can no longer decide the subject and then the dosage of Opposition strategy. They cannot do something in the states and seek support in Parliament,” O’Brien said. Asked why the Congress was not invited, the Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader shot back, “Was Samajwadi Party, TRS or AAP invited to a meeting chaired by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi?” O’Brien and TMC's Chief Whip in Lok Sabha Kalyan Banerjee spoke about Congress’ “secret arrangement with BJP”, amid the Congress appointing Mamata-critic Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who prefers an alliance with the Left in the state, as its state chief. O’Brien said individuals are not important but Trinamool was not happy with the choice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cracks-in-opposition-ranks-amid-parliament-session-889076.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Increase RT-PCR testing capacity as Covid-19 cases shooting up daily: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court Wednesday suggested that the AAP government increase the RT-PCR test capacity to the maximum possible to detect Covid-19 infection, as Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) were only 60 per cent accurate. The high court asked an expert committee, set by the Lieutenant Governor (LG), to convene a meeting on priority basis to consider the extent to which capacity of testing by RT-PCR should be ramped up. At present, the sanctioned strength of conducting RT-PCR is 14,000 per day in Delhi. The high court expressed concern over continuous rise in Covid-19 cases, with nearly 4,500 new infections reported on Tuesday. "Having regard to the fact that results of RAT are 60 per cent accurate, leaving grave doubt about infection in those who are asymptomatic, we are of the firm view that RT-PCR should be the way forward," said a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad. "In our opinion, Delhi government ought to focus on shoring up the capacity of testing through RT-PCR so that testing is increased through RT/PCR as much as possible," it said. RT-PCR, short for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research. The court directed the Delhi government to file a status report along with a report of the committee in this regard and listed the matter for further hearing on September 30. The bench also noted that in the week from September 8 to 15, the testing done through RT-PCR was less than one fourth of the total number of tests and rest was done by the RAT process.  It asked the Delhi government to place on record before the next date of hearing, the results of the third sero-survey conducted by it in September along with the comparison report with the previous two surveys. The court was informed that out of 435 mohalla clinics in Delhi, 400 were functional and 50-60 of them were conducting Covid-19 testing after completing their OPDs. The bench said it was of the view that not only mohalla clinics, but community centres shall also be roped in for setting up testing facilities as cases of Covid-19 are shooting up on a daily basis and on Tuesday 4,473 fresh cases have come up in Delhi, taking the tally to more than 2.25 lakh. During the hearing, Delhi government counsel Satyakam assured the court that the authorities will consider increasing testing through RT-PCR but also defended its process of conducting more RAT saying it gives quick results. The court said as RAT mostly gives false negative reports, why the government should wait for it and then go to the next level of RT-PCR. Instead, it should shore up to RT-PCR capacity. Satyakam said the government has a guideline which provides for the way they have to proceed and assured the court that they are not falling short of RT/PCR capacity and have enough capacity. The court suggested that the testing by RT-PCR should be at least 50 per cent of the total testing numbers. The Delhi government counsel claimed that the testing done in the city was the best in the country and they were doing the maximum number of tests. To this, the high court said, "Modesty is not your virtue. To say you are the best should come from the residents of the city and not from the state itself." The bench observed, "This is for sure that there is no cure for this disease till the vaccine comes. We have to ensure that the person who has this infection does not spread it further." Later a Delhi government spokesperson said they would implement the court order. In pursuance to the court's September 8 direction, the Delhi government has now issued a notification that doctor's prescription is not mandatory for those voluntarily going for RT-PCR test to detect Covid-19 infection in the national capital. People need to carry Aadhaar card for Delhi address proof and fill a form as prescribed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid-19 testing, it said. Before this, it was mandatory for a person to have a doctor's prescription or symptoms to get tested for the virus. In pursuance to the court's order, the Delhi government has also set up Covid-19 testing camps at Inter-State Bus terminals (ISBT) Anand Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Kashmiri Gate and Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station and New Delhi Railway Station. The court was hearing a PIL by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking increasing the Covid-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-rt-pcr-testing-capacity-as-covid-19-cases-shooting-up-daily-hc-to-delhi-govt-888633.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Three local militants, woman killed in Srinagar gunfight||Three militants and a woman were in a pre-dawn encounter between security forces and ultras in Batamaloo area of Srinagar on Thursday. Reports said the gunfight erupted after security forces launched a search operation in congested Firdousabad locality of Batamaloo during the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday following ‘information’ about the presence of three militants in the area J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh said the hiding militants were given a chance to surrender but they refused and fired. “One CRPF officer and another CRPF man sustained injuries in the initial exchange of firing. The officer is critical and we are praying for his recovery,” he said while addressing a presser, here. Singh said that the security forces conducted the operation in a professional manner and killed all three militants. “#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: 02 more #unidentified #terrorists killed (total 03). Search going on. Further details shall follow,” J&K police tweeted. "However, a woman was caught in the cross firing and her killing is unfortunate," he said. The slain woman was identified as 45-year-old Kousar Jan. The police chief said that all three slain militants were from south Kashmir. "Today’s operation was the seventh one in Srinagar in the recent past, but the biggest success was the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Junaid Sehrai (in May)," he said. Singh said that militants from other areas of Kashmir keep on visiting Srinagar to carry out attacks. "On August 14, they targeted our party and killed two policemen at Nowgam. Before that, they had killed two BSF men at Pandach on the city outskirts. And then they made another attempt at Pantha Chowk where we lost a brave officer," he added. This was the sixth encounter in Srinagar since May which comes as a reminder from the militants that its presence has increased in the city, which was not long ago was considered as a zero-militancy zone. Three militants and a police officer were killed in an overnight gun-battle between security forces and ultras in Pantha Chowk area on the outskirts of Srinagar city on August 30. On July 25, two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces on the outskirts of Srinagar city. Earlier in June J&K police acknowledged that militants were moving in Srinagar to receive funds and medical treatment and the city was not militancy free. “Srinagar can never be free of militants till militancy is there. They (militants) keep on coming to the city for several purposes. At times they come for medical treatment, meeting with each other and sometimes to receive funds,” Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-local-militants-woman-killed-in-srinagar-gunfight-888711.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Army jawan injured as Pakistan shells two sectors along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||An Army jawan was injured and three houses were damaged on Thursday as Pakistani troops opened heavy fire and shelled mortars, targeting civilian areas and forward posts along the LoC in two sectors of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, official sources said. The Indian Army was retaliating effectively, a defence spokesman said. "At about 0645 hours, the Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Balakote and Mendhar sectors," he said. Heavy exchange of fire was going on in these sectors, the sources said. An Army man was injured in the shelling in Balakote sector and was hospitalised, they added. In the villages of Balakote, three-four residential structures have suffered damages, resulting in panic among locals, the sources said. Pakistani troops have violated the ceasefire 24 times this month. An Army jawan was killed and two others, including an officer, were injured on Tuesday as Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire by using heavy fire and mortar shells along the Line of Control in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district, officials said. On September 2, a JCO was killed in a ceasefire violation by the Pakistan Army along the LoC in Keri sector of Rajouri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-injured-as-pakistan-shells-two-sectors-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-888733.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||In Kashmir, fake Covid-19 negative reports on sale||Jammu and Kashmir police on Wednesday arrested two cab drivers at Srinagar’s Tourist Reception Center, who were allegedly selling fake Covid-19 negative reports to people wanting to travel outside the valley amid the pandemic. The duo, according to the police, was arranging fake Covid-19 negative reports in 15-minutes in exchange for a huge amount of cash. The duo had arranged fake coronavirus negative certificates for a family, who had to travel outside Kashmir when the police nabbed them. “Some private laboratories have come under the scanner for issuing fake virus-free certificates and, in turn, endangering many lives. The investigations into the case are on and in coming days,” a senior police official told DH. In the coming days, the demand for fake Covid-19 negative certificates in Kashmir is expected to increase as a lot of people start travelling outside the Valley from October onwards due to the onset of winter. These days even employers ask for such certificates before allowing people to go back to work. “With tourism activities also expected to resume in Kashmir, the fake Covid-19 certificates can become a huge challenge for law enforcing agencies,” the official added. Health experts have warned of a serious consequence if the evil is not nipped in the bid“Now, armed with such a fake report anyone can go for a surgery at any hospital and if he or she happens to be Covid-19 positive, the outcome will be explosive,” said Dr Arshid Ahmad, who runs his private hospital in Srinagar. J&K’s coronavirus situation is already alarming. The UT, home to more than 1.25 million people, has reported 58,244 positive cases and 932 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-kashmir-fake-covid-19-negative-reports-on-sale-888755.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||I-T dept searches hotelier, jeweller in Jammu and Kashmir||The Income Tax Department has conducted raids on a prominent hotelier and a jeweller based in Jammu and Kashmir on charges of alleged tax evasion, the CBDT said on Thursday. In the first case, searches were launched on Wednesday against the hotelier who owns a chain of hotels at popular tourist spots of the Union Territory like Srinagar, Gulmarg, Sonamarg and Pahalgam and he also has a hotel under-construction in Leh. "Various incriminating documents and materials evidencing unexplained investments in immovable properties, construction of hotels and residences aggregating to Rs 25 crore in the last six financial years have been seized during the search, though he has not paid any tax since the assessment year 2014-15. "Almost all these investments are in cash and outside the known sources of income," the CBDT said in a statement without identifying the entity. The Central Board of Direct Taxes frames policy for the I-T Department. "During the course of the search operation, receipt of unsecured loans to the tune of Rs 25 crore in the past two years from persons of no means has been found," it said. "All these loans are prima facie not genuine, as the same have been advanced by persons with doubtful creditworthiness," it added. The action also revealed, it said, that the assessee's children are studying in the US on whom expenditure of about Rs 25 lakh per annum is being incurred.  The expenditure on account of education in the US prima facie appears to be unexplained/undisclosed, it said. "The assessee is also running a B Ed college as a trust along with his mother. The trust is not registered and no return is being filed though it has substantial taxable income. "The assessee has also admitted to having incurred an expenditure of Rs 40 lakh on the renovation of his residence," it said. A bank locker, found during the searches, has been put under restraint, it said. Meanwhile, the second case pertains to a prominent jeweller in Srinagar.  "During the search, it was found that he had not maintained books of accounts of the jewellery business even though the turnover is of the range of Rs 2 crore-Rs 10 crore in the earlier years." "The search has revealed that an undeclared bank account was maintained by the assessee with deposits running into crores of rupees, which has not been offered to tax," the CBDT said.  The assessee also sold immovable property of Rs 1.90 crore in Srinagar in the financial year 2015-16, capital gains tax on which has not been paid, it said. Documents were found, during the raids, that revealed receipt of Rs 16 lakh in cash as 'pagri' by the assessee in FY 2019-20 at the time of leasing of one of the shops.  "This transaction is in violation of provisions of Section 269SS of the I-T Act. This fact of receiving cash of Rs 16 lakh has been admitted by the assessee as well as the lessee. The payment of Pagri of Rs 16 lakh is also out of undisclosed income of the lessee," the CBDT claimed. The search also revealed that sale of a flat in Delhi was made by the wife of the assessee in 2019-20 FY for Rs 33 lakh. "During the search, it was seen that no capital gain has been paid on the above sale. Further, out of the sale consideration of Rs 33 lakh, Rs 13 lakh has been received in cash in violation of provisions of Section 269SS of the I-T Act," it said. The source of investment of the buyer also seems prima-facie undisclosed, which is being investigated, the statement said. The search also revealed that the daughter of the assessee was studying abroad and the expenditure on account of the same prima facie appears unexplained/undisclosed, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-dept-searches-hotelier-jeweller-in-jammu-and-kashmir-888791.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||177 militants killed this year: J&K police chief||In relentless anti-insurgency operations, security forces have killed 177 militants in 72 operations across Jammu and Kashmir this year. "This year so far 177 militants have been killed in 72 operations which include 22 foreign militants as well," J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh told reporters in Srinagar. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade. Singh said that Pakistan was trying to float new militant outfits to create confusion and "efforts were being made to revive Al-Badr." "We are aware of this and counter-strategies are being adopted," the police chief said, adding that despite huge efforts by militants and their handlers across the border, 20 youth who had joined militancy returned back this year. In 2019, out of 157 slain militants, 32 were Pakistanis and a majority of them (19) belonged to the Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit. In 2019, local militants accounted for 79% of the deaths in encounters while the number has grown to 88% this year. A senior police officer said there are multiple reasons for the lesser deaths of Pakistani militants this year. "Pakistani Army and spy agency ISI has asked its operatives in the Valley to lie low as the sword of Financial Action Task Force (FATF) blacklisting was hanging over the neighboring country’s head," he said. "It is evident that Pakistani militants are not engaging security forces this year as often. There have been hardly any fidayeen attacks or storming of security force premises this year," the officer said. Besides, he said, this year it appears that the Pakistani militants were not leaving the jungles or are hiding in remote villages. "Things will be clear only in the next couple of months when snowfall starts in the upper reaches of the valley and militants will be forced to come down," the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/177-militants-killed-this-year-jk-police-chief-888795.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Lawyer challenges challan for not wearing mask when driving alone; HC seeks govt reply||The Delhi High Court Thursday sought response of the Centre and AAP government on a lawyer's plea challenging the Rs 500 challan issued to him for not wearing a mask while he was driving alone. Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Delhi government, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and the police seeking their stand on the petition which seeks quashing of the challan, refund of the Rs 500 paid as fine and compensation of Rs 10 lakh for mental harassment suffered by the petitioner. The petitioner, Saurabh Sharma, has claimed in his plea that on September 9 while driving to work he was stopped by Delhi Police officials and was 'challaned' for not wearing a mask even though he was alone in the car. Sharma, represented by advocate KC Mittal, has contended that there is a Health Ministry notification clarifying that wearing of mask was not compulsory while driving alone in a car. Advocate Farman Ali Magray, appearing for the ministry, said that such a notification has been issued. Mittal also argued, during the hearing, that the guidelines issued by DDMA only states that the mask has to be worn in a public place or place of work and a private vehicle is neither. The DDMA, during the hearing, contended that its guidelines issued in April and June this year makes it mandatory to wear a mask in a public place and added that the Supreme Court has held that a private vehicle is a public place. It also said that under the guidelines issued by it, there is a penalty of Rs 500 for the first-time breach of quarantine norms as well as for not wearing masks and for every subsequent violation there is a fine of Rs 1,000. The court listed the matter for further hearing on November 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lawyer-challenges-challan-for-not-wearing-mask-when-driving-alone-hc-seeks-govt-reply-888805.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||After six months national newspaper back to circulation in Kashmir||"Earlier in August last year, the circulation of national newspapers was affected after the abrogation of Article 370. It resumed in November, but again in March the distribution had to be stopped. Now there are hardly any readers, who want to purchase hard copies of newspapers," Hilal Ahmad, owner of Khan News Agency on posh Residence Road in Srinagar told DH. Khan said not only national dailies, but the circulation of local newspapers has also nosedived. "As electronic versions of most of the newspapers are available on the internet, it seems people have forgotten the habit of reading hard copies," he added. Hilal Ahmed Misgar, Manager with Abdullah News Agency at Amira Kadal, here, said they used to procure some 1,500 to 1,600 copies of national dailies every day. "Today there are no buyers for even 100 to 150 copies as people are reluctant to carry newspapers fearing possible transmission of Covid-19," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-six-months-national-newspaper-back-to-circulation-in-kashmir-888815.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||ED files chargesheet against Kashmiri Separatist leader Shabir Shah's wife Bilquis||The Enforcement Directorate has made Kashmiri separatist leader Shabir Shah's wife Bilquis Shah an accused in a 2005 case of money laundering for alleged terror financing against him and alleged hawala dealer Mohammad Aslam Wani. The probe agency named her as an accused in its supplementary charge sheet filed in the case on Wednesday. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana will take up the matter for on November 10. In its charge sheet filed by ED's special public prosecutors N K Matta and Rajeev Awasthi, the agency said that there were sufficient evidence against Bilquis. The charge sheet has been filed under sections 3 and 4 Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED had earlier filed charge sheet against Shabir Shah and Aslam Wani. It alleged that Wani was asked by Shah to “work for him (on a commission basis) in collecting hawala money from Delhi and deliver to him at Srinagar.” The case dates back to August 2005 in which Delhi Police's Special Cell had earlier arrested Wani. Wani had then claimed that he had given Rs 2.25 crore to Shah, following which the ED had registered a criminal case under PMLA against the two in 2007.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-files-chargesheet-against-kashmiri-separatist-leader-shabir-shahs-wife-bilquis-888837.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||28% posts of medical, paramedic staff lying vacant in Bilaspur||Around 28 per cent of posts of medical, nurses and paramedical staff are lying vacant in Himachal Pradesh's Bilaspur district, Health Minister Rajiv Saizal told the Assembly on Thursday. Replying to a question by Jhanduta MLA Jeet Ram Katwal, Saizal informed the House on the ninth day of the monsoon session that 208 out of the 736 sanctioned posts of medical officers, staff nurses and paramedical staff were lying vacant in Bilaspur. Of them, 29 posts of medical officers and five posts of medical officers (dental) are lying vacant against the sanctioned limit of 116 and 23 respectively, according to the minister. Fifty-nine posts of different categories of medical and paramedical staff are lying vacant in the Jhanduta constituency. The post of block medical officer has been lying vacant since July 18 and will be filled up in October, Saizal said. He added that the medical officer's post at the Rishikesh primary health centre would be filled up in the current financial year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/28-posts-of-medical-paramedic-staff-lying-vacant-in-bilaspur-888867.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||To spread Fit India message, CRPF soldiers embark on 900-km cycle rally||A 900-km-long cycle rally of specially-abled CRPF personnel was flagged off from Gujarat on Thursday, officials said. The rally, which began from the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, will culminate on October 2 at Rajghat in Delhi and is aimed to spread the message of 'fit India', according to the officials. "Starting on the occasion of the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the rally will conclude on October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi," an official said. "It will cover a distance of about 900 km in 16 days and will pass through the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana before reaching Delhi." The cycle rally is being undertaken by those specially-abled Central Reserve Police Force personnel who lost their limbs in the line of duty and have been given prosthetics. Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat flagged off the rally through a virtual medium in the presence of CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari, the official said. The rally will move during the day and make halts at night, and an ambulance with a medical team will be follow the rally to render medical assistance to the team, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/to-spread-fit-india-message-crpf-soldiers-embark-on-900-km-cycle-rally-888874.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Mayawati fumes over UP govt's decision to convert SC/ST students' hostel into detention centre for illegal foreigners||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to convert one of the hostels meant for the students belonging to scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) in Ghaziabad into a detention centre for illegal foreigners. The move has raised hackles among the opposition parties and Dalit outfits in the state. It would be the first detention centre in the state for illegal foreigners, a government official here said, adding that the centre was being built on the direction of the Union government. The official said that the illegal foreigners, who had served their time in jails, would be housed in the detention centre until they were sent back to their respective countries. He said that two hostels had been built for the students belonging to the SC and ST communities at Nandgram in Ghaziabad. ''These hostels are no longer in use...one of them will be used to keep the illegal foreigners,'' he added. BSP supremo Mayawati slammed the state government over the decision and termed it ''anti-Dalit''. गाजियाबाद में बीएसपी सरकार द्वारा निर्मित बहुमंजिला डा. अम्बेडकर एससी/एसटी छात्र हास्टल को ’अवैध विदेशियों’ के लिए यूपी के पहले डिटेन्शन सेन्टर के रूप में कनवर्ट करना अति-दुःखद व अति-निन्दनीय। यह सरकार की दलित-विरोधी कार्यशैली का एक और प्रमाण। सरकार इसे वापस ले बीएसपी की यह माँग। ''The decision is unfortunate and condemnable....it shows the anti-Dalit mindset of the BJP government....the government must withdraw its decision immediately,'' Mayawati said in a post on her Twitter handle on Thursday. The Congress and the Samajwadi Party (SP) also sharply criticised the state government's decision. ''This government has been working against the Dalits and tribals ever since it assumed office...Dalits are facing persecution under this regime,'' said a senior Congress leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-fumes-over-up-govts-decision-to-convert-sc/st-students-hostel-into-detention-centre-for-illegal-foreigners-888903.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Widows of Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims not getting their pension: Activist||An organization working for the survivors of the 1984 Bhopal Gas Tragedy on Thursday alleged that widows of the victims are not getting pension since December. "The Madhya Pradesh government should resume the Rs 1,000 monthly pension to 4,998 women," said Balkrishna Namdeo, president of the Gas Peedit Nirashrit Pension Bhogi Sangharsh Morcha. "They haven't been getting pension since December. These widows are living in penury in these testing times amid the Covid-19 outbreak," he added. Some of these women are on a relay hunger strike for the last two days at Jeevan Jyoti Colony here to press the demand, he said. The 2011-12 annual report of the Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation Department had announced that widows of the victims will receive lifelong pension, he said. The December 1984 gas leak at a pesticide plant of Union Carbide in Bhopal, which claimed at least 3,000 lives, is termed as one of the worst industrial disasters in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/widows-of-bhopal-gas-tragedy-victims-not-getting-their-pension-activist-888927.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||5 Opposition parties approach President Ram Nath Kovind against Delhi police's 'biased' probe into riots case||Leaders of five Opposition parties -- the Congress, DMK, RJD, CPI(M) and CPI -- on Thursday knocked the doors of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, complaining about the Delhi Police's investigation into the Delhi riots. They claimed that it was "orchestrating a script" to link peaceful anti-CAA-NPR-NRC protests to the February riots and demanded a judicial enquiry into it. Congress Treasurer Ahmed Patel, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, his CPI counterpart D Raja, DMK's Kanimozhi and RJD's Manoj K Jha met the President and handed over a memorandum raising questions over the role of the police in the riots in north-east Delhi that claimed 53 lives and its subsequent probe in the riots. The leaders told Kovind that instead of conducting a probe into the hate speeches calling for violence by BJP leaders, the police, under the direction of Home Minister Amit Shah, were targeting activists, well-known intellectuals and leaders. "Such manufacturing of conspiracy by the Delhi Police is a diversion from identifying and punishing the perpetrators of this communal violence. The victims of this violence are being arrested while the perpetrators are let off scot-free," they told the President. They said the Delhi police probe did not inspire confidence and demanded that a "credible and unbiased probe is crucial to restore public trust in the law and order machinery of the state". They sought a probe under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 by a sitting or retired judge or judges. In the letter, they said, there are "serious questions" about the role played by the Delhi Police itself during the violence and also the manner in which the police is "harassing and attempting to falsely implicate" activists involved in peaceful protests as the "perpetrators of violence". "Such a manufactured conspiracy theory has now begun to falsely implicate political leaders," they said citing the mention of Yechury, a parliamentarian of "long-standing repute" as also well-known intellectuals, academicians and activists. "This is a disturbing trend that raises serious questions over the manner of such investigations," the letter said. They also pointed out that there are several publicly documented accounts and videos of police being "complicit" in the violence, "directing" mobs pelting stones or "looking the other way" when mobs were indulging in violence. "During the violence, a disturbing video emerged showing uniformed policemen assaulting young men lying injured on the road and forcing them to sing the national anthem while repeatedly beating them with lathis," they said adding that one of the men, Faizan, succumbed to his injuries a few days later. They also claimed that the "DCP stood quietly next to a BJP leader (Kapil Mishra) who was instigating violence against the protestors, warning that if they did not vacate the road, he would do it himself". "Despite several complaints being filed alleging involvement of senior police officials in the violence, including a DCP, additional commissioners and SHOs, it appears no urgency has been accorded to identifying the policemen involved in violence and ensuring that they are brought to book," the letter said. "While the Delhi police has turned a blind eye towards the role of its own personnel and BJP leaders in the violence, at the same time the probe appears to be pursuing a line of inquiry criminalising the protests against the CAA and portraying them as a conspiracy which resulted in the riots in Delhi," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-opposition-parties-approach-president-ram-nath-kovind-against-delhi-polices-biased-probe-into-riots-case-888937.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Kalyan Singh stable, Covid-19 recovery likely next week: Doctors||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is responding well to the treatment for Covid-19 and should recover fully in four to five days, the hospital here where he is admitted said on Thursday. Singh, 88, was on Wednesday airlifted to Ghaziabad's private Yashoda Super-Specialty Hospital from Lucknow's Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute (SGPGI) of Medical Sciences at his family's request. “His health is much better than yesterday. Specialist doctors of heart, kidney, diabetes, among others, are attending to him as he has comorbidities (multiple health disorders),” said Dr Ankit Sinha, who is in the Covid-19 treatment team of the Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine of the hospital located in Kaushambi. “He is responding well to all medicines. His CT scan also has less involvement (not much complications), which has enabled him to respond well to medicines. If he continues this way, he is expected to fully recover in four or five days,” Sinha said. Another doctor part of the team said Singh, also a former Rajasthan Governor, has multiple comorbidities but is clinically stable. "Singh had tested positive for Covid-19 but the good thing is there are not much changes in the chest as apparent in the CT scan," Dr. Arjun Khanna, a chest physician, said. He said Singh already has multiple comorbidities that have put pressure on his kidneys, blood pressure and sugar. These conditions make the Covid-19 treatment a little challenging, but the positive thing is that he is clinically stable, doesnt require much oxygen and is responding well to treatment, Khanna said. Singh was admitted to the SGPGI on Monday with complaints of fever, dry cough and breathlessness and had tested positive for Covid-19. The BJP leader is expected to appear before the special CBI court in Lucknow on September 30, when the verdict in the Babri mosque demolition case will be pronounced. He is among the 32 accused that include BJP veterans Lal Krishna Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti in the case that has been going on for over 27 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kalyan-singh-stable-covid-19-recovery-likely-next-week-doctors-888956.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan govt to provide free coaching to civil services aspirants||The Rajasthan government will provide free coaching through reputed institutions to civil services aspirants belonging to various tribes and Sahariya community, a minister said on Thursday. The Tribal and Regional Development Department will soon start the TAD Super-30 project. Minister of State for Tribal and Regional Development Arjun  Bamania said the project will be started pursuant to the budget announcement to provide free coaching to students preparing for competitive examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC).  Thirty selected aspirants -- 20 men and 10 women -- will be given online coaching to prepare for the civil services examinations, the minister said in a statement.  Prestigious institutions of Rajasthan will impart coaching, he added.  He said that to take advantage of the scheme, it is necessary for a candidate to pass the graduation examination with minimum 60 per cent marks. Along with that, it is necessary to have the requisite ST certificate and on-line coaching facility with them.  The minister expressed hope that the move will not only improve the educational, economic and social status of the aspirants, but also help them play their role in the development process of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-to-provide-free-coaching-to-civil-services-aspirants-888969.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Pulwama-style terror attack averted in Jammu and Kashmir; Army recovers 52 kg of explosives||A major tragedy was averted in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Friday after security forces recovered 52 kg of explosives at a spot close to Srinagar-Jammu national highway and also near to the site of February 14, 2019 attack in which 40 CRPF men were killed. In a statement, an army spokesperson said that in a search operation at 8 am today, at Karewa area of Gadikal, Pulwama, a Syntex tank that was buried with 52 kgs of explosives, was recovered. “There were 416 packets of explosives with each packet of 125 gm. Subsequently on further search in another such Syntex tank 50 detonators were recovered,” he said. The location in Karewa is very close to the national highway and just nine kilometres of Letapora, where a local Kashmiri fidayeen (suicide) militant Adil Ahmed rammed his vehicle packed with explosives into a paramilitary bus they were travelling in on the highway on February 14 last year. In the worst casualties suffered by the security forces in peacetime operations, 40 CRPF personnel were killed and several others wounded. Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terror outfit had claimed responsibility for the attack and released a video clip of the suicide bomber which it claimed was shot before the young man carried out the audacious attack in Lethpora, about 30 km from here. Sources said since that dreadful incident, security forces have bettered their capability for training, bettered in terms of equipment, tactics, mobility and navigation which has ensured no such attacks were repeated. They said even though frequent inputs keep on coming that militants may target security forces convoys on the highway but given the changed strategy and the security drills the force has adopted since last February, “it won’t be a cakewalk for them (militants) now.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pulwama-style-terror-attack-averted-in-jammu-and-kashmir-army-recovers-52-kg-of-explosives-888976.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Amid standoff with China, Army chief reviews preparedness along Line of Control||Amid ongoing standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, Army chief General MM Naravane Thursday reviewed the operational preparedness and security situation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir. On the first day of his two-day visit, General Naravane proceeded to undertake a firsthand assessment of the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir. “During his interaction with the soldiers deployed in high altitude areas, he (army chief) appreciated their high morale and complimented them on their response to Pakistan ceasefire violations,” defence spokesperson, Col Rajesh Kalia said. Gen Naravane also commended the use of technology to ensure effective day and night surveillance across the LoC which has resulted in many successful operations to foil infiltration bids from Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir in the recent past, he said. The Army chief reinforced the need to extend all possible support to civilians residing in the border areas, who are victims of targeted ceasefire violations by Pakistan Army and are facing hardships due to the pandemic. The Army chief then proceeded to interact with commanders and troops deployed in the hinterland. While interacting with jawans, he highlighted that it was the dawn of a new era of development, peace and prosperity in Kashmir and applauded them for their high level of morale and contribution to peacebuilding in J&K. General Naravane also called on Manoj Sinha, Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir and discussed issues concerning the present security situation in the Union Territory, the spokesperson said. Sources said while the Army Chief may be primarily reported to be reviewing the situation along the western border with Pakistan, the visit could not be delinked from the situation on the northern border with China. On September 3, he visited the union territory of Ladakh to review the Army’s operational preparedness there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-standoff-with-china-army-chief-reviews-preparedness-along-line-of-control-889007.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Former Congress MLA's son commits suicide||Son of a former Congress MLA on Thursday allegedly shot himself dead at his residence in Munshiganj area here, police said. Sanjay Shukla (53), son of former Congress MLA from Ramnagar Shesh Narain Shukla, killed himself with his licensed revolver, they said. Senior officials, including ASP R S Gautam and Circle Officer Seema Yadav, reached the spot to probe the matter. Meanwhile, the family members claimed that Sanjay had a heated discussion with a cable operator who had snapped the connection before he took the extreme step. Police said they are probing if Sanjay was suffering from depression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-congress-mlas-son-commits-suicide-889028.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab: Farmers' body announces 'rail roko' agitation from September 24 to 26||A farmers' body on Thursday decided to intensify their stir against the Centre’s three farm-related Bills, announcing to stop trains in Punjab from September 24 to 26. “We have decided to hold a 'rail roko' agitation from September 24 to 26 in the state against the farm bills,” said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher. Different farmer organisations in Punjab have already given a call for a “bandh” on September 25 in protest against the Bills. Farmers have expressed apprehensions that the legislations will pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system and they will be at the “mercy” of big corporates. The Centre on Monday had introduced the Bills in Lok Sabha. These are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Lok Sabha on Tuesday had passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which seeks to deregulate food items, including cereals, pulses and onion, a move aimed at "transforming" the farm sector and "raising" farmers' income. The Congress-led government in Punjab has described the legislations as a "blatant attack" on the federal structure. Last month, the Punjab assembly had passed a resolution, rejecting the ordinances introduced by parliament earlier and replaced by the three Bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-farmers-body-announces-rail-roko-agitation-from-september-24-to-26-889030.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||DMRC suffered loss of Rs 1,609 crore due to closure of metro services: Hardeep Singh Puri||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) suffered a loss of around Rs 1,609 crore due to the closure of metro services in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told Lok Sabha on Thursday. Bangalore Metro, Lucknow Metro, Chennai Metro and Kochi Metro also incurred losses due to Covid-19, he said. Metro services across the country were shut on March 22 to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. They resumed on September 7 in a phased manner. Full-fledged normal operations resumed on September 12. "DMRC has informed that loss of revenue due to the closure of metro services in view of Covid-19 pandemic is around Rs 1,609 crores," Puri said in a written reply to a question. During the lockdown period, he said, preparatory work like detailed designing, preparation of tender schedule and finalisation of tenders, among other things, had been carried out by the DMRC. Puri said the DMRC has informed that payments towards its loan have been made as per schedule. He said Bangalore Metro, Lucknow Metro, Chennai Metro and Kochi Metro also suffered losses of Rs 170 crore, Rs 90 crore, Rs 80 crore and Rs 34.18 crore, respectively, due to Covid-19. Responding to another question about the government's strategy to mitigate the effect of losses incurred by the DMRC, Puri said measures to enhance revenue through various innovative means like provisioning of the feeder system, property development at stations and on other land, leasing of spaces, Transit-Oriented Development and Value Capture Finance are enumerated in the Metro Rail Policy, 2017. "Ensuring financial sustainability during operations of the metro rail system is the responsibility of state government," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dmrc-suffered-loss-of-rs-1609-crore-due-to-closure-of-metro-services-hardeep-singh-puri-889041.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Amarinder Singh backstabbed farmers over agri-related Bills: SAD||The SAD on Thursday hit out at Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over the issue of farm Bills, alleging his government's “active participation” in framing the legislation. Shiromani Akali Dal senior leader Daljit Singh Cheema asked the CM to issue a white paper on his “participation” in the meeting of a high-powered committee on agriculture. “The CM has backstabbed the farming community of Punjab in the meeting of the high-powered committee set up by the Centre,” Cheema alleged while talking to the media here. He claimed that the CM was trying to “conceal” his “participation” in framing three farm-related legislations. The CM had rejected the Centre's claim that Punjab was taken on board before the promulgation of three farm-related ordinances, replaced by the Bills in Parliament by the Centre. Singh had reacted to a statement made in Parliament by Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Raosaheb Patil Danve, that the high-powered committee on agriculture had decided on the ordinances after due consideration by all member states. Cheema said it was shocking that the CM was now “uttering blatant lies” to “hide” his involvement in supporting the ordinances. He said not only was the CM a member of the high-powered committee which framed the ordinances but Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal also attended a meeting of the panel in Mumbai. “ The Congress-led government also sent a six-page note to the Centre which formed its reaction to the discussion on the ordinances,” he claimed. “Now that it has been proven beyond doubt that the Congress government had actively participated in the framing of the ordinances, the state government must issue a white paper detailing all the meetings, ministers and officers who had participated in the same,” he said. “All this is necessary to make it clear to people as to who betrayed them,” said Cheema. Cheema, a former Punjab minister, claimed that the Congress-led government's response highlighted the need of market reforms and said freeing the agriculture market was the only way farmers could get higher prices for their agricultural produce. He said the Congress in its manifesto during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had promised to repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act and allow free inter-state trade without any restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-backstabbed-farmers-over-agri-related-bills-sad-889044.html
17-09-2020||North and Central||Hindu Yuva Vahini leader stabbed to death in Uttar Pradesh||A Hindu Yuva Vahini leader was on Thursday stabbed to death here in a case of love triangle, police said. The youth group 'Hindu Yuva Vahini' was formed by Yogi Adityanath in 2002. Sanjay Singh Bhadauria (35) was stabbed to death in Anandpur locality by a person identified as Imran, police said. "Both Imran and Sanjay were in love with a girl. This prima facie appears to be the cause of the murder," SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said. Imran was identified after analysing CCTV footage. He was arrested after an encounter with the police, the officer said. A countrymade pistol and sharp-edged weapons used in the crime were seized from his possession, the SSP said. The crime took place when Bhadauria, also operator of a hospital, was sleeping in the hospital premises. The body has been sent for post-mortem, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-yuva-vahini-leader-stabbed-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh-889088.html
17-09-2020||Opinion||Presidentially, two parties is plenty||By Gail Collins Things we would currently be better off without: — People who ride bikes on the sidewalk — Robocalls — Third parties I know, I raised the bar a little at the end. Just trying to sneak us into a discussion of a critical part of our presidential elections that almost no one can stand to talk about. There’ll be quite a few third-party candidates floating around on our ballots this year. Some are doing fine things on the state and local levels, but avoid the ones who want to run the country. Most of them are feeding off a neither-candidate-is-good-enough syndrome that makes people vote for mystery men and women who come attached to a nice-sounding party label. It makes you feel superior — you’re a voter who won’t just settle. Real-world elections require you to look over a list of deeply imperfect candidates and pick the ones whose priorities are closest to yours. It’s not like getting married. There’s really no option for hanging onto your ballot until a better person comes along. Throwing your support to a third-party candidate with no hope whatsoever of getting elected is, however, a good way to dodge responsibility. Imagine you’re a well-known Republican like Mitt Romney or John Bolton. You want to get off the Trump bandwagon without looking like a friend to Democrats. So you announce you’ll be writing in the name of your mother-in-law or pet hamster. In Maine, Republican Sen. Susan Collins won’t say who she’s voting for: “I don’t think that the people of Maine need my advice on whom to support for president.” Now, this is probably very true, but the point was to evaluate the senator’s judgment, not get her directions to take to the polls. Collins is having a tough time right now. She’s running for reelection against Sara Gideon, the Democratic speaker of the State House of Representatives, in one of the year’s most important Senate races. This could be the one that determines whether we’ll be spending 2021 in the thrall of Mitch McConnell, so attention must be paid. They had a debate the other night, but I’ll bet a lot of the viewers walked away talking about Max Linn, an independent candidate who has no chance of being elected to anything whatsoever. Linn continually announced, “I’ve got to be way outside the box!” He also shouted “Request denied!” whenever the moderators tried to get him to answer their questions. It did make for more excitement than your average Senate debate, but really, if Maine voters wanted to be entertained, they’d have been watching “Raised by Wolves” on HBO. The absolute worst aspect of third parties is the way they can screw things up for the person most voters would actually prefer in the real world. You will perhaps remember that in 2016, candidates from the Green Party and the Libertarian Party amassed itsy-bitsy vote totals that nevertheless might have deprived Hillary Clinton of just enough support in a few critical states, tossing the presidency to you-know-who. Or 2000, when George W. Bush beat Al Gore thanks to a few hundred votes in Florida — a state where Green Party candidate Ralph Nader got nearly 100,000 votes. I don’t know whether Nader still feels he made the righteous move. Haven’t talked with him since he told me he wouldn’t vote for either Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. Some of the third-party candidates you want to watch out for are the ones with great name recognition and no qualifications whatsoever. For instance, Kanye West is going to be running for president in some states, like Colorado and Minnesota, as the one and only candidate of — are you ready? — the Birthday Party. The rapper’s wife says he’s been suffering from “pressure and isolation that is heightened by his bipolar disorder.” Nevertheless, Republicans are extremely enthusiastic about the possibility that West will draw votes from young and Black voters who normally would opt for Joe Biden. Really, people, nobody wants to go there. These days Republicans tend to be third-party fans, possibly because so many of the ones with ballot lines have names that sound liberal and would presumably dilute support from the Democrats. In Montana, hundreds of people who signed petitions to put Green Party candidates on the ballot asked for their names to be removed after they learned the Republicans had secretly invested $100,000 in a signature-gathering effort for the Greens. Look at the tightest Senate races around the country and you’ll find many of them feature a Democrat and a Republican, locked in close battle, plus lines for additional competition with names like Green or Libertarian. To be fair, there are a whole lot of parties out there. Lord knows who their names will appeal to. In Michigan, where Democratic Sen. Gary Peters is in a tough race, his opponents include candidates from the Republican, Natural Law and U.S. Taxpayers Parties, which certainly gives voters a panorama of possibilities. In Colorado, where Republican Cory Gardner is in a tight spot, the competition includes the Libertarian, Green, Unity and Approval Voting Party. When you’re counting the parties, by the way, don’t forget the Constitution Party, whose presidential nominee, Don Blankenship, is the former CEO of a mining company who spent a year in jail after one of the company’s mines in West Virginia exploded, killing 29 people. Really. He’s on the ballot in 21 states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/presidentially-two-parties-is-plenty-888679.html
17-09-2020||Opinion||Here's how the 1970s changed the US economy||The US economy underwent a fundamental shift in the early 1970s. The cause of that shift is still elusive. But it’s a good bet changes in energy technology probably had something to do with it — with lessons for our economic future. A new website called 'WTF Happened In 1971?' is getting an increasing amount of attention. The site is incredibly simple — just a huge series of charts showing how economic statistics seemed to dramatically change in the early 1970s. For example, real wages rose steadily throughout the 60s, but plummeted after 1973: Part of this was probably because productivity growth, one driver of wage increases, slowed down around the same time. But productivity and pay also began to diverge, even when worker benefits such as health care are included: A series of other changes followed around 1980 — rising inequality, soaring budget deficits, ballooning trade deficits, falling savings rates, and so on. These are often attributed to the laissez-faire economic policies of President Ronald Reagan. But some of them, including trade and budget deficits, show hints of beginning a decade earlier. So what did happen in the early ‘70s to cause such a large and enduring structural shift in the US economy? One obvious candidate is the oil shock of 1973. A coalition of Arab nations, angry at Western support for Israel during a recent war, organized an oil embargo, sending what had been very stable oil prices suddenly skyrocketing: The oil crisis is one of the chief suspects in the productivity slowdown that began in the early ‘70s and ended in the mid-1990s. Nobel prize-winning economist William Nordhaus, writing in 2004, found oil-intensive industries accounted for two-thirds of the slowdown. Even more fundamentally, the oil shock probably had an effect on the types of innovations scientists and companies generated. The crisis didn’t just mean a rise in oil prices; it meant innovators could no longer rely on cheap, easily portable energy to be available forever. Oil had represented a big improvement over coal. It was much cheaper to extract and transport and had a higher energy density. That permitted vast and rapid improvements in transportation technologies such as airplanes, internal combustion cars, and so on. But after 1973, that energy bonanza was no longer a sure thing. The smooth progress of industrial technology toward bigger, faster, and more powerful machines, already in trouble due to the failure of nuclear power to supplant oil, crashed to a halt in 1973. Instead of finding new ways to use ever-more-abundant energy, manufacturers shifted toward finding ways to do more with less. Manufacturing productivity kept increasing, but the sector became less and less important to the economy: The oil shock also probably helped fuel inflation. Prices had been rising in the late ‘60s, but after 1973 inflation soared to new heights: The leading theory is that the Federal Reserve responded to the oil shocks by shifting to an easier monetary policy, which caused a self-fulfilling upward spiral of inflationary expectations. Workers may not have been prepared for this accelerated inflation. When one looks at a graph of nominal hourly earnings — that is, unadjusted for inflation — it’s astonishing how little the growth rate changes from year to year: This suggests workers aren’t very good at negotiating cost-of-living increases, allowing an unexpected surge of inflation to send real wages plummeting and keep compensation growing more slowly than productivity. And the eventual remedy for inflation — Fed Chair Paul Volcker’s interest rate hikes in the early 1980s — created sharp recessions that increased unemployment and also helped hold wages down. So the oil shock must be the prime suspect in the economic shift that began in the early 1970s. Of course, there are other potential culprits. One is shrinking union membership, which probably reduced workers’ bargaining power: But even here, the oil crisis could have exacerbated the trend, by shrinking heavily unionized manufacturing and mining industries and by weakening labor’s bargaining power via the Volcker recessions. Similarly, the increasing importance of the financial sector, which accelerated after 1980 and is widely believed to have exacerbated inequality, could have been caused partly by companies looking for more profitable activities after expansion stagnated in transportation and heavy industry. If the end of the age of cheap oil was truly responsible for many of these negative structural shifts in the US economy, then one obvious remedy is to find an energy source better than oil. That alternative may already be available: Solar power is becoming startlingly cheap. But to truly replace oil, solar energy will have to be not just cheap to gather but easy to transport from place to place. That means we need much more progress in batteries or other storage technologies. Governments should push hard to make big leaps in these technologies, so that the era of cheap energy can return — and with it, hopefully, widely shared prosperity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/heres-how-the-1970s-changed-the-us-economy-888747.html
17-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Old habits die hard||During my salad days of entering government service, my head of the department was a reticent, a stickler for riles and did not tolerate any indiscipline. My immediate boss was liberal but loquacious. He was a chatterbox and did not notice if the other person was annoyed. He would call me every day under the pretext of technical discussions but would chat on anything but that. Yoga was a favourite subject. My HOD instructed me one day to prepare a report. Due to sheer bad luck, my immediate boss also decided to call upon me. Since I was terrified of my HOD, I wanted to complete the work assigned to me first. When I got the inkling that my boss would not conclude his chat anytime soon, I tried to interrupt him to tell him that I had to attend to the work assigned by HOD. He got annoyed and shouted at me. “Why are you interrupting? Do you not know conversational etiquette? When I am talking, you should listen. Do you think, I do not have any better business? Please know that I am your immediate boss and I am more important to you than your HOD. I approve your diary, tour programme, TA bill etc. I review your performance. If I spoil your report, let me seehow the HOD will come to yourrescue,” he thundered. I managed to consol him somehow and hightailed it out of there. A few days after that, he invited everyone in the office to his chamber and said, “look from today onwards, I will not talk much. My yoga guru has advised me that whatever energy you gain through yoga, you are losing through unnecessary talk. Talkers are never good-doers. I sound better with my mouth shut. I must be a good listener and I should not be ‘talkoholic’, because motor-mouthed people are often viewed as less intelligent than people who engage in “active listening”. Hence, I want to be fluent in silence. I am informing you all in advance. So, you people should not feel bad, why our boss has all of a sudden has become an introvert,” he continued this ironic rant about his silence until our HOD’s assistant, came to his chamber to inform us that that there was a discussion scheduled with the HOD.  I smiled to myself, thinking old habits die hard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/old-habits-die-hard-888610.html
17-09-2020||Second Edit||Message on a mask: Naomi Osaka’s grand slam||Sports tournaments have not only been competitive statements of physical fitness and accomplishments but also tools of social assertion and individual identity. Black salutes have been raised from Olympic podiums, and Muhammad Ali stung like a bee not only his opponents in the ring but also the white racist establishment outside it. Naomi Osaka, the American tennis star of Japanese-Black origin, also created her moment in grand slam history and in the troubled present of race relations in the US when she played with a black mask on her face throughout the US Open. Every day, the mask carried the name of a black victim of a hate crime, and it is a terrible irony that one of the world’s most celebrated sports grounds, Flushing Meadows, saw the name of a young boy, 12-year-old Tamir Rice, who was shot by the police on a playground, flashing on the face of its champion of the day, in mourning and in rebellion.  Naomi also proved by her game that soft-spoken, shy women can win tough and harsh games at the highest level. She came back from behind from a lost first set to take the next two with conviction and claim the final honours. She had also come a long way from the weakling who withered under the boos from the stands two years ago after beating Serena Williams in her first grand slam victory. Serena, the battle-scarred black veteran, comforted her in an emotional moment in tennis lore. If she slid her visor over her face in fear or nervousness then, she slipped a mask over it in defiance now. She was declaring that she is not just a player but a black woman, too.  Naomi, the daughter of a Japanese mother and Haitian father, had once said she had a regret that she didn’t speak out what she was thinking. But she has evolved and is speaking and acting her mind now. She was the first among the prominent athletes to express support for the Black Lives Matter movement in the wake of the killings of George Floyd and others in the US. Of the many identities as a player, a woman, a citizen and a black, she opted for the last on the big stage and wore it on her face in anger and protest. Sports stretches the powers of the body and the mind to the limits, and at the limits everyone is elemental. That is why Naomi’s gesture has sent out a message of elemental humanity in distress and in defiance. It was a question shot from an individual’s conscience into society's court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/message-on-a-mask-naomi-osaka-s-grand-slam-888605.html
17-09-2020||South||Gold smuggling case: NIA quizzes Kerala minister K T Jaleel||Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel was reportedly quizzed by NIA in connection with his suspected links with the Kerala gold smuggling case accused. It was learnt that Jaleel, as summoned by the NIA, reached their office in Kochi at around 6 am on Thursday. The wee hours of the day may have been opted to avert media attention and protests. Jaleel also used a private car to go to the NIA office. By around 5 pm he left the NIA office in the same car under tight police cover. Evading the attention of the media which was trying to track his movement, Jaleel changed the vehicle in between and was learnt to be proceeding to Thiruvananthapuram. Tight police protection is being provided in view of the widespread protest against him. Jaleel was quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate in Kochi last week. The state has been witnessing violent stirs by various opposition parties demanding his resignation.A Congress MLA, V T Balaram, suffered injuries in the police action. But Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan continued backing Jaleel. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said that it was for the first time that a state minister was being quizzed by an agency probing into terrorism-related cases and hence the government has no moral right to continue.  The main allegation against Jaleel pertained to his involvement in accepting diplomatic baggage from UAE Consulate that contained Qurans and distributed it to various parts of state using a Kerala government agency's vehicle.  But there were allegations that the gold was smuggled using this baggage as well. Jaleel also accepted Ramadan relief food kits worth Rs 5 lakh from UAE Consulate for distribution. While the details of Jaleel's questioning were yet to be known, sources close to Jaleel maintained that his statement was recorded as a witness. The Customs may also record his statement soon. CM's clean chit to Jaleel; Muslim League flayed for attacking minister for distributing Quran Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan reaffirmed his support to Jaleel and also flayed the Indian Union Muslim League, a key coalition partner of the Congress, for attacking Jaleel for distributing Quran. Vijayan said that he already made in clear that Jaleel did nothing illegal and he still firmly believed so. There was no need for Jaleel to resign, he added. Jaleel did not demand the Quran or relief kit from the UAE Consulate. Those were not smuggled but reached through a proper channel. Jaleel's help for distributing Quran and Ramadan relief kits was sought as he was in charge of Minority Affairs, Hajj and Wakf in the state. Vijayan also flayed the widespread protests flouting the Covid-19 social distancing norms. Cases were registered against two Congress MLAs also for flouting social distancing norms, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-nia-quizzes-kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-888669.html
17-09-2020||South||9 out of 11 Covid-infected members of Great Andamanese tribe have recovered, says Arjun Munda||Nine out of the 11 coronavirus-infected members of the primitive Great Andamanese tribe in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered, the government told Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Union Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda also said that the particularly vulnerable tribal groups of Onges, Jarawas and Shompens are safe from the virus. "The 11 infected members of the Great Andamanese tribe are among those who were either themselves engaged or had families working in government establishments. Except two, all of them have fully recovered and moved back to their settlement in Strait Island," the minister told the Upper House. There are only around 50 surviving members of the Great Andamanese tribe. Munda said the archipelago administration was giving special focus and attention to the protection and wellbeing of PVTGs. "The samples of the entire Onges population in Little Andaman Island have tested negative. Testing of Jarawas in three different areas has also confirmed their Covid free status. The Shompens are also safe in the Great Nicobar Island," he said. The health of these tribals has been vigorously monitored and proactive measures to prioritize their testing have helped in early detection of cases, the minister said. Several steps have been taken to strengthen capacities for treatment such as delivery of medication and pulse oximeters free of cost at the doorstep, admission of any symptomatic person and those with co-morbidities to Covid care facilities, he said. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands recorded 28 new cases and two deaths from September 9 to September 15, according to government data. There are six notified Scheduled Tribes in the archipelago -- Nicobarese, Great Andamanese, Jarawa, Sentinelese, Onge and Shompen. Barring Nicobarese, all are recognized as PVTGs, characterized by declining or stagnant population, low level of literacy, pre-agricultural level of technology and economic backwardness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/9-out-of-11-covid-infected-members-of-great-andamanese-tribe-have-recovered-says-arjun-munda-888786.html
17-09-2020||South||Puducherry adds 323 fresh Covid-19 cases; 13 deaths take toll to 431||Puducherry on Thursday logged 323 fresh coronavirus cases while 13 related fatalities pushed the death toll in the union territory to 431. The 323 new cases were identified after examination of 4,867 samples during the last 24 hours while 330 patients were discharged from hospitals, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release. He said the overall tally of Covid-19 cases in Puducherry stood at 21,428 (after transfer of six cases to Tamil Nadu). The active cases was 4,744 while the number of patients who had recovered and were discharged was 16,253. He said the fatality rate touched 2.01 per cent, adding this was the first time it had reached such a level in Puducherry and recovery rate was 75.85 per cent. As many as 13 people including four women died in the last 24 hours, he added. Most of the patients who died had co-morbidities particularly diabetes and hypertension and the deceased were in the age group ranging between 18 and 85 years, Mohan Kumar said. The Health department Director said that 1,19,720 samples had been tested so far of which 92,383 samples have tested negative. Result of examination of the remaining specimens was awaited. Of the total 323 new cases, the Puducherry region alone accounted for 216 followed by Karaikal (68), Yanam (30) and Mahe (9).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-adds-323-fresh-covid-19-cases-13-deaths-take-toll-to-431-888787.html
17-09-2020||South||Amit Shah greets people on Hyderabad Liberation Day||Union Home Minister Amit Shah greeted the people of Telangana, Marathwada and the Hyderabad-Karnataka region on the occasion of the Hyderabad Liberation Day on Thursday. On September 17, 1948, Hyderabad was liberated from the rule of the Nizam and merged with the Indian Union. "Greetings on Hyderabad Liberation Day to the people of Telangana, Marathwada & Hyderabad-Karnataka region. Greetings on Hyderabad Liberation Day to the people of Telangana, Marathwada & Hyderabad-Karnataka region. "I salute to all our valiant freedom fighters who fought bravely to liberate the people of the region from cruel and inhuman rule of Nizam & Razakars. #HyderabadMuktiSangram," Shah tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shah-greets-people-on-hyderabad-liberation-day-888836.html
17-09-2020||South||B S Yediyurappa to meet PM, central ministers in Delhi; discuss cabinet expansion||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said the much awaited expansion of his cabinet will be discussed during his visit to New Delhi, where he will also be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and central Ministers regarding the development of the state. The Chief Minister, who was in the city to take part in Kalyana Karnataka Utsav programme, left for Delhi. "I'm directly going to Delhi from here, I will be there tomorrow and the day after. Prime Minister has given time, seven to eight Ministers (Union Ministers) have also given time (for meeting)," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said during the visit he will hold discussions regarding cabinet expansion and the development of the state. "I will meet concerned Ministers and the Prime minister... I will return to Bengaluru on September 19," he added. During the visit Yediyurappa is expected to meet top BJP leaders including party national President J P Nadda, during which the discussion on cabinet expansion is likely to come up, party sources said. Cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope walk for the 77-year-old leader, considering too many aspirants. While several of the old guard are waiting for a chance to be inducted into the Ministry, those who defected from the Congress and JD(S) like A H Vishwanath, R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj, who are now BJP MLCs, are also aspiring for slots. The cabinet currently has 28 members and six berths are still vacant. There are also strong speculations about the possible change in leadership in the future, considering Yediyurappa's age. However it has been rejected by senior party leaders like its state President Nalin Kumar Kateel, Minister R Ashoka among others. Flood relief, development projects related to states and GST compensation are the key issues that are likely to figure during the Chief Minister's meeting with the Prime Minister and central Ministers. Karnataka has estimated the loss due to the recent floods to be around Rs 8,071 crore, and is seeking for enhanced relief from the Centre. The BJP ruled Karnataka has opted for the first among the two options provided by the central government for borrowing, to meet the shortfall in GST revenues, under which the state will be eligible for total compensation of Rs 18,289 crore. Yediyurappa's travel to Delhi, comes ahead of the monsoon session of the state legislature from September 21 to 30, during which the opposition has decided to corner the government on flood and Covid management, financial condition of the state, among other things.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/b-s-yediyurappa-to-meet-pm-central-ministers-in-delhi-discuss-cabinet-expansion-888847.html
17-09-2020||South||Opposition demands Pinarayi Vijayan's resignation amid K T Jaleel's NIA probe||The opposition Congress and BJP in Kerala on Thursday hit out at the Left governmentin the state and sought the Chief Minister's resignation over the appearance of Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel before a NIA team probing the gold smuggling case. Leader of Opposition in the Kerala Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala said the government shouldresign and face elections. In response, state Law Minister A K Balan said "seeking information" was part of the procedure of investigation and there was no need for anyone to resign. "The NIA normally questions someone for a scheduled crime. At least now, the Chief Minister should seek the resignation of Jaleel. It seems like the Chief Minister is refusing to seek the resignation because he fears the probe will reach his office. The government should resign under these circumstances and face an election," Chennithala said at a press conference at Haripad, his home constituency in Alappuzha district. Balan hit back at the opposition leader and told the media in Palakkad that the demand for resignation would have had some sense if Jaleel had been arraigned as an accused in any case. "It's just part of the procedure that the investigating agency seeks information on the matters. There is no need for anyone to resign just because some allegations were raised. If he (Jaleel) is arraigned as an accused, then there is a sense in demanding the resignation but now there is no need for it...," Balan said. Meanwhile, BJP state chief K Surendran said the allegations faced by Jaleel were serious and sought his resignation and asked the government to step down. "The chief minister should understandthat it's not right for someone who can be influential to remain in power while the investigation is on. The allegations he (Jaleel) is facing are quite serious. All his phone calls details show he had regularcontact with the gold smuggling accused," Surendran said at a press conference. Visuals aired by TV news channels showed the Minister, who is facing the Enforcement Directorate probe into alleged FCRA violation in accepting consignments of Holy Quran from UAE through diplomatic channel, arriving at the NIA office here at 6 am in a private car. There was no official word either from the NIA or from the Minister's office about the development. Last week, Jaleel had appeared before the ED here and his statement was recorded. The minister had earlier admitted that a consignment containing Holy Quran had been received from the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram which a top Customs official had referred to as "prima facie violation of FCRA" (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act). After the media reported about his interrogation by the ED, the minister had posted on Facebook: "Truth will prevail. Only the truth. Even if the whole world opposes it, nothing else will happen." Officials had said Jaleel is under the scanner of the central agencies after he publicly claimed that the consignments brought to Thiruvananthapuram during Ramzan month contained Holy Quran for distribution in his constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/opposition-demands-pinarayi-vijayans-resignation-amid-k-t-jaleels-nia-probe-888877.html
17-09-2020||South||Kerala govt to modify order allowing asymptomatic Covid-19 migrants to work||The Kerala government has decided to modify an order that allowed asymptomatic Covid-19 guest workers in the state to work in places exclusively marked for them by taking all health precautions. The September 14 order issued by the General Administration Department (GAD) has been withdrawn and will be issued after modifications, a senior official said on Thursday. The order was issued after the Industries sector raised concerns over the current quarantine norms allegedly causing delay in completion of infrastructure projects in the state. "Yes... and we are modifying it," the official told PTI when asked whether the order has been withdrawn. However, the reason for the withdrawal was not stated. The order had said: "If the guest workers are found positive, such workers need to be segregated. If they are asymptomatic positive, then they may work in the areas exclusively marked for the work to be done by asymptomatic positive workers by taking all precautions. They shall not mix with any other worker or officer." According to it, the guest workers entering the state must be quarantined at a location chosen by the contractor for 14 days and those who have reached without taking a test must undergo an antigen test on the fifth day from their arrival. The order released by GAD secretary Satyajeet Rajan also detailed the new quarantine norms and registration process in the Covid-19 "Jagratha" portal, a comprehensive solution for real-time surveillance, care and support for people affected or quarantined due to the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-to-modify-order-allowing-asymptomatic-covid-19-migrants-to-work-888946.html
17-09-2020||South||Vijayawada police form teams to trace missing silver lion statues of temple chariot||Days after they found that the three silver lion statues adorning the Vijayawada Durga-Malleswara Swamy chariot were “missing”, the temple authorities have approached the police on Thursday. Vijayawada police commissioner B Srinivasulu said that an FIR was registered, and three special teams were formed to trace the statues worth around Rs 18 lakh. The case was registered based on the complaint of the temple’s executive officer Suresh Babu, who stated that the chariot was not used since 2019 Ugadi. The procession of the deities on the silver chariot is the main attraction of Ugadi (the Telugu-Kannada new year day) events at the temple. Due to Covid-19, the event was cancelled this year. The loss of the silver-plated statues was discovered earlier this week and came to the public notice on 15 September. Only one lion statue is now remaining attached to one of the four columns of the chariot, purportedly in a damaged condition.     The temple on the Indrakiladri hill on the left bank of river Krishna is a very popular Shaivite shrine in the state. The news of the three silver figurines missing has startled devotees and others, especially when a series of suspicious incidents are being reported at various temples in Andhra Pradesh from the last few months. On 5 September, the 40 feet wooden ratham (chariot) of the famous Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Antarvedi in East Godavari district was gutted in a fire under mysterious circumstances. Earlier, in February, the chariot of the Prasanna Venkateshwara Swamy temple was charred in Bitragunta in Nellore district. In January, several idols of Hindu gods and goddesses were damaged in Pithapuram town of East Godavari district where Antarvedi is located. The TDP, BJP, JanaSena parties, and the VHP etc., Hindu organizations are accusing the YSRCP government’s laxity in preserving the Hindu temples and properties as causing such incidents. The ruling and opposition party leaders are engaged in a political slugfest over the occurrences. With BJP, JanaSena intensifying the agitation over the Antarvedi episode, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has handed over that case to the Central Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vijayawada-police-form-teams-to-trace-missing-silver-lion-statues-of-temple-chariot-889020.html
17-09-2020||South||Left-front govt in Kerala accused of passing the buck on pay cuts||In what could be considered as passing the buck, the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala is planning to cut another month's salary from government employees and allow the employees to draw the deducted two-month salary from June 2021, by which time the term of the present government will end. The decision of the government already triggered strong resentment from employees and protest from the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front. Government doctors in the state even informed the government that they would go on strike in case of a further salary cut. In view of the financial crunches owing to Covid-19, the government already deducted one month salary in equal instalments from April to August. On Wednesday the state cabinet decided to deduct one more month salary in equal instalments for six months from September - five days salary per month. "The entire two months' salary thus deducted would be credited to the provident fund account of employees by April 2021 with nine per cent interest and the employees would be allowed to withdraw the amount by June 2021. A final decision on this would be taken after discussion with employees organisations," said a statement from the Chief Minster's office. The government also stated that repaying the one month salary deducted so far involved a financial liability of Rs 2,500 crore. While the service organisations, especially those affiliated to the Congress, already expressed strong resentment over the move for a further salary cut, the Congress, which is having high hopes of returning to power in Kerala, alleged that the government was trying to pass the buck to the next government. Term of the current government will end in May 2021. Hence the next government will have to bear the responsibility if the government goes by the decision to allow employees to withdraw the two-month salary from PF accounts by June 2021. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala alleged that it was government's crookedness to pass on the responsibility of the salary cut by this government to the next government. The government should show the decency to repay the deducted salary before its term ends, he said. Doctors and health workers are also protesting against the moves for a further salary cut. During the initial round of salary cut also the health workers were demanded that they should be spared from salary cut and even approached court. Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association on Thursday gave a representation to the government stating that in case of a further salary cut, the doctors would be forced to go on strike. For months the doctors and health workers have been fighting relentlessly against Covid-19, even at the risk of getting infected. Even then the government was demoralising the doctors and health workers by bringing them also under the purview of a salary cut. Instead, the government should have introduced a risk allowance to those fighting Covid-19 from the front line, said the association state president Dr Joseph Chacko.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/left-front-govt-in-kerala-accused-of-passing-the-buck-on-pay-cuts-889039.html
17-09-2020||South||Covid-19: New cases below 9,000 mark for four days in a row in Andhra Pradesh||In a sign of respite for the health authorities and common public, Covid-19 case incidence is showing a decline in Andhra Pradesh. The new daily cases which were hovering between 10,000 to 11,000 for over a month have fallen below 9,000 for the last four days. The centre had categorised Andhra Pradesh, besides Maharashtra, Karnataka, reporting a high number of cases as an area of concern in the Covid-19 fight. On Thursday, when AP’s overall Covid-19 case tally had crossed the six-lakh mark, 8,702 new positive cases were reported against the 77,492 samples tested.   On Wednesday 16 September, the new cases registered were 8,835, when 75,013 tests were conducted. The record single-day addition was 10,830 cases on August 26. The state took 10-11 days for each of the last five lakh cases to add to the Covid-19 tally. The first one lakh cases took 137 days. Health officials see this as a sign of stabilizing of the Covid-19 curve in Andhra Pradesh, which is at second position nationwide, after Maharashtra. “In some of the worst affected districts like Krishna, Kurnool where the curve reached the peak, the new daily case numbers have fallen considerably,” state Covid-19 coordinator Dr Prabhakar Reddy tells DH. Dr Reddy attributes the decline to the probable “development of herd immunity in some areas, and the improved awareness of Covid-19 spread and public taking precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.” “Going by the latest trend, we expect the curve to further drop towards September end,” Dr Reddy says.    The twin Godavari districts are the only areas lately reporting over a thousand cases daily. The total cases in Andhra Pradesh are now 6,01,462 with 12.31 per cent positivity rate. 88,197 of these are active. Total deaths connected to Covid-19 and co-morbidities is 5,177 with a 0.86 per cent mortality. The Jaganmohan Reddy government which is administering rapid antigen tests in addition to RT-PCR while also utilizing the Truenat (used for TB tests), and NACO method of detecting AIDS. It has conducted about 49 lakh tests till now, with 91,468 samples tested per a million population. A serosurvey conducted in two phases in August, with a total of about 59,000 samples collected from the 13 districts in the state projected about 20 per cent of the 5.4 crore population in Andhra Pradesh as infected by the Covid-19 virus.      The percentage of asymptomatic persons among those who tested positive varied between 90 to 100 per cent in these districts. All those who tested positive from among the 5000 people in Chittoor district have shown no signs of the illness.   A slightly higher number of women (19.9 per cent) are stated to have been infected than males (19.5). The occurrence among the high-risk population i.e., senior citizens, and those with comorbid conditions is 20.3 per cent. The Covid-19 prevalence is found to be 22.5 per cent in the urban areas and 18.2 in rural.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-new-cases-below-9000-mark-for-four-days-in-a-row-in-andhra-pradesh-889058.html
17-09-2020||South||Kerala infrastructure funding agency under ED scanner||The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, which is now under the Enforcement Directorate's scanner for Rs 250 crore deposit in Yes Bank, had earlier also courted controversy after it raised objections to a comprehensive audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General. The KIIFB is a state government agency for funding infrastructure projects in Kerala. So far it has approved around 730 projects to the tune of nearly Rs. 40,000 crore. The state government had refused a comprehensive audit by the CAG under section 20 (2) of CAG’s (Duties, Powers and Conditions of Service) Act citing that the parallel auditing system might affect prospective investments and thereby jeopardise the purpose of KIIFB. The state government and KIIFB were of the view that an audit under section 14 (1) by CAG was only required. But the CAG had not agreed to it. Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that Rs 250 crore deposit of the KIIFB in Yes Bank was under the ED inquiry. KIIFB chief executive officer K M Abraham justified their decision to invest in Yes Bank and said the investment was made in 2018 when the said bank had a good rating and the deposit was withdrawn when the rating came down. The KIIFB did not suffer any loss owing to the investment in Yes Bank, he claimed. KIIFB's investment management committee took the decision to invest in Yes Bank and the decision was very well within KIIFB's investment policy that allows investments in public and private sector banks with a good rating, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-infrastructure-funding-agency-under-ed-scanner-889091.html
17-09-2020||South||DMK launches online membership drive ahead of Assembly polls||With the Covid-19 regulations making door-to-door campaign almost impossible, Tamil Nadu’s principal Opposition party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), has launched online enrolment of membership ahead of the 2021 assembly polls.  The membership drive through the party’s official website was launched by DMK President M K Stalin on Tuesday with an aim to add at least 25 lakh new members, especially youngsters, to the party in the next 45 days. The online membership drive called as “Ellorum Nammudan” (All With Us) has so far resulted in addition of over 70,000 members, the party said on Thursday. The DMK realises that 2021 assembly elections is very crucial for the party which has been out of power in Tamil Nadu for the past nine years and has been taken efforts to galvanise cadre at the grassroots and bringing more people into its fold. The principal Opposition party feels reaching out to youngsters is more important as the 2021 election ground is expected to be a crowded match with too many players. While Kamal Haasan’s MNM and AIADMK rebel T T V Dhinakaran’s AMMK will contest the assembly polls for the first time, Tamil superstar Rajinikanth is also likely to launch his party in the next few months and fight the Dravidian majors. “Ellorum Nammudan aims to put power in the hands of everyone who wishes to become a party member. Given the pandemic that has reduced our chances of interacting with the people, we believe that the campaign will help us interact and communicate with the people. We know that the people want to support us and have been waiting for an opportunity to do so and Ellorum Nammudan will achieve exactly that,” party’s youth wing chief Udhayanidhi Stalin said. Immediately after taking over as new General Secretary, Durai Murugan had last week said the DMK needs to go to educational institutions to propagate its ideology to counter the “onslaught” of the BJP which has been quite vocal in its goal to “overthrow” the Dravidian ideology. It is colleges and other educational institutions that were the breeding ground for DMK in the 1950s and 1960s. The party said those who become members online will enjoy rights on par with regular members. “But when they want to vote in the organisational poll, their background details would be verified by the local party representative. They should also complete one year to participate in elections. They can vote in the election if they enrol 25 more members,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-launches-online-membership-drive-ahead-of-assembly-polls-889096.html
17-09-2020||South||Over 45,000 people under the age of 19 treated for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu||Over 45,000 children and teenagers have been successfully treated for Covid-19 in various government medical colleges and government hospitals across Tamil Nadu since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in March. At last count on Thursday, the state had recorded 5,25,420 positive patients, including 4,70,192 discharges and 8,618 deaths. The active cases stood at 46,610. The health bulletin released on Thursday evening said a total of 22,321 children under the age of 12 have been infected with Covid-19. While 10,628 of them are girls, the rest 11,693 are boys, the bulletin added. The first youngest patient in Tamil Nadu, a 10-month-old baby of a railway doctor, was treated within 10 days at the ESI hospital in Coimbatore with antibiotics and other drugs. In a statement, Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar said as many as 45,222 persons under the age of 19 have been successfully treated for Covid-19. While 944 children, including 455 who came with symptoms of fever and throat pain, were treated at the Government Children Hospital in Egmore hospital, 30 children were successfully provided treatment at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) along with their parents. “In all, 45,222 children were successfully treated for Covid-19 at the Government Children’s Hospital in Egmore, RGGGH, government medical colleges and government hospitals across the state,” Vijayabhaskar said. Officials said the government doctors had prepared an exclusive Covid-19 treatment protocol for children as the number of kids getting infected with Covid-19 began to increase. “The protocol was prepared after taking into consideration a lot of things. For example, toddlers cannot be given medicines that are given to adults. We did make a list of medicines that can be given to kids and followed the protocol strictly. We have succeeded in saving the lives of thousands of children,” a senior government official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-45000-people-under-the-age-of-19-treated-for-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-889099.html
17-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's Kovilpatti boasts of India’s first cooperative society run by transwomen||A year ago, a group of transwomen met the Thoothukudi district collector seeking houses for them to lead a “dignified life”. Today, besides a roof over their heads, the 30 members have a brand new village all to themselves, complete with a cooperative society. Collector Sandeep Nanduri knew that houses alone were not enough for the trans community, which is often looked down on. They should be financially independent too. It spawned an idea in his mind which resulted in the birth of Manthithoppu Transgenders Milk Cooperative Society, the first such in the country run by the trans community. ‘Sandeep Nagar’, the new village, is just 3 km away from Kovilpatti, famed for its kadalai mittai (peanut candy). The place now boasts the cooperative society as well as individual houses for the 30 transwomen built under the chief minister's solar-powered greenhouses scheme. The residents of Sandeep Nagar now own a cow each and they sell around 250 to 300 litres of milk every day to Aavin, the government-owned cooperative milk society that sells packaged milk and other milk-based products in Tamil Nadu. The 30 members have been granted a loan of Rs 1 lakh each for buying two cows – the second one will reach them in about six months after which the quantity of milk they sell to Aavin will double. The revenue that comes from selling the milk is split between the members who use the money to pay back the loans availed to buy the cows and for their regular expenses. “Our happiness has no bounds. We are extremely happy that, for the first time in our lives, we feel equal. People cannot make fun of us anymore. The cooperative society is also a standing example that opportunities bring the best out of people. We got an opportunity and we proved we can succeed,” R Bhoomika, President of the Cooperative Society, told DH. While the society is functioning for the past two months, the houses were formally handed over to the beneficiaries last week. The district administration spent a total of Rs 1.70 crore in building 30 houses under the CM scheme and toilets for the houses and sheds for cows under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. Nanduri told DH that it was the efforts put in by five to six government departments that resulted in the empowerment of the trans community in the district. “Their first demand was a house. That is when I thought about what they will do with just houses and decided to do something for their livelihood. And when we proposed dairy farming as one of the options, they agreed readily, and we gave them training. It is an integrated housing and livelihood project,” the district collector explained. He added that the beneficiaries were then imparted training on the handling of cows after which the society came into existence. “It is an integrated colony. They live there and do business from the same place. The entrepreneurship displayed by these transwomen will inspire many from the community,” Nanduri said.  Trans activist Grace Banu, who is one of the prime movers behind the project, said they were happy that the community members were allotted land just outside Kovilpatti town. “The district collector has been so helpful and that is the reason we were quite adamant that the village should be named after him. We are happy that members of the trans community will lead a dignified life and we thank the government for understanding the need to empower us,” she told DH. And starting a society was not that easy. Bhoomika said many tried to put them down saying they will not be easy to maintain cows. “But we know we will be able to learn after proper training. Now we handle the cows on our own and we milk the cows without any help. We have a house of our own and a business for ourselves. What else do we need. We hope to live a content life hereon,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-kovilpatti-boasts-of-india-s-first-cooperative-society-run-by-transwomen-889114.html
17-09-2020||South||CBI takes musician's statement in Balabhaskar's death||The CBI on Thursday took the statement of musician Stephen Devassy in connection with the probe into the death of fusion musician Balabhaskar. Stephen, who had close connections with Balabhaskar, arrived at the CBI office in Thiruvananthapuram where his statement was recorded.  Sources said the CBI mainly inquired about any financial dealing with the late musician. Stephen was very close to Balabhaskar, and he was at the hospital when Balabhaskar was under treatment following the road accident. There were also reports that Balabhaskar spoke to Stephan while at the hospital. Balabhaskar's family had raised suspicions over the musician's death citing that many had financial dealings with him. Balabhaskar and his daughter Thejaswani Bala were killed in a road accident during the wee hours of September 25, 2018, in Thiruvananthapuram. His wife Lekhsmi and driver Arjun suffered serious injuries after their car rammed into a tree at Pallipuram, about 15 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city. While it was widely considered as a road accident, suspicions came up as Lekshmi said Arjun was driving at the time of the accident, while Arjun said it was Balabhaskar. Adding to the mysteries, Balabhaskar's father K C Unni raised suspicions over the death. Two associates of Balabhaskar were held in connection with gold smuggling and an artist, Soby, claimed that he noticed a couple of persons in suspicious circumstances near the accident spot. The CBI will subject four persons to lie detection tests soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-takes-musicians-statement-in-balabhaskars-death-889122.html
17-09-2020||South||Central team conducts salinity study of Mahadayi river||A team from the Rourkee based National Institute of Hydrology on Thursday arrived in Goa to conduct a salinity study of the Mahadayi river (Mhadei in Goa), Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. The NIH had been tasked with measuring the salinity of the Mahadayi river by the Union Jal Shakti Ministry in July this year, following a request by the Goa government, which is opposing Karnataka's proposed Kalasa-Bhanduri water diversion project across the inter-state river. "A team of National Institute of Hydrology (NIH) today conducted salinity study of Mahadayi river at various locations in the Basin. I am thankful to the Union Government and more particularly the Minister for Jal Shakti @gssjodhpur ji for quick response to our request," Sawant tweeted on Thursday. Opposing the Kalasa-Bhanduri project, which aims to divert water from the Mahadayi river to the deficit basin of the Malaprabha river, the Goa government has argued before the Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the Mahadayi Interstate Water Dispute Tribunal as well as the Supreme Court, that diversion of water from the river's basin would lead to increased salinity of Goa's water table and cause "ecological destruction" in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-team-conducts-salinity-study-of-mahadayi-river-889125.html
17-09-2020||State||Cooperatives to lend Rs 39,000 crore for agri, non-agri sector: CM B S Yediyurappa||The state's cooperative sector will provide financial assistance to the tune of Rs 39,300 crore under various schemes for both agriculture and non-agriculture, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Wednesday. The programmes will aid farmers and small firms affected by the Covid-19 lockdown. Speaking at an event held at the Vidhana Soudha, he said that loans of Rs 39,300 crore will be disbursed using the cooperative institutions in Karnataka. The funds will be under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' schemes, in which Rs 4,525 crore will be provided to the state for strengthening agriculture produce marketing societies. "As many as 1,549 cooperative societies will benefit in Karnataka," he said. Using the Special Liquidity Facility, Rs 1,700 crore will be released to District Central Cooperative Banks for agricultural loans to farmers affected by Covid-19. The state, Yediyurappa said, had announced a Rs 2,272-crore package in three stages to assist those affected by the lockdown. Portal for relief fund Yediyurappa also launched a web portal for the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. Using the portal — cmrf.karnataka.gov.in — philanthropists can donate while people can also file applications seeking assistance under the fund. Donations can also be made using the Seva Sindhu portal. People can view the progress of their applications online and mobile alerts will be issued when relief is debited directly to the bank accounts of beneficiaries. Under the fund, aimed primarily at BPL families or patients suffering from severe diseases, Rs 61.88 crore was released since the BJP government came to power, according to a release by the Chief Ministers' Office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cooperatives-to-lend-rs-39000-crore-for-agri-non-agri-sector-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-888629.html
17-09-2020||State||CM B S Yediyurappa arrives at Kalaburagi for Kalyana Karnataka Utsav||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa arrived at Kalaburagi city to take part in Kalyana Karnataka Utsav. Hyderabad Karnataka Liberation Day has been rechristened and it is being celebrated as Kalyana Karnataka Utsav on September 17 from last year. CM received the guard of honour at the Kalaburagi Airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-arrives-at-kalaburagi-for-kalyana-karnataka-utsav-888682.html
17-09-2020||State||Go after investors of dance bars, microbreweries, HDK tells govt||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday said the ongoing investigation into the high-profile drug racket will slip into “cold storage” if the government failed to go after those who have invested in dance bars and microbreweries in Bengaluru.  “You’ll know the fate of the investigation in another 15 days...if it is limited to drug peddlers, then it’ll go into cold storage. It’ll be like any other investigation,” Kumaraswamy told reporters.  “Forget casinos, the root of the drugs business is in the dance bars and the kind of place (media) is showing in Hebbal,” he said. “The dance bars...in Le Meridien, it used to happen till 4 am. We’ve seen girls fallen on the footpath. On Vittal Mallya Road, there’s a microbrewery in a corner. Who has invested in these dance bars and microbreweries? That needs to be investigated,” he said.  “If an honest investigation effort is done, only then can it be taken to its logical end,” the JD(S) leader said.  Kumaraswamy repeated his claim that money from the “cricket betting and dance bars” mafia was used to topple the Congress-JD(S) coalition that he headed. “After I became the CM, cricket betting and dance bars were active till 3-4 am. I asked officials to take action against them and there were raids also,” he said.  Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah asked the government for a judicial inquiry by a sitting judge on the drug racket. He said the police were acting as “puppets” of the government. “I asked the police why only some people have been arrested. They say others are absconding. I won’t rule out the possibility of the government exerting pressure on the police to not act,” Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/go-after-investors-of-dance-bars-microbreweries-hdk-tells-govt-889065.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt report red-flags gender gap in Karnataka||Women’s representation in higher levels of governance and in public services is woefully low in Karnataka, according to a government report on Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), one of which is gender equality. Even though Karnataka is ranked seventh in India for gender equality as per the SDG index, it leaves much to be desired when it comes to women’s representation in public services. According to the report, there is only 29% of women's representation in the IAS, 28.46% when it comes to High Court judges, 13% in IFS, a mere 7% of female police officers and an abysmal 3.57% in the state Legislative Assembly. A committee headed by retired IAS officer Neela Gangadharan, which is looking into various aspects of gender equality in the state, has set a target for increasing the proportion of women professionals across these institutions to 50% by 2030 and to ensure the 33% reservation due for women in state legislature. “Women’s participation in decision-making process is a basic requirement of their empowerment. To enable the state to function as women’s agency, political participation of women is essential. Participation of women in governance offers options for women to utilise state resources and services for their development,” the report said. However, the situation was more optimistic when it came to local self-government thanks to reservation. Women's representation is 51% in gram panchayats and taluk panchayats and 50.6% in zilla panchayats. “They are being trained to participate effectively in governance and decision‐making process. Further, at village level, the proportion of women participating in Joint Forest Management Committees is 46% which is also significant,” the report said. Increasing women’s access to higher education and training them to take up competitive examinations were among the proposed measures to increase representation. Another area of concern is the wage gap: It has been estimated that women’s wage rate is only 70% of men’s. “Along with ensuring reservation, what women officials need is to be given their due by recognising them for their good work,” said an IPS officer, requesting anonymity. Anitha Gurumurthy, Executive Director, ITForChange, who is one of the members of the committee on gender equality, told DH, “Compared to other states, South Indian states fare better. But with regard to representation and legitimate participation, we have a long way to go.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-report-red-flags-gender-gap-in-karnataka-888621.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Post-Covid-19 care clinics yet to incorporate Ayurveda||In a post-Covid management protocol released on September 13, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had recommended immunity-boosting Ayush medicine for patients who have recovered from acute Covid illnesses. But the post-Covid care clinics aren’t ready for this. According to them, there’s not enough scientific evidence or studies done among the recovered Covid patients to say that it (Ayush) is effective. And that the patients cannot be administered drugs from two systems of medicine simultaneously. The patients have to choose for themselves. More importantly, this requires a collaboration of Ayurvedic physicians and allopathy doctors at post-Covid care clinics, which is difficult at hospitals like Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), the first hospital in the state to start treating Covid patients, which does not have Ayurvedic doctors. Also, hospitals say that a state government protocol is required to start administering herbal drugs. The Centre, in its September 13 protocol, had recommended antipyretics Ayush Kwath and Samshamani vati (a drug used to reduce fever), antioxidants Giloy powder and Amla powder, and the immunity-boosters Chyawanprash and Ashwagandha in the post-recovery period.  Dr Harish K, Associate Dean, M S Ramaiah Hospital said, “They (Ayurveda medicine recommended by the Health ministry) are pre-Covid immunomodulants and non-specific. I don’t know how much it will help in post-Covid care. They’re general and will not help patients who come with specific problems in the eyes, heart and lungs. There are specific organs involved and we need to treat them.”  The hospital campus has the Ramaiah Indic Specialty Ayurveda Restoration Hospital. Its Director Dr G G Gangadharan told DH, “The post-Covid care clinic is being managed by the allopathy wing. If patients approach us, we will definitely treat them. Mainly, these herbal formulations are to maintain their immunity, lung function, digestion, and to act against inflammation in the body.”    RGICD also has multispecialty doctors manning the clinic. Its Director Dr C Nagaraj told DH, “We cannot start giving Ayurvedic drugs without the state government giving us the protocol.” the post-Covid care clinic at RGICD headed by pulmonologist Dr J S Akshatha said, “Drugs from two separate systems of medicine cannot be administered. Besides, our patients have lost weight, experience fatigue, have persistent cough, headache and breathlessness. We evaluate their lung function, advise physiotherapy and advise a diet. We don’t know how the Ayurvedic drugs will target all this.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/post-covid-19-care-clinics-yet-to-incorporate-ayurveda-888628.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Seer demands strong anti-cow slaughter law in Karnataka||The Pejawar Math seer Vishwaprasannatirtha Swamiji has demanded a strong anti-cow slaughter law in Karnataka. In a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the seer said the existing law is weak. This led to many cows being slaughtered every day and they suffer during their transportation to slaughterhouses, he said. "For the safety of cows and to stop their slaughter in the state, we demand a strong anti-cow slaughter Bill to be introduced in the Assembly and brought into effect," the seer said in the letter. The Assembly session is starting from September 21 amid the coronavirus scare after a gap of almost six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/seer-demands-strong-anti-cow-slaughter-law-in-karnataka-888896.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa desires to expand cabinet before Monsoon Session||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressed his desire to expand his ministry before the start of Monsoon Session of the legislature. Speaking to reporters at the Kalaburagi Airport before leaving for New Delhi after taking part in the Kalyana Karnataka Utsav Day on Thursday, he said "I have a desire to expand the cabinet before the start of Monsoon Session but it all depends upon the decision to be taken by the party high command". He would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday to discuss various developmental works including water projects of the state and would also hold talks on the cabinet expansion with the party top brass, the CM told. Huge damage caused by the floods would also be apprised to the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and they would be requested to release more aid to the state for flood relief works, he told. Slew of new projects Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced several projects for Kalyana Karnataka region on Thursday without fulfilling the promises made during the last Kalyana Karnataka Utsav Day. He had promised a separate secretariat to Kalyana Karnataka and to shift the special cell established for effective implementation of Article 371(j) of Indian Constitution to Kalaburagi. The cell is operating from Bengaluru. Speaking after hoisting the National flag to mark the Kalyana Karnataka Utsav Day at the DAR ground, he said that by completing all legal process, Anubhava mantap would be made functional in four months under the aegis of Basava Kalyana Authority. An approval had been given to take up agriculture and drinking water projects in Kalaburagi and Bidar districts at a cost of Rs 3000 crore. This project included 10 lift irrigation projects of Kagina river. A 1,200-mega watt hydro power project at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore at Golappalli in Raichur district was under scrutiny and a final call would be taken after holding discussions with the neighbouring state, he explained. A land would be identified at Bengaluru to construct a hostel for the students of Kalyana Karnataka arriving to Bengaluru and Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board will complete the construction of the hostel in a year. Foundation stone for Jayadeva hospital The chief minister laid the foundation stone for the construction of 300-bed hospital complex of Kalaburagi branch of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research at a cost of Rs 150 crore. The building will come up on about 7.15 acres of land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-desires-to-expand-cabinet-before-monsoon-session-888965.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 9,366 new cases reported in Karnataka, tally inching towards five lakh||Karnataka on Thursday reported 9,366 new cases of Covid-19 and 93 related fatalities, taking the infection count to 4,94,356 and the death toll to 7,629, the health department said. The day also saw 7,268 patients getting discharged after recovery. Of the fresh infections reported today, 3,799 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of September 17 evening, cumulatively 4,94,356 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 7,629 deaths and 3,83,077 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said of 1,03,631 active cases, 1,02,826 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 805 are in ICU. According to the bulletin, 34 out of total 93 deaths reported today are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru (17), Dakshina Kannada (9), Ballari (7), Dharwad (6), Bagalkote, Belagavi, Udupi and Uttara Kannada (4), and Gadag and Vijayapura (2). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 3,799, Ballari 677, Mysuru 591, Tumakuru 381, Dakshina Kannada 308, Belagavi 295, Davangere 257, Dharwad 247, Bagalkote 234, Raichur 227, Shivamogga 218, Hassan 206, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,84,082 infections, followed by Ballari 28,189 and Mysuru 28,077. Among discharges too, Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 1,40,473 discharges, followed by Ballari 22,955 and Mysuru 21,531. A total of 40,58,313 samples were tested so far, out of which 72,030 were tested on Thursday alone. Among the samples tested today, 32,913 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-9366-new-cases-reported-in-karnataka-tally-inching-towards-five-lakh-889017.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 9,366 new Covid-19 cases, 93 deaths||As many as 9,366 cases new cases and 93 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. But the data logjam continued due to the doctors' strike as 15 districts reported zero discharges and seven districts reported new cases in double digits.  Bengaluru Urban reported the highest single-day spike of 3,799 new cases and 34 deaths. There are 41,053 active cases in the state capital and the death toll is now 2,556. Ballari reported 677 cases, Mysuru 591, Tumakuru 381 and Dakshina Kannada 308.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-9366-new-covid-19-cases-93-deaths-889066.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rains pummel Bidar, Kalaburagi dists, normal life affected||Heavy rain continued to pummel Bidar and parts of Kalaburagi districts through the day on Thursday, flooding crops on thousands of acres in the region. Six road bridges in the rain-battered Bidar district have gone under the overflowing Manjra river and streams. Bhalki, Aurad and Basavakalyan taluks are the worst-hit. The swollen Manjra river has meandered its way through to the farmland and villages located on its floodplains. With Godavari river catchment areas receiving incessant showers, inflow into Karanja reservoir near Byalahalli in Bhalki taluk has increased drastically. The reservoir has received more than one-and-a-half tmcft of water in the last three to four days. Bridges at Belakuni and Daadgi in Kamalnagar taluk and Bagadal in Bidar taluk have beensubmerged. Relentless showers have brought life to a standstill in Bidar city on Thursday. The showers left the low-lying areas in the old city, CMC Colony, Vidyanagar, Lumbininagar, Rotary Circle waterlogged. Many parts of the city plunged into darkness after the skies opened up on Wednesday evening. Heavy rain lashed Kalaburagi city in spells through the day on Thursday. However, the showers stayed away during an event to mark Kalyana Karnataka Utsav (HK Liberation Day), attended by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. The Belakota reservoir (Gandori Nala) in Kamalapur taluk of Kalaburagi district has reached its full reservoir level (1,467.50 feet). Several bridges in Sedam, Kalagi and Chittapur taluks, including the one between Chincholi and Bidar on state highway 15, went under the overflowing Kagina river, bringing the traffic in the region to a standstill. Chincholi received a record 18 cm of rain in the 24 hours (ending 8 am on Thursday). Bidar city recorded 12.1 cm while Basava Kalyan registered 7.4 cm of rain. Women stranded A woman and her daughter were forced to take shelter on the rooftop of their farmhouse following a flash flood at Rachappa Goudgaon in Bidar district. They spent five hours on the rooftop waiting for help. After the floodwater in the stream subsided, the police, joined by firemen, rescued thewomen. Meanwhile, Hosapete taluk, including the Unesco world heritage site Hampi, continued to receive sporadic spells of heavy rain. Several Mumbai-Karnataka districts, including Bagalkot, Vijayapura and Belagavi, experienced good rainfall on Thursday.Agasthya Thirtha pond in Badami is full to the brim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rains-pummel-bidar-kalaburagi-dists-normal-life-affected-889072.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka seeks independent DRDO lab in Shivamogga||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi and requested for an independent Laboratory of the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) in Shivamogga. The Ministry of Defence has considered the Karnataka government's proposal for establishing a Research Cell of the DRDO at Kuvempu University, but the state is expecting a full-fledged independent DRDO Laboratory in Shivamogga with ample number of scientists and technocrats, the Chief Minister was quoted as saying in an official release. The CM further said the laboratory can explore natural remedial measures for military use from the Western Ghats region. The land required for the construction of the laboratory as well as the official quarters for the personnel will be provided by the state government, it added. Shivamogga is the home turf of Yediyurappa, as he represents Shikaripura assembly constituency in the district, while his son B Y Raghavendra is the MP from Shivamogga Lok Sabha constituency. Earlier in the evening, the Chief Minister called on the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and asked her to accept the recommendation of the 14th Finance Commission for a special grant of Rs 5,495 crore for Karnataka on account of reduced devolution. According to the release, in a memorandum submitted to the Finance Minister, Yediyurappa said against the recommendation of Rs 2,100.25 crore performance grant to Urban Local Bodies and Rural Local Bodies an amount of only Rs 869.40 crore has been received. He requested to release a balance amount of Rs 1,230.85 crore, it said. While extending gratitude for the timely release of funds under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNGREGA) scheme, Yediyurappa sought early release of outstanding material dues of nearly Rs 665.09 crore and unskilled wage dues of Rs 54.65 crore. He also appealed to the Centre to notify an additional 50 days under section 3(4) of the MNGREGA, as Karnataka has faced an unprecedented pandemic, it added. Yediyurappa, who reached Delhi this afternoon will be there for next two days, during which he is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several central Ministers regarding the development of the state. He is also expected to meet top BJP leadership including party national President J P Nadda and discuss the much awaited expansion of his cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-seeks-independent-drdo-lab-in-shivamogga-889089.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Newly elected Rajya Sabha MP Ashok Gasti dies of Covid-19||BJP's Ashok Gasti, an “ordinary party worker” who got elected to the Rajya Sabha just four months ago, died Thursday due to multiorgan failure after contracting Covid-19.  Gasti, 55, was elected to the Rajya Sabha in June along with BJP's Eranna Kadadi, Congress' Mallikarjun Kharge and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda.  In a statement, Manipal Hospital director Dr Manish Rai said Gasti was admitted with "severe Covid-19 pneumonia" on September 2. He passed away at 10.31 pm on Thursday. “He was critically ill with multi-organ failure and was on life support system in the Intensive care unit under constant observation by our expert panel of doctors,” the hospital said.  Hailing from Raichur, Gasti was a lawyer and BJP worker for over three decades. Little was known about him until he was given the Rajya Sabha ticket, which raised eyebrows because he was just an "ordinary party worker." Gasti, who belonged to the Savita Samaja community, was also the BJP Backward Classes Morcha president. Gasti joined the ABVP in 1982 and the RSS in 1987. He also served as the BJP's Raichur district unit president, chairman of the Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation and also headed the State Backward Classes Commission. In an interview to DH, Gasti had said that he wanted to focus on increasing land under cultivation in the Krishan and Tungabhadra basins in the backward Kalyana Karnataka districts. He also wanted to address the problem of migration by creating jobs.  Earlier in the day, as news about his serious condition spread, several political leaders jumped the gun to issue condolences via tweets. This included Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, the official Karnataka BJP handle, Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/newly-elected-rajya-sabha-mp-ashok-gasti-dies-of-covid-19-889094.html
17-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cabinet expansion after discussing with party leaders, says Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said he will meet BJP national president J P Nadda and discuss whether to reshuffle his cabinet or expand it. The CM, who is in Delhi on a 3-day visit, told reporters that he will discuss with the party leaders about the pending expansion. "I will go by the advice of the party high leaders whether to reshuffle and expand," he said. Expecting berths in the cabinet, MLC H Vishwanath, who joined the BJP after quitting the JD(S) and former minister and CM's Political Secretary M P Renukacharya along with landed in Delhi. Textiles Minister Shrimant Patil also arrived in Delhi to meet the party leaders. So far no meeting has been scheduled with Nadda. The CM is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday morning and seek funds for the state to take up relief works in flood-hit areas. The CM, along with Union Fertilizer Minister D V Sadananda Gowda, met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and sought funds to Karnataka. "Finance Minister assured me that all pending money will be released to state at the earliest," the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cabinet-expansion-after-discussing-with-party-leaders-says-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-889102.html
17-09-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Mother, son end lives by hanging to death in Belagavi||A mother and her teen son reportedly ended their lives by hanging themselves to death at Halaga village in Belagavi taluk on Thursday. Police identified the deceased as Bharati Suresh Gharani (35) and her son Prajwal (15). They were found hanging at the bakery where they were working. The reason for the extreme step was not known. Hirebagewadi police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/mother-son-end-lives-by-hanging-to-death-in-belagavi-888839.html
17-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rights panel demands report on Rhea Chakraborty’s visit to morgue||Taking suo moto cognizance of Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty’s entry to the mortuary of RN Cooper Hospital where the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s body was kept, the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has slapped a notice to the Mumbai Police and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation demanding an explanation. Treating the matter as a priority, the SHRC has ordered the police and civic authorities to submit their detailed explanation by Monday. The SHRC members have viewed videos and news reports of Rhea’s  visit to the mortuary of R N Cooper Hospital at Vile Parle after the body of Sushant was taken there on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rights-panel-demands-report-on-rhea-chakraborty-s-visit-to-morgue-888664.html
17-09-2020||West||Mumbai-Pune belt worst-affected in India as Covid-19 cases cross 6.5-lakh mark||A possible second Covid-19 wave seems to hover over the Mumbai-Pune belt as the progressive cases cross the 6.5 lakh-mark and deaths nearing the 20,000-mark. The combined figures of the Mumbai-Pune exceed some states – and even ahead of some countries. The huge belt comprises two metropolitan regions – the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and Pune metropolitan region (PMR) spread over six districts of the 36 districts of Maharashtra. The MMR comprises twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban as well as sister districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad – together in the belt, there are 9 big municipal corporations including Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai and the semi-urban and rural areas. The PMR comprises two corporations Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and the semi-urban and rural areas. The belt accounts for nearly 60 per cent of progressive positive cases and the death toll of Maharashtra – making it the worst-affected area in all of India. Comparing it with India's numbers, the Mumbai-Pune infection is around 13 per cent that of India and deaths 23 per cent. While there has not been any official confirmation from the Centre on the second wave, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said on at least on three occasions that the recent spike leads us to believe if we are either on the verge of entering the second wave or already into it. “All we can do is to take maximum precautions,” he said. Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar review the situation in Mumbai and Pune, respectively, on a daily basis besides monitering entire state. According to the figures of Wednesday night, Maharashtra has total progressive cases to the tune of 11,21,221. While the MMR accounts for 4,14,377 cases, the PMR or the Pune district has 2,22,530 cases – the highest in India. The Mumbai and Pune metropolitan areas accounts for 19,314 deaths – of the total 30,883 in the state. The Maharashtra government is currently undertaking ‘Mahje Kutumb, Majhi Jawabdari’ (My Family, My Responsibility)’ campaign, a survey during which health teams and volunteers will reach out to 2.25 crore families, twice a month. “The initiative means that healthcare workers will monitor all households in the state but citizens should not get complacent about precautionary measures against Covid-19,” Thackeray said and urged people of the state to cooperate with the visiting teams. In the last couple of days since the launch on 15 September, people in Mumbai and Pune have given good responses. “People will have to take precautions. The unlocking process is underway post-lockdown. Mumbai and Pune are financial and industrial nerve centres. Lot of traffic comes in and goes out so the chances of spreading is very high,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, Chairman, Action Committee, Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State. Meanwhile, in Mumbai over 35 top doctors have joined forces with the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation and they will be rendering their services in the jumbo field hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-pune-belt-worst-affected-in-india-as-covid-19-cases-cross-65-lakh-mark-888688.html
17-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Once jail, Mumbai's BDD chawl will now house a museum||For a person staying in Mumbai, BDD chawl is a common word. But what does it stand for? BDD stands for Bombay Development Directorate chawls. In several Bollywood films, there have been stories woven in the backdrop of chawls of Mumbai -- and BDD is not an exception. The history of BDD chawls is quite an interesting one. These were actually jails in the British-era but later converted into housing tenements for the working class. These chawls are spread over 92 acres of prime land in Mumbai and 195 chawls are spread over Worli, Naigaon, NM Joshi Marg  plus a few in Sewree. As the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) starts redeveloping the BDD chawls in Mumbai, this piece of history would be preserved. It will build a museum that would throw light on the history of the BDD chawls. The financing model has not been finalised, however, the MHADA may rope in a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) partner or may look for other models to the museum that would be in Worli, which had the biggest chunk of BDD chawls. The BDD chawls started coming up in the 1920s and were initially used for prisoners by the British and later, the freedom fighters. Slowly it got converted into a housing facility for the working class. Currently more than 16,000 families stay here in 160-square-feet cramped houses with issues like ventilation, common bathrooms and toilets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-once-jail-mumbais-bdd-chawl-will-now-house-a-museum-888731.html
17-09-2020||West||Disha Salian dialled 100 before she was found dead, claims BJP's Nitesh Rane||As a shocking development, Maharashtra BJP MLA Nitesh Rane has claimed that Disha Salian has dialled Mumbai police number 100 before she was found dead in the city’s suburbs. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14. Disha, a resident of Shivaji Park in Dadar, was found dead on June 8/9 midnight at the Galaxy Regent building complex in Malvani in Malad where her live-in partner Rohan Rai used to stay, Sushant was found dead in his rented duplex accommodation at the Mount Blanc building at Carter Road in Bandra on 14 June. Earlier, Rane, who demanded security for Rohan, said was a “key link” between the two incidents – and requested Union Home Minister Amit Shah to give a security cover. According to Rane, the son of former Maharashtra Chief Minister and BJP’s Rajya Sabha member, both the deaths are possibly linked and perhaps could be murders that need to be investigated by CBI. “The Mumbai police has not investigated the cases properly,” he said, adding that while Disha was on her way from Juhu to Malvani, she had dialled 100 and even called Rohan Rai. “There was a party that was held in Juhu….Disha dialled 100 and told what had happened to her…she also called Sushant, who in turn informed Rhea. It was Rhea who alerted those who were present in Malad,” said Rane. It may be recalled, a couple of months ago, Rane Senior had claimed that both Disha and Sushant were murdered – and that the girl was raped before she was killed. “The fact is that Disha had dialled 100….every call to 100 is recorded…it is an official number and this (recording) needs to be checked (by the CBI),” Rane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/disha-salian-dialled-100-before-she-was-found-dead-claims-bjps-nitesh-rane-888741.html
17-09-2020||West||Coronavirus: Janta Curfew returns to Nagpur||As Covid-19 cases shoot up in Nagpur, the orange city in Maharashtra, will go on a two-day Janta Curfew over the next two weekends of September. While there would be a complete Janta Curfew on Saturdays and Sundays. The lockdowns will commence at 9:30 am on Fridays and end at 7:30 pm on Monday. As on Thursday morning, the total positive cases and deaths in Nagpur district were 55,827 and 1,485, respectively. Of these, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation accounted for 42,924 cases and 1,308 deaths, respectively. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut, who is the Guardian Minister of Nagpur, has been regularly reviewing the situation. The weekend Janta Curfew in Nagpur city was planned after a series of meetings between Mayor Sandeep Joshi and Municipal Commissioner Radhakrishnan B. “We will review the situation on 30 September, after which we will decide whether to extend or not,” said Joshi. "Despite repeated appeals, some irresponsible citizens continue to flout rules and pose a threat. Lockdown is no solution as it is not permitted by the government. However, we have decided to implement Janta Curfew with voluntary participation of people,” added Joshi. “Every citizen must recognise his/her responsibility and adhere to the rules, take all precautions since the city has all required medical facilities and the NMC is making all-out efforts to further augment these,” noted Radhakrishnan. Besides Nagpur, Janta Curfew has been enforced or announced for Kolhapur, Sangli, Jalgaon, Raigad and Aurangabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-janta-curfew-returns-to-nagpur-888766.html
17-09-2020||West||Pending projects in Marathwada to be completed on priority: Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra government will focus on the completion of pending development projects in Marathwada so that the region remains free of drought, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Thursday. He was virtually addressing an event organised here on the occasion of 'Marathwada Muktisangram Din', which is celebrated on September 17 every year to mark liberation of the region from the clutches of Nizam of Hyderabad. Aurangabad Guardian Minister Subhash Desai hoisted the national flag at the Muktisangram memorial in Siddharth Garden here to mark the occasion. Addressing the event virtually, Thackeray said, "There were hurdles in the development of Marathwada. The region has seen drought earlier but fortunately, rains are good this time. Attention will be paid towards completion of pending projects in the region so that it is not hit by drought again." Marathwada has been the land of spiritual leaders and it has the ability to break injustice, he said. "People of all ages took part in the Marathwada Muktisanghram. This year, the region and the state are fighting another war against coronavirus. Everyone from the region must come forward in this battle," Thackeray said. The government will also think of boosting development of Aurangabad city through a development authority, he added. State ministers Sandipan Bhumre and Abdul Sattar were present at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pending-projects-in-marathwada-to-be-completed-on-priority-uddhav-thackeray-888790.html
17-09-2020||West||Maratha quota: Three held for blocking Maharashtra minister's way||Three activists of a pro-Maratha outfit were detained here on Thursday after they blocked the way of Maharashtra minister Rajesh Tope over their demand for reservation in government jobs and education, police said. The Supreme Court recently passed an interim order staying implementation of 2018 law that granted reservation to the Maratha community. After attending a function of the Marathwada Muktisangram Din at the Town Hall in Jalna, Tope was heading towards his car when four to fiveactivists of the Maratha Mahasangh started shouting slogans of "Jai Bhavani Jai Shivaji" and "We want reservation", and blocked his way. The police quickly intervened and detained three activists, a police official said. Health Minister Tope was here to unfurl the national flag on the occasion of the Marathwada Muktisangram Din, which is celebrated on September 17 every year to mark liberation of the region from the clutches of Nizam of Hyderabad. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday chaired an all-party meeting and urged the parties to set aside their political differences to fight the legal battle for implementation of Maratha quota in jobs and education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maratha-quota-three-held-for-blocking-maharashtra-ministers-way-888820.html
17-09-2020||West||Will give justice to ex-serviceman in assault case: Anil Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government will ensure justice to a Jalgaon-based ex-serviceman who was allegedly attacked by BJP MP Unmesh Patil and his supporters, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday. Speaking to reporters here, Deshmukh accused the previous BJP-led state government of trying to save Patil when the incident took place four years ago. The BJP was in power in Maharashtra from 2014 to 2019. According to Deshmukh, Jalgaon MP Unmesh Patil, who was then an MLA, and his supporters allegedly carried out a "life-threatening attack" on the ex-serviceman, Sonu Mahajan, in 2016. Mahajan had approached the police then, but they did not act as the BJP was in power in the state, alleged Deshmukh, who is an NCP leader. Later, Mahajan approached the Bombay High Court, which ordered that an FIR be registered in connection with the incident, he said. "His FIR was registered (after court order) and I have ordered the police to conduct a probe into the matter. Unmesh Patil and his colleagues will be probed. The BJP tried to save its MLA then. But the state government will conduct a probe into the matter and give justice to Mahajan," Deshmukh said. The minister also said the state government is taking all steps to ensure the quota given to the Maratha community in jobs and education will remain intact. The Supreme Court recently passed an interim order staying implementation of 2018 law that granted reservation to the Maratha community. Deshmukh also said the state government will try to give justice to all sections of society when it carries out recruitment of 12,528 police constables. He, however, did not respond to questions on comments of actress Kangana Ranaut over the alleged Bollywood-drugs connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-give-justice-to-ex-serviceman-in-assault-case-anil-deshmukh-888827.html
17-09-2020||West||Honour PM's birthday; subsidise Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals in Goa, says Opposition||The main Opposition party in Goa, the Congress, on Thursday, goaded the ruling BJP-led coalition government to honour Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 70th birthday by subsidising the exorbitant prices charged by private hospitals in Goa for Covid-19 treatment. State Congress president Girish Chodankar also said that the prices capped by the state government for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals were also extremely steep and "with a one-point agenda of making business from people's sickness". "In these critical times of Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP government has once again displayed its insensitive nature towards common man and its love for crony capitalists by approving huge charges for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals," Chodankar said in a statement issued here on Thursday. "The BJP government under Dr. Pramod Sawant must immediately either take over private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients or announce subsidised charges for patients in private hospitals to mark the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji and prove intentions of the BJP to provide 'seva' to the people of Goa," the state Congress president also said. The BJP has launched a pan India 'seva saptah', a weeklong campaign to celebrate the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who turns 70 on Thursday. On Monday, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant had announced capping of prices for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals.  According to the capped price structure, private hospitals in the state can charge up to Rs. 12,000 per day for treatment in a general ward, Rs. 15,000 for a twin shared room, Rs. 18,000 per day for a private room facility, with prices for ICU facilities capped at Rs. 25,000 per day. "Now, it is the duty of the government to ensure that Covid-19 patients are provided health care with affordable rates," he also said. Goa has so far recorded 25,511 confirmed Covid-19 cases. 315 who had tested positive have died in Goa ever since the pandemic broke out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/honour-pms-birthday-subsidise-covid-19-treatment-at-private-hospitals-in-goa-says-opposition-888848.html
17-09-2020||West||KAPP nuclear reactor unit 3 likely to be commissioned by Nov 2020: Jitendra Singh||Unit 3 of Kakrapar Atomic Power Plant (KAPP), the 700 MW Pressurised Heavy Water Reactor (PHWR), is expected to be commissioned by November this year, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Thursday. The first 700 MW Pressurised Heavy Water Reactor at Kakrapar, Gujarat, KAPP-3 achieved criticality (controlled self-sustaining nuclear fission chain reaction for the first time) on July 22.  "The commissioning and operationalisation of the unit is expected by November 2020. The commissioning and operationalisation of its twin unit, KAPP-4 is expected one year after the first unit," Singh said in a written response to a question in Rajya Sabha. The KAPP unit 3 is the first 700 MW capacity PHWR, a technology mastered by Indian nuclear scientists and engineers. All future sanctioned PWHRs are of 700 MW.  Singh, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office, said in five more nuclear power plants --- RAPP 7and 8 (2X700 MW) at Rawatbhata, Rajasthan, KKNPP 3 and 4 (2X1000 MW) at Kudankulam, Tamil Nadu and 500 MW Prototype Fast Breeder Reactor (PFBR) -- are scheduled to be commissioned and operationalised progressively by 2024, adding 3900 MW of nuclear power capacity, Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kapp-nuclear-reactor-unit-3-likely-to-be-commissioned-by-nov-2020-jitendra-singh-888876.html
17-09-2020||West||Marathas to get justice during police recruitment: Anil Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government will try to give justice to the Maratha community when it undertakes police recruitment, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday, comments coming in the backdrop of a Supreme Court ruling on quota in jobs for the social group. In a video message shared on Twitter, Deshmukh said that the government will keep aside 13 per cent posts for the community after checking legal aspects. The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday approved recruitment of 12,528 police constables. The Supreme Court recently passed an interim order staying implementation of the 2018 state law that granted reservation to the Maratha community in government jobs and education. The minister said the MVA government is taking all efforts to ensure the Maratha quota remains intact. The Maharashtra government has taken a decision to recruit 12,528 police constables. The government will try to give justice to the Maratha community by keeping aside 13 per cent of the posts checking legal aspects while the recruitment process is undertaken, Deshmukh said in the message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/marathas-to-get-justice-during-police-recruitment-anil-deshmukh-888901.html
17-09-2020||West||DMER institutes to provide 1,204 medical personnel for Covid-19 duty||Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh has sanctioned the appointment of 1,204 specialised final year medical students to bolster the requirement of specialised staff in the wake of the surging Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Urgent requirement of specialist medical staff to man intensive care units (ICU) of Covid-19 dedicated hospitals in Maharashtra has also prompted the premature service recruitment of students from medical institutions affiliated to the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). In addition to this, another 1,648 students who appeared for their final year examinations for intensive care and postgraduate medical courses conducted by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences and awaiting their results of the scheduled examinations that were recently concluded as per the summer 2020 academic calendar that were recently concluded are also being pressed into government service. Once results of these examinations are declared by the university, the DMER normally contracts successful candidates who have completed their postgraduate or special treatment courses from government and municipal medical colleges on contract, a process that has been prematurely necessitated due to Covid-19. Deshmukh noted that while the appointments would be based on the institutes the students hail from and, on the criterion of the subjects of their final year of study, there was the probable likelihood of surplus candidates from some subjects due to which adequate seats (bonded service contract in their field of specialisation) would not be available to all of them. "In view of the growing incidence of Covid-19 patients in the state,  and in order to seamlessly infuse them into the state-run health care system, students who have passed the special treatment and post-graduate courses will be appointed for the bond service as per the existing demand from concerned District Collectors or even to bolster the services of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals reporting a high incidence of the Coronavirus," Deshmukh further stated.  A total of 1,648 students sat for the examination of the intensive care medical course and postgraduate medical course under Maharashtra University of Health Sciences. The exams for the summer 2020 session concluded in March with results expected anytime. Of the available bonded students, numbering 1,204, only 444 would get contracted to the post of Senior Residents and Medical Officers as per the prescribed procedure under the Government Resolution (GR) of April 4, 2012, and the Government Corrigendum of August 4, 2012, that deals with appointments to be given to bonded students. Similarly, another 385 will be appointed as Assistant Professors in Government Medical Colleges, 178 as Assistant Professors in BMC Municipal Medical Colleges, 282 as Specialist Officers in Municipal Hospitals and 359 in Healthcare Hospitals/DCH/DCHC. "However, in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 patients, the Director of Medical Education and Research was informed on September 14, 2020, that the procedure is waived till March 31, 2021, and the services of students will be employed at all government and municipal Medical Colleges, affiliate hospitals and even hospitals under the jurisdiction of the Public Health Department," Deshmukh said. Bonded services at Government Medical Colleges, BMC Medical Colleges, BMC Hospital Hospital Specialist Medical Officers and hospitals/DCH/DCHC under Public Health Department will be provided by the Director of Medical Education and Research. In addition to this, the list of bonded candidates to be made available for Hospitals/DCH/DCHCs under Public Health Department and for Medical Colleges and Hospitals of BMC will be given to the Department of Public Health, Director of Health Services and BMC through the Director of Medical Education and Research. The honorarium/salary of the concerned will be paid as per the rules of the establishment through which the bonded candidates are appointed. Also, the candidates who will be appointed on bonded service for the treatment of Covid-19 patients will get accommodation arranged by the concerned establishment, the Minister of Medical Education noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dmer-institutes-to-provide-1204-medical-personnel-for-covid-19-duty-889000.html
17-09-2020||West||Prohibitory orders in Mumbai extended till September 30||Prohibitory orders restricting the movement of people have been extended in Mumbai till September 30 in view of rising coronavirus cases, an official said on Thursday. The restrictions under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are in place since lockdown began. They were extended as per the August 31 guidelines about easing of the lockdown of the Maharashtra government, and no new restrictions have been imposed, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prohibitory-orders-in-mumbai-extended-till-september-30-889008.html
17-09-2020||West||Maharashtra records 24,619 new coronavirus cases, 398 deaths||Maharashtra's Covid-19 case tally rose to 11,45,840 on Thursday with addition of 24,619 cases, the state health department said. With 398 patients dying during the day, the death toll in the state reached 31,351, it said. A total of 19,522 patients were discharged on Thursday after treatment, taking the number of recoveries in the state to 8,12,354, it said, adding that the state now has 3,01,752 active cases. Mumbai city reported 2,411 new cases during the day, which pushed its overall case count to 1,78,385. The death toll in the city rose to 8,323, of which 43 were reported on Thursday. Pune city added 2,269 Covid-19 cases, raising its case tally to 1,36,393, while 28 deaths took toll to 3,102. Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally is as follows: Positive cases: 11,45,840, new cases: 24,619, death toll: 31,351 discharged: 8,12,354, active cases: 3,01,752, people tested so far: 56,04,890.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-24619-new-coronavirus-cases-398-deaths-889053.html
17-09-2020||West||Covid-19 patient 'thrashed' inside Rajkot Civil Hospital||A video has surfaced purportedly showing a coronavirus patient being thrashed by nursing staff and security personnel inside the Rajkot Civil Hospital in Gujarat. As the video went viral on social media platforms, hospital authorities on Thursday claimed the patient was "mentally disturbed" and was being restrained, and not thrashed, to avoid inflicting injuries to himself or others in the medical facility. In the video, shot around a week back, nursing staff in PPE kit can be seen struggling to overpower the patient lying on the floor. It was not known who shot the video. While one person in PPE kit sits on the patient, another can be seen slapping and asking him to stay calm. A security man also uses force to control the patient. "The staff was only trying to make sure the patient does not hurt himself or others. Though the nursing staff had asked him to behave, he did not listen to them. "He even tried to remove his clothes. Thus, the staff tried hard to restrain him and take him back to his bed," said hospital superintendent Dr Pankaj Buch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-thrashed-inside-rajkot-civil-hospital-889086.html
17-09-2020||West||Mumbai University students get three more days to submit exam applications||Maharashtra Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant on Thursday announced three days' extension for students to submit applications for the last year/semester examinations of Mumbai University. Samant was speaking to reporters after holding a review meeting on examinations of Mumbai University, which has highest enrollment of students in the state. "The varsity has extended the period for submission of exam applications to September 20. 2,47,500 students would appear for the exams," he said. 1,70,000 of these students are regular ones while the rest are taking the exam to clear backlog, he said. The result certificates will have no mention of exam being held during COVID-19 pandemic, he clarified. Such a mention had appeared on some passing certificates issued by an agriculture university in the state earlier, which had drawn criticism. "The certificate will be normal, a regular piece of paper," said the minister. Mumbai University's practical exams began from September 15, while that for backlog papers will be held from September 25, he said. It is going to be an online examination but those who do not have the online facility will be allowed to appear physically, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-university-students-get-three-more-days-to-submit-exam-applications-889104.html
