19-09-2020||Comment||UPSC jihad?: A shift toward positivity||It is a sign of our times that the success of just 44 youths from the Muslim community among a total of 829 recommended for induction into the nation’s civil services has been projected as ‘UPSC Jihad’ by a TV channel. But it is equally comforting that the venomous propaganda has not gone unchallenged. The national conscience has been pricked. While responsible sections of the media have countered the canard, the courts have intervened to stop the virulent campaign. For a minority community that forms 14% of the population, garnering 5% of positions in the civil services is no great piece of news. But it does constitute a leap for the community which has had just about 2.5% of representation in the elite services, nicknamed the ‘steel frame’ of the nation, since Independence. Two more features stand out. First, the success level has been maintained since 2016. Secondly, the rise has been registered during the very same years that the BJP has been ruling at the Centre and the party has been spreading its wings across the nation. Voices raised from several platforms within the community now acknowledge that the alleged discrimination against Muslims is imaginary and nothing in the system bars their entry merely on the basis of religion. If one is capable, has the talent and shows promise, the selectors are fair and do not wear any coloured glasses. It was Kashmiri youth Shah Faesal who topped the civil services exam in 2009. Last year, it was Junaid Ahmed, a boy from Jamia Milia Islamia, who got the third rank. 2016 was an exceptional year of success when 50 Muslim candidates got through the civil services selection and 10 of them figured among the 100 toppers. A noticeable shift has been in evidence among Muslim youth for several years now. They are no longer attracted by the emotive ‘Islam in danger’ rhetoric frequently raised from religiopolitical platforms. They realise that there is much good in educating themselves, enhancing livelihood prospects and participating in nation-building rather than engaging with religious zealots. There have been concerted efforts to groom, polish and prepare young Muslims for civil services, offer them the enabling factors (coaching, scholarships, food and hostels) to succeed academically and in competitive exams. Jamia Milia Islamia’s Residential Coaching Academy and Zakat Foundation of India have focused on picking the sharpest minds and enabling them. Most of these civil services successes come from these two organisations from Delhi. Marginally, Jamia Hamdard, Delhi, and the Central Haj Committee in Mumbai, too, have chipped in. But it is not just Muslim candidates, non-Muslim candidates of these academies also figure in good numbers among the successful candidates. And let it not remain unsaid that a considerable amount of the funding comes from the Ministry of Minority Affairs. Is there scope then to suspect that jihadis are being trained from these funds? Existing resources within the community have also been mobilised at several levels to coach the youth for competitive exams that could make them reach positions of excellence and leadership. Take the example of the success of ‘Rahmani-30’, a programme initiated by Wali Rahman, a former Speaker of the Bihar Assembly. The centre, headed by Abhayanand, a former Director General of Police, Bihar, has enabled 302 youths to crack the IIT-JEE in the last 12 years. In Jodhpur, a group of educational activists were able to develop their institutions into Maulana Azad University, all with the help of monthly revenue of Rs 15 lakh coming from the Takia Chandshah Waqf Shopping Complex. The founders of the Marwar Muslim Educational and Welfare Society began their work with a school in 1987. According to the chancellor of the university, Atique Ahmed, today it has 30,000 students and 700 staff members, around 50% of both being non-Muslims. Even more interestingly, 35% are women in a state where the average age for marriage of girls hovers around 15. The same group has set up a 200-bed Mai Khadija Hospital and, more surprisingly, a ‘Gaushala’ for abandoned cattle. Should the plurality of the beneficiaries and the diversity of roles be appreciated or demonised? Closer home in Karnataka, the Dargah of Khawaja Bandenawaz in Kalaburagi has unveiled a university in the historic city in recent years. At least a dozen mosques and dargahs in Bengaluru run free dialysis units for anyone without means, regardless of faith. The proof that forces of reform and rejuvenation are taking precedence over rhetoric and reaction is being witnessed during the battle against the raging pandemic in Bengaluru, too. ‘Mercy Mission’, an umbrella organisation of 19 NGOs, a majority of them Muslim organisations, reached out to the poor and the indigent, migrant and stranded labourers, with ration kits and food packets worth over Rs 7 crore between March 25 and August 31. The organisers were clear in their mind that the best antidote to bigotry was to be proactive during a catastrophe like this, regardless of the faith and community of those in need of help. They also acknowledge that they were nudged into action following hate-filled outpourings by certain right-wing TV channels over the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz, which was aimed at tarnishing the image of the community. This change in the language of Muslims’ response to what’s happening around them should be seen as a breaking of fresh ground in the ongoing conversation on secularism and the idea of India, not as some conspiracy against the nation and Hindus – cleverly named ‘Love Jihad’ one day, ‘UPSC Jihad’ on another. These stirrings of change are welcome and send out positive signals that confrontationist stances and rhetorical positions serve no purpose in a plural society. It is better to build bridges than to erect walls. Yet, the fact remains that the battle against the ‘othering’ of some has to be fought by all Indians. Unless that is done, each of the social components amongst us might be a future candidate for demonisation and targeting. (The writer is a Bengaluru-basedjournalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/upsc-jihad-a-shift-toward-positivity-889671.html
19-09-2020||First Edit||Walk the tight rope, build consensus||In his statements in Parliament this week, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has attempted to throw light on the challenges that India faces from China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh. He has said that China has violated the LAC and border agreements and has attempted to unilaterally alter the status quo along the line. Singh admitted that China had stopped the Indian Army from patrolling some areas near the LAC and that this was the main reason for the ongoing stand-off and tensions. His statements are significant as they bring some clarity to an issue that saw much fudging of facts at the highest levels of India’s political and security establishment. For six weeks in May-June, the military top brass insisted that the situation along the LAC was under control. Then, days after the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) brutally killed 20 Indian soldiers at the Galwan Valley, laying bare China’s intrusion, even occupation of areas on the Indian side of the LAC, Prime Minister Narendra Modi used an all-party meeting to claim on television that no intrusion had taken place, nor were any intruders present on our side of the LAC. Singh’s statements in Parliament are a welcome step toward setting the record straight, difficult though it is to walk back the prime minister’s words and their diplomatic consequences. However, there were important issues on which even Singh was silent. He drew attention to the 38,000 sq km of territory in Aksai Chin that is under Chinese occupation, the 5,180 sq km of territory that Pakistan illegally ceded to China in 1963, and 90,000 sq km of land in Arunachal Pradesh that Beijing claims. But he made no mention of the roughly 1,000 sq km of territory in Ladakh that China is said to have taken control of since May, most of it in the Depsang plains, which is of crucial strategic import for India. Singh may have rightly been cautious in sharing information on ongoing military operations. While he must be judicious in sharing such information, opacity merely where it concerns inconvenient facts is not the best way forward. Singh should call a meeting of opposition parties where such information can be shared. It will provide the government an opportunity to build a consensus before taking its next steps. While stressing India’s commitment to a peaceful resolution of the conflict with China, Singh stated that India would defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity. He has rightly stated loud and clear that India will not allow China to occupy Indian territory. He must now walk the talk to ensure that China returns to the status quo along the LAC as it existed in mid-April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/walk-the-tight-rope-build-consensus-889670.html
19-09-2020||In Perspective||For a more progressive abortion law||The Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Amendment Bill 2020 is due to be discussed in an upcoming Rajya Sabha session. This is the second time, in its 49 years of existence, that the MTP Act will be amended. While introducing the Bill in the Lok Sabha, the Health Minister highlighted the government’s intent to improve access to safe, affordable and legal abortion services for women without compromising on safety, quality of care and more importantly to ensure dignity, autonomy, confidentiality and justice for women who need to terminate their pregnancies. The Amendment Bill proposes some welcome changes-- it replaces the phrase “married woman and her husband” with “woman and her partner”; increases the upper gestation limit to 20-24 weeks for “certain categories of women”; reduces opinion required for termination of pregnancy between the 12th and 20th week of gestation from two providers to one and removes upper gestation limit for foetal abnormalities ‘necessitated by the diagnosis of a Medical Board.” The question is, does the proposed amendment live up to its intent? The answer, unfortunately, is not fully. A critical examination of the proposed amendments shows that with a few changes, the legislation can meet the needs of those seeking abortions. Despite the existence of a liberal legislation for 49 years, many abortion-seekers in India face difficulty in accessing safe and legal services to terminate their pregnancies for a variety of reasons. The MTP (Amendment) Bill provides an opportunity for parliamentarians to craft a progressive and path-breaking Act. Changes that have been suggested by medical and legal experts and civil society can be classified under three major areas: Advancing rights-based legislation, syncing the Bill with recent laws and judgements, and operational convenience in implementation. Exercising abortion rights in India is conditional and can be permitted based only on the opinion of the doctor. Making abortions in the first trimester (up to 12 weeks) a right or available on request would be a welcome step as around 90% of abortion-seekers terminate their pregnancy within 12 weeks. Sixty-six countries in the world already allow abortion as a right up to 12 weeks or more into gestation. As the world’s largest democracy, should we be denying our citizens this right? The clause that prescribes “no upper gestational limit” is restricted to foetal abnormalities, and should be extended to survivors of sexual abuse. Having to continue with a pregnancy that is a consequence of sexual abuse can cause untold mental and physical anguish and have an adverse impact on survivors’ capacity to exercise their rights to life and liberty. Often survivors of sexual abuse take a longer time to seek help, given the trauma and associated stigma, which is only higher in the case of minors. Recognising this, in the past, the courts have allowed terminations beyond 24 weeks in such cases. Enshrining this in the law would avoid the need to seek judicial intervention and will ensure that one incident does not define the survivor’s life and autonomy. The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019 and the 2014 National Legal Services Authority vs Union of India judgement have upheld the right to self-identification of gender. Not only women but transgender, intersex and gender-diverse persons may also require access to abortion care. Changing the terminology in the Bill from “pregnant women” to “pregnant person” would make abortions more accessible to those who need them. It would probably make India the first country in the world to have gender-neutral abortion laws. The word ‘abnormalities’ implies that disabilities are ‘abnormal’ and those without disabilities are ‘normal’, and therefore more valued and wanted. Replacing the term ‘abnormalities’ with ‘anomalies’ would make the MTP Act inclusive and sensitive. Confidentiality is valued greatly by persons seeking abortions and this must be protected by law. The provision in the proposed amendment that require personal details of abortion-seekers to be revealed to any person authorised under law can prove problematic for both seekers and providers. This could compromise the privacy and interest of the abortion seeker, could lead to harassment of the provider and could result in providers becoming hesitant or unwilling to provide services. Rewording the clause to say that “particulars of the person seeking MTP services should not be disclosed to anyone unless ordered by the courts” would protect both from overzealous officials. Extending the upper gestation limit to 24 weeks for all pregnant persons and not just certain categories of women would keep the law simple and non-discriminatory, avoiding the need to categorise those who are eligible and those who are not. Given the shortage of specialists who can provide second trimester and late-term abortion, one provider’s opinion should suffice for abortions in the 20-24 weeks period. Also, when only one provider is required for the service, what is the need for the opinion of two providers? The setting up of medical boards with a gynaecologist, paediatrician, radiologist or sonologist and other members by the state government can pose a major operational problem since many districts do not have sufficient specialists. Also, with just one board in a state, pregnant persons would have to travel long distances to be diagnosed, implying increased costs and delayed decision-making. These changes would help smooth the implementation of the law, improve access and ease the burden on healthcare systems. The changes suggested above would make the MTP Act more progressive, rights-based and ensure that anyone seeking to terminate their pregnancy can do so legally without compromising their safety, autonomy, confidentiality or dignity. At a time when sexual and reproductive health and rights are under threat globally, it would reinforce India’s leadership on this crucial issue. It is fervently hoped that the Parliament and government will stand up and be counted. (The writer is CEO, FRHS India and Campaign Advisory Group member, PratigyaCampaign for Gender Equality and Safe Abortion)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/for-a-more-progressive-abortion-law-889672.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Tiger kills elephant calf||A six-year-old elephant has been killed in a tiger attack at the Lokkere region, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, Kundukere range, in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district. Bandipur Tiger Reserve Director T Balachandra confirmed the death of the tusker due to tiger attack as the pug marks of the wild cat was found nearby.  The tigers attack elephant calves, and the incident might have occurred on Thursday. The severely injured elephant had crawled to a certain distance and bled to death, he said. The department personnel on patrol found the carcass on Friday, he said. The carcass has been left at the same place after post mortem, as the tiger is expected to return to the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-tiger-kills-elephant-calf-889677.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Surge in Covid-19 fatalities, cases continue in Dakshina Kannada||The surge in Covid-19 cases and fatalities continued with the district administration recording 456 fresh cases and 11 fatalities, on Friday. DC Dr Rajendra K V said that ILI symptoms reported 236 fresh cases. As many as 14 suffering from SARI symptoms have been tested positive. The contact tracing of 75 persons are underway while 131 infected are the primary contacts of already infected persons. Mangaluru continues to report the highest Covid-19 numbers 242 cases followed by 86 in Bantwal, 40 in Belthangady, 35 from other districts, 27 from Puttur and 26 from Sullia. Among the 340 persons who were discharged on Friday, 308 were from home isolation and 26 from hospitals. Already, 14,344 have recovered and discharged from hospitals, COVID care Centres and home isolation in the district. With the 11 fatalities, the number of deaths in the district has risen to 472.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/surge-in-covid-19-fatalities-cases-continue-in-dakshina-kannada-889715.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: MTB Nagaraj, Vishwanath to be made ministers, says Jarkiholi||Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that MTB Nagaraj and H Vishwanath who joined the BJP should be made ministers as the demand has been pending for a long time. Jarkiholi told reporters here on Saturday that the decision for cabinet expansion will be taken by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and party high command. Senior MLA Umesh Katti too could be inducted in the cabinet, he added. He said that there would not be a leadership change in the state and rumours were being spread in the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-mtb-nagaraj-vishwanath-to-be-made-ministers-says-jarkiholi-889835.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Malaprabha, Ghataprabha rivers encroachments survey to be completed soon||Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that survey of encroachments made in rivers Malaprabha, Ghataprabha, Hiranyakeshi and Bellary has been commenced by a committee headed by Regional Commissioner Aditya Amlan Biswas. Drone and Geographical Information System survey has been completed and ground survey would commence soon. Jarkiholi held a meeting with Deputy Commissioners and officials of Water Resources, Forest and Mines and Geology departments at Suvarna Vidhan Soudha here on Saturday. He told reporters that prima facie it appears that the rivers have been encroached going by the width of the stream. Survey will give actual details of the encroachments. In the Malaprabha basin, earlier, floods had been witnessed in the year 1904 and later in 2019. With river waters not spreading encroachments surfaced. Structures have come up in the river basin and agriculture activities loosened earth and silt has begun to accumulate in Almatti dam reducing storage. The Commiitte will complete the survey and submit its report and based on its recommendation action will be taken, Jarkiholi informed. River Ghataprabha stream too appears to have been encroached, he added. Regarding the implementation of the Kalasa-Banduri project, he said talks have been held with Union Water Resources Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/malaprabha-ghataprabha-rivers-encroachments-survey-to-be-completed-soon-889843.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar: Poacher arrest for selling meat of wild animals||The Forest department officials arrested a man for poaching and selling wild animals meat, at Koudalli Forest Range under Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary in Hanur taluk in Chamarajanagar district. Perisamy of Dommanagadde in the taluk is accused. Perisamy along with two others were transporting meat near Navilugudda in Koudalli Forest. On tip off, a team led by RFO Vinay Kumar, attacked the accused. Two other accused are absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-poacher-arrest-for-selling-meat-of-wild-animals-889893.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga zilla panchayat tops state in Facebook competition||It was a joyous moment for people of the district as Shivamogga zilla panchayat's Facebook account received the maximum likes and thus topped the state in a Facebook 'likes competition' that commenced from July 15 and culminated on September 15. In order to inform people about the development projects implemented by each zilla panchayat in the state, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Department had organised zilla panchayat Facebook 'likes competition'. All 30 zilla panchayats in the state had uploaded the details of development works, on-going projects, usefulness for public with photos on their Facebook pages. People were asked to like the page after examining the content. Shivamogga bagged the first prize and Mandya won the second prize. Speaking to DH, Zilla Panchayat Deputy Secretary Sridhar said Shivamogga zilla panchayat Facebook page received 19,448 likes in the last two months. "We are happy that people have appreciated the works implemented by Shivamogga zilla panchayat. We have communicated the same to Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Department. We are told that prize would be awarded on October 2."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-zilla-panchayat-tops-state-in-facebook-competition-889960.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya priests’ murder case: four more arrested||The police arrested four more persons in connection with the murders of three priests-cum-security of Sri Arkeshwara temple at Gottalu extension in Mandya city, which reported on September 10. With the arrest, the police arrested a total of nine persons and seized Rs 9 lakh cash till the date. The police arrested B A Shivaraju, 30, of Bengaluru, Manjappa, 38, of Ramanagar, Shivaraj, 25, of Maddur taluk and Ganesh, 20, of Pandavapur in Mandya district. The police arrested two persons on September 13 and three persons on September 14. Superintendent of Police K Parashuram said, “All the accused in the murder cases are arrested. We have seized four two-wheelers and a passenger vehicle from the accused. The accused were planning for theft of hundi from one and a half month.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-priests-murder-case-four-more-arrested-890062.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Suraj Revanna enters politics||Dr Suraj Revanna, son of MLA H D Revanna, has been elected as director of Hassan District Cooperative Central Bank (HDCC), unanimously, on Saturday. With this, another family member of former prime minister, also JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda, entered politics officially. Dr Suraj had filed nomination paper from Holenarasipur taluk Primary Agricultural Credit Societies. As no other candidate filed the papers, he was declared as the director. Suraj’s father H D Revanna is Holenarasipur MLA, his mother Bhavani Revanna is Hassan Zilla Panchayat member, his brother Prajwal Revanna is Hassan MP. Suraj had actively campaigned for the elections of his family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/suraj-revanna-enters-politics-890063.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Farmers lay siege to minister's vehicle||Accusing District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar of neglecting to address farmers’ issues, members of State Sugarcane Growers’ Association laid a siege to his vehicle at Gun House Circle in the city on Saturday. The farmers alleged that the minister is neglecting farmers and is not showing interest to address their issues. Even though the farmers have written a letter to the minister, highlighting their issues, he has not responded, they said. The farmers raised slogans against the minister and demanded him to withdraw the amendment to the Land Reforms Act and APMC Act. The minister assured of resolving the issue soon. Farmers leader Kurbur Shantha Kumar said, “Farmers are facing several issues and Covid-19 has pushed them to hardships.” “Sugarcane growers are under stress as sugarcane is not harvested from 15 months. The government has failed to take measures to open Sri Rama Sugarcane Factory. Farmers are not getting loan at cooperative societies and banks,” he said. Shantha Kumar alleged that the amendment to the Land Reforms Act is a threat to the farming community and a boon for real estate mafia. The Act must be withdrawn.  Farmers and members of various organisations have decided to lay a siege to Vidhan Soudha in Bengaluru, he said. Despite repeated approaches, the minister did not make any attempt to address the problems and thus, the farmers laid a siege, he said. The minister said that he will convene a meeting of officials and farmer leaders to discuss about the problems. Farmer leader Hattalli Devaraj, Kiragasur Shankar, Hadya Ravi, K R Aravind and Ambale Manjunath were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-lay-siege-to-ministers-vehicle-890064.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Woman-son return home after 'Bharatha Darshana'||He is equated with Shravana Kumara of ‘Ramayana’, who is celebrated for his sacrifice for the love for his parents. However, 71-year-old Chudarathna, mother of D Krishna Kumar, says her son is like no other and she is the luckiest mother. Krishna Kumar, 41, a former employee of a private company in Bengaluru, has covered 56,522 km, across 20 states and three foreign nations — Nepal, Bhutan, and Myanmar — on his 2000 model Bajaj Chetak scooter (KA 09 X 6143) with his mother as a pillion rider, as part of his ‘Bharatha Darshana’ tour, for his mother. Chudarathna said, “Up to 67 years, she was completely into household chores and had not seen any tourist place, except those in Mysuru. Once, during a casual conversation, my son asked me, if I had seen a couple of pilgrim centres like Thiruvannamalai. I just said that I had not even seen Belur-Halebid in the neighboring Hassan district.” “In 2017, he took 30 days off from work and took me to Kashmir, in a car, and covered many places in Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Later, he resigned and we started off on January 16, 2018, for our tour on the scooter, after offering puja at Sri Chamundeshwari Temple, atop the Chamundi Hill in Mysuru,” she said. Krishna Kumar said that they only returned home on September 16, 2020. “Our two-year-nine-month ‘Bharatha Darshana’ was more of a pilgrimage, than a tour. We never stayed in a hotel or a lodge. Similarly, we never had food in any hotel. In fact, our discipline in the consumption of food kept us healthy throughout. We fell ill only initially, twice — in Puttur and at Guntur. We used to have one breakfast and one dinner at either a religious institution or at the house of a local philanthropist,” he said. “We were welcomed at most of the places, by people as they would have either read or heard about our tour, by the time we reached, due to media. Before starting to our next destination, we would gather information and contact details. Thus, at all places, we were offered food, beverages and gifts — in either cash or kind. But, we did not accept anything, as the tour was actually a pilgrimage and our needs were minimum. I spent around Rs 6.85 lakh from my savings and its bank interest,” he said. Krishna Kumar said, “We were not in a hurry and would stay for a day or two in a place. We wanted to see all towns and cities of each state and also villages, as we could understand the culture and traditions of the people, only in rural areas. We visited all temples and religious institutions on our way.” “We had to stay for one month and 21 days at Samsing Tea Garden near Darjeeling when Covid-19 crisis started. MP Raju Bista of West Bengal and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa helped us to get a transit pass and entry pass. We covered 2,673 km in seven days and entered the Karnataka border. Again, we stayed for one-and-a-half months at Ramakrishna Ashram, Taggihalli in Madhugiri taluk, before brief stays at Mandya and Srirangapatna,” Krishna Kumar added. As promised by Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra, in a tweet on October 23, 2019, in response to a video on a Tweet, Krishna Kumar received a KUV 100 Nxt car in Mysuru, recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-son-return-home-after-bharatha-darshana-890065.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Complaint registered against 2 for creating fake Facebook account||A complaint has been registered at Cyber Crime Police Station against two women on the charge of sending obscene messages to church fathers by creating a fake Facebook account in the name of another woman.  Sister Anthony Merry of Venkatesh Nagar, in her complaint registered on September 3, said the accused who created the account in the name of Reena Merry has renamed the account as Angel D'Souza. By posting my photograph, they have insulted several religious heads. Merry William and Merry Ashalatha have created the fake Facebook account and legal action should be taken against them, she urged in the complaint. Sister Anthony Merry said "she is working as assistant coordinator in Karnataka Domestic Workers Union. Merry William who was working at Saint Merry Church of the City was dismissed from the work. She had a quarrel urging to reinstate her in the church. Merry Ashalatha gave me a call on August 29 and threatened that a lesson will be taught to all for removing Merry William from the work and also insulted several fathers. The accused have not been arrested though the complaint was registered two weeks ago. All evidences have been handed over to the police who should arrest the accused at the earliest, she advised. Inspector Sanjeev Kumar said Sister Anthony Merry has lodged a complaint. The accused are absconding and a manhunt has been launched to nab them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/complaint-registered-against-2-for-creating-fake-facebook-account-890078.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga ZP tops state in RDPRD’s FB like competition||Shivamogga Zilla Panchayat's Facebook account received the maximum likes and thus topped the state in a Facebook like competition, organised by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, which started from July 15 and ended on September 15. In order to inform people about the development projects implemented by each Zilla Panchayat in the state, the department had organised the Zilla Panchayat Facebook likes competition. All 30 Zilla Panchayats in the state had uploaded the details of development works, ongoing projects, usefulness for the public with photographs on their Facebook page. People were asked to like the page after examining the content. Shivamogga Zilla Panchayat bagged the first prize and Mandya Zilla Panchayat won the second prize. Speaking to DH, Zilla Panchayat deputy secretary Sridhar said Shivamogga Zilla Panchayat Facebook page received 19,448 likes in the last two months. "We are happy that people have appreciated the works implemented by Shivamogga Zilla Panchayat. We have communicated the same to the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department. We are told that the prize will be presented on October 2."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-zp-tops-state-in-rdprd-s-fb-like-competition-890096.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Udupi Krishna temple to reopen from September 28||The doors of the famed Sri Krishna temple will be opened for devotees from September 28 with certain restrictions.  Paryaya Adamaru mutt manager Govindraju told reporters wearing of masks and social distancing is mandatory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-krishna-temple-to-reopen-from-september-28-890100.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Cabinet expansion directions expected from BJP high command soon, says CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said he expects directions from the BJP high command by "today or tomorrow" regarding the much awaited expansion of his cabinet. Terming his Delhi trip as "successful", the Chief Minister reiterated that his desire was to complete the process before the monsoon session of the legislature from September 21, but everything will depend on what the high command decides. "Regarding cabinet expansion, I spoke to Nadda ji (BJP President J P Nadda) for about half-an-hour yesterday, he may speak to the Prime Minister and may give directions about the future course of action today itself," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters after meeting Vice President Venkaiah Naidu in New Delhi, he said, based on the high command's directions he will decide on the cabinet expansion. The Chief Minister who is in New Delhi since Thursday afternoon had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several Union Ministers regarding issues concerning the development of the state. Last night, he had met Nadda to discuss the cabinet expansion. Responding to a question on how many will be inducted into the cabinet, Yediyurappa said, "we will have to see, based on the suggestions given by the Prime Minister and the national president, I will have to take the decision." He said, "my desire is to complete the process before the session. So I expect they (high command) will let me know by today or tomorrow, let's see what decision they will take." The monsoon session of the state legislature is scheduled from September 21 to 30. Last night, Yediyurappa had even hinted at the possibility of a cabinet reshuffle, stating that it will depend on the directions from the Prime Minister and the national President. Cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope for the 77-year-old Yediyurappa, considering too many aspirants. While several of the old guard are waiting for a chance to be inducted into the Ministry, those who defected from the Congress and JD(S) like A H Vishwanath, R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj, who are now BJP MLCs, are also aspiring for slots. The cabinet currently has 28 members and six berths are still vacant. Meanwhile, there are also strong speculations about the possible change in leadership in the future, considering Yediyurappa's age. However, it has been rejected by senior party leaders like BJP state President Nalin Kumar Kateel and Minister R Ashoka among others. As he returns to Bengaluru today, Yediyurappa also said that the Prime Minister and union ministers whom he met over the last two days have positively responded to the issues raised by him concerning the development of the state. "I feel that this Delhi trip of mine has been very successful, from the Prime Minister to all the Ministers have positively responded to the requests that we had put forward for the development of Karnataka. I feel that they will take necessary steps in that direction soon," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cabinet-expansion-directions-expected-from-bjp-high-command-soon-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-889753.html
19-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||I will remain as CM: B S Yediyurappa dismisses reports on leadership change in Karnataka||Dismissing speculations about a change in Karnataka's leadership, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said thet he will continue his regime on the chair for the entire term. "There is no truth in the news of leadership change. Some people keep spreading such news, but there is no truth in it. I will remain as CM for the full term," the CM told reporters in Delhi. Yediyurappa met BJP national president J P Nadda, to seek permission for cabinet expansion on Friday evening, also said that "I have told the party leadership that I will keep the BJP in power with an absolute majority in the next assembly elections also." The CM also said if the party's top leaders agreed, the state cabinet expansion can also be done before the Assembly session, which starts from September 21. "I have briefed the party about my intension to expand Cabinet. I hope the party leaders will communicate to me about their decision by today evening. The top leaders will decide to whom I have to induct," he said. Earlier, the CM met nation's Vice President Venkaiah Naidu. He said that it was a courtesy meeting. "Regarding cabinet expansion, I spoke to Nadda ji for about half-an-hour yesterday, he may speak to the Prime Minister and may give directions about the future course of action today itself," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters after meeting Vice President Venkaiah Naidu in New Delhi, he said, based on the high command's directions he will decide on the cabinet expansion. The Chief Minister who is in New Delhi since Thursday afternoon had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several Union Ministers regarding issues concerning the development of the state. Cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope for the 77-year-old Yediyurappa, considering too many aspirants. "I feel that this Delhi trip of mine has been very successful, from the Prime Minister to all the Ministers have positively responded to the requests that we had put forward for the development of Karnataka. I feel that they will take necessary steps in that direction soon," he said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-will-remain-as-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-dismisses-reports-on-leadership-change-in-karnataka-889765.html
19-09-2020||Mysuru||Hunsur: Two dead in bike accident||Two persons killed and two others sustained injuries when two bikes collied each other at Bilikere in Hunsur taluk, Mysuru district. Ramachandra and Naveen of Yelwal passed away and Girish and Krishna are under going treatment at a hospital in Mysuru. Bilikere Police said, the dead bodies of deceased were handedover to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/hunsur-two-dead-in-bike-accident-889822.html
19-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Record 3,842 case jump in Chhattisgarh, count over 81k||Chhattisgarh on Friday recorded its highest single-day spike since the Covid-19 outbreak began, with 3,842 people being detected with the infection, an official said. The state now has 81,617 cases, while 17 deaths from September 16 took the toll to 645, he added. As many as 2,614 people were discharged during the day, while 667 patients completed their home isolation, taking the overall tally of those who have recovered from the infection to 44,392. The state now has 36,580 active cases, he said. "Of the new cases, worst-hit Raipur district recorded 672 cases, Durg 436, Janjgir-Champa 334, Rajandgaon 309, Bilaspur 302 and Korba 185. The new cases include one person who arrived in Chhattisgarh from another state" he said. Of the 17 fatalities, six died on Friday, ten on Thursday and one on September 16, he added. Chhattisgarh has recorded over 64,700 Covid-19 cases in the last one month, he said. With 26,119 cases so far, Raipur district tops the tally in the state and has witnessed 301 deaths, he added. Chhattisgarh's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 81,617, new cases 3,842, deaths 645, recovered 44,392, active cases 36,580, people tested so far 9,04,770.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-record-3842-case-jump-in-chhattisgarh-count-over-81k-889656.html
19-09-2020||National||Odisha reports 4,180 new Covid-19 cases, recovery of 4,101 patients||Odisha's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,71,341 on Friday as 4,180 more people tested positive for the infection, while 13 fresh fatalities took the state's coronavirus death toll to 682, a health official said. As many as 4,101 patients also recovered from the disease taking the number of people cured of the infection to 1,37,567, which is 80.28 per cent of the caseload. The state's recovery rate crossed 80 per cent for the first time. Odisha, however, continues to report more than 4,000 new cases for the third consecutive day on Friday. The state had registered 4,270 infections on Wednesday and 4,241 on Thursday, the official said. Khurda district, under which Bhubaneswar falls, continued to register the highest number of new cases at 688, followed by Cuttack (492) and Jajpur (184), he said. Three fatalities were reported in Khurda, including one in Bhubaneswar, two each in Kendrapara and Puri districts and one each in Bargarh, Bolangir, Cuttack, Gajapati, Kandhamal and Mayurbhanj districts, the official said. Ganjam district has so far reported the highest number of coronavirus deaths at 215, followed by Khurda (103) and Cuttack (56), he said. The state now has 33,039 active cases, the official said. Fifty-three coronavirus patients have died due to the other ailments so far, he said. Odisha has so far tested over 26.67 lakh samples for Covid-19, including 48,146 on Thursday, the official added. Meanwhile, National Health Mission, Odisha director Shalini Pandit said that more than 70 per cent of the active Covid-19 patients including ministers, MLAs and senior bureaucrats are in home isolation. "Patients feel good and recover fast in homely ambiance," said Dr. CBK Mohanty of the Directorate of Medical Education and Training. The state government also issued a WhatsApp number, 9937564066, for addressing Covid-related queries, an official said adding that people can share their questions in that number between 3 pm and 3.30 pm while doctors and experts will reply to them at press briefings. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik in a statement said that the state's fight is with the coronavirus and not with the infected people. "Our behaviour with infected people in fighting Covid-19 shall ensure the victory of humanity," Patnaik said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-reports-4180-new-covid-19-cases-recovery-of-4101-patients-889676.html
19-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 19||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 52 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  53,94,039 as of September 19 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  86,715    No. of people discharged: 42,08,431 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-19-889683.html
19-09-2020||National||NIA busts Al-Qaeda module in West Bengal's Murshidabad, Kerala's Ernakulam; arrests 9 operatives||Nine suspected Al-Qaeda terrorists "radicalised" by Pakistan-based operatives were arrested from West Bengal and Kerala on Saturday -morning by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The agency, which conducted simultaneous searches in Bengal's Murshidabad and Kerala's Ernakulam, claimed that the arrested men were motivated to carry out terror strikes in multiple places, including the National Capital Region. The module also allegedly had plans to go to Kashmir for weapons delivery. They were also attempting to trying to organise an Al-Qaeda network in the country, including in Kashmir and the north-east on the instructions of the Pakistan-based handlers. Six persons were arrested from West Bengal's Murshidabad and three from Kerala's Ernakulam. The arrest came following the agency registering a case on September 11 following inputs that an inter-state module of Al-Qaeda operatives at various locations in India including West-Bengal and Kerala. "The group was planning to undertake terrorist attacks at vital installations in India with an aim to kill innocent people and strike terror in their minds," the NIA said. The NIA said the arrested persons were "radicalised" by Pakistan-based Al-Qaeda terrorists on social media. "For this purpose, the module was actively indulging in fund raising and a few members of the gang were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition. These arrests have pre-empted possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country," the NIA said. Those arrested from Ernakulam are Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen while those nabbed from Murshidabad were Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal and Atitur Rehman. Hasan is the leader of the module. In the early morning raids, it said, large quantity of materials including digital devices, documents, jihadi literature, sharp weapons, country-made firearms, a locally fabricated body armour, articles and literature used for making home-made explosive devices have been seized. NIA sources said the recoveries also included nuts, bolts to give splinter effect in bomb, battery to provide power to detonator and fire crackers. The module was awaiting instructions from their online handler about who would receive the weapons. Crackers were being attempted to be converted into an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) and the NIA recovered switches and batteries from Abu Sufiyan's house during the raids. Sources said searches were conducted in 11 places in Murshidabad. Those arrested from Murshidabad's Domkal and Jalangi used to keep a very low profile to detection by law enforcement agencies. The accused were also trying to recruit local youths through social media. Seeking to score a political point, BJP IT Cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted, "nine Al-Qaeda operatives arrested. Six from Murshidabad in West Bengal while other three from Kerala. Is anyone even surprised to see the two states, where Chief Ministers routinely appease radical elements for electoral gains, on the terror map? It was a Pakistan sponsored module." Bengal and Kerala go to Assembly polls in April-May next year.  (With inputs from Soumya Das in Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-busts-al-qaeda-module-in-west-bengals-murshidabad-keralas-ernakulam-arrests-9-operatives-889698.html
19-09-2020||National||Good girls sleep early: Netizens enraged over former SC judge Markandey Katju's sexist remark||Retired Supreme Court judge Justice Markandey Katju is once again under the radar for his misogynist and sexist comment on social media.  This time, the jurist, who is no stranger to criticism over comments made on women, has come under the spotlight for his reply to a woman's comment on his Facebook post. The lady, named 'Kathryn Doley', replied to one of his posts on the social media platform, to which he responded, "Not sleepy?" and then followed it up with a comment, "I thought good girls go to sleep early". His remark spread like wildfire on Twitter, drawing a series of backlashes from netizens with may calling him out on his behaviour.   Napoleon said:   In 2015, Katju was rapped by women after comparing BJP MP Shazia Ilmi and Kiran Bedi on who was more 'beautiful' comment. He had said: “I regard Shazia Ilmi much more beautiful than Kiran Bedi. If Shazia had been made their chief minister candidate, the BJP would have definitely won the Delhi elections. People vote for beautiful faces, as in Croatia. Even a person like me who does not vote would have voted for Shazia.” Kangana Ranaut: *posts her picture* Markandey Katju: Excuse me ma'am, do you want to provoke a raut?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/good-girls-sleep-early-netizens-enraged-over-former-sc-judge-markandey-katjus-sexist-remark-889703.html
19-09-2020||National||India's single-day recoveries exceed fresh cases as record 95,880 recuperate||India's single-day recovery outstripped the number of new infections as nearly 96,000 people recuperated from the novel coronavirus, even as the total caseload went past 53 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. With over 42 lakh recoveries, India overtook the US to become no.1 in terms of global Covid-19 recoveries. The figures released at 8 am showed that while 95,880 people recovered from Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, 93,337 new infections were recorded during the period. With the latest inclusions, the total number of cases mounted to 53,08,014 and the recoveries to 42,08,431, pushing the recovery rate to 79.28 per cent. The death toll, meanwhile, climbed to 85,619 with the virus claiming 1,247 lives in a span of 24 hours, the updated data showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further dropped at 1.61 per cent, the data showed. There are 10,13,964 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, which constitute 19.10 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The country’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative 6,24,54,254 Covid-19 samples have been tested up to September 18 -- 8,81,911 of them on Friday. The 1,247 new deaths include 440 from Maharashtra, 179 from Karnataka, 98 from Uttar Pradesh, 67 each from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, 62 from Punjab, 59 from West Bengal, 31 from Puducherry and 30 from Delhi. The total 85,619 deaths reported so far in the country include 1,791 from Maharashtra followed by 8,685 from Tamil Nadu, 7,808 from Karnataka, 5,244 from Andhra Pradesh. The national capital has reported 4,907 deaths while 4,869 fatalities have been recorded in Uttar Pradesh, 4,242 in West Bengal, 3,286 in Gujarat, 2,708 in Punjab and 1,901 in Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-single-day-recoveries-exceed-fresh-cases-as-record-95880-recuperate-889750.html
19-09-2020||National||Chopper scam: CBI files charge sheet against Christian Michel, Rajiv Saxena||The CBI has filed a supplementary charge sheet against British National Christian Michel James and businessman Rajeev Saxena in the AgustaWestland chopper scam. In its final report filed before Special Judge Arvind Kumar, the CBI has named both alleged middlemen Michel and Saxena, and 13 others. The court is likely to take up the matter for consideration on September 21. AgustaWestland case: Central Bureau of Investigation has filed a supplementary charge sheet against Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the case and others   According to the sources, the probe report filed on Friday details the alleged role played by Michel, Saxena and others in bringing bribes for politicians, bureaucrats and Indian Air Force (IAF) officials in India in the scam. The sources said that the agency, which had earlier this year sought sanction from the authorities concerned to prosecute former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma, has not named him as an accused since the request is not granted yet. The agency told the court that it may file another supplementary charge sheet in the matter later. The first charge sheet in the case was filed in September 2017 naming former IAF chief SP Tyagi and others. The agency had earlier told the court that "during the course of investigation, copies of classified/ secret official documents of Indian Air Force (IAF)/ Ministry of Defence (MoD) such as Operational Requirements for VVIP helicopters before issuance of Request of Proposal and other incriminating documents running into more than one lakh pages received from Italy and Switzerland.” It had also said that a ''payment sheet'' recovered from Michel, prepared on his dictation, shows that an amount of “Euro 30 million was paid/ proposed to be paid to the officers of IAF, MoD, bureaucrats, politicians and family in India for showing favour in the VVIP helicopter deal." The applicant had entered into as many as five contracts through two of his firms to legitimise the illicit commission/ kickbacks on the procurement of VVIP helicopters by MoD, India, the CBI said. "An amount of Euro 42.27 million was paid by the Westland Group Companies to the firms of the applicant as kickbacks/ bribes without undertaking any work against the receipt of such amount," it said. It said that out of the kickbacks received from AgustaWestland, Michel further made payments to various persons in India. Michel was taken into custody by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on December 5 last year after his extradition from Dubai, while the ED took him into custody on December 22 last year. He is currently in judicial custody in both cases. Dubai-based businessman Saxena was extradited to India on January 31, 2019 in connection with the scam relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland. While Michel is currently in judicial custody, Saxena is out on bail in the money laundering case filed by ED. ED had earlier arrested Saxena but he was later granted bail after the agency supported his plea to turn approver in the case. The agencies had told the court that Michel made 24.25 million euros and 1,60,96,245 pounds from the now-scrapped AgustaWestland deal. The CBI has alleged that the deal signed in February 2010 to supply VVIP choppers worth 556.262 million euros caused an estimated loss of 398.21 million euros (about Rs 2,666 crore) to the state exchequer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-scam-cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-christian-michel-rajiv-saxena-889756.html
19-09-2020||National||About 60% of children walk to school in India: NSO survey||The data also shows a disparity between girls and boys on the mode of transport used to travel to school.  According to the 2017-18 data, overall, 62 per cent of girls travel on foot to reach school, which is slightly higher than the 57.9 per cent of boys who do the same.  The ratio is skewed in rural areas with 66.5 per cent girls travelling on foot as compared to 61.4 per cent of boys. The difference is lesser in urban areas with 49.4 per cent boys walking to school as compared to 50.8 per cent girls doing the same.  A similar trend can be noticed in second most favoured mode of transport even though the variation is not huge. On an average, 12.6 per cent of boys avail public transport as opposed to 12.3 per cent. Compared to this, 12.5 per cent of boys ride a bicycle to school while only 9.7 per cent of girls do the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-60-of-children-walk-to-school-in-india-nso-survey-889759.html
19-09-2020||National||Rajya Sabha approves amendments to Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code||The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, whereby fresh insolvency proceedings will not be initiated for at least six months beginning March 25 amid the coronavirus pandemic. The nationwide lockdown began on March 25. The bill seeks to replace an ordinance promulgated in this regard in June.  The law provides for carrying out insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings against corporate debtors and personal guarantors.  "The corporate debtor often has guarantors. So for comprehensive corporate insolvency resolution and liquidation, we felt it was necessary that the insolvency of the corporate debtor, as well as its guarantors, is considered together to whatever extent it is possible," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in response to some members raising the issue.  The insolvency proceedings against corporates defaulting on loans prior to March 25 will continue and the amendment will not stall those cases.  "Priority is to keep the company to be a going concern rather than to liquidate them at the earliest," she said adding that 258 companies were saved from going bankrupt through the IBC process, while 965 firms went for liquidation.  "...258 companies were rescued which means employment is back again with them. Companies which have been liquidated in total, three-fourths of them were defunct and were also given liquidation solution and therefore at least loss of employment was reduced," she said. According to her, 258 companies rescued had assets of Rs 96,000 crore and the 965 companies sent for liquidation had assets of Rs 38,000 crore. The IBC, which came into force in December 2016, has been amended five times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-approves-amendments-to-insolvency-and-bankruptcy-code-889767.html
19-09-2020||National||J&K LG Manoj Sinha announces Rs 1,350-crore relief package for ailing business sector||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday announced an economic package of Rs 1,350 crore to address the grievances of the business community saying that “this was just a beginning and more was in offing.” He also said that the government was mulling a “structured package” for transporters, house boat owners, shikara wallas and others, who have suffered due to continuous lockdowns in the Union Territory in the last two decades. Addressing the third presser in the last 10 days, the LG said the Rs 1,350-crore economic package is apart from the Rs 14,000-crore package announced for Jammu and Kashmir under ‘Aatmanirbhar Abhiyan’ of which Rs 6,000 is for power sector reforms. He also announced stamp duty exemption till March 2021 for all borrowers. “I would like to announce that from October 1, a special desk will be set up at every Jammu and Kashmir bank branch for youth including entrepreneurs,” the LG said. Sinha, who was appointed the LG of Jammu and Kashmir in August this year, said the government is committed to development of the newly formed Union Territory.  “Business is suffering here not just for the past 15 months but for the past 15 to 20 years,” he said and added the government of India is working out a new industrial policy which will be ready soon. Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry, a conglomerate of business organisations in Kashmir, has reported a loss of Rs 40,000 crore in two consecutive lockdowns since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-lg-manoj-sinha-announces-rs-1350-crore-relief-package-for-ailing-business-sector-889770.html
19-09-2020||National||Chinese, Nepali nationals held for tasking journalist to spy on classified documents: Police||A Chinese national and a Nepal citizen have been arrested here in connection with a spy ring allegedly involving a journalist who passed on classified documents to them, police said on Saturday. Freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma was arrested on September 14 by the Special Cell and followed by the arrests of the Chinese national, a woman, and a Nepal citizen. Sources said the Chinese and Nepali nationals allegedly paid large amounts of money through shell companies to the journalist. A number of mobile phones, laptops and other sensitive material were recovered from them. Sharma, who was earlier "snooped" using the controversial Israeli spyware 'Pegasus', was arrested under the Official Secrets Act. He had earlier worked with United News of India, The Tribune, Free Press Journal, Saakaal among others. Sharma, a resident of Pitampura New Delhi and has been covering defence and foreign affairs for around two decades, was found to be in possession of "some defence-related classified documents" and the investigation in the case is in progress, a Delhi Police spokesperson said on Friday night. He was among 121 activists, academicians and journalists who were alerted by Canada-based internet research agency Citizens Lab that their phones were compromised through their WhatsApp using 'Pegasus', which was developed by Israeli cyber intelligence firm NSO. The Citizens Lab had informed Sharma that his phone was under surveillance for about two weeks in May last year. Facebook was accused of using its messaging platform to dispatch 'Pegasus', which is a hacking tool. While NSO had claimed that it sold the software only to official agencies, the Narendra Modi government had said that it had nothing to do with the spyware attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-nepali-nationals-held-for-tasking-journalist-to-spy-on-classified-documents-police-889776.html
19-09-2020||National||Most Rajya Sabha Opposition members back amendments in Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code||A majority of Rajya Sabha Opposition members Saturday supported a Bill granting interim relief to businesses from insolvency proceedings, even as some expressed fears over its possible misuse, and urged the government to also help the poor during the crisis. Most Opposition members supported the bill, expressing hope that it would help achieve an early revival of the economy. Praful Patel (NCP) said there is nothing in the Bill to object to, but called for relief in the form of interest subvention for tourism, transport and airline sectors as they were reeling under financial stress. "We need to go in for major amendments in the Bill,” he said. “There is going to be a serious problem even in the post-moratorium period. We may have to think 'out of the box' to help businesses, the way things are.” Patel also called for more NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) benches and said resolution professionals are not yet fully equipped to handle the businesses and there is corruption too. "Going by the business environment, there is a need for a lot of hand-holding. You need to do something more as the country will progress if its economy does well. I urge you to look at some important aspects to support businesses wherever there are problems," he said. Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD) urged Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to look at the wisdom across the aisle and accept suggestions given by the Opposition. Shiv Sena’s Anil Desai said unscrupulous or dishonest corporates should not take advantage of the pandemic situation and siphon off funds that have been made available to them by banks during the pandemic. K K Ragesh (CPI-M) said that banking has become a bonanza for “friendly” companies and expressed apprehensions this Bill "will push the banking sector into a deep crisis". He said huge concessions have been granted to corporates and more than Rs 3 lakh crore have already been written off through book adjustments which were earlier lying as Non-Performing Assets (NPA) with banks. "Why are huge haircuts being provided to big corporates? Banks are only able to realise less than 50 per cent of advances in many cases," he alleged. Ram Chandra Prasad Singh of the JD(U) supported the Bill, saying it is progressive and will help revive the economy. "I am confident that it will help businesses and help India achieve the target of a $5-trillion economy," he said. Narain Dass Gupta (AAP) alleged discrimination among big and small borrowers in providing relief during the pandemic, saying while major ones are being given moratorium on interests for one year, the smaller ones are not. Veer Singh (BSP) asked whether a personal guarantor should be held accountable in case of a default on a loan. Binoy Viswam (CPI) said the Finance Minister should not “blame God” for the pandemic situation as it is the "greed of the man" which is making them eat into the economy. "This Bill is not touching the real problems. The IBA has come out with a list of wilful defaulters and the government should help get that people's money back,” he said. “This is people's money. Please help get that amount back," he said, calling for giving money to the poor in these difficult times that will also help revive the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-rajya-sabha-opposition-members-back-amendments-in-insolvency-and-bankruptcy-code-889784.html
19-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi's twin addresses to UNGA will be truly significant as India enters Security Council: Ambassador Tirumurti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the high-level meeting to mark 75th anniversary of the United Nations and the General Debate next week and the vision he outlines will be truly significant, especially on the eve of India entering the Security Council, according to India’s envoy to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti. The annual session of the UN General Assembly begins on September 21 with the high-level meeting to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations. To mark the historic occasion, the 193 UN member states will adopt a forward-looking political declaration, negotiated through an intergovernmental process, on the theme of 'The future we want, the United Nations we need: reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism.' "Prime Minister’s address to the UN and the vision he outlines will be truly significant, especially on the eve of our entering the UN Security Council,” Tirumurti told PTI. Tirumurti said on the occasion of the 75th Anniversary of the UN, as a founding member of the UN, he recalls with “pride the significant and, in many ways, the pioneering contribution of India to the success of UN’s work and for peace and development across the world.” Modi will address this special event through a pre-recorded video statement. The General Debate will commence on September 22 and run through September 29. Modi will deliver the national statement on September 26 through a pre-recorded video statement. The vision Modi outlines at these two high-level meetings will be closely watched as it comes ahead of India taking a seat at the powerful UN Security Council as an elected non-permanent member for a two-year term beginning January 1, 2021. An effective response to international terrorism, reforming multilateral systems, comprehensive approach to peace and security, technology with a human touch and inclusive solutions to foster development are India’s priorities for its UNSC tenure and these are reflected in the declaration that the UN will adapt to mark 75 years of its founding. Last year, Modi travelled to New York to attend the high-level annual General Assembly session after addressing a mega diaspora event 'Howdy, Modi!' held on September 22. US President Donald Trump also addressed the gathering of over 50,000 Indian-Americans. This year, for the first time in the UN’s 75-year history, Heads of State and Government will not be arriving in New York for the General Assembly due to the COVID-19 pandemic and have submitted pre-recorded video statements for the various summits and sessions that will be played in the iconic General Assembly hall. Minister of Environment, Forest & Climate Change Prakash Javadekar will address the UN Summit on Biodiversity, which will be convened by the President of the General Assembly on September 30 under the theme of ‘Urgent action on biodiversity for sustainable development’. India is a leading contributor to “climate action” and over the past few years, it has reduced 38 million tonnes of carbon emissions annually. In the course of the last decade, around 3 million hectares of forest and tree cover has been added, which has enhanced the combined forest and tree cover to 24.56 per cent of the total geographical area of the country. Going forward, India aims to restore 26 million hectares of degraded and deforested land and achieve land-degradation neutrality by 2030 and the country has set additional targets of eliminating single-use plastic by 2022 and installing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani will address the High-level meeting on the 25th anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women - Beijing +25 on October 1. The theme of the event, coming in the 25th anniversary year of the historic world conference in Beijing on the advancement and equality of women, is ‘Accelerating the realisation of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls’. This week, in a significant victory, India got elected as Member of the UN Commission on the Status of Women, the principal global body focused on gender equality and women empowerment, beating China in a hotly-contested election in the year that marks the 25th anniversary of the Beijing World Conference on Women. A High-level plenary meeting to commemorate and promote the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons will be held on October 2. The landmark 75th anniversary of the UN comes amid the Covid-19 pandemic raging across the world that has in 2020 so far infected more than 30 million people and will soon reach a grim milestone of over a million deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-twin-addresses-to-unga-will-be-truly-significant-as-india-enters-security-council-ambassador-tirumurti-889794.html
19-09-2020||National||India overtakes United States to bag top spot in terms of Covid-19 recoveries||"In a landmark global achievement", India has overtaken the US and become the top country in terms of Covid-19 recoveries, the health ministry said on Saturday. The country has reported the highest number of recoveries with 42,08,431 Covid-19 patients having recovered from the disease so far, pushing the national recovery rate to nearly 80 per cent, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.61 per cent, the ministry said. "India now accounts for close to 19 per cent of the total global recoveries. This has strongly pushed the national recovery rate to 79.28 per cent," it underlined. The Centre-led focussed, calibrated, responsive and effective measures of early identification through high and aggressive testing, a prompt surveillance and tracking, coupled with standardised high-quality clinical care, have together resulted in this global achievement, the ministry said. A record 95,880 patients recuperated from Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, with 90 per cent of the new recoveries reported from 16 states and Union territories, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. About 60 per cent of the new recoveries were reported from five states -- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh -- the ministry said. Maharashtra accounted for over 22,000 (23 per cent), while Andhra Pradesh accounted for more than 11,000 (12.3 per cent) of the new recoveries. According to the ministry, 90 per cent of the recoveries were reported from 15 states and Union territories. The five states with the maximum caseload -- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh -- have also accounted for a majority of the recoveries, the ministry highlighted. "India has maintained a sustained path of reporting a very high number of recoveries. This is the result of focussed strategies leading to coordinated effective actions in the states and Union territories," it said. The ministry has issued comprehensive standard of care, clinical management and treatment protocols. Drawing from emerging global evidence, these have been regularly revised and strengthened. The country has allowed for a rational use of "investigational therapies" like Remdesevir, convalescent plasma and Tocilizumab and adopted measures such as proning, use of high-flow oxygen, non-invasive ventilation, use of steroids and anti-coagulants to aid the recovery of Covid patients. Supervised home or facility isolation for mild and moderate cases and improved ambulance services for ferrying patients for a prompt and timely treatment have enabled a seamless and efficient patient management. The AIIMS, New Delhi has hand-held the states and Union territories for enhancing the clinical management skills of the doctors in the ICUs through the "National e-ICU on Covid-19 Management" and the centres of excellence. "Held twice a week on Tuesdays and Fridays, the sessions have aided in the substantial increase of the total nationwide recovered cases and maintaining a low and steadily declining mortality rate. Nineteen such National e-ICUs have been held, covering 249 hospitals of 28 states and Union territories till date," the ministry informed. The Centre has been regularly reviewing the assistance provided to the states and Union territories. Several high-level, multi-specialist central teams have been deployed, which support the states and Union territories in strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management. The Centre has also been regularly reviewing the availability of medical oxygen in hospitals and other health facilities. "These have played a critical intervention role in India's high recoveries and maintained a low case fatality rate (CFR), which has dropped to 1.61 per cent," the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 53,08,014 on Saturday with 93,337 cases reported in a day, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 85,619 with 1,247 more people succumbing to it in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-overtakes-united-states-to-bag-top-spot-in-terms-of-covid-19-recoveries-889797.html
19-09-2020||National||INS Viraat sets sail for Gujarat, to be dismantled, sold as scrap||Signalling the end of a glorious era, decommissioned aircraft carrier INS Viraat departed Mumbai harbour on Saturday and set sail for her final voyage to Alang in Gujarat. With a call sign of Romeo Two Two, she had served the Indian Navy for three decades – a record in itself. The second Centaur-class aircraft carrier of the country has as INS Viraat spent 30 years under the Indian flag and 27 years as HMS Hermes with the Royal Navy of UK, making it a total of 57 years of operational service and she holds the Guinness World Record for being the oldest serving warship. The majestic ship would be broken in the ship-breaking yards of Alang, considered the world's largest graveyard of ships. INS Viraat had been in sea, covering 5,90,000 nautical miles and 22,622 hours of flying operations.  The plan to convert the majestic ship into a museum failed, after which she was auctioned by Metal Scrap Trading Corporation Ltd (MSTC). The Shree Ram Group of Gujarat purchased it for around Rs 38 crore. At least, three states - Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Goa - had initially evinced interest in the project. In November 2018, the Maharashtra government cleared an estimate of Rs 852 crore for the ambitious maritime museum project - which was to be located in Sindhudurg district along the coastal Konkan belt of the state. In May, 2019, the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) floated Expressions of Interest (EOI) for converting the ship into an integrated tourism facility and for operating it on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) basis. However, there were no takers for the project. Under the Indian Flag, the ship was instrumental during Operation Parakram between India and Pakistan; apart from Sri Lankan Peace Keeping operation. Its last operational deployment was for participation in International Fleet Review in February, 2016. Facts about INS Viraat: Viraat has a standard displacement of 23,900 tons and a full-load displacement of 28,700 tons. The total length of the warship is 226.5 meters and the breadth is 48.78 meters.The ship is manned by 150 officers and 1500 sailors. It was capable of operating Sea Harrier jump jets, a Short Take-off and Vertical Landing (STOVL) fighter aircraft and virtually all types of naval helicopters. The 12-degree ramp on the bows is the most striking visual feature of the ship and it helps to improve the safety factor as well as the radius of operation/payload carrying capacity of Sea Harrier. With such a complement, the ship is like a mini-city complete with attendant logistics infrastructure libraries, gymnasiums, onboard ATM counter, a TV and video studio. It had a full-fledged hospital and dental centre function onboard to cater to any emergencies. Unlike other ships, the British-built warships are equipped for comfort and convenience for all on board even in a non-combat mode. The ship also has laundry, which washes over 800 pairs of uniforms daily, a tailoring and barber’s shop. Medical facilities include a 16-bed sickbay, a dental centre and two fully-equipped operation theatres apart from facilities for blood transfusion, X-ray examination, ECG and a full-fledged pathology laboratory. The sickbay is staffed by a surgeon, an anesthetist, a special aviation medicine centre, a dentist and 10 specialised sailors. The ship’s generator produced nearly 9 MW power – enough to meet power requirements for a small township!  Second aircraft carrier to be scrapped Viraat is the second aircraft carrier after Vikrant to be sent to the scrapyard. As far as Vikrant was concerned, in 1957, she was sold to India by the United Kingdom and she was commissioned as INS Vikrant on March 4, 1961. She was decommissioned on January 31, 1997.  Multiple efforts to convert her into a museum failed. However, in May 2014, Vikrant moved from the Naval Dockyard to Darukhana, following the Supreme Court order. In November, 2014, Vikrant was scrapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-viraat-sets-sail-for-gujarat-to-be-dismantled-sold-as-scrap-889798.html
19-09-2020||National||Violence against health workers declined after ordinance: Dr Harsh Vardhan||A "dramatic" decline in the number of incidents of violence against health workers has been witnessed in the country after an ordinance was brought, making such activities a non-bailable offence, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan informed the Rajya Sabha on Saturday. The government brought an ordinance on April 22 to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to make incidents of violence on health workers treating Covid-19 patients a non-bailable offence with provisions of penalty and a jail term of up to seven years. Moving an amendment bill in this regard for passage in the Upper House, the health minister said after the ordinance, such incidents against healthcare workers have declined. "We have all noticed that there has been a dramatic decline in the incidents of violence against health workers all over the country," he said. Vardhan explained that the ordinance had to be brought as there was a rising number of incidents of harassment and violence against health workers while they were returning from their duty amid a lack of awareness about the coronavirus. They were treated with stigma and not allowed to enter their houses or residential societies. They were beaten up and chased away when they went out for surveillance, he said, adding that this had significantly reduced the morale of the health workers. "Everyone was feeling sad and bad. That was the time the government thought of taking a proactive step. When the government reviewed, it found there were minimal laws and powers in some states. There was a need to have a central law to put in place a prohibitory mechanism to stop such activities," Vardhan said. Binoy Viswam of the Communist Party of India (CPI), who moved a statutory resolution on the bill, said there are serious lapses in it as it does not address the issue of violence on health professionals within the hospitals. Many hospitals are not paying the salaries of the doctors and nurses, PPE kits are not being given and safety concerns are being ignored -- these issues have not been addressed by the bill, he added. Participating in the debate, Saroj Pandey of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spoke in favour of the bill and said it aims to instil confidence in the health workers, who are treating patients during the Covid-19 pandemic risking their lives. She also attacked Neeraj Dangi of the Congress, who spoke just before her on the bill without touching upon the sensitive issue of health workers. She said it is saddening to see that the opposition member chose to politicise even the issue of Covid-19 and did not even bother to mention the bill in his maiden speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/violence-against-health-workers-declined-after-ordinance-dr-harsh-vardhan-889836.html
19-09-2020||National||Poultry farms cause pollution, can't be exempted from regulation: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to revisit the guidelines for classifying poultry farms as Green category industry and exempting their regulation under various laws. The green panel asked the CPCB to issue fresh appropriate orders within three months and if no further order is issued, all the state pollution control boards will require enforcement of consent mechanism under the Air, Water and Environment Protection Acts. "Till then, even without such consent mechanism, the state pollution control boards may strictly enforce the environmental norms and take appropriate remedial action against any violation of water, air and soil standards statutorily laid down," a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said. The tribunal said sustainable development is a part of the right to life and the state authorities are under obligation to protect the environment as per sustainable development concept. "Responsibilities of the states to the environment are by Public Trust Doctrine. The Water Act, the Air Act, and the Environment (Protection) Act have been enacted in the wake of international conventions and override all other legislations. "They create an obligation on the regulatory authorities to enforce the environmental measures. There is no discretion to exempt the mandate of the Water Act for activities having the potential to cause water pollution," the bench said. The NGT said the operation of poultry farms has the potential to cause damage to the environment which needs to be regulated. It noted the submission of the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute that poultry production is associated with a variety of environmental pollutants, including oxygen-demanding substance, ammonia, solids, besides it attracts flies, rodents, dogs and other pests that create local nuisances and carries diseases. "Poor management of manure, litter and wastewater etc. adversely affects the living in the vicinity. Odour is generated for fresh and decomposed waste products such as manure, carcasses, feathers and bedding litter. Furthermore, intensive poultry production may be responsible for greenhouses gasses, acidification and eutrophication," the tribunal noted. The NGT was hearing the plea filed by animal activist Gauri Maulekhi seeking quashing of the CPCB's 2015 guidelines exempting commercial poultry farms from the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act and delegating the power to local authorities. As per the guidelines, farms which have more than one lakh birds are required to take clearance under the section 25 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, while poultries with 5,000 birds have to register themselves with the local authorities. The plea claimed that poultry farms caused extensive pollution in the surrounding areas as they have thousand of birds in intensive confinement, resulting in huge accumulation of waste. This huge quantum of waste is seldom disposed scientifically. The poultries impact the ecology and the living of those who surround the farm. Pests which are attracted to the farms make it difficult for the people living in the vicinity, it said. "To keep thousands of birds alive in such intensive confinement and unclean surroundings it becomes important to administer non-therapeutic antibiotics regularly. The administration of these antibiotics adversely affects the health of those who live around the farms and those who consume the birds or eggs," the plea said. It has also sought directions to regulate the use of antibiotics in poultry farms so that these drugs are not administered indiscriminately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poultry-farms-cause-pollution-cant-be-exempted-from-regulation-ngt-889838.html
19-09-2020||National||Post office robbed in Rajasthan's Bikaner||Two unidentified suspects fired shots inside a post office here before escaping with Rs 3.54 lakh cash on Saturday, police said. The incident took place in Naya Shahar police station area, they said. The two accused entered the post office and closed the doors from the inside. Three customers and two employees were present at the post office at the time of the incident, police said. The accused fired shots to threaten the employees and then fled the post office with Rs 3.54 lakh, police said. "Efforts are being made to identity and arrest the accused," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-office-robbed-in-rajasthans-bikaner-889850.html
19-09-2020||National||Government to develop model highway stretches||The government on Saturday said it is planning to develop model highway stretches in a bid to achieve perfection in road building. "In order to move a step closer to achieving perfection in highway development, it is planned to develop model stretches with provision of all technical and aesthetic parameters as per prevailing specifications," Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways V K Singh told the Rajya Sabha in reply to a query. The planning and identification of stretches for this purpose is in initial stage, he said. The development of road stretches as model highways is taken up post finalisation of all activities including availability of funds and government approval, Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-develop-model-highway-stretches-889858.html
19-09-2020||National||NEP 2020 aims to achieve inclusion, excellence: President Ram Nath Kovind||The new National Education Policy (NEP) aims to reorient the education system towards meeting the needs of the 21st century by achieving the twin objectives of inclusion and excellence, President Ram Nath Kovind said Saturday. Addressing the Visitors' Conference on 'Implementation of National Education Policy 2020 in Higher Education', the President said the policy sets the vision of developing an equitable and vibrant knowledge society by providing quality education to all. "Higher education institutions have greater responsibility of making India a global knowledge superpower. The quality standards set as benchmark by these institutions would be followed by other institutions,” the President said. He said the fundamental principles of the new policy include inculcating creativity and critical thinking in order to encourage logical decision-making and innovation. "The NEP also seeks to encourage critical thinking and spirit of enquiry. Effective implementation of the policy is likely to restore India’s glory as a great centre of learning as during the times of Takshashila and Nalanda," he said. Drawing inspiration from the "Bhagvad Gita" and the Krishna-Arjun dialogue, the President reiterated the concept of free communication and discussion between the teacher and the student. “The National Education Policy aims to reorient the education system towards meeting the needs of the 21st century by achieving the twin objectives of inclusion and excellence. It sets the vision of developing an equitable and vibrant knowledge society by providing quality education to all,” he said. Listing the features of the new policy, Kovind said that it would also introduce the system of academic bank of credits. "It would digitally store the academic credits earned from various higher education institutions so that degrees can be awarded, taking into account the credits earned by students. This would allow students the freedom to take courses as per their vocational, professional or intellectual requirements in addition to giving flexibility of suitable exit and re-entry points,” he said. “The need for strict monitoring of B.Ed., vocational and distance-learning courses is also being taken care of in this policy," he added. Noting that the target of the NEP is to increase the Gross Enrolment Ratio or GER in higher education to 50 per cent by 2035, the President observed that the online system of education can also be utilised to reach this target, especially in catering to the female students or those who do not have physical access to educational institutions as well as international students. Citing statistics, the President added that according to All India Survey of Higher Education for 2018-19, the GER for females is slightly higher than that for males. However, the share of female students is extremely low in institutions of national importance and particularly low in technical education, he said. "Such gender disparity in higher education should be corrected. It would be the role of head of institutions that would have an impact on the teachers and students and hence the heads of organizations should take active interest in implementing the policy," Kovind said. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' expressed hope that the new education policy would decentralise and strengthen the country’s education system. "The focus is to improve the quality of education standards in our country,” he said, adding the policy has given access to foreign universities to open campuses in India and vice-versa which will be instrumental in the process of making India a soft power. "All hurdles in the process of implementation of NEP should be overcome and dialogue should be established with all stakeholders. The support of all sections is imperative in brainstorming about the implementing process," he said. Vice-Chancellors of all Central Universities and Directors of IITs, NITs and other institutions participated in the conference. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet in July replaces the National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for "transformational reforms" in schools and higher education systems to make India a "global knowledge superpower".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-2020-aims-to-achieve-inclusion-excellence-president-ram-nath-kovind-889859.html
19-09-2020||National||Cabinet note ready for vehicle scrapping policy, says Government||The government on Saturday said a Cabinet note has been formulated for the vehicle scrapping policy. "Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has formulated a note for Cabinet on creation of an ecosystem for voluntary and environment friendly phasing out of unfit and old polluting vehicles," Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways VK Singh told Rajya Sabha in reply to a query. The proposed policy, once approved, will be applicable on all vehicles, the government had said earlier. The policy was sent for a fresh round of consultation with stakeholders on the direction of the PMO. Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadakri had earlier this year said once the policy is approved, India could emerge as a hub for automobile manufacturing as key raw material available from scrapping steel, aluminium and plastic are bound to be recycled, bringing down automobile prices by "20-30 per cent". On July 26, 2019, the government had proposed amendments to motor vehicle rules to allow scrapping of vehicles older than 15 years in a bid to spur adoption of electrical vehicles. In a draft notification, the government proposed renewal of fitness certificates for vehicles older than 15 years every six months instead of the current time-frame of one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-note-ready-for-vehicle-scrapping-policy-says-government-889863.html
19-09-2020||National||Courts can't nit-pick and award niggardly amounts in road accident cases: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has asked the courts not to adopt stereotypical or myopic attitude in granting compensation in road accident cases as the physical limitations and disabilities suffered by the victims leave deep mental and emotional scars upon them, depriving them to live a wholesome life. "The attendant trauma of the victim's having to live in a world entirely different from the one she or he is born into, robbed of complete personal choice or autonomy, should forever be in the judge's mind, whenever tasked to adjudge compensation claims," a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Krishna Murari and S Ravindra Bhat said. The court pointed out severe limitations inflicted due to injuries undermined the dignity, which is now recognised as an intrinsic component of the right to life under Article 21) of the individual. "From the world of the able bodied, the victim is thrust into the world of the disabled, which itself is the most discomfiting and unsettling. If courts nit-pick and award niggardly amounts oblivious of these circumstances, there is resultant affront to the injured victim," the bench added. In a judgement delivered on Thursday, the top court partly allowed an appeal by Pappu Yadav, a typist by occupation, who lost his right arm in a road accident in 2012 and enhanced total compensation from Rs 7,77,600 to Rs 19,65,600 in view of loss of earning capacity and future prospects. The court said as a typist and data entry operator, full functioning of appellant's hands was essential to his livelihood. The extent of his permanent disablement was assessed at 89%. However, the High Court halved it to 45% on an entirely wrong application of some ‘proportionate’ principle, which was illogical and is unsupportable in law. "The loss of a limb (a leg or arm) and its severity on that account is to be judged in relation to the profession, vocation or business of the victim; there cannot be a blind arithmetic formula for ready application," Justice Bhat said, who authored the judgement on behalf of the bench. The income generating capacity of the appellant was undoubtedly severely affected. Maybe, it is not to the extent of 89%, as he has one arm left, nevertheless assessment of disability cannot be 45%, it is assessed at 65% in the circumstances of this case, the court added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courts-cant-nit-pick-and-award-niggardly-amounts-in-road-accident-cases-supreme-court-889865.html
19-09-2020||National||BJP should give account of 15 years of rule in Madhya Pradesh: Kamal Nath||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath on Saturday said the BJP should give account of its 15-year-long rule in the state before asking about the performance of the previous Congress-led government that was in power for 15 months. Nath also accused the BJP of coming to power in the state through "notes" (money). A state BJP leader, however, said the government led by his party was formed through a democratic process. Talking to reporters in Gwalior, the home turf of Congress-turned-BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, Nath said, "We don't want a certificate from (Chief Minister) Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the BJP. People are the witness (of our 15- month-rule)," Nath said. "How dare the BJP ask for a 15-month account from me? They are not giving account of the BJP's 15 years of rule. They should first give their account," he said. "We had formed the government through votes, while the BJP did so through notes," he alleged. Taking potshots at Scindia without naming him, Nath said, "MP was known by Gwalior and nobody used to talk about Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur. Why did the Gwalior-Chambal region remain neglected and who was responsible for that?" Nath claimed that farm loans of 26 lakh farmers were waived by his government and said he was ready to give a list of the beneficiaries to Chouhan. Accusing the Madhya Pradesh government of conducting less number of coronavirus tests as compared to other states, and also alleged that Chouhan had made false announcements. Reacting to Nath's statements, state BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agrawal said the Congress must give account of its 15-month rule. "We repeatedly went to people with the account of our government during various assembly and Lok Sabha elections in the past 15 years. The Congress leaders should also do so about their 15-month-long government while seeking votes during (assembly) bypolls," he said. He said the bank accounts of farmers are showing that their farm loans were not waived by the previous Congress government. "Why didn't Nath pay attention towards the development of Gwalior-Chambal region when he was the CM? Previous government stopped the funding for the expansion of hospitals and did not give a nod for Chambal expressway. He was CM for the entire state," Agrawal said. "The BJP government in the state was formed purely through democratic process and those who resigned from the Congress are going to public again," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-should-give-account-of-15-years-of-rule-in-madhya-pradesh-kamal-nath-889885.html
19-09-2020||National||3.19 lakh road accidents in 2019 due to overspeeding: Govt||Around 71 per cent of 4.49 lakh road accidents in the country last year were due to overspeeding, Parliament was informed on Saturday. "As per the available information, the total no of road accidents during last calendar Year 2019 are 4,49,002. Out of which 3,19,028 road accidents (71.1%) have been reported due to overspeeding," Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways VK Singh told Rajya Sabha in a written reply. The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways has notified “Member of Parliaments’ Road Safety Committee” for each district to promote awareness among road users, he said. The Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) from the district will be the chairman of such committee, the minister said. Singh added that the Ministry has formulated a multi-pronged strategy to address the issue of road safety based on education, engineering (both of roads and vehicles), enforcement and emergency care. India accounts for about 5 lakh road accidents annually, one of the highest in the world, in which about 1.5 lakh people die and another 3 lakh become crippled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/319-lakh-road-accidents-in-2019-due-to-overspeeding-govt-889886.html
19-09-2020||National||M Venkaiah Naidu urges MPs to wear mask, maintain safe distance||With more than two dozen MPs testing positive for coronavirus, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday urged members to wear masks, maintain a safe distance and follow good hygiene of washing hands frequently. When the House met for the day, Naidu said the Covid-19 testing facility, both rapid antigen and RT-PCR, will be available in Parliament House everyday throughout the current session. "Members are advised to avail this facility and get their test done," he said, adding that a significant number of oximeters to check the oxygen saturation level are also available in Parliament House. Naidu said officials have told him that the best safeguard against the virus is a mask. "Wearing a mask is important whenever you meet a person outside your house, including outsiders working in your house. This is very important," he said, adding that the second most important thing is maintaining a safe distance. The third important thing is maintaining hygiene by washing hands. "The fourth thing is about the need to keep immunity levels of your body. That is possible by healthy food habits, a healthy lifestyle and also some amount of exercise," he said. Stating that he was concerned about the health and safety of people, he said members should keep distance while interacting with each other. "Do not cross that six-feet limit and do not bend on other member's side and try to wish him. If it is very important, send a slip. Otherwise, you can go out," he said asking members not to physically reach out to officers or the Chair. The members can convey their problems or grievances by writing, he said. "That is the best way." "I hope everyone of our members will remember these four things that have been stated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), health ministry and the home ministry and cooperate so that we can operate and complete our business at the earliest, and go back to serve our people," he said. His comments came amidst talk of the government mulling curtaining the session by at least a week. The monsoon session of Parliament, which opened on September 14, is scheduled to end on October 1. This is the first time Parliament is meeting in six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-venkaiah-naidu-urges-mps-to-wear-mask-maintain-safe-distance-889890.html
19-09-2020||National||Constitute task force to frame rules for online classes: Ahmed Patel||The Congress' Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel on Saturday demanded that a task force be constituted to frame guidelines for holding online classes for school children and the government helps students from weaker sections of the society who do not have access to computers or smartphones. Raising the demand in Rajya Sabha during the Zero Hour, Patel said the Centre must increase spending to provide digital support to poor students. "We demand from the government to constitute a task force to study how online classes are putting severe mental stress on students as well as their families. The central government should come out with national guidelines after consulting states as to what should be the rules under which online classes be held. "Rather than changing education syllabus, the central government must increase spending to provide digital support for poor students," he said in his Zero Hour submission. The Congress MP said schools have been closed for the last six months, and many public and private schools are conducting online classes. At times, this is being done to justify the collection of fees, he said. "This is creating an immense mental and financial burden on economically backward families. In poor homes, either they don't have a laptop or computer and if they do have a smartphone, it is usually shared by many family members. Digital India should not become an instrument for 'digital divide' between the rich and poor," he said. Patel said in some states like Gujarat, Delhi, Kerala and Bengal, some students have taken their lives due to the "stress and stigma" of online classes. He cited the findings of a survey whereby 24 per cent of houses have Internet access and nine per cent of students have access to the Internet. He said according to a Gujarat education department survey, only three per cent students had a laptop or PC and fur per cent students had access to smartphones with unlimited data plans. Similarly, a Delhi government survey revealed that 80 per cent houses do not have any laptop or computers, while a Telangana Teachers’ Federation survey says 70 per cent students attending online classes didn't follow anything taught, Patel said. He alleged that access to the Internet in states like Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha is worse than Goa, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh. Patel said that in 2014, the Narendra Modi government promised to provide broadband connectivity 2.5 lakh village panchayats by 2017, but so far only 23,000 have been connected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/constitute-task-force-to-frame-rules-for-online-classes-ahmed-patel-889892.html
19-09-2020||National||Arrested scribe Rajeev Sharma was passing info about India's border strategy to Chinese: Delhi Police||After arresting a Chinese national and her Nepali partner in connection with a spy ring, Delhi Police on Saturday claimed that their alleged accomplice freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma was passing sensitive information about India's border strategy and Army deployment to Chinese intelligence. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said that Sharma, who was earlier "snooped" using the controversial Israeli spyware Pegasus, was in touch with two Chinese operatives since 2016 after they approached him after seeing his articles in Chinese government mouthpiece Global Times. Yadav claimed that Sharma, who was arrested on September 14, has received more than Rs 30 lakh from an operative identified as George in about 10 instalments since January 2019 for the information provided by him. He also had meetings with George in Malaysia and in Kunming City in China.  His interrogation led to the arrest of Qing Shi and her business partner Sher Singh, who were operating a company in south-west Delhi's Mahipalpur. The duo were accused of paying money to Sharma routed through hawala channels and shell companies for providing sensitive information to the Chinese. According to Yadav, Sharma told his interrogators that he was relaying information to two operatives identified as Michael and George, who are based in Kunming, through digital channels.  Michael had contacted Sharma after seeing his column in Global Times between 2010-14. He contacted Sharma through Linkedin account and invited him to a sponsored trip to Kunming for an interview in a Chinese media company. Yadav claimed it was during this meeting that Michael and his junior Xou asked Sharma to work for them for money. "Between 2016 and 2018, Sharma was in contact with Michael and Xou. He was tasked to provide the information/inputs on issues like Indian deployment on Bhutan-Sikkim-China tri-junction including Doklam, the pattern of India-Myanmar military co-operation, India-China boundary issue etc. Subsequently, Sharma had meetings with Michael and Xou in Laos and Maldives," he said. George, who was identified as a General Manager of a Chinese media company, came in contact with Sharma in January 2019 and the latter met the Chinese operative in Kunming by travelling through Kathmandu. During this meeting, Sharma was asked to write about Dalai Lama related issues and was offered USD 500 article or information. "George told Rajeev Sharma that they will send him money through his company’s sister concern based in Mahipalpur being operated by Qing. Sharma received more than Rs 30 lakh from George in about 10 installments from January 2019 to September 2020 for the information provided by him. Sharma had further meetings with George in Malaysia and again in Kunming City," Yadav said. Investigators also found that shell companies were being operated by foreign intelligence to transfer funds to Sharma. It came to light that Chinese nationals Jhang Chang and his wife Chang-li-lia were running MZ Pharmacy and MZ Malls under fake names Suraj and Usha. They are presently in China and on their behalf, the company is being run by Qing and Bhora.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrested-scribe-rajeev-sharma-was-passing-info-about-indias-border-strategy-to-chinese-delhi-police-889916.html
19-09-2020||National||Niti Aayog, Indian School of Public Policy join hands for capacity building||Niti Aayog and the Indian School of Public Policy (ISPP) have joined hands for training, mentoring and capacity building of government officials as well as public policy scholars, a statement said. The Development Monitoring and Evaluation Office (DMEO) of the Aayog has signed a statement of intent with the ISPP to build a collaboration for faster intermediation of knowledge and use within the public system, the statement said. While under communications and outreach, evidence building exercises, organising joint conferences and podcast series will be conducted wherein ISPP scholars will interact and interview the DMEO and Niti Aayog’s experts on current policy issues, evaluations and perspectives, the ISPP said. Other areas such as live projects for ISPP scholars, internships, exchange of experts between DMEO and ISPP will also be explored, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-indian-school-of-public-policy-join-hands-for-capacity-building-889925.html
19-09-2020||National||Communist veteran Roza Deshpande passes away at 91||Veteran communist leader and former Lok Sabha member Roza Deshpande died at her residence here on Saturday afternoon due to old age, sources said. Deshpande, 91, was the daughter of Shripad Amrit Dange, one of the founders of the Communist Party of India. She is survived by a son and a daughter. Deshpande had taken part in the Sanyukta Maharashtra movement (the movement for the creation of the state of Maharashtra) and the Goa liberation struggle as a member of the All India Students Federation. In 1974, she was elected to the Lok Sabha from the Bombay South Central constituency. She had also led a campaign to get maternity leave benefits for working women, and served on various central and state government committees on labour problems, particularly those of women workers. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari expressed condolences over her demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/communist-veteran-roza-deshpande-passes-away-at-91-889926.html
19-09-2020||National||DRDO has set up 8 tech centres for research on futuristic military applications: Govt||India's premier defence research institute DRDO has set up eight advanced technology centres to carry out research on futuristic military applications, the government said on Saturday. Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik, replying to a question in Rajya Sabha, said these centres will also provide support to academia to undertake research on new technologies in niche areas for military use. "The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has created eight advanced technology centres across India to carry out research activities in the identified futuristic/new technology areas," he said. In August, the DRDO had set in motion a long-awaited process to usher in mega reforms as well as to create enabling infrastructure for developing futuristic military weapons. A committee headed by Prof V Ramagopal Rao, Director of Delhi IIT, has been appointed to suggest measures to improve efficiency of the DRDO laboratories across the country with an aim to boost the domestic defence production. At present, the DRDO has over 50 laboratories across the country which are engaged in developing defence technologies covering disciplines like aeronautics, armaments, combat vehicles, engineering systems, missiles, advanced computing and naval systems. The DRDO has contributed significantly in developing various key weapons and military platforms for all the three services in the last six decades However, there has been a view in the government that the DRDO should enhance its efficiency further in the sync with the government's focus on making India self-reliant in defence manufacturing. Replying to a separate question, Naik said the proposed corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) will improve its autonomy, accountability and efficiency. "The Cabinet Committee on Security in its meeting held on July 29 has approved to convert OFB, a subordinate office of ministry of defence, into one or more than one 100 per cent government-owned corporate entities," he said. The nearly 200-year-old OFB operates 41 ammunition production facilities across the country. At present, the government has to shell out around Rs 5,000 crore annually to pay salaries of the OFB employees. Additionally, it gives around Rs 3,000 crore to OFB as operational cost, according to officials. "An Empowered Group of Ministers (EGoM) has been constituted under the chairmanship of minister of defence to oversee and guide the entire process of corporatisation of OFB, including transition support and redeployment plan of employees while safeguarding their wages and retirement benefits," Naik said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-has-set-up-8-tech-centres-for-research-on-futuristic-military-applications-govt-889927.html
19-09-2020||National||Phase-III trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine to begin in Pune next week||The phase-III human clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) will begin at the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune next week. Dean of the state-run Sassoon General Hospital Dr Muralidhar Tambe told this to PTI on Saturday. "The phase-III trial of 'Covishield' vaccine will begin at Sassoon hospital from next week. It is likely to start on Monday. Some volunteers have already come forward for the trial. Around 150 to 200 volunteers will be administered the vaccine candidate dose," he said. "From Saturday, the hospital started enrolling volunteers for the trial. Those who are willing to volunteer for the vaccination should contact the hospital," he said. Under phase-II, trials were conducted at Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and also KEM Hospital in the city. The SII has partnered with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine candidate, developed by the University of Oxford. Earlier this month, the SII had paused the clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had on September 11 directed the SII to suspend any new recruitment in the phase-II and III clinical trial of the vaccine till further orders after AstraZeneca paused the trials in other countries because of "an unexplained illness" in a participant in the study. However, on September 15, the DCGI gave permission to the SII to resume clinical trial of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phase-iii-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-to-begin-in-pune-next-week-889933.html
19-09-2020||National||210 NH projects delayed due to land acquisition issues, poor performance by developers: Govt||The government on Saturday said as many as 210 national highway projects are delayed due to various reasons such as poor performance by developers and problems in land acquisition besides regulatory hurdles. It also said there are some hybrid annuity model (HAM) projects which are yet to secure financial closure. "210 nos. of National Highway projects are delayed under NHAI due to various reasons. The delays are due to multiple reasons, such as poor performance of Contractors/Concessionaires, delays in various activities and clearances such as utility shifting, environment/forest clearance, land acquisition and law & order problems etc," Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways V K Singh told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply. Since land is a state subject, a number of steps have been taken to coordinate with the States and solve the land acquisition issues for expediting availability of land, he said. The steps include constitution of High Powered Committee under Chief Secretary to monitor the pre-construction activities, strengthening of Land Acquisition Units by way of providing manpower and resources and effective formal public consultations at the time of project preparation to address the concerns of public, he added. The minister added that there are some HAM projects which are yet to secure financial closure. Most of the such projects are in Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/210-nh-projects-delayed-due-to-land-acquisition-issues-poor-performance-by-developers-govt-889934.html
19-09-2020||National||Govt introduces three labour bills in Lok Sabha||The government on Saturday introduced three bills related to labour laws, including on industrial relations, in the Lok Sabha amid opposition from the Congress and a few other parties. Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar introduced the Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code, 2020, the Industrial Relations Code, 2020, and the Code On Social Security, 2020. He withdrew the three bills that were introduced last year and introduced the three new ones. According to the minister, over 29 labour laws have been merged into four codes and that one of them has already been passed. The Code on Wages Bill, 2019 was passed by Parliament last year. Gangwar noted that the government engaged in wider consultations over these bills with various stakeholders and that more than 6,000 comments were received online on the bills. These bills were later sent to a standing committee and 174 of its 233 recommendations have been accepted, the minister said. Congress leaders -- Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor -- opposed the introduction of the three bills. Tewari noted these three bills are fundamentally changed versions of their earlier forms and urged the minister to withdraw them and hold wider consultations before introducing them. These bills are also a blow to the rights of workers, he added. Regarding the bill on occupational safety, health and working conditions, Tharoor said it fails to have specific provisions to safeguard interests of unorganised sector workers and also that there was no exclusive chapter on inter-state migrant workers. He also said that the bill is discriminatory since there is no specific provision on women's welfare. With respect to the industrial relations code, he said it severely restricts the right of workers to strike and also allows state or central governments to amend the threshold for applicability relating to layoffs and retrenchment. Opposing the bills, CPI-M member A M Arif said the bills should be send to the standing committee. Earlier, Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) leader N K Premachandran opposed withdrawal of three bills which the new draft legislations replace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-introduces-three-labour-bills-in-lok-sabha-889946.html
19-09-2020||National||Rajya Sabha passes bill to punish those attacking healthcare workers||Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed a Bill providing for up to seven years jail for those attacking doctors and healthcare workers involved in the fight against Covid-19 or any instance similar to the current pandemic. The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to replace an Ordinance issued on April 22 attracted support from all quarters though demands were raised to bring sanitary staff, ASHA workers, and Covid-19 warriors in emergency services like police. The government had promulgated the ordinance amid rising incidents of attack on doctors and healthcare workers amid the pandemic. It had aimed to make such attacks a non-bailable offense with provisions of a penalty and a jail term of up to seven years. Under the Bill, the commission or abetment of such violence will be punishable with imprisonment for a term of three months to five years, and with a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs two lakh. In case of causing grievous hurt, the imprisonment shall be for a term of six months to seven years and with a fine of Rs 1,00,000 to Rs 5,00,000. "We have all noticed that there has been a dramatic decline in the incidents of violence against health workers all over the country," Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said introducing the Bill. "Everyone was feeling sad and bad. That was the time the government thought of taking a proactive step. When the government reviewed, it found there were minimal laws and powers in some states. There was a need to have a central law to put in place a prohibitory mechanism to stop such activities," he said. Moving a statutory resolution opposing the issuance of the ordinance, CPI Parliamentary Party leader Binoy Vishwam highlighted that many hospitals are not paying full salaries to doctors and nurses while PPE kits are not being given.  Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma suggested that police and personnel from other departments engaged in Covid-19 duties should also be brought under the ambit of the Bill. He also demanded setting up a national task force for a comprehensive review and amendment to make the proposed Act contemporary and add lessons learned during the crisis. Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien accused the Centre of interfering in the functioning of states through the Bill. "There are sinister provisions in the Bill. The States must be authorised to take decisions.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-punish-those-attacking-healthcare-workers-889952.html
19-09-2020||National||Harivansh: Anti-establishment editor to ‘outstanding umpire’||On a cold January morning in 2006, a kurta pyjama-clad senior journalist was hurriedly jotting down notes at a political rally in remote Khambra, located in Jharkhand's Giridih district, to mark the first death anniversary of CPI (ML) veteran Mahendra Singh. The sight was not unusual except that the man in question was not just another journalist. He was the chief editor of the Ranchi-based Hindi daily, Prabhat Khabar, which he had turned into a household name in undivided Bihar.  Less than 10-years later, 'Harivansh'—nobody in the trade knew him by the other two appendages to his first name, ‘Narayan’ and ‘Singh’—had been just elected to the Rajya Sabha as a Janata Dal (United) candidate. At a meeting with him over a cup of tea at his Delhi residence, he seemed to retain the same passion for journalism glimpsed earlier.  The 64-year-old moved on to another phase of his life with his election as Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman earlier this week. To be accurate, this is his second innings in a role that entails the day-to-day running of the House. He was first elected to the post in 2018. None other than Prime Minister Modi vouched for him, saying he will “belong to all”. This is a trait, coupled with simplicity, that many others who are close to him also vouch for.  “Even after he became a Rajya Sabha member and that too from the ruling JD(U) in Bihar, I have seen Harivansh ji standing in the general queue at the airport or moving about the city with his trademark brown bag sans any paraphernalia,” a Patna-based journalist, who has known the feisty Prabhat Khabar editor since his days in Ranchi, recalled.  Harivansh was born into a moderately well-off farming family in the Sitabdiara village on the border of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh—the region from where the socialist leader and revolutionary Jai Prakash Narayan (JP) hailed. He had to often walk a full 10 kilometres to attend school because of the frequent flooding in his village, situated at the confluence of Ganga and Ghaghra rivers. He grew up to be a socialist too, hosting a meeting attended by JP in the Banaras Hindu University campus months before the veteran leader launched his movement from Patna in Bihar. His journalism innings began at the Times of India where he joined as a trainee journalist in 1977. He then went on to work at Dharmyug in Mumbai and Ravivar in Kolkata before the call of rural reporting finally took him to Ranchi in 1989. Under his editorship, Prabhat Khabar, published under the tagline ‘Akhbar Nahin Aandolan' (not a newspaper but a movement), rose to great heights and broke many stories on the fodder scam involving the then Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad. His move from journalism to politics in 2014 was foreshadowed by a six-month stint he put in as additional information advisor to former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar in 1990-1991. When he first became Rajya Sabha member, it left some of his journalist peers aghast that the fiery anti-establishment editor had become the face of the establishment. But the soft-spoken, suave leader has made his way up in the world of politics, retaining something of his ability for being a fair observer as well. PM Modi remarked that “he has been an outstanding umpire” after he became the RS Deputy Chair once again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harivansh-anti-establishment-editor-to-outstanding-umpire-889953.html
19-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Karnataka Dy CM Ashwath Narayan tests Covid-19 positive; India overtakes US in coronavirus recoveries||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, India overtakes the US in terms of Covid-19 recoveries; Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan tests positive for Covid-19 and Rajya Sabha passes legislation for stricter punishment for those hurting healthcare workers.  In a landmark 'global achievement', India has overtaken the US and has become the top country in terms of Covid-19 recoveries, the health ministry said on Saturday. The country has reported the highest number of recoveries with 42,08,431 Covid-19 patients having recovered from the disease so far, pushing the national recovery rate to nearly 80 per cent, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.61 per cent, the ministry said.    Likening farmers to the "Pandavas" and the Centre to the "Kauravas", the Congress on Friday accused the government of trying to end minimum support price (MSP) through three new farm bills and asked political parties to decide with whom they want to stand. The Congress also said that it will fight for farmers in Parliament as well as on the streets.   Lok Sabha has passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, which seek to promote barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade in agricultural produce. These will now be tabled in the Rajya Sabha. The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed a legislation that provides for up to seven years in jail for those attacking doctors and healthcare workers fighting the Covid-19 outbreak or during any situation akin to the current pandemic. The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was introduced by Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in the Upper House on Saturday to replace an ordinance issued by the government in April. The Union Cabinet had promulgated The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to protect healthcare service personnel and property, including their living/working premises against violence during epidemics.   The phase-III human clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) will begin at the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune next week.  Dean of the state-run Sassoon General Hospital Dr Muralidhar Tambe said that the trial would likely start on Monday. Some volunteers have already come forward for the trial and around 150 to 200 volunteers will be administered the vaccine candidate dose.    The revenue expenditure of the government is steadily rising due to relief measures taken to fight the Covid-19 pandemic at a time when the Centre’s revenues are slumping. A DH analysis of data available with the Controller General of Accounts shows that the Centre’s revenue expenditure has grown at more than thrice the rate of capital expenditure during the first four months of Financial Year 20-21.    The revenue expenditure in the April-July period stood at Rs 9.42 lakh crore, while the capital expenditure was Rs 1.12 lakh crore. Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday that he had tested positive for Covid-19. Narayan got himself tested for the virus ahead of the monsoon session of the legislature that starts on September 21. It is mandatory for all legislators to get tested for Covid-19, and only those who test negative would be allowed to attend the session.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-dy-cm-ashwath-narayan-tests-covid-19-positive-india-overtakes-us-in-coronavirus-recoveries-889954.html
19-09-2020||National||41 armed forces personnel died from Covid-19; 22,353 infected||The coronavirus pandemic has killed 41 and infected 22,353 armed forces personnel, according to details provided by the government in the Rajya Sabha on Saturday. Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said a series of measures have been put in place to check the spread of the coronavirus infection in the armed forces which included a campaign on preventive measures. "The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases amongst serving armed forces personnel is 22,353," he said, adding 41 personnel died of the infection till date. "In line with the international and national treatment protocols for Covid-19, armed forces hospitals have a wide array of anti-viral drugs (Favipiravir and Remdesivir)," he said. The minister said two hospitals in the armed forces are using plasma therapy for treatment of severely ill patients. To a separate question, Naik said the strength of women officers serving in the Indian Air Force is 1,875. "Of these, 10 women officers are fighter pilots and 18 women officers are navigators," he said. Naik said women fighter pilots are inducted and deployed in IAF as per strategic needs and operational requirements within the laid down policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/41-armed-forces-personnel-died-from-covid-19-22353-infected-889956.html
19-09-2020||National||Govt collecting data on migrant workers' suicide from states: Santosh Kumar Gangwar||The government is collecting information on the suicide of migrant workers from states during the Covid-19 pandemic, Parliament was informed on Saturday. "Information on suicides of migrant workers is being collected from State Governments," Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said in a written reply to Lok Sabha. The minister was replying to a question asked by DMK leader Kanimozhi Karunanidhi. Gangwar also told the House that around one crore migrant workers returned to their native places during the lockdown. Besides, the minister said in order to redress the grievances of migrant workers during lockdown, the labour ministry set up 20 control rooms all over the country. During lockdown, more than 15,000 complaints were resolved through these control rooms, and due to the intervention of the ministry more than two lakh workers were paid their due wages amounting to about Rs 295 crore, he said. It has been decided to extend the scheme of Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana of Employees’ State Insurance Corporation(ESIC) for another one year from July 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, he said. It has also been decided to enhance the rate of unemployment relief under the scheme to 50 per cent of wages from the earlier rate of 25 per cent along with the relaxation of eligibility conditions for insured workers who have lost their employment due to the pandemic and lockdown, the minister added. ESIC provides relief in the form of cash compensation for up to 90 days to the Insured Persons (IPs) who become unemployed, under the Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana. In a separate reply to the House the minister said "The government envisages creation of National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW). This database shall be seeded with Aadhaar and used for facilitating the delivery of social security schemes implemented by the government." At present, unorganised workers are registered under different social security schemes to avail the benefits under the schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-collecting-data-on-migrant-workers-suicide-from-states-santosh-kumar-gangwar-889961.html
19-09-2020||National||Transparent investigation needed in Kerala gold smuggling case: Congress MP in Lok Sabha||A Congress member in Lok Sabha on Saturday demanded a fair and transparent investigation into the gold smuggling case in Kerala, saying agencies should inquire into the "conspiracy" angle. Raising the matter during the Zero Hour, Hibi Eden, who is an MP from Ernakulam constituency, also alleged that the Kerala government has been brutally attacking youths and women who were leading a peaceful protest on the issue. "As we all know the gold smuggling case in Kerala, where gold was smuggled in diplomatic baggage in which the Chief Minister's Office is directly involved... Agencies are investigating the case, a fair and transparent inquiry is needed," he said. He added that all those who are involved in this case should be brought to light. "The conspiracy factor should be inquired. I urge upon the central government to direct the Kerala Governor to furnish a detailed report on the law and order situation and to have a joint investigation in this matter," he said. Raising the matter of Gorkhaland, Darjeeling MP Raju Bista (BJP) requested the government to resolve the issue as early as possible. "We are sure that the government will soon resolve issues pertaining to Gorkhaland...It is a legitimate demand. A stable political solution will help in promoting growth in the area. I request the government to resolve the issue as early as possible," Bista said. Uttam Kumar Reddy (INC) raised the matter of corporatisation of 40 ordnance factories. He said that this was an "ill-advised" move and "I urge the ministry of defence to reconsider" this. P Ramulu (TRS) demanded allowance for SC/ST youths who have lost their jobs due to the CIVID-19 pandemic. He claimed that many SC/ST students are working under MNREGA and also selling fruits and vegetables. "There is a need to provide unemployment allowances of Rs 5,000 per month to them," he added. Sumalatha Ambareesh, an independent member from Karnataka, said there is a fear that if Hindi is pushed as the sole medium of communication, then it might lead to the eventual decline of regional languages. She mentioned about the government's proposed three-language formula during the Zero Hour. "The proposed three language formula... I think I speak for millions of South Indians when I say that we fear if Hindi is being pushed as the sole medium of communication, it might lead to the eventual decline of regional languages. This is not acceptable," she said. A three-language formula has been proposed in the new National Education Policy. "We love and respect Hindi... I think any national policy has to be approached keeping the regional, linguistic identities and sentiments in mind," she said. The member also urged the central government to look into these issues and ensure that the country's past is preserved for a beautiful future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transparent-investigation-needed-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-congress-mp-in-lok-sabha-889965.html
19-09-2020||National||NCB seizes cocaine worth Rs 4 crore; probing illegal network, high-profile narco users in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday said it has seized cocaine worth about Rs 4 crore, arrested a person from Mumbai and is probing an illegal network of narcotics distribution in the western metropolis that has "possible linkages" with "high-profile" drug users. The federal agency seized a total of 670 gm of cocaine from a parcel that arrived in Delhi from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia early this month. "The contraband was concealed in a parcel containing tailoring material or thread roll," NCB deputy director (operations) K P S Malhotra said. The agency conducted a "controlled delivery" operation and later arrested the consignee of the parcel, S Ghangale, a resident of Vasai area in Mumbai, he said. The controlled delivery mechanism empowers NCB to keep the parcel delivery alive, even after seizing the contraband, and replacing the same with a dummy parcel. Under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the NCB Director General is authorised to order a controlled delivery operation to unravel all layers of a drugs cartel or syndicate. NCB Director General Rakesh Asthana had issued the order for controlled delivery in this case, Malhotra said. "The examination of the arrested man unravelled the network and the modus operandi. Ghangale has association with a few high-profile drug traffickers of Mumbai, who are having a dual profile of both being a property dealer or construction contractor and drug trafficker," Malhotra said. The network also has the involvement of DJs and other party organisers, who are connected to the party circles of Mumbai, he said. "The distribution network (of narcotics) in Mumbai under probe...has possible linkages with high profile users," he said. The man has been taken on transit remand and will be produced before a court in Delhi, the Narcotics Control Bureau officer said. Another official said the seized quantity of cocaine is worth about Rs 4 crore in the international market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-seizes-cocaine-worth-rs-4-crore-probing-illegal-network-high-profile-narco-users-in-mumbai-889967.html
19-09-2020||National||PM Modi to lay foundation of 9 highway projects of over Rs 14,000 crore in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of nine highway projects in Bihar through video conference on Monday and also inaugurate optical fibre internet services through which the state's all 45,945 villages will be connected, the PMO said on Saturday. These nine highway projects involve a road length of about 350 kilometres at a cost of Rs 14,258 crore. Modi has recently inaugurated or laid the foundation of a number of development projects, including those related to railways, infrastructure, bridges, drinking water and sanitation, in the state which is set to go to the assembly polls in October-November. The Prime Minister's Office said in a statement that the proposed highways will pave the way for the state's development as they will enhance better connectivity, convenience and economic growth in and around it. Movement of people and goods will also improve substantially, especially with the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, it added. Modi had declared a special package for significant infrastructure development of Bihar in the year 2015. The package included 75 projects worth Rs 54,700 crore, of which 13 projects have been completed, and work is undergoing at 38 and others are in the process to be launched, the PMO said. With the completion of these projects, all rivers in Bihar will have bridges conforming to 21st-century specifications and all major national highways will stand widened and strengthened. Giving details of the optical fibre internet services programme, the PMO described it as a prestigious project covering all 45,945 villages of Bihar which will enable a "digital revolution" to reach the state's remotest corner. This project will be executed by the combined efforts of the Department of Telecom, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology and Common Service Centres (CSC). The PMO said the CSC has 34,821 centres throughout the length and breadth of Bihar, and it will utilise this workforce to not only implement this project but also make it professionally run to provide optical fibre internet services for common citizens at every village. The project would also entail implementation of one Wi-Fi and five free of cost connections to government institutions like primary schools and Anganwadi centres among others, it said. This will lead to digital services like e-education, e-agriculture, tele-medicine, tele-law and other social security schemes to be easily available to all citizens of Bihar at the click of the button, the PMO said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-9-highway-projects-of-over-rs-14000-crore-in-bihar-890003.html
19-09-2020||National||Amarinder Singh lashes out at Akalis for 'misleading' people on agri bills||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked Akalis to stop "lying and misleading" the people of the state by "picking selective portions" of the Congress manifestos, saying it did not even remotely propose any of the anti-farmer moves that the BJP-led Central Government was trying to push on poor farmers to promote the interests of “their rich corporate friends”. Instead of flashing the copies of manifestos at journalists, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) should have made efforts to read their relevant parts first, said the Chief Minister, taking on the Opposition parties over their alleged “unsubstantiated and blatantly false allegations” against the Congress on the issue. Referring to the Congress manifestos for the Lok Sabha as well as the last Punjab assembly elections, the Chief Minister said nowhere had the party spoken about bringing any of the changes that the Centre was trying to impose on the nation with its ill-intentioned legislations. In fact, the manifestos had clearly talked about strengthening the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) system to make it even more beneficial to the farmers, he said in an official statement here. The state Congress manifesto of 2017 had stated that the updation of the APMC Act would be done to ensure direct access of farmers to the national and international markets through digital technology without tinkering with the existing MSP system, he said. The LS manifesto, on the other hand, had gone a step forward to talk of further strengthening the marketing system by repealing the existing Act and bringing in new provisions that would provide for the establishment of thousands of Kisan markets to provide easy access to farmers within 2-3 km range, he said. “Only liars could interpret this to mean that the Congress had meant to abolish the APMC Act,” said the Chief Minister. “When and where did the Congress ever talk of replacing APMC with contract farming and private procurement?” the Chief Minister asked, lashing out at the Akalis and AAP for "blatantly misleading" the people on the issue. The Punjab Congress manifesto had categorically promised that the “State Government will ensure lifting of food grains within 48 hours and payment by procurement agencies within 3 days for the procured food grains,” making it amply clear that there was not even a remote possibility of changing the procurement system, as the Centre's new laws are seeking to do, he said. “Picking up sentences and misrepresenting the communication is an art that the BJP has mastered, and the Akalis are now emulating,” said Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-singh-lashes-out-at-akalis-for-misleading-people-on-agri-bills-890008.html
19-09-2020||National||Re-write works of ancient scholars for modern times: President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday asked educationists to develop study material on 20 great scientists, saint scholars and thinkers from ancient India and their prominent works re-written for the modern times. Kovind made the suggestion during the day-long Visitors’ Conference on the Implementation of the National Education Policy citing the example of Acharya Pingala, who propounded the concepts of ‘zero’ and ‘binaries’ much before the Common Era. “The NEP 2020 document mentions nearly 20 great scientists, saint scholars and thinkers from ancient India. I request you all to develop study material on them and other such great ancient scholars. Their work should be re-written in modern terminology,” he said. The President said verifiable and relevant learning from India’s rich past should be put to new applications by the education system. He said the NEP aimed to reorient the education system towards meeting the needs of the 21st century by achieving the twin objectives of inclusion and excellence. “It sets the vision of developing an equitable and vibrant knowledge society by providing quality education to all,” the President said. He appreciated the efforts of the Education Ministry and K Kasturirangan and his team, who drafted the policy that had been prepared after consultations with 2.5 lakh gram panchayats, more than 12,500 local bodies and about 675 districts that generated over two lakh suggestions. The President emphasised that fundamental principles of the policy include creativity and critical thinking to encourage logical decision-making and innovation. He opined that effective implementation of the NEP 2020 is likely to restore India’s glory as a great centre of learning as during the times of Takshashila and Nalanda. He said the NEP will also bring flexibility to the education system and allow students to take courses as per their vocational, professional or intellectual requirements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/re-write-works-of-ancient-scholars-for-modern-times-president-ram-nath-kovind-890011.html
19-09-2020||National||Govt focussing on lowering road transport costs: V K Singh||The government is taking various steps to reduce road transport costs which in turn will make goods and services cheaper for common man, Union minister V K Singh said on Saturday. Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways Singh was addressing a global virtual summit, organised by Assocham. "The central government is working on several initiatives that would reduce the cost of road transport thereby lowering the cost of goods and services benefiting the common man," Singh was quoted as saying in a statement by Assocham. The government is also working to link all major ports with highways connectivity, the minister said.   He also said the government was taking initiatives to curb road accidents. He stated that most accidents caused are due to over-speeding involving youngsters. "We are working on ways to remove the roadblocks which would reduce accidents and at the same time would ensure faster treatment of the accident victims," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-focussing-on-lowering-road-transport-costs-v-k-singh-890013.html
19-09-2020||National||Govt to decide on subsidised cooking gas by BPCL before financial bid stage||The issue of continuation of cooking gas subsidy will be considered before inviting financial bids for BPCL privatisation, Parliament was informed on Saturday. However, the interest of LPG customers of BPCL would be taken into consideration while deciding on the subsidy issue, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in India's second-largest fuel retailer and third-biggest oil refiner. Preliminary expressions of interest or EoIs are due on September 30, which will be followed by qualified bidders being asked to submit financial or price bids.  Thakur said the BPCL transaction is expected to be complete in the current financial year.  To a query on whether the cooking gas subsidy will continue after the privatisation of BPCL, he said "The issue of continuation of cooking gas subsidy will be considered before inviting financial bids, taking into consideration the interests of LPG gas customers of BPCL".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-decide-on-subsidised-cooking-gas-by-bpcl-before-financial-bid-stage-890015.html
19-09-2020||National||Harsimrat's resignation over farm sector bills bold, historic stand: Parkash Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on Saturday described the resignation of Harsimrat Kaur Badal from the Union Cabinet as "bold, historic and a principled stand", and said the Akalis could never be a party to anything which harms the interests of farmers. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the sole SAD member in the Narendra Modi government, resigned from the Union Cabinet on Thursday in protest against three farm sector bills. Hailing his party for keeping "aloft the flag of justice for farmers", Parkash Singh Badal said if farmers and the agricultural economy suffer, the whole economy, including trade and industry, of the country, will suffer too. "Lure of office means nothing to an Akali. Countless times, as during the Emergency, we turned down outright offers of power as a price for silence against injustice. "We always spurned such offers and preferred to stand by the country and principles, and filled jails for that. That tradition will always live on," the five-time former chief minister of Punjab said in a statement here while reacting to SAD's stand against the farm sector bills. Parkash Singh Badal described the SAD's decision to pull out of the Union cabinet and fight alongside the farmers as "a proud and a landmark moment in the party's long history of standing up for principles and of always being on the side of the people whenever a line is drawn". "Farmers of Punjab always came to the country's rescue when it needed to be saved from the ignominy of famines and dependence on other nations. They did so by sacrificing their natural resources -- water levels and soil fertility. Today, it is the country's turn to stand by the farmers," he said. The SAD patriarch congratulated Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who is also his daughter-in-law, for "speaking out boldly for the farmers and for promising to stand by them". The proposed legislation on the marketing of the farmers' produce needed wider consultations, especially with the stakeholders, the farmers, as well as with parties like the SAD, he said. Parkash Singh Badal said he was satisfied that as a "mature" representative of the people, the SAD tried to convey the sentiments of farmers to the Centre and tried its best to persuade it to refer the proposed legislation to an all-party select committee of MPs for wider consultations with farmers. "The party tried to act as a bridge to find an amicable way to fully accommodate the farmers' interests. But I am glad that when that did not seem possible, and a line had to be drawn, the SAD stood on the right side of the line and did the only thing that its proud heritage demanded -- quit the government. "The SAD could never be a party to anything which harms the interests of farmers," he said. Badal appealed to Punjabis and all political parties to stand with farmers, during this "struggle for justice".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsimrats-resignation-over-farm-sector-bills-bold-historic-stand-parkash-singh-badal-890017.html
19-09-2020||National||Govt proposes allowing companies with not less than 300 workers to hire and fire staff without its nod||Companies having not less than 300 workers will soon be allowed to hire and fire workers without seeking prior government permission, with the labour ministry proposing changes to rules in a bill introduced in Lok Sabha on Saturday. The proposal, which was the bone of contention between the ministry and trade unions, is part of the Industrial Relation Code Bill 2020. Currently, only those industrial establishments with less than 100 employees are permitted to hire and fire their staff without permission of the government. The bill was introduced by Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar amid opposition from Congress and few other parties. The Industrial Relation Code Bill 2019 was introduced in Lok Sabha last year and subsequently sent to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour. This bill was withdrawn on Saturday. An earlier draft bill circulated by the labour ministry for discussion had also proposed the criteria that companies having not less than 300 employees can hire and fire without the government's permission. However, this provision faced stiff opposition from trade unions and was not included in the 2019 bill. Earlier this year, the Parliamentary committee also made a case of allowing companies having less than 300 workers to go for retrenchment of staff or closure without government permission. States like Rajasthan have already increased the threshold to 300 workers, which according to the labour ministry has resulted in an increase in employment and a decrease in retrenchment, the committee had pointed out in its report. With regard to the threshold, the government has proposed Section 77(1) in the The Industrial Relation Code 2020. According to the Section, the provisions of "this Chapter (lay-off, retrenchment and closure in certain establishment) shall apply to an industrial establishment (not being an establishment of a seasonal character or in which work is performed only intermittently) in which not less than three hundred workers, or such higher number of workers as may be notified by the appropriate Government, were employed on an average per working day in the preceding twelve months". Apart from this code, two others -- Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code, 2020 and the Code On Social Security, 2020 -- were also introduced by the minister in Lok Sabha. Among others, Congress leaders -- Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor -- opposed the introduction of the three bills. Tewari noted these three bills are fundamentally changed versions of their earlier forms and urged the minister to withdraw them and hold wider consultations before introducing them. These bills are also a blow to the rights of workers, he added. With respect to the industrial relations code, Tharoor said it severely restricts the right of workers to strike and also allows state or central governments to amend the threshold for applicability relating to layoffs and retrenchment. In Lok Sabha, Gangwar said that over 29 labour laws have been merged into four codes and that one of them has already been passed. The Code on Wages Bill, 2019 was passed by Parliament last year. Gangwar noted that the government engaged in wider consultations over these bills with various stakeholders and that more than 6,000 comments were received online on the bills. These bills were later sent to a standing committee and 174 of its 233 recommendations have been accepted, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-proposes-allowing-companies-with-not-less-than-300-workers-to-hire-and-fire-staff-without-its-nod-890023.html
19-09-2020||National||Will reduce killings at Bangladesh border; fire only in self-defence: Border Security Force DG||The incidents of killing criminals along the India-Bangladesh international front will be "made to reduce significantly", BSF chief Rakesh Asthana said on Saturday as he reiterated that his troops only fire when their lives are endangered by cross-border miscreants. The Border Security Force (BSF) Director-General was speaking at the end of the four-day bi-annual talks with their counterparts Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) in Dhaka. The BGB team during the meeting was headed by its DG Maj Gen Shafeenul Islam. "The BSF chief stated that death or apprehension of criminals on the border are irrespective of nationalities. He further stated that BSF personnel fire with non-lethal weapon only in self-defence when they are surrounded by large number of miscreants armed with 'dah' (cleaver-shaped knife), sticks etc, and their lives are endangered. "DG BSF assured that the death incidents along the border will be made to reduce significantly in near future," a BSF spokesperson said in a statement issued in Delhi. Reiterating the need for joint efforts to uphold human rights and curb violence on the border, both the sides agreed to take extra precautionary measures along the border, including intensifying public awareness programmes, undertaking appropriate socio-economic development program and real-time information sharing, he said. The spokesperson said the two sides also decided to frame new standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of crossing of "significant" number of mentally challenged Indian nationals to Bangladesh.   "The BSF DG suggested that an SOP could be drawn up early in mutual consultation to address this humane issue which could expedite the disposal of such cases and alleviate the suffering of such people.   "Both sides agreed to look after the humanitarian aspects of the victim first and then verify the nationality of the mentally challenged persons and thereafter, handing or taking over can be expedited with cooperation from one another," the spokesperson said. The two forces also decided to "share real-time information" with each other expeditiously through formal or informal channels regarding smuggling of narcotics, human trafficking, fake Indian currency notes (FICN), cattle, arms, ammunition, explosives, information related to anti-social elements, activities of IIGs (Indian Insurgent groups) and breaching or damaging of border fence, following commonly agreed specific formats, he said. The spokesperson said both the forces "appreciated the efforts made to improve mutual relations through various confidence-building measures (CBMs)". "All the agreed events undertaken earlier in CBMs will be resumed once COVID-19 pandemic situation becomes normal," he added. This was the 50th DG-level meeting between the two sides. The next edition is slated to be held in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-reduce-killings-at-bangladesh-border-fire-only-in-self-defence-border-security-force-dg-890032.html
19-09-2020||National||Tamil Nadu government ties up with Coursera to skill 50,000 youth||Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) has partnered with the online learning platform Coursera to train 50,000 unemployed youth. The partnership is part of Coursera's global roll-out of the workforce recovery initiative, where any state and country can provide unemployed workers with free access to online learning, Coursera said in a statement on Saturday. TNSDC is making 4,000 courses on Coursera available to 50,000 unemployed youths across the state through this partnership. The programme aims to develop high-demand skills like data science, cloud computing, blockchain, AI, and the Internet of Things. It will also include access to highly sought after professional certificates like the Google IT Support Professional Certificate, designed to train people with no tech background for IT jobs. "We have been taking various initiatives to build a skilled workforce that companies around the world find attractive to employ. The present pandemic induced slowdown is an opportunity for students and graduates seeking jobs as well as professionals who are aspiring for a career growth, to equip themselves in future skills,” TNSDC Managing Director V Vishnu stated. Coursera CEO Jeff Maggioncalda said that employability and skilling is a major challenge around the world, and Covid-19 has made it worse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-government-ties-up-with-coursera-to-skill-50000-youth-890038.html
19-09-2020||National||Police action against freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma 'high-handed': Press Club of India||The Press Club of India (PCI) on Saturday called the arrest of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma by Delhi Police "high-handed" and alleged that it "may be inspired by obscure or questionable considerations". The Delhi Police on Saturday said Sharma was allegedly passing sensitive information about India's border strategy and Army deployment and procurement to Chinese intelligence agencies. Sharma was arrested September 14. In a statement, the PCI demanded that in all cases of arrests of journalists anywhere in the country, "the police must be required to inform the Press Council of India as well as the self-regulatory body of the broadcast media on an immediate basis". It also said that the police should provide pertinent details "so that a defence may be possible to construct". The PCI said it is "astounded to hear of the arrest of Rajeev Sharma, a well-known independent journalist of long standing and a member of the club". "This is on account of the dubious track record of the Special Cell. More generally also, the record of Delhi Police is hardly a shining one," it said. "On the basis of the statement of the police released to the media, we have no hesitation in saying that the police action is high-handed, and may be inspired by obscure or questionable considerations," the PCI alleged. The PCI also cited the instance of Iftikhar Gilani, a senior journalist with Kashmir Times, who was arrested in 2002 "on the trumped up charge of tracking the Army's movements in Kashmir and keeping his so-called pay masters informed". Subsequently, a Delhi journalist, who wrote for Iran's official news agency, was also arrested for playing in the hands of the Iranian secret service, the PCI said. "His family also was made to run from pillar to post -- all to no avail. Eventually it became clear that the whole case was bogus and the journalist was freed," it said. The PCI statement also said that the arrests of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Jamia Millia Islamia scholars such as Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid and others were done "acting on a political bias". "Of late, Delhi Police, including its Special Cell, have made preposterous arrests under the lawless law called UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act) in which the word of the government is enough to keep an innocent person behind bars for long periods. These have happened in matters relating to anti-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) protests and the carefully designed communal killings in the so-called February 2020 riots in northeast Delhi," the PCI said. The statement said Sharma wrote on strategic affairs and "may well have accessed routinely over-classified information on the Internet that is in the public domain".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-action-against-freelance-journalist-rajeev-sharma-high-handed-press-club-of-india-890041.html
19-09-2020||National||mother of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar passes away||Sulochana Subrahmanyam, mother of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, passed away on Saturday. Jaishankar informed about the demise of his mother in a tweet, along with a picture of her. "Deeply grieved to inform of the passing away today of my mother Sulochana Subrahmanyam. We ask her friends and well-wishers to keep her in their thoughts. Our family is especially grateful to all those who supported her during her illness," he said. Jaishankar also shared a picture of his mother who was in her late 80s. She is survived by her sons -- Jaishankar, S Vijay Kumar and Sanjay Subrahmanyam. Union Minister Kiren Rijiju, BJP leader Ram Madhav, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant were among those who condoled Subrahmanyam's demise. Her husband K Subrahmanyam, who was a noted strategic affairs expert and was known as the father of India's nuclear doctrine, died in February 2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mother-of-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-passes-away-890042.html
19-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha passes taxation bill; aims to provide relief in terms of compliance requirements||Lok Sabha on Saturday passed a taxation bill that seeks to provide various reliefs in terms of compliance requirements for taxpayers amid the coronavirus pandemic. The reliefs include extending deadlines for filing returns and for linking PAN and Aadhaar. The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020, will replace the Taxation and other Laws (Relaxation of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated in March. Among others, the bill seeks to give tax exemption for contributions made to PM Cares Fund, which was set up in March in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Replying to the debate on the bill, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the ordinance was necessary to defer various compliance deadlines under GST and Income Tax (I-T) Act during the Covid-19 times. Further, the bill seeks to make faceless assessment applicable to at least eight processes under the I-T Act, including for collection and recovery of tax and gathering of information. "To ensure there is transparency in tax administration, that is why we are putting it (faceless scheme) in law," Sitharaman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-taxation-bill-aims-to-provide-relief-in-terms-of-compliance-requirements-890044.html
19-09-2020||National||India, US likely to ink geospatial intelligence pact ahead of November 3 presidential election||The last high-level engagement between New Delhi and Donald Trump’s administration before the November 3 presidential elections in America is likely to see India and the United States signing an agreement for sharing of geospatial intelligence between the armed forces of the two nations. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh are likely to hold the third India-America 2+2 dialogue with their US counterparts, Mike Pompeo and Mark T Esper, next month. Though the first and second rounds of the annual dialogue were held in New Delhi and Washington DC in 2018 and 2019 respectively, the third one may be held virtually due to the pandemic. The forthcoming 2+2 dialogue is likely to see New Delhi and Washington DC consolidating strategic convergence in Indo-Pacific amid China’s growing belligerence, not only along its disputed boundary with India, but also in the South China Sea, East China Sea, Taiwan Strait and elsewhere in the region. On the side-line of the talks Jaishankar and Singh will hold with Pompeo and Esper, the two sides are likely to sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), which will enable the exchange of geospatial information between the two countries, enhancing the operational efficiency of the US platforms currently being operated by India, sources in New Delhi said. The proposed agreement between the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency of the US Department of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Government of India will pave the way for sharing of maps, charts, imagery and other geospatial information and data, including geodetic, geophysical, geomagnetic and gravity data. The BECA is going to be last of the four “foundational pacts”, which Washington DC has since long been nudging New Delhi to sign, promising that they would make it easier for India to access advanced military technologies from the US, thus paving the way for further strengthening defence partnership between the two nations. The first such pact India signed with the US was the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement or the LEMOA. It was inked in 2016 and made it obligatory for both India and the US to support each other's aircraft, ships and personnel with logistics, fuel and spares. The Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) was signed on the side-line of the first India-US 2+2 dialogue in New Delhi in September 2018. It facilitated India's access to advanced defence systems of the US. It also enabled India to optimally utilise its existing military hardware sourced from the US. The Industrial Security Annex (ISA) was signed during the second 2+2 dialogue in December 2019 to be added to the already existing General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA). The ISA provided a framework for exchange and protection of classified military information between the US and Indian industries to elevate the defence relations from the seller-buyer level to the level of joint research and development and joint production.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-likely-to-ink-geospatial-intelligence-pact-ahead-of-november-3-presidential-election-890046.html
19-09-2020||National||Tata group to launch India's first CRISPR Covid-19 test||An indigenous paper-strip Covid-19 diagnostic test, named after one of India’s most famous fictitious detectives on Saturday received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India for a commercial rollout. Developed by scientists at the Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, one of the CSIR institutes, the test kit named FELUDA will be manufactured by a Tata group company in accordance with an agreement that Tata Sons signed with the CSIR institute in May. Feluda alias Prodosh C Mitter is a sleuth character created by legendary Satyajit Ray, who wrote 35 Feluda stories and made two films. But at the Delhi laboratory, FELUDA is actually an acronym - FNACS9 Editor Linked Uniform Detection Assay (FELUDA) – for an indigenous test for rapid diagnosis of Covid-19. “It received regulatory approvals today from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for commercial launch, as per ICMR guidelines, meeting high-quality benchmarks with 96% sensitivity and 98% specificity for detecting the novel coronavirus,” the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research said in a statement. The test uses an indigenously developed CRISPR gene-editing technology to detect the genetic sequence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Similar to the gold standard RT-PCR tests that are currently being used to screen the active infections, FELUDA too can do the same task but without the need for expensive machines. It also takes less time and is cheaper than RT-PCR, which makes it more amenable to widespread point-of-care testing.  A CRISPR related basic research for possible genome therapeutics led to new knowledge that could be converted into a new type of test for SARS-CoV2 and other genetic diagnostics. This shows the interconnectedness of scientific fields and technologies and highlights the need for broad investment into basic science,” IGIB director Anurag Agarwal told DH. Though FELUDA is a paper-strip test, it’s not as easy as the pregnancy test as a basic laboratory set up is needed. It works with both saliva and blood samples, but the scientists prefer saliva as it’s easy to collect. The indigenous test identifies the unique genetic material of the novel coronavirus to give a positive result. In the laboratory setting, one test used to cost Rs 500-600, which would change at the commercial level. The test takes about an hour out of which nearly 45 minutes are needed for sample preparations. The test was originally developed for sickle cell disease. When the pandemic struck, the scientists decided to repurpose the technology for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tata-group-to-launch-indias-first-crispr-covid-19-test-890047.html
19-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Former C'garh CM Raman Singh tests positive||Former Chhattisgarh chief minister and senior BJP leader Raman Singh on Saturday tweeted that he had been detected with Covid-19. He said he got himself tested after exhibiting symptoms and appealed to those who came in contact with him over the past few days to check if they too were infected. As on Friday, the state has 81,617 Covid-19 cases, of which 36,580 are active ones. The infection has caused the deaths of 645 people in the state so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-former-cgarh-cm-raman-singh-tests-positive-890048.html
19-09-2020||National||Low-pressure likely to trigger rain in Bengal from Sunday||A low-pressure brewing over the Bay of Bengal is likely to trigger rainfall across West Bengal from Sunday, the Met Department said. The low-pressure area is likely to move northwards into Gangetic West Bengal, causing heavy rain in the coastal and adjoining districts of East Midnapore, South and North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Kolkata, and Hooghly, the Met Department said on Saturday. The system is likely to cause heavy to very heavy rainfall at some places in Birbhum, East and West Midnapore, and Jhargram districts, and heavy rain over the other districts of south Bengal from Monday. The rainfall is likely to continue till Wednesday, it said. The low-pressure system will also cause heavy to very heavy rainfall with an extremely heavy downpour at some places in the north Bengal districts of Darjeeling, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Coochbehar, and Kalimpong from September 22 to 23, the weatherman said. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea along and off the Bengal coast from September 20 to 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-pressure-likely-to-trigger-rain-in-bengal-from-sunday-890049.html
19-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha passes bill to amend Companies Act||Lok Sabha on Saturday passed a bill to further amend the Companies Act and decriminalise various non-compoundable offences and promote ease of doing business. The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- which seeks to decriminalise various penal provisions and introduce a new chapter related to producer organisations in the legislation -- was passed by the Lower House. Speaking on the bill, Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said decriminalisation of various provisions under the companies law will also help small companies by reducing litigation burden on them. Around 48 sections of the Companies Act, 2013 will be amended to decriminalise various offences. Sitharaman said there are currently around 124 penal provisions compared to 134 in 2013 under the Companies Act. Stressing that there will be no relaxation for serious offences, including fraud and those that cause "injury to public interest or deceit", the minister said the number of "non-compoundable" offences under the Act remains the same at 35. Generally, compoundable offences are those which can be settled by paying certain amount of money. There will also be a new chapter on producer organisation, the minister said, adding that it will be particularly helpful for farmer producer organisations. For promoting "ease of doing business," the minister said that 17 provisions will be amended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-amend-companies-act-890088.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Sad state of Shiromani Akali Dal, party's voice left unheard||'Saddened' that my voice in support of farmers was not heard: Harsimrat Kaur Badal "I left my mother in ICU in the hospital to fulfill my duty to attend Parliament debate on these three legislations and register my protest. Thereafter I resigned in protest against these proposed legislations," Badal told PTI in an interview.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-sad-state-of-shiromani-akali-dal-partys-voice-left-unheard-889685.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Two injured in 'BJP factional clash' in Kolkata||Two groups of people, allegedly belonging to separate factions of the BJP, clashed in central Kolkatas Entally area leaving two persons injured on Friday, police said. The two injured persons were arrested. A group of around 30 people barged into a BJP party office and assaulted one person accusing him of beating up one of their men last night, leading to a clash, a police officer said. "Around two rounds of bullets were fired during the clash. A police team reached the place and nabbed two persons," he said. A case was initiated at the Entally police station under various sections of the IPC as well as the Arms Act, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-injured-in-bjp-factional-clash-in-kolkata-889691.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Former BJP MLA Sardar Tara Singh from Maharashtra passes away at 81||Former Maharashtra BJP MLA Sardar Tara Singh died here on Saturday morning due to prolonged illness, a senior BJP leader said. He was 81. "Sardar Tara Singh breathed his last at a private hospital in Mumbai," former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya told PTI. "He had been in the hospital since the last several days and was undergoing treatment for various illnesses," Somaiya added. Singh earlier represented Mulund assembly constituency in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-bjp-mla-sardar-tara-singh-from-maharashtra-passes-away-at-81-889761.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Parliament session may be cut short as Covid-19 cases among lawmakers rise||Parliament session that began this week is likely to be cut short after 30 lawmakers were found infected with the coronavirus, two senior parliament officials said, as the number of cases in the country rose to 53 lakh. The parliament met for the first time in six months on September 14 and was to function until October 1, but the two officials said its duration could be reduced by a week. "Since the commencement of the session the number of positive cases have gone up so the government is thinking of cutting short the session," said one of the two officials, who are involved in the functioning of parliament proceedings. The government has also mandated daily tests for journalist entering parliament to cover the session from Saturday. The lower and upper house secretariats did not immediately respond to a request for comment. India, which recorded 93,337 new infections in the last 24 hours, has been posting the highest single-day caseload in the world since early August, according to a Reuters tally. India is the second-most badly hit country after United States with total recorded coronavirus cases at 5.3 million. The virus killed 1,247 people in last 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 85,619, government data showed on Saturday. The lawmakers who have been infected include Nitin Gadkari, highways and small enterprises minister in Prime Minister's Narendra Modi's cabinet. On Wednesday, India's federal government ordered its states not to hoard oxygen supplies and allow free movement to cope with the rising number of cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-session-may-be-cut-short-as-covid-19-cases-among-lawmakers-rise-889763.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha mourns death of former member Naznin Faruque||The Rajya Sabha on Saturday mourned the death of its former member Naznin Faruque who passed away earlier this week at the age of 66. When the House met for the day, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu mentioned the passing away of Faruque on September 16. A social worker, Faruque represented Assam in the Upper House from April 2010 to April 2016. "In the passing away of Naznin Faruque, the country has lost a dedicated social worker and an able parliamentarian," Naidu said. The members stood in silence as a mark of respect to the memory of the departed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-mourns-death-of-former-member-naznin-faruque-889796.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena questions Modi govt's policies, praises Vajpayee-era NDA||The Shiv Sena on Saturday questioned the Modi government's policies on economy, trade and agriculture, and alleged that it was moving towards privatisation of airports, Air India and railways and giving the control of farmers' lives to traders and private players. The party also alleged that the Centre introduced Bills on agriculture "without consulting" its allies, farmers' organisations or opposition parties, and said the resignation of Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has brought the issue to the fore. In an editorial in its mouthpiece 'Saamana', the Sena said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) during the time of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and senior BJP leader L K Advani was "different" as they used to "treat the NDA constituents with respect and consult with them". "Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) member Harsimrat Kaur Badal has resigned from the Union Cabinet. The Modi government brought two anti-farmers bills (in Parliament) and she resigned in protest. Her resignation has been accepted. The Shiv Sena has already walked out of the NDA and now comes the SAD's move," it said. "During the time of Vajpayee and Advani, the NDA allies used to be treated with respect, affection and trust. There used to be consultations on policy decisions and BJP leaders would hear out the views of the allies. In those times, spoken word had value," the Sena said. "Like Maharashtra, Punjab is an agrarian economy. Hence, before introducing the farmers' Bills, the government should have held talks with the representatives of farmers' organisations and agriculture experts in Maharashtra, Punjab and the rest of the country," it added. The Bills propose to create a system wherein traders can purchase farmers' products even outside 'mandis'. The Congress, DMK and Trinamool Congress opposed this proposal. They think it is anti-farmers, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. "The Centre is pushing for privatisation of airports, Air India, ports, railways, insurance companies, and also giving control of farmers' lives to traders and private players. The Modi government's policies regarding economy, trade, agriculture create doubts," it alleged. "The government says that the new system would benefit farmers. Even if one believes it to be true, what was the harm in holding consultations with a few leading farmer leaders in the country? It should have at least held talks with NCP Chief Sharad Pawar. But this government has nothing to do with the words 'dialogue' or 'consultation'," the Sena said. The Lok Sabha on Thursday passed the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill. Harsimrat Kaur Badal said her decision to resign from the Union Cabinet to protest the farm sector bills symbolises her "party's vision, its glorious legacy and its commitment to go to any extent to safeguard the interests of farmers".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-questions-modi-govts-policies-praises-vajpayee-era-nda-889830.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||AAP's Sanjay Singh to appear before UP Police on Sept 20 in sedition case||AAP leader Sanjay Singh is scheduled to appear before the Uttar Pradesh Police on Sunday in connection with a sedition case filed against the Rajya Sabha member, a party spokesman said. The Uttar Pradesh Police had lodged an FIR against the AAP leader under various sections of the IPC on September 2 at the Hazratganj police station here for undertaking a survey, a senior state government official had said. A sedition charge under 124 (A) was also included in the notice sent to Singh by the Lucknow Police on Thursday, sources said. "Sanjay Singh will appear before the Hazratganj Police on Sunday morning in connection with the case and give arrest," state spokesman of the Aam Aadmi Party Vaibhav Maheshwari said here on Saturday. The notice, sent to Singh on his New Delhi address, besides other charges mentions charges under IPC 124 A, 153 A (promoting enmity between classes), and 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration). "The charges against you are serious and non-bailable. You are requested to reach on September 20 at 11 am for presenting facts and evidence. If you fail to remain present, action will be taken against you," the notice, sent by Investigation Officer (IO) at Hazratganj police station AK Singh, read. Besides Singh, the company which conducted the survey has also been slapped with sedition and other charges, the IO said. On Friday, Singh had said that a case of sedition was filed against him in Uttar Pradesh after he exposed in Parliament the alleged corruption and scams taking place under the Yogi Adityanath government. "I know I will be sent to jail soon because I exposed the Yogi government. Why, just because I raised the issue of killings and scams in UP," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aaps-sanjay-singh-to-appear-before-up-police-on-sept-20-in-sedition-case-889845.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||West Bengal has become home to illegal bomb-making: Governor Dhankhar on NIA arrests||The arrest of six suspected Al-Qaeda terrorists by NIA from West Bengal’s Murshidabad district became a fresh bone of contention between the state government and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar with the later alleging that the state has become “ home to illegal bomb making.” Dhankhar in a series of tweets on Saturday took pot shots at the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government and the state police accusing the later of being preoccupied with muzzling the Opposition. He also said that those at the helm of state police could not dodge the responsibility for the “alarming decline” in the law and situation.  “State has become home to illegal bomb making that has potential to unsettle democracy. Police @MamataOfficial busy in carrying out political errands and taking on opposition. Those at helm of @WBPolice cannot escape their accountability for this alarming decline in law and order,” tweeted Dhankhar. The Governor said that even though he appreciates the work of policemen in general but the DGP of West Bengal Police was far removed from and his “Ostrich Stance” was a cause of concern. “How far distanced is DGP @WBPolice from reality is cause of worry. His ‘Ostrich Stance’ is very disturbing.Appreciate role of policemen in general-they r working in difficult situations. Problem is with those at helm who r unmindful of conduct and r politically guided,” tweeted Dhankhar. Appreciate role of policemen in general-they r working in difficult situations. Problem is with those at helm who r unmindful of conduct and r politically guided. Ever since he took charge Dhankhar had crticised the state government on several issues mainly the law and order situation and political violence in Bengal. Earlier the Governor and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had exchanged strongly worded letters between them regarding the law and order situation in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-has-become-home-to-illegal-bomb-making-governor-dhankhar-on-nia-arrests-889846.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition asks government for relief to common man on lines of pause in insolvency proceedings against firms||Opposition parties Saturday demanded in the Rajya Sabha that the government waive interest on loans to farmers and individuals for the coronavirus pandemic period on the lines of a pause in insolvency proceedings against defaulting corporates. Participating in a debate, K K Ragesh of CPI (M) said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and other members have told the House that the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill has been brought to save businesses and corporates. "Why the same logic is not applied in the case of farmers? Farmers are also bankrupt. Why the government is not taking any responsibility and any initiative in waiving the farmers’ loans?" he asked. Ragesh said the government could have at least considered to "waive the interest on farmers loans during the moratorium period”. DMK member P Wilson said, "There is discrimination between common man and corporate. Why is this discrimination? Is the government here for crony corporates?" He demanded the government waive off recovery as well as repayment of all bank loans and credit card bills. Wilson asked for a complete waiver of agriculture term loans. Initiating the debate, Congress member Vivek Tankha said the government should protect only those businesses which are affected by Covid-19 pandemic and not all defaulters. He said the Section 10-A in the Bill states that no application for initiation of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) shall be filed for any default, whether Covid-19 related or not, arising on or after March 25 for a period of six months or such period not exceeding one year form such date as may be notified. The Congress leader asked the government whether it was sure that the coronavirus pandemic would end in one year. "When you are suspending Section 7,9,10, I think it's a makeshift solution to a long standing problem. There is no certainty that the economy will revive in one year." He pointed out that Gross NPA of banks went up from Rs 2.63 lakh crore in March 2014 to Rs 10.3 lakh crore in March 2018. "NPA and defaulting problems are pre-pandemic and Section 10-A would only postpone the problem and not solve it," Tankha said, adding the creditors would be in a worst position with likely erosion in the value of assets. "The entire object of IBC Code is compromised by this amendment. The Code aims to prevent wilful default by companies. However, the blanket bar on Sec 7,9,10 will enable many companies which are already under defaulting categories to use the notification as a shield to protect themselves in future proceedings. "Do we want to protect Covid-19 category of industries or all industries irrespective of their performance in the past. Section 10-A does not make distinction between Covid-19 defaults and other defaults," he said. About giving relief under the IBC, Arun Singh (BJP) said, "It was very much needed. It was very difficult to find out which transaction is Covid-related....If my friends can tell that these are Covid-related transactions and these are not related to that then I will be very happy. But it is simply impossible." TMC member Dinesh Trivedi said, "The intention of the bill is good. But you are in a hurry to do things without larger consultations. That is why the Bill is hastily drafted and an ill-worded piece of legislation, which would defeat its own purpose." He said, "We have record level of food stocks. Oil prices are historically low...The need of the hour is to put, maybe Rs 10,000 or Rs 15,000 or Rs 20,000, into the bank accounts of needy people." Trivedi said this would help in creating demand, generating more jobs and more tax revenues for the government. SP leader Ravi Verma was of the view that this Bill will support big corporate and also asked the government about the wilful defaulters who have fled the country. Verma alleged insolvency professionals are charging very hefty fees and generally eat up a large chunk of haircut. Amar Patnaik (BJD) asked the government to improve the quality of debt resolution as well as competence of insolvency professionals. AIADMK leader A Vijaykumar suggested that cooperative societies not be brought under the insolvency code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-asks-government-for-relief-to-common-man-on-lines-of-pause-in-insolvency-proceedings-against-firms-889868.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha passes Bill to punish those attacking healthcare workers||The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed a legislation that provides for up to five years in jail for those attacking doctors and healthcare workers fighting the Covid-19 outbreak or during any situation akin to the current pandemic. The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was introduced by Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in the Upper House on Saturday to replace an ordinance issued by the government in April. The Union Cabinet had promulgated The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to protect healthcare service personnel and property, including their living/working premises against violence during epidemics. The Bill intends to ensure that during any situation akin to the current pandemic, there is zero-tolerance to any form of violence against healthcare service personnel and damage to property. The healthcare service personnel include public and clinical healthcare service providers such as doctors, nurses, paramedical workers and community health workers; any other persons empowered under the act to take measures to prevent the outbreak of the disease or spread thereof; and any persons declared as such by the state government, by notification in the official gazette. The penal provisions can be invoked in instances of damage to property including a clinical establishment, any facility identified for quarantine and isolation of patients, mobile medical units and any other property in which the healthcare service personnel have a direct interest in relation to the epidemic. Offences will be investigated by an officer of the rank of inspector within a period of 30 days, and trial has to be completed in one year, unless extended by the court for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Bill proposes. As per the its provisions, the commission or abetment of such acts of violence will be punishable with an imprisonment for a term of three months to five years, and with a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2,00,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-punish-those-attacking-healthcare-workers-889873.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition attacks government on Covid-19, ordinances, migrants issues in Rajya Sabha||Opposition parties Saturday attacked the government in the Rajya Sabha, accusing it of crossing “constitutional bars”, interfering in the affairs of states, failing to control private hospitals during the coronavirus crisis, and being unable to protect the migrant labourers and the poor. Participating in a debate on The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, they also charged the government with entering into the “league of three democracies” in the world that promote what they called 'ordinance raj'. Derek O'Brien (Trinamool Congress) accused the Centre of interfering in the functioning of states through the Bill. The Bill provides for jail terms upto five years and hefty fines for attack on healthcare workers fighting the coronavirus outbreak or during any situation akin to the current pandemic. "Remember states of West Bengal, Punjab, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan rejected you. Chief Ministers there have been elected to run the states. You cannot cross constitutional bars. There are sinister provisions in the Bill. The States must be authorised to take decisions." "The Centre cannot impose its will on states. It is unconstitutional." The BJP, instead of preaching others to abstain from politics, should not indulge in politics, he said, adding the ruling party wants to take all the credit for schemes despite states contributing to them. Terming the Centre’s ‘Ayushman Bharat’ Yojana an imitation scheme, he claimed West Bengal was way ahead in health schemes and it implemented insurance cover for even allied workers and included mental wellness of healthcare workers in it. "The Centre is paying 60 per cent for the scheme and the state 40 per cent. But when it comes to credit, the Centre wants to take all credit," he charged. He also attacked the government using the term “ordinance raj”. "There are only three parliamentary democracies in the world in which this ordinance raj is still possible - India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. The emergency ordinance route is dangerous. Root of all ordinances is a 1935 Act. The Viceroy era is gone but the attitude of arrogance still remains with the BJP government,” he said. Participating in the debate, K Keshava Rao (TRS) asserted the Centre should consult states before interfering into their affairs. On private health facilities, he said a hospital in Hyderabad overcharged a patient who had died. "We need protection from such hospitals. Dead bodies were piling up when I went to a hospital. We need a mechanism for that," he said. He also said migrant labourers faced much ordeal because when they were leaving for their home states, the Centre suspended train services and asked state governments to stop interstate buses. Ram Gopal Yadav of the Samajwadi Party stressed the need for a special provisions in the proposed Act to penalise people and private hospitals thriving on the Covid-19 crisis and taking it as a business. He said there must be a provision to take action against those who sold PPE kits, masks, thermal scanners, ventilators, oxymeters and sanitisers at inflated prices. He also demanded to know what action the government was taking against those who claimed cures for coronavirus and fooled people selling drugs. "Moreover, if the sole bread winner of a family has died due to Covid-19, he should be compensated and protected by the government," he said. M Shanmugam (DMK) asked the Centre: "What action are you going to take against contractors who brought migrant labourers to cities and left them to die?" He said labourers cannot be treated as a commodity and such people (the erring contractors) should be dealt with strictly. He also accused the government of announcing a lockdown without preparations. Those who spoke included A Vijaykumar (AIADMK), Subhas Chandra Bose Pilli (YSRCP) and Saroj Pandey (BJP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-attacks-government-on-covid-19-ordinances-migrants-issues-in-rajya-sabha-889896.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi, BJP distorting Congress manifesto: P Chidambaram||Pushed on the back foot over the farm bill, Congress on Saturday hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of “maliciously distorting” the party manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which spoke of creating small markets before repealing the APMC Act. Modi and BJP leaders had accused the Congress of hypocrisy by proposing to farm reforms, similar to those in the three Ordinances, in the party manifesto and resisting the same after being voted to the opposition. Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram appealed to other opposition parties to join hands to oppose the bills that seek to replace the three ordinances “at every forum” to ensure that they do not become a law. The bills come up for discussion in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. Chidambaram rejected BJP’s charge of “hypocrisy”, contending that the Congress manifesto would have given farmers multiple accessible markets and choice. “Once that is accomplished, the Congress Manifesto promise on repealing the APMC Act and making trade in agricultural produce free would be a natural sequel in course of time,” said Chidambaram, one of the authors of the manifesto. The Congress leader said the Modi government had surrendered to the corporates and traders as the farm bills do not contain the clause that assures the farmer that the price offered by private purchasers shall not be less than the minimum support price. “The bills assume perversely that the farmer and the private purchaser have equal bargaining power. They do not. The small farmer will be at the mercy of the private purchaser,” Chidambaram said. As Congress stepped up opposition to the bill, the BJP pulled out the Congress manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and old interviews of Rahul Gandhi favouring exemption of farm produce from APMC Act. “Rahul Gandhi in this interview, sometime in 2014, is trying to explain why bringing in agriculture reforms would give more choices to farmers, allowing them to sell produce to a multitude of buyers. But he and his party are now opposing the very reforms! Inconsistency is a virtue,” BJP IT Cell chief Amit Malviya said, tagging a clip from Rahul’s interview. Chidambaram said successive Congress governments had built the food security system on three pillars – MSP, public procurement and PDS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-bjp-distorting-congress-manifesto-p-chidambaram-889900.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Covid-19: LS floor leaders likely to may meet later in the day to discuss curtailment of session||The government is contemplating curtailing the ongoing Monsoon Session in view of the rising Covid-19 cases amongst MPs, but nothing has been finalised so far, sources said on Saturday. The Lok Sabha floor leaders of different parties are likely to meet later in the day to deliberate on the issue, the sources said. However, before taking any final decision, the government wants to take all parties on board and also get 11 ordinances passed as laws by Parliament, they said. The Lok Sabha has so far passed three Bills to replace agriculture sector related ordinances. Also, both the Houses have cleared an ordinance into law to cut by 30 per cent the salaries of members of Parliament to ramp up funds in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said that amid some Members of Parliament testing positive for Covid-19 during the session, Opposition parties conveyed to the government that conducting the full 18-day session could be a risky affair. The government then started thinking in that direction, the sources said. Union ministers Nitin Gadkari and Prahlad Patel have tested positive for Covid-19. Both had attended the ongoing session which began on September 14. Several MPs had tested positive for Covid-19 around the time the session began and they were advised not to attend proceedings. In order to prevent the spread of coronavirus within the parliament complex, reporters and parliamentary staff entering the premises now have to undergo the rapid antigen test mandatory on a daily basis, according to a new protocol put in place. Members of both Houses are undergoing RT-PCR test on regular intervals on a voluntary basis, said a senior Parliament official. A member of Parliament can undergo RT-PCR test as many times he or she likes. Journalists covering the Monsoon session from the press galleries of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha also have the option to undergo the RT-PCR test which is valid for 72 hours. Since the report of the much reliable RT-PCR takes time, antigen test has been made mandatory on a daily basis. Government officials accompanying their respective ministers during bill discussions also have to show a negative report of RT-PCR test taken within the last 72 hours of their visit to the complex. The session began on September 14 and is slated to end on October 1. Both the House are meeting in shifts of four hours each without a customary Saturday-Sunday weekend break. The Budget Session was short-terminated in March after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-ls-floor-leaders-likely-to-may-meet-later-in-the-day-to-discuss-curtailment-of-session-889901.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Fourth TDP MLA switches over to ruling YSRCP; party strength reduced to 19 MLAs||The Opposition Telugu Desam Party has been functionally reduced to 19 MLAs as another legislator switched loyalties to the ruling YSRCP in Andhra Pradesh. On Saturday, Vishakapatnam (South) MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar became the fourth TDP MLA to declare his allegiance to Chief Minister and YSRCP President Jaganmohan Reddy. However, Kumar, like the three MLAs before him - Karanam Balarama Krishna Murthy (Chirala), Maddali Giridhara Rao (Guntur West), and Vallabhaneni Vamsi (Gannavaram) – has not formally joined the YSRCP in an apparent move to avoid disqualification under the anti-defection law. Vasupalli met the CM at his camp office in Tadepalli, taking along his sons Saket and Surya. The two were welcomed into the party by Reddy with a YSRCP scarf. In a similar spectacle in March, Karanam, a senior TDP leader, met Reddy with his son Venkatesh who accepted the YSRCP scarf from Reddy.    Vallabhaneni, the first TDP MLA to jump ship and engage in political accusations on his former party and its chief Chandrababu Naidu, accompanied the defectors in both events.    After his suspension from the TDP last year, Vallabhaneni continued as an unattached member in the state assembly, much to the chagrin of his ex-boss Naidu.   In the April 2019 elections, the YSRCP came to power with a resounding majority, claiming 151 out of the 175 assembly seats. The Telugu Desam Party got 23 MLAs while the JanaSena Party could manage one seat. Though officially continuing as TDP legislators, these four MLAs have thus brought down the effective strength of the principal Opposition to 19. The lone JanaSena MLA Rapaka Vara Prasad has also been seen in the YSRCP proximity, going against the diktats of the party chief Pawan Kalyan. However, legislator defections are nothing new to  Andhra Pradesh. During the previous assembly term, former CM Naidu had welcomed 23 YSRCP legislators (out of 67), even making four of them ministers in his cabinet.      After becoming the CM in May 2019, Reddy had asserted that the Opposition legislators willing to join him should resign first. Analysts then saw this statement as paving a welcome shift from the defections trend in the state.   After Vasupalli’s meeting with CM Reddy on Saturday, Vijayasai Reddy, YSRCP parliamentary party leader, said that “more such joinings are in the offing and that there would be no opposition party in AP.” Besides the sitting legislators, several key TDP leaders - former ministers, legislators etc., have joined the YSRCP in the past 15 months||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fourth-tdp-mla-switches-over-to-ruling-ysrcp-party-strength-reduced-to-19-mlas-889943.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||If talks can happen with China, why not with Pakistan: Farooq Abdullah in Lok Sabha||Speaking in Parliament for the first time since his release from detention, the National Conference president and MP Farooq Abdullah on Saturday advocated talks with Pakistan, saying if India can talk to China to defuse their border row, it can also speak to its other neighbour to deal with the situation at Jammu and Kashmir borders. "Border skirmishes have been rising and people are dying... A way has to be found to deal with this. Except for talks... As you are talking to China to attempt that it withdraws (from Ladakh border), we should also talk to our (other) neighbour to find a way to get out of this situation," he said in Lok Sabha during the Zero Hour amid protests from treasury benches. The Srinagar MP also expressed his happiness at the findings of an Army inquiry into the killings of three men in Shopian in an encounter. "I am happy that the Army has admitted that three Shopian men were killed mistakenly. I hope the government gives a hefty compensation," he said. Officials had said on Friday the Army has found "prima facie" evidence that its troops "exceeded" powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act during the encounter in July and has initiated disciplinary proceedings. Abdullah said Jammu and Kashmir has not seen any progress and spoke about authorities blocking 4G facilities in the Union Territory which, he added, goes against the interest of students and traders. He also conveyed his gratitude to parliamentarians for speaking for him when he was under detention. Abdullah and many other leaders were put under detention by authorities last year after the Union government abrogated Article 370, which had given special powers to the erstwhile state, and split Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories. He was released in March this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/if-talks-can-happen-with-china-why-not-with-pakistan-farooq-abdullah-in-lok-sabha-889944.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Parliament's Monsoon Session to be curtailed||Spooked by Members of Parliament testing positive for Covid-19, the Monsoon Session of Parliament is likely to be cut short to end on Thursday next. At a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee of the Lok Sabha, chaired by Speaker Om Birla, floor leaders of political parties reached a consensus on curtailing the Monsoon Session as Covid-19 scare reached Parliament with at least 30 MPs testing positive of the infectious disease. Twenty-five MPs had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14, the first day of the Monsoon session and did not attend Parliament. However, as the session progressed, Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari, Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel and Rajya Sabha member Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, who took part in the Parliament proceedings, tested positive for Covid-19, which led to stricter testing protocols. “All parties agreed on curtailing the session of Parliament. The final decision has been left to the Speaker,” a floor leader who attended the BAC meeting said. The Monsoon Session of Parliament began on September 14 and was originally scheduled till October 1, with the government listing 23 new bills, including 11 to replace ordinances promulgated during the inter-session period. Besides the 11 bills replacing the ordinances, the government is keen to seek Parliament nod for three labour reforms bills, which were introduced in the Lok Sabha on Saturday. Members suggested that the government could convene a short session at a later date if the Covid-19 situation eases. Speaker Birla is expected to hold consultations with Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to take a final call on the curtailment of the session. The Speaker also ordered stricter testing protocols for Covid-19 with daily tests for media persons and parliamentary staff entering the premises and for members at regular intervals on a voluntary basis. Special arrangements were also being made in the Central Hall of Parliament for collecting DNA samples of MPs for RT-PCR test as many times he or she wants. Government officials accompanying their respective ministers during the bill discussions also have to show a negative report of RT-PCR test taken within the last 72 hours of their visit to the Parliament complex. Earlier this year, the Budget Session of Parliament was curtailed as the Covid-19 pandemic broke out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliaments-monsoon-session-to-be-curtailed-889975.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Govt examining next version of PMKVY: Singh||The Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 2.0 (2016-20) will come to an end on March 31 next year and the government is examining the next version, Parliament was informed on Saturday. Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship R K Singh said there is no proposal under examination for setting up a National Institute of Skill Development. The government launched Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) in 2015 and revamped it in 2016 to impart skills to one crore persons by 2020. "The PMKVY 2.0 (2016-20) is coming to an end on 31st March 2021, and the government is examining the next version of PMKVY taking into account the lessons learned during the implementation of PMKVY 2.0," he said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. In a separate reply, he said as at end-August, 98,370 persons have been trained as yoga instructors and trainers under the Skill India Mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-examining-next-version-of-pmkvy-singh-890000.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Owaisi forms separate anti-BJP front for Bihar polls, attacks RJD for 'spoiler of secular votes' remarks||Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi headed All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Saturday tied up with the party of former union minister Devendra Prasad Yadav for fighting upcoming Bihar Assembly elections and attacked RJD for dubbing him a "spolier" of secular votes. Addressing a press conference with Yadav here, Owaisi said they have laid foundation of UDSA (United Democratic Secular Alliance) which would assess as on how many seats they should field candidates in the poll fray in the state. Yadav is heading Samajwadi Janata Dal (D). Coming down heavily on the RJD for dubbing him "vote katwa" (spoiler of votes) of the secular forces, Owaisi asled what happened to these so called "thekedars" (feudal lords) of the anti-BJP votes in the 2019 general elections in Bihar. In reply to a question that the parties of the opposition grand alliance coalition are blamings him for trying to help the BJP by planning to field candidates in the October- November polls, Owaisi said "they are playing old cassette". "AIMIM contested only Kisanganj seat in the 2019 general election in Bihar and our candidate secured 3 lakh votes while that of the JD(U) bagged 3.25 lakh votes and the winning Congress nominee garnered 3.50 lakh. Can we be dismissed as an insignificant player after this and winning a seat in the assembly bypoll?" he asked. "What happened in 2019 Parliamentary election in Bihar...did RJD claiming itself to be champions of the minorities and secular voters win any seat?" he said. The NDA had won 39 out of total 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar in last general election while Congress managed to win one seat of Kisanganj. Asked that the Bihar AIMIM president recently met RJD leaders reportedly for an electoral tie-up but the Lalu Prasad headed party did not give it any weight, Owaisi said "the meetings were not as you are guessing." After gaining a toehold in the Bihar politics by winning an assembly seat in the muslims dominated Kisanganj constituency early this year, AIMIM is trying to increase its footprint in the state by planning to contest some seats in Seemanchal areas having sizable minorities population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/owaisi-forms-separate-anti-bjp-front-for-bihar-polls-attacks-rjd-for-spoiler-of-secular-votes-remarks-890025.html
19-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition parties question setting up of PM Cares Fund, allege it lacks transparency||Members of the Congress, Trinamool, RSP, targeted the “non-transparent” nature of the PM-CARES fund, a charge that was strongly rebutted by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her deputy Anurag Thakur. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Trinamool Congress member Mahua Moitra accused the government of accepting donations to the PM-CARES fund from Chinese companies at a time when Indian Army was engaged in a violent face-off on the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. “Why did you take this money from our enemies? Why do you not return this tainted money? I am sure, no dying Indian would want to be on a ventilator paid for by the enemy money at this time. I ask you; would they,” asked Moitra, who had moved the Supreme Court against the fund. Thakur singled out the Congress, accusing it of setting up Funds in every member of a particular family with an eye on grabbing land worth crores of rupees in prominent locations across the country. Hitting out at the Congress, Thakur said the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had in 1948 set up the PM National Relief Fund (PMNRF) through a “royal decree” and successive governments had not found it necessary to register the Fund. He claimed that monies from the PMNRF were channelised to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) from 2005 to 2009 which is chaired by Congress President Sonia Gandhi. Thakur accused the Congress of getting the audit of the PMNRF done by favoured auditors and members from the family were appointed to gubernatorial posts. As Thakur lashed out at the Congress leadership, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury cited the rule book contending that the minister was levelling allegations against Sonia Gandhi, who is travelling abroad for medical reasons. Congress Deputy leader Gaurav Gogoi demanded to know why the government had not launched an inquiry into the funds of the Vivekananda Foundation, the India Foundation and Overseas Friends of the BJP. “Unlike the RGF, these foundations do not receive funds from the Consolidated Fund of India,” Sitharaman shot back, accusing the Congress of resorting to rumour-mongering against the government. “You indulged in rumour-mongering on Rafale and people gave you a befitting response,” Sitharaman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-question-setting-up-of-pm-cares-fund-allege-it-lacks-transparency-890027.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Inquiry into Shopian ‘fake’ encounter made public due to J&K LG Manoj Sinha's efforts||The outcome of the probe into the alleged fake encounter in which three “militants” were killed in south Kashmir's Shopian on July 18 was made public on the intervention of Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. Sources told DH that in a recent meeting the LG urged Army Chief General Manoj Naravane to make the outcome of the probe public. Sinha had a meeting with General Naravane during the latter’s two-day visit to Kashmir on September 17. “LG Sinha and Army Chief discussed the issue (Shopian encounter) at Raj Bhawan on Thursday. The Army chief apprised the LG about the outcome and the latter urged him to make things public,” they said and added the Sinha also told Gen Naravane that families of the victims must be given justice. The Shopian encounter came under a lens after three families from the Rajouri district of Jammu region claimed that the three killed were their kin and were labourers by profession. The families have identified the missing youth as Abrar Ahmed Khan, 18, Imtiyaz Hussain, 26, and Mohammad Ibrar, 21, all from Rajouri, and claimed the faces resembled the pictures of the slain “militants.” Earlier this month, the families of the slain had knocked at the doors of the LG demanding a probe into the Shopian `fake’ encounter and making their DNA reports public. Addressing a press conference on Monday, Sinha had said, “Probe is going on in the July 18 Shopian encounter at two levels and he will ensure there is no injustice.” On Friday unknown soldiers and officers involved in the encounter were indicted by the Army and disciplinary action was initiated against them. The Army in its probe found prima facie evidence indicating that powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded during the operation. Meanwhile, the families of the slain youth have welcomed the statement by Army and sought capital punishment for the guilty. “We welcome the statement of the Army based on its inquiry report, our statements have been vindicated,” said Mohammad Saleem, cousin brother of the slain youth. “They were murdered in the name of encounter,” he said and demanded DNA sampling report should be confirmed at the earliest so that they can get bodies of their kin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inquiry-into-shopian-fake-encounter-made-public-due-to-jk-lg-manoj-sinhas-efforts-889723.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir’s female literacy rate lower than all-India level||While literacy rate in Jammu and Kashmir has seen an upward trend in recent years to be 77.30%, female literacy rate is just 68% which is also lower than all-India level of 70.30%. At all-India level, the male literacy rate is also higher at 84.70% compared to 70.30% among women. In Jammu and Kashmir, though much emphasis is being laid on the gender equality in terms of education, discrimination in access to education still exists. There is a rural and urban divide in access to education for women as well. According to a new survey of the National Statistical Office (NSO), male literacy rate in Jammu and Kashmir is 85.70%, which is much higher than the female literacy rate of 68%. The survey reveals that in rural areas, the female literacy rate is lower than urban areas. The urban female literacy rate is 75.70% and literacy rate of women in rural areas is 66%. The survey reveals only 8.4% and 2.8% of males and females in Jammu and Kashmir, respectively are graduates and above in rural areas. According to the survey, in rural areas of the state, 86.5% of schools having primary-level classes are at a distance of less than one km from the households, while 76.2% of primary/middle-level schools and 29.5% of secondary-level schools are at a distance of less than one km from the household. According to the 2011 census, the literacy rate in Jammu and Kashmir was 67.16%. The male literacy then was 76.75%, while female literacy was at 56.43%. Literacy rate is defined as the percentage of literate persons among persons of age seven years and above. A person who can read and write a simple message in any language with understanding is considered literate in NSS surveys.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-s-female-literacy-rate-lower-than-all-india-level-889762.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||15 booked for rioting, burning Prime Minister Modi's effigy on his birthday||Fifteen people, including the national president of a little-known outfit, were booked on the charges of rioting after they burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday while observing "Unemployment Day" in neighbouring Shamli district, police said on Saturday. The case was registered against 11 unidentified people and four named accused on Friday based on a complaint filed by Shamli district BJP president Satendra Tomar, they said. Prince Kori, national president of the Bharatiya Samaj Rakshak Yuva Morcha, and the 14 others were booked under Indian Penal Code sections 147 (rioting) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), police said. The accused burnt the effigy on September 17, the birthday of Prime Minister Modi, which they observed as "Unemployment Day" to protest against joblessness, they said. A video of the incident, that took place in Dargahpur village under Jhinjhana police station limits, has also gone viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-booked-for-rioting-burning-prime-minister-modis-effigy-on-his-birthday-889768.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi PWD asks officials to submit status report of all ongoing projects||The Public Works Department of the Delhi government has directed officials to submit the status report of all ongoing construction projects through its website, a move that is aimed at ensuring timely completion of projects. In a letter to all superintendent engineers, the department said the status report of sanctioned projects should also be uploaded on the PWD's website on a priority basis. "All superintendent engineers in PWD are requested to ensure that status of all ongoing and sanctioned works be updated on priority by respective executive engineers under their control," the letter stated. An official said that the move intends to ensure that every construction project meets its deadline. The PWD is a prime construction agency of the Delhi government. It carries out major projects and looks after the maintenance work of state-owned buildings. Besides, the Delhi PWD, which maintains around 1,260-km roads, is responsible for roads over 60-metre in width while roads less than 60-metre wide broadly fall under the jurisdictions of the civic bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-pwd-asks-officials-to-submit-status-report-of-all-ongoing-projects-889771.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Ladakh council polls schedule announced; voting on October 16||Notwithstanding opposition demands for postponement of polls due to prevailing tension on borders and spike in Covid-19 cases, authorities in Ladakh Union Territory (UT) Saturday announced the schedule for Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LADHC) polls. In a notification issued by Saugat Biswas, Secretary Election department, the voting will take place on October 16 in 26 constituencies of the Council. Earlier, representatives of several opposition parties had advised for the postponement of elections in view of the escalating tension along the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh and growing Covid-19 positive cases in the cold desert region. With the announcement of the poll dates, the district magistrate Leh issued an order for imposition of model code of conduct in the district and directed all the political parties and independent candidates to follow the guidelines for the smooth conduct of the exercise. In the 30-member LAHDC, 26 members are elected while four are nominated, with no voting rights. In current dispensation, BJP has 18 elected representatives, Congress has five, National Conference has two, while one member is an independent. The Hill Council in Leh was created under LAHDC Act in 1995 and later another Hill Council in neighboring Kargil was formed in 2003. Elections to the LAHDC, Kargil, were held last year. It is currently governed by the National Conference. The LAHDC, Leh election, will be the first electoral exercise in the erstwhile state of J&K of which Ladakh was also a part. On August 5, 2019, Ladakh was declared a Union Territory without legislature. The main contest is likely to be between the BJP and Congress as the NC and PDP have stopped functioning in Leh post August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-council-polls-schedule-announced-voting-on-october-16-889816.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||28 shops, house gutted in fire in Jammu and Kashmir's Ramban||At least 28 shops and a house were gutted in a fire in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. The fire erupted in the main market in Khari, 16 km from Banihal town, at around 10.45 pm on Friday, tehsildar (Khari) Ashok Chakravorty told PTI. He said fire and emergency services personnel put out the blaze after hectic efforts of over one-and-a-half-hour. Army personnel from the nearby camp and local residents also joined the fire fighting operation. “The fire consumed 28 shops and a residential house, destroying property worth crores of rupees,” the official said, adding “the final report about the loss is being prepared.” He said the fire broke out in a shop apparently due to a short circuit and within no time engulfed other shops in the market. A case has been registered and further investigation is on, the official said. A large group of people assembled at the scene on Saturday morning and staged a demonstration against the administration for its alleged failure to provide a fire station in the Tehsil. “It is our long pending demand to have a fire and emergency station in our Tehsil. The fire tenders were rushed from Banihal and it took them nearly half-an-hour to reach the spot, causing a little delay in the fire fighting operation,” one of the protesters said. Later, the protesters dispersed peacefully after the local tehsildar's assurance that their demand would be brought to the notice of appropriate quarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/28-shops-house-gutted-in-fire-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-ramban-889818.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Farmer kills self in Punjab amid protests against Farm Bills, Rs 3 lakh compensation given to kin ||A 70-year-old farmer died after consuming some poisonous substance during a protest against the new farm Bills in Muktsar district of Punjab, police said on Saturday. Pritam Singh, a resident of Akkanwali village of Mansa district, consumed the poisonous substance on Friday morning and died at a hospital later in the day, they said. Singh had been participating in the protest since September 15, being organised by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) at Badal village, the native of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. The reason behind the farmer taking the extreme step is still not known, said the police. The farmers' body, however, claimed that he was under debt. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh had earlier said they would allow the last rites only if the compensation was given to Pritam's family. The Muktsar district administration, meanwhile, gave Rs 3 lakh as compensation to the family members of the deceased. “We have given a cheque of Rs 3 lakh to them,' said Muktsar Deputy Commissioner M K Aravind Kumar. After receiving the compensation, the farmer’s family agreed for the post mortem and cremation, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-kills-self-in-punjab-amid-protests-against-farm-bills-rs-3-lakh-compensation-given-to-kin-889820.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Minorities Commission member passes away due to Covid-19||A member of the Delhi Minorities Commission has died due to Covid-19, chairman of the panel Zakir Khan said on Saturday. Aam Aadmi Party leader Dilip Pandey condoled the death of Kawaljeet Singh in a tweet and called him as an old friend. "Singh, around 60 years old,  was admitted to Balak Ram hospital over ten days ago after (getting) infected with coronavirus. He died there on Friday," Khan told PTI. Singh became a member of the Delhi Minorities Commission last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-minorities-commission-member-passes-away-due-to-covid-19-889825.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||48 child labourers rescued in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich||Police have rescued 48 child labourers from hotels and other establishments in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich district, officials said on Saturday. Under 'No Child Labour' campaign, raids were conducted at Jarwal Road, Kaisarganj and several other areas on Friday, they said. "There were reports of child labourers being engaged in hotels and other establishments. Despite lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions, there were reports of child trafficking," Devyani, the coordinator of childline-1098, said. "The children in the age group of 6-18 years were provided hand sanitisers and masks. Their Covid-19 tests were also done. They have been presented before the child welfare committee and will be handed over to their family members," she said. Childline-1098 is a 24-hour free, emergency phone service for children in need of aid and assistance. Additional Superintendent of Police Ashok Kumar said in the coming days, similar raids will be conducted in other parts of the district. "The employers from whom the children have been rescued have been booked under the Child Labour Act-2016, Bonded Labour Act and Juvenile Justice Act, among others. Nobody will be able to play with the lives of the children," Superintendent of Police Vipin Mishra said. ADG Women Power Line Neera Rawat said the campaign started on September 1 and will continue till September 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/48-child-labourers-rescued-in-uttar-pradeshs-bahraich-889828.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Downward trend in Delhi's Covid-19 positivity rate in last few days, says Health Minister Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said there has been a downward trend in Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital and it will lead to good results by next week. "The positivity rate was 6.76 per cent on Friday. It has remained below 7 per cent in the last two-three days. Last week, it was around 8 per cent," he said. The cumulative positivity rate has also dropped below 10 per cent for the first time, Jain said. The minister said due to the increased testing over the last 10 to 12 days, Delhi has been witnessing a "downward trend" in the Covid-19 positivity rate over the past two to three days. "It should lead to good results by next week," he said. On Friday, the city reported 4,127 new cases and 30 deaths. As many as 61,037 tests were conducted and the positivity rate stood at 6.76 per cent. The cumulative positivity rate was 9.83 on Friday, down from 10.05 per cent on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/downward-trend-in-delhis-covid-19-positivity-rate-in-last-few-days-says-health-minister-jain-889831.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Woman, her relative thrashed by neighbours over alleged affair||A woman and her relative were allegedly tied to an electricity pole and beaten up by her neighbours, who accused them of having an affair in Rajasthan's Chittorgarh district, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred on Friday when a man went to the house of the widow, police said, adding they are relatives. Some of the neighbours forcibly took them out of the house, tied them to the pole and thrashed without even listening to them, Badi Sadri Deputy SP Ashish Kumar said. "A police team rushed to the spot in Dungla police station area and rescued them. Three persons have been arrested in this connection," the DSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-her-relative-thrashed-by-neighbours-over-alleged-affair-889842.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||L-G announces Rs 1,350 cr economic package to boost tourism, other sectors in Jammu and Kashmir||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha possibly struck a right cord with the "awam" (people) of Jammu and Kashmir as he announced a Rs 1,350 crore economic package to give a much needed boost to tourism and other sectors hit by the economic slowdown caused due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the security scenario. As a part of the package, the government has waived 50 per cent of the electricity and water bill amounts for a year across Jammu and Kashmir with an aim to bring a huge relief to farmers, families and businesses. Sinha also hinted that the Centre is actively considering an "unprecedented and historic package" for assistance to business entities, which will cover both the existing and new enterprises and will be a big boost to business and industry in Jammu and Kashmir. Announcing this, the LG said, "You know that at the most, a two-per cent interest subvention is provided and that is what the people expect as well. However, keeping in mind the special situation here -- businesses have been suffering for the last about 20 years -- we have decided to give an interest subvention of five per cent without any discrimination to all businesses whether small, medium or heavy. This is an unprecedented decision." He said the Union Territory administration will directly support this with Rs 950 crore. Sinha also announced that stamp duty has been exempted in case of all borrowers up to March next year. He said the new economic package is apart from the package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan. "Overall, this economic package is historic in terms of volume and reach. I can see that Kashmiris are eager to contribute to the growth of the Union Territory as they are fed up with the cross-border terrorism sponsored by our neighbour. "I strongly feel that it is our collective responsibility to ensure that a lot of money goes into creation of jobs, strengthening of businesses and coming together of families for a quick bounce-back of Jammu and Kashmir's economy. I have twin objectives -- ensure more money in people's pockets and offer more opportunity for the revival of Jammu and Kashmir's economy," Sinha said while making his agenda open to the people of the Union Territory. "Green shoots of economic revival are visible and I am confident that with this package, we will be able to steer Jammu and Kashmir through the current crisis," he said. The LG said under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan, Rs 1,400 crore have already been provided to people through the Jammu and Kashmir Bank. He added that the government is working on a structured mechanism and package for taxi drivers, transporters, autorickshaw drivers, houseboat owners, shikarawallas and other affected people "We are setting up a customised help tourism scheme by the Jammu and Kashmir Bank for financial assistance to persons associated with the tourism sector with attractive pricing and repayment features. We are setting up an exclusive land bank and will make available land for warehouses in industrial estates and food parks," Sinha said. He also announced that those associated with the handloom and handicraft sectors will get an enhanced credit of Rs 2 lakh in their credit cards as also a seven-per cent interest subvention to improve these sectors, which are famous the world over. The Jammu and Kashmir Bank will start a special desk from October 1 for youth and women entrepreneurs, he said. The LG had constituted a committee on August 18 to assess the help required by the business community of Jammu and Kashmir and also suggest administrative measures to boost banking, industry, tourism, agriculture and handicrafts. The committee headed by K K Sharma, the advisor to the LG, submitted its report on September 1 after deliberations with at least 35 business organisations from Srinagar and Jammu. The drafted recommendations, which have been accepted by the LG, will eventually empower Kashmiris, especially those who have lost their businesses and livelihoods, besides providing a conducive environment for various other industries to complement the prime minister's visions of "Vocal for Local", "Make in India" and "Make for World". Since taking over as the LG of Jammu and Kashmir last month, Sinha has cleared a slew of game-changer schemes to bring the administration to the door of the "awaam" and rebuild trust and faith in the administration. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/l-g-announces-rs-1350-cr-economic-package-to-boost-tourism-other-sectors-in-jammu-and-kashmir-889862.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||45-year-old woman gangraped in Alwar, Rajasthan; 3 held||A 45-year old woman was allegedly gangraped in front of her nephew who was also forced to sexually assault her in Rajasthan's Alwar district, police said on Saturday. The accused also shot a video of the incident and circulated it following which an FIR was registered, they said. According to police, six to seven people were involved in the crime and they have arrested two and detained one. The incident occurred in Tijara Police Station area of Bhiwadi on September 14 when the woman along with her nephew was returning home after giving some money to her relative in a nearby village. “The accused, who were six-seven in numbers, caught them, and tied the hand of the nephew. One of them allegedly raped the woman and shot a video. They untied the nephew and forced him to commit the act with the woman,” police said, while referring to the FIR lodged on September 17 with Tijara Police Station. The police said that a raid in the village was conducted on Friday and three accused were caught, including a minor. The minor was detained while the rest two were arrested. Initially, the victims kept quiet but when the video was circulated, the woman narrated the ordeal to her husband following which the case was lodged. In Thanagazi area of the district, a woman was gangraped in front of her husband in April last year. The couple had kept quiet initially but registered a case after the accused circulated a video clip of the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/45-year-old-woman-gangraped-in-alwar-rajasthan-3-held-889876.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Administration attaches properties of zila panchayat chairman in UP's Deoria||The district administration here has attached the properties of the zila panchayat chairman accused of abduction, police said on Saturday. The properties worth over Rs 16 crore include more than 10 plots, a house, brick kiln, egg farm, two-wheelers and four-wheelers. The order to attach the properties of Ram Pravesh Yadav was issued by Amit Kishor, the District Magistrate of Deoria on Thursday. Superintendent of Police Shripati Mishra on Saturday said, "In 2018, a case was registered against Ram Pravesh Yadav, the zila panchayat chairman, for abducting Deepak Mani, and then forcibly registering the land (of Mani) in his own name." "The abduction took place on March 20, 2018 from Salempur railway station, while on April 17, 2018 the land (worth Rs 10 crore) was forcibly registered in Yadav's name," he said. Subsequently, Yadav was booked under the Gangster Act, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/administration-attaches-properties-of-zila-panchayat-chairman-in-ups-deoria-889883.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||BDPO shifted for claiming farmers' protest proposed by Punjab govt||A Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BPDO) on Saturday was shifted for issuing a letter claiming that a farmers' protest would be organised by the Punjab government over the issue of farm ordinances on September 21. “Taking serious cognisance of the matter, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ordered shifting of the Sardulgarh BDPO to the headquarters, and immediate withdrawal of the letter issued by him regarding some farm protests which he incorrectly claimed to have been organised by the Punjab government,” a government statement said here. The directions came a day after Shiromani Akali Dal leader Daljit Singh Cheema had uploaded the BDPO letter on his Twitter handle accusing the ruling Congress of “outsourcing its programmes” to the Panchayati Raj Department. The Punjab government has not organized any such protest, as claimed by the BDPO, according to the statement issued on Saturday. Far from organising any protests, the government, led by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, has in fact been appealing to all political organisations to refrain from organising any public gatherings in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, it said. The overzealous BDPO had, on his own, announced a protest 'dharna' on September 21 and had issued a letter asking all panchayat secretaries under his block to intimate all sarpanches about the same, the statement further said. He had also wrongly claimed that ministers and MLAs will also join these protests, it said. The Punjab government had neither planned such protests against the farm ordinances nor asked the BDPO to issue the letter in question, the statement said. The chief minister has asked the officials concerned to inquire into the whole affair and pin down the responsibility for this incorrect communication, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bdpo-shifted-for-claiming-farmers-protest-proposed-by-punjab-govt-889894.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand Assembly Indira Hridayesh tests positive for Covid-19||Leader of Opposition in the Uttarakhand Assembly Indira Hridayesh has tested positive for Covid-19, Pradesh Congress vice president Dhirendra Pratap said on Saturday. Her test report came positive late on Friday night. Hridayesh is being brought here to be admitted at the Max Hospital, he said. She had been admitted at Shushila Tiwari Government Hospital, Haldwani on Friday morning after being diagnosed with pneumonia, Pratap said. PCC president Pritam Singh also went into isolation on Saturday as a precautionary measure, he said. However, his test report is yet to arrive, Pratap said. Hridayesh will not attend Sunday's meeting of the state assembly's business advisory committee ahead of its monsoon session beginning on September 23. It is likely to be attended by Deputy Leader of Opposition and Ranikhet MLA Karan Mahra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/leader-of-opposition-in-uttarakhand-assembly-indira-hridayesh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-889899.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Woman raped by youth in UP's Gonda, accused arrested||A married woman was allegedly raped by a youth in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Gonda district while on her way to her in-laws house, police said on Saturday. The incident happened on Friday evening in a village under the Khondare police station area, they said, adding that the accused youth was arrested. The woman was returning from her parents' place along with her children. Gonda Superintendent of Police Shailesh Kumar Pandey said, "A case has been registered against the accused on a complaint lodged by the father-in-law of the woman. The accused has been arrested." He added that the woman has been sent for a medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-raped-by-youth-in-ups-gonda-accused-arrested-889903.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh's MMKSY scheme helps rejuvenate barren land with solar fencing||Faced with farmers abandoning agriculture due to wild animal attacks on their crops, the Himachal government has launched a scheme to provide for fencing around farmlands, including solar fencing, attracting fulsome praise from beneficiaries. The scheme was launched under the Mukhyamantri Khet Sansarakshan Yojna (MMKSY), which provides a 50 percent subsidy on barbed wire and chain link fencing, 70 percent on composite fencing and 85 percent on solar fencing,” said DC Kangra Rakesh Prajapati. “Under the scheme launched in 2019-20, a sum of Rs 10.31 crore was spent on 1,26,843 meters of solar fencing on the land of 784 farmers across the district,” he said. “Solar fencing comprises solar energy-driven fencing,” said state’s northern region Joint Director (Agriculture) Narendra Dhiman, explaining its mechanism. "In this modern, non-conventional fencing, wires carry solar-energy produced current delivering a fierce but non-fatal shock to an animal coming in its contact, causing a suitable deterrent effect on animals,” he added. The scheme has attracted fulsome praise from the beneficiary farmers. Rajendra Kumar, panchayat pradhan, who lives at Kuthama near Gaggal Airport, is one of the beneficiaries of the scheme. “I had abandoned farming nearly ten years ago due to persistent attack by stray and wild animals, including pigs, monkeys and my land had become barren. But, when I heard about the MMKSY, I decided to avail it,” he said. He said he decided to erect solar fencing around an area of 320 square meters of about 10 kanals of land. “Out of the total cost of Rs 3,58,543, I gave Rs 1,07,562 as my share and received a subsidy of Rs 2,50,980 from the Agriculture Department. “No doubt this is a unique and innovative scheme of the state govt,” said Kumar, expressing his gratitude to the government. Another beneficiary of the scheme, Mithila Sharma of Siholpuri village under Shahpur Panchayat, said there was so much terror of attack by nilgai, pigs and monkeys on her fields that they did not allow even turmeric or greens to be harvested apart from traditional crops. “On the finding of the plan, I put a fence on my land in an area of 310 square meters. It cost me Rs. 3,36,927 out of which I deposited Rs 1,01,078 as my share while the department provided a subsidy of Rs 2,35,849,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradeshs-mmksy-scheme-helps-rejuvenate-barren-land-with-solar-fencing-889915.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||VHP wants Indian manufacturers to replace Chinese imports||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) general secretary Milind Parande said on Saturday that it was asking domestic industrialists to produce the goods which are otherwise imported from China. Buying Chinese goods was akin to "empowering the enemy", he said, a day after a two-day meeting of the organization's central committee ended here. "We are meeting big businessmen, manufacturers and asking them to manufacture good-quality goods to replace their imports from China," he said. "We appeal to people to boycott Chinese goods even if they are cheap," he said, referring to the stand-off in eastern Ladakh. Giving information about the central committee meeting, he said the VHP has decided to work for strengthening agriculture sector, generating employment and for improving health and education for the poor and women. He also said that the idol of Lord Ram will be consecrated at the Ram Temple in Ayodhya in "32 or 36 months". The VHP also demands inquiry into the operations of Zakat Foundation, Parande said. Sudarshan TV has made certain allegations against the foundation in its yet-to-be-aired program. The Supreme Court is hearing a petition against the program.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vhp-wants-indian-manufacturers-to-replace-chinese-imports-889923.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||22 Congress workers booked for 'blackening' official's face in Madhya Pradesh||A case has been registered against 22 Congress workers in connection with the incident in which the face of a senior district official was allegedly blackened during a protest in Madhya Pradesh's Chhindwara, police said on Saturday. The action was taken after Congress leader Bunty Patel smeared black colour on the face of Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) C P Patel during the protest held at Chaurai town on Friday to seek compensation for damages caused by the recent floods. A purported video of the incident has also gone viral on social media. "After the protesters smeared black colour on the SDM's face, 22 Congress workers, including Bunty Patel, have been booked," Superintendent of Police (SP) Vivek Agrawal said. Offence under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and others was registered against them. Provisions of the Disaster Management Act 2005 were also invoked, he said, adding that the action was taken based on a complaint by the SDM. Meanwhile, the district unit of the Congress distanced itself from the incident. "The Congress has been holding protests to draw the administration's attention towards the problems being faced by common people and farmers in the flood-hit areas. But Bunty Patel did so at his personal level," district Congress office-bearer Anand Bakhshi said. BJP's district unit chief Vivek Sahu condemned the incident and demanded strict action against the Congress leaders involved in it. The administration officials also submitted a memorandum to the district authorities demanding strict action against the accused, said Atul Singh, a member of Prashasnik Adhikari Sangh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/22-congress-workers-booked-for-blackening-officials-face-in-madhya-pradesh-889928.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh STF arrests man for "duping" 600 people of 60 crore||The Uttar Pradesh police on Saturday arrested a man for allegedly duping over 600 people of around Rs 60 crore on the promise of a 60 percent return on their investments. The Special Task Force of the UP police said it arrested the racket’s mastermind, Hari Om Yadav, from Chandpur village in Sultanpur Road here under Gosaiganj police station at around 5 am. The police also confiscated three mobile phones, five cheque books, one passbook, an Aadhaar card, a laptop and Rs 700 cash from the accused, the STF said in a statement. The STF said it made the arrest following a probe into complaints by several people that they have been duped of their money on the promise of 60 per cent returns on their investments. During the probe, it transpired that the racket was being run through a multi-level marketing mechanism, with Hari Om Yadav, doubling as CMDs of Alaska Real Estate Pvt Ltd, Alaska Commodities and Alaska Enterprises and duping around 600 persons for Rs 60 crore. A case was registered in this connection at Gosaiganj police station under various sections of the IPC, and as many as nine members of the gang were arrested earlier on September 15, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-stf-arrests-man-for-duping-600-people-of-60-crore-889940.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||NIA orders attaching house belonging to arrested JeM terrorist Irshad Ahmed Reshi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday ordered attaching of a property of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist Irshad Ahmed Reshi, who was arrested by the agency in connection with an attack on a CRPF Group Centre in south Kashmir in 2017 The property, which is a house, is in the name of Irshad Reshi's father Nazir Ahmad Reshi in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir. The house along with 17 marlas of land, situated in Ratnipora village of Kakapora area in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, was attached as a property that represents proceeds of terrorism and that which has been used for furtherance of activities of the JeM terrorist organisation, an NIA spokesperson said in a statement. The attaching of the property has been made in exercise of powers granted under Section 25 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967. The accused, Irshad Reshi, was an active Over Ground Worker (OGW) of the JeM militant group. He was also a close associate of slain militant and JeM commander Noor Mohammad Tantray alias Noor Trali. The attack on the CRPF Group Centre at Lethpora in south Kashmir was executed under a conspiracy to avenge the death of Noor Trali, who was killed in an encounter with security forces in December 2017. Irshad Reshi, who was arrested by the NIA in April 2019, was a key conspirator who provided logistic support like shelter and transport to the militants and conducted reconnaissance of the CRPF Group Centre before the attack. Five CRPF personnel were killed when JeM terrorists carried out the attack on the CRPF Group Centre during the intervening night of December 30 and 31, 2017. Three terrorists were killed retaliatory fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-orders-attaching-house-belonging-to-arrested-jem-terrorist-irshad-ahmed-reshi-889949.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Over 190% rise in active Covid-19 cases in Delhi in a month||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Delhi increased by around 190 per cent in a month with 84,087 people contracting the disease during the period, according to government data. There were 11,068 active Covid-19 cases on August 18. The number increased to a record 32,250 on Friday, an analysis of Delhi government's health bulletins showed. A similar trend was witnessed in June, when the number of active Covid-19 cases rose from 11,555 on June 1 to 28,329 on June 27. It, however, tapered off to 10,705 active cases by July 31. On August 4, it dropped below the 10,000-mark for the first time since May 30 and stood at 9,897, owing to a good recovery rate and less new cases. But just when it seemed the number might drop further, it started rising again with an increase in new cases. The city reported 14,040 active Covid-19 cases on August 29. The number increased to 15,870 on September 1. The upward trend in active cases continued and the count stood at 20,909 on September 6. The number rose to 25,416 on September 10. It crossed the 30,000-mark for the first time on September 16 (30,914). The national capital has recorded 84,087 Covid-19 cases since August 18 -- 2,712 cases a day on an average. Since September 1, the city has recorded 61,768 cases -- 3,431 cases a day on an average. According to Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, the increase in testing has led to the rise in the number of new coronavirus cases. As many as 61,037 tests were conducted on Thursday, 60,014 on Wednesday, 62,593 on Tuesday and 62,669 on Monday. Around 12,000 tests a day were being conducted in June. The authorities reported 4,127 new cases on Friday, 4,432 on Thursday, 4,473 -- the highest single-day spike so far -- on Wednesday, and 4,263 on Tuesday. The rise in the number of new cases has also led to a 35 per cent increase in the demand for beds in hospitals in the city. The occupancy of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients was 25 per cent on August 18, with only 3,539 out of 14,121 beds being occupied. It increased to 45 per cent on Saturday, with 7,022 out of 15,321 beds being occupied, according to data shared by the hospitals on Delhi Corona app. Jain on Saturday said there has been a downward trend in Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital and it will lead to good results by next week. "The positivity rate was 6.76 per cent on Friday. It has remained below 7 per cent in the last 2-3 days. Last week, it was around 8 per cent," he said. The cumulative positivity rate has also dropped below 10 per cent for the first time, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-190-rise-in-active-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-in-a-month-889968.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra accuses Yogi govt of dithering on giving jobs to 4,000 Urdu teachers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday accused the Yogi Adityanath government of obstructing the appointment of over 4,000 Urdu teachers who have already cleared the test for the job. "Had a conversation with 4,000 Urdu teacher aspirants. All the aspirants came in the merit list, and are eligible to get jobs. But, the government is putting up obstructions in their way of getting jobs. The BJP Government in UP should be in the role of providing jobs, but it is working to obstruct appointments," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Reacting to her tweet, UP BJP media co-convenor Navin Srivastava, said, "Some of the recruitment processes have been held up because of technical reasons. But the government is trying to remove all obstructions and resolve them at the earliest." He also said the recruitments made during the BJP regime under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath may have been at a slow pace, but transparent and free from corruption. Srivastava also asked Gandhi if she supports the way appointments were made by the Congress-backed Akhilesh Yadav government and which later came under the scanner. "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and her party had given a slogan before the 2017 UP Assembly polls -- 25 saal, UP behaal' (25 years, UP in poor condition). And, later they contested the polls with the so-called 'vikaas purush' (Akhilesh Yadav). “Many of the recruitments made during that government came under the scanner. Priyanka should tell whether she supports the way the recruitments took place during the Samajwadi Party rule in UP," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-accuses-yogi-govt-of-dithering-on-giving-jobs-to-4000-urdu-teachers-889969.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Pakistan uses drone to drop weapons in Jammu & Kashmir's Rajouri; 3 LeT terrorists arrested||Pakistan dropped weapons and some cash in Indian currency using a drone in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, Director General of Police Dilbag Singh on Saturday said, announcing the arrest of three LeT terrorists who had picked up the consignment near the Line of Control. Singh said the major success was achieved on Friday evening, following a well-coordinated joint operation by police and 38 Rashtriya Rifles in Rajouri sector of Jammu region, frustrating Pakistan's design to step up violence and disturb the prevailing peace in the Union Territory. "All the three Lashker-e-Taiba terrorists were residents of Kashmir and had come to pick up the consignment, which was dropped by Pakistan on this side using a drone," the DGP, who was flanked by Inspector General of Police (IGP), Jammu Division, Mukesh Singh, told reporters in Rajouri district. The IGP informed this was the third successful operation in the twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch since September 11. Earlier, a huge consignment of arms and ammunition was recovered from two people in Balakote sector of Poonch three days later 11 kg of heroin worth Rs 11 crore, meant to fund terrorism activities, was seized in Rajouri district. "Pakistan and its agencies always remain active and are making every effort to disturb peace and law and order in J-K. It is using drones to drop weapons and narcotics and also push terrorists from both Rajouri and Poonch districts, which had witnessed a spurt in ceasefire violations - almost on a daily basis," the DGP said. However, he said the police, Army and other forces are working together to scuttle Pakistan's design and to maintain peace and law and order in the Union Territory. "We are enjoying good operational synergy and the latest arrest of three LeT terrorists and seizure of a huge cache of arms and ammunition was its result. We received information about movement of some suspicious people and accordingly launched the cordon and search operation," he said. He said three people were seen moving with a bag and were challenged but they hurled a grenade, which luckily did not explode and the trio was overpowered. The search of the bag led to the recovery of two AK-56 rifles, two pistols, four grenades and Rs 1 lakh in Indian currency, which had smuggled from Pakistan to escalate violence, Dilbag Singh said it came to light that the consignment was dropped on this side of the LoC by Pakistan using the drone and the trio, who hail from Kashmir, had come to pick up the consignment. "Their interrogation is underway and further details will be shared later," he said. In response to questions, he said Pakistan is doing its best to revive terrorism in the twin districts of Poonch and Rajouri, which falls in Jammu division and were cleared of militancy over a decade back. "The people of Rajouri and Poonch are peace loving and they will not allow Pakistan to succeed in its design. There are some elements with whom we will deal sternly," he said. He termed the dropping of weapons through drones as a "big challenge" and said this is the first such aerial drop in the district though a similar attempt was foiled by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the International Border in Kathua district sometime back. "This is a hilly terrain and drones just bypass the deployment on the LoC," he said, adding that "we are vigilant to the threat and have taken necessary measures". On the recovery of a large number of US-made rifles in the recent past, the DGP said that "we have recovered such types of rifles like M-4 and M-16 in large numbers in the past as well. These rifles are duplicate weapons manufactured in Pakistan and are being smuggled by LeT and Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists". The IGP said on September 11, police and Army arrested two people and recovered a cache of arms and ammunition, including three pistols, 11 grenades, improvised explosive device (IED) material and a pen drive, frustrating terrorists plan to carry out target killings and blasts in Poonch district. "The arrest and recovery was made from Balakote sector of Poonch. The pen drive contains details of assembling and planting the IED," he said. In another operation on September 14, one person was arrested with 7 kg heroin in Rajouri and later at his disclosure one more arrest was made from Kulgam district of south Kashmir. Three residents of Poonch were also arrested and their questioning led to the recovery of 4 kg of  heroin from the same spot from where the earlier consignment of 7 kg was dumped after smuggling from across the border, he said. The IGP said the money from the heroin was meant to support terrorism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-uses-drone-to-drop-weapons-in-jammu-kashmirs-rajouri-3-let-terrorists-arrested-889995.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Elephant electrocuted to death in Jharkhand||An elephant died after coming in contact with a live wire in Jharkhand on Saturday, a senior forest officer said. The incident took place in a village adjoining Bhelwatand forest along the border of Ranchi and Chatra districts, Ranchi Divisional Forest Officer Ashok Kumar Dubey said. "A 35-year-old female elephant, which was part of a 22-strong herd, came in contact with a live wire illegally connected to an irrigation pump," Dubey told PTI. A case was registered against the person, on whose field the wire was laid, and the matter is being investigated, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elephant-electrocuted-to-death-in-jharkhand-890004.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Financial package to help revive businesses, says Kashmir industry||Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) on Saturday welcomed the financial package announced by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha for the revival of business in the Union Territory, saying it will give a push to the economy. "First of all, it is a very good beginning because it was on our demand that the LG formed a time-bound committee. We appreciate the work done by the committee and appreciate their efforts that they could deliver their report in time," KCCI president Sheikh Aashiq told PTI. He said the financial package was the need of the hour. "For the last 14 months, the business fraternity was in a very bad shape and the economy was in big turbulence. This will at least give a push to the economy, if not wholly support it," Aashiq said. On the government's decision to provide an interest subvention of 5 per cent for six months, the KCCI president said the business fraternity in the UT had demanded it for a period of one year. "Though it has been announced for six months, it still is good," he said. Aashiq said the business fraternity appreciates the LG's remarks that this was not the end, but a beginning. "We expect the Centre will also come out with the support to the demands that we have raised, so that it becomes a comprehensive package," the KCCI president said. Earlier on Saturday, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha announced Rs 1,350 crore financial package for the revival of business in the UT which have been hit by the twin lockdowns over the abrogation of Article 370 last year the Covid pandemic this year. The package was announced after the recommendations of a high-level committee formed under the chairmanship of advisor to the Lt Governor, K K Sharma, for relief and revival of the business sector in Jammu and Kashmir. The administration also decided to provide an interest subvention of 5 per cent to all borrowers. The BJP's Kashmir unit said it is a big relief for the people during the Covid-19 crisis. The party's Kashmir media-incharge Manzoor Bhat, in a statement, expressed hope the package will boost the ailing business sector in the region. "On behalf of every BJP worker in Kashmir, I extend my thanks to LG Manoj Sinha administration and central leadership for this package. It will provide relief to poor, farmers, businessman and citizens. The initiative will help JK to become self-sufficient,” he said. Manzoor said the announcement of the package was the need of the hour. “It will bring much-needed relief to several stressed sectors and industries, especially small scale industries,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/financial-package-to-help-revive-businesses-says-kashmir-industry-890020.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Why is SAD still with NDA, asks Amarinder Singh||Questioning the Akalis alliance with the NDA, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked the SAD to list "one pro-farmer initiative" persuaded by it with the BJP-led Centre in the past six years. Hitting out at Badals for "perpetuating lies" in the past few days on agriculture bills, he said they had "openly and shamelessly supported" these since the Ordinances were brought in. The chief minister, in a statement here, said SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had been fabricating lies on farm bills, which have been completely exposed. “Did either of you even once call the ordinances anti-farmer till they were presented in the Lok Sabha?” the chief minister asked Badals. “Did Harsimrat even once, till her resignation, tell farmers that she was trying to persuade the Central government to address their concerns – something she is now claiming?” he further asked. Questioning the Akalis alliance with the NDA, the chief minister further asked, “Why is SAD still part of the NDA given that, by Harsimrat's own admission, the BJP-led government failed to address the farmers' concerns she put before them?" Amarinder Singh also asked Harsimrat Kaur and Sukhbir Badal if they can cite even one pro-farmer initiative that they might have undertaken in over past six years to persuade the BJP-led government at the Centre to act on it. The chief minister said the people of Punjab, especially the farmers, will not forgive them. “The ordinances, which you had been shamefacedly supporting all through till you decided to back off under political compulsions of the fear of losing your farmers’ vote-bank, were never discussed or even mentioned at the high-powered meetings – a fact on which your coalition partners either deliberately kept in you in dark or which you consciously choose to ignore in your own petty interest,” he told the Badals. Unlike the SAD, the Congress had maintained a consistent stand against the ordinances which the Centre introduced on the sly amid the pandemic and then pushed through the Lok Sabha by the sheer brute majority, Amarinder said. The Badals should stop lying on such a critical issue, and instead, come out in the open fight against the NDA coalition by withdrawing from the alliance, said the chief minister. He added that their claims of standing shoulder to shoulder with farmers were "hollow and false" as long as they continued to lie on the subject and remained a part of the "anti-farmer" Central Government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-is-sad-still-with-nda-asks-amarinder-singh-890043.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Man shoots 74-year-old mother over property dispute||A 74-year-old woman was shot dead by her younger son over a family dispute on her insistence to partition her agricultural land equally among her two sons and two married daughters, police said on Saturday. Savitri Devi, who had lost her husband a month ago, was shot at by her younger son Harendra from point-blank range at their residence in the Govindpuri area of Modi Nagar on Friday night, with the bullet hitting the victim’s temple and killing her at the spot, said Superintendent of Police (Rural) Neeraj Kumar Jadaun. On being informed about the incident, the police rushed to the spot and sent the body for the postmortem, he said, adding police also recovered a country-made pistol from the scene of the crime. According to the complaint, lodged by women’s elder son Dharmendra, his younger brother was opposed to the mother’s plan to divide the farming land also among the two married sisters, one of whom had been living at their house for the last few days, said Jadaun. On Dharmendra’s complaint, police arrested Harendra and launched a probe into the roles of his wife and some other unknown persons in the murder conspiracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-shoots-74-year-old-mother-over-property-dispute-890070.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||5 sentenced to life imprisonment for killing sant in Mathura in 2015||A local court sentenced four men and a woman to life imprisonment for the killing of a sant in Mathura district of Uttar Pradesh in 2015, according to the prosecution. Additional district and sessions judge P K Singh awarded the sentence to the convicts and imposed fine of Rs 6,000 on each of them. The convicts are Dau, his brother Pappi, mother Shakuntala, uncle Lal Singh and Shyam Sundar, all residents of Saitari Ghat village in the Baldeo police station area of the district. According to additional district government counsel Mukesh Babu Goswami, the 47-year-old sant, Ranvir Singh alias Ram Ramaiya Baba, was killed on December 7, 2015 and his body dumped in the Yamuna river by the convicts following a tiff. All but one convicts were present in the court during sentencing. Lal Singh is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Agra under police custody. All five were arrested earlier after a complaint was filed against them by the brother of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-for-killing-sant-in-mathura-in-2015-890074.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops shell two sectors along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistani troops engaged in firing and mortar shelling on forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday evening in violation of a ceasefire agreement, a defence spokesman said. The firing and shelling in Degwar and Malti sectors started from across the border around 9.15 pm, the spokesman said, adding that the Indian Army retaliated befittingly. He said Pakistan initiated the unprovoked ceasefire violation in the two sectors and the exchange of fire between the two sides was going on when last reports were received. However, there was no report of any casualty in the Pakistani firing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-shell-two-sectors-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-890079.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: No garba pandals in Madhya Pradesh, Durga idol height capped||The Madhya Pradesh government on Saturday said garba pandals will not be allowed this year due to the coronavirus outbreak while idols for Durga Utsav must not be more than six feet. The decisions, which includes one that restricts the size of pandals and tableaux to 100 square feet, were taken in a review meet chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said officials. District collectors have been told to ensure crowd control during festivities to curb the spread of infection, they added. Only 10 people will allowed to take part in idol immersion, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-no-garba-pandals-in-madhya-pradesh-durga-idol-height-capped-890084.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Ahead of session, 5 Gujarat Assembly staff test positive||Five out of 506 people who were tested for novel coronavirus ahead of the five-day session of the Gujarat Assembly starting on Monday have been detected with the infection, officials said on Saturday. Covid-19 tests were conducted on Speaker Rajendra Trivedi and 505 staff members of the Assembly over the past two days, and five had been found to be infected, a release said. It added that Trivedi had tested negative, while those whose reports returned positive comprised two staff members and three security personnel. "As per the direction of Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi, on September 18 and 19, all Vidhan Sabha officers, employees, security branch personnel, Class III employees, sweepers, police, totalling 506 people, were tested for Covid- 19 through rapid antigen test," it said. Covid-19 tests will also be conducted on all 172 legislators on Sunday before they are allowed entry into the Assembly building to attend the session, Health Minister Nitin Patel said. Media personnel covering Assembly proceedings will also have to get Covid-19 negative certificates to gain access to the building, Patel said on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-ahead-of-session-5-gujarat-assembly-staff-test-positive-890085.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Nabbed scribe's YouTube has 327 videos on many issues||Arrested freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, who has been booked under Official Secrets Act, uploaded over 300 videos on several issues, including on India-China relations, on his YouTube channel since December. According to information available on his YouTube channel Rajeev Kishkindha, it was created on December 17, 2019 and has over 12,000 subscribers. He also has nearly 6,33,600 views on his channel. There are 327 videos on his channel in which he discusses many topics, including international issues. On September 14, the day he was arrested by the Delhi Police's Special Cell, Sharma had posted his last video on India-China face-off. The Delhi Police on Saturday said Sharma was allegedly passing sensitive information about India's border strategy and Army's deployment and procurement to Chinese intelligence agencies. Special Cell DCP Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said police are investigating what information Sharma had allegedly passed on to Chinese intelligence officers through his social media accounts and email ID. Based on Sharma's statement during interrogation, a Chinese woman and her Nepalese associate were also arrested Saturday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nabbed-scribes-youtube-has-327-videos-on-many-issues-890097.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||31 farmers' outfits join forces for September 25 Punjab 'bandh'||Thirty-one farmers' bodies in Punjab on Saturday joined hands to make the September 25 “bandh” against the agriculture-related Bills introduced in Parliament by the Centre a success. Representatives of the farmers' outfits held a meeting in this regard at Moga on Saturday. A call for a 'rail roko' agitation has already been given by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee from September 24 to 26. Among the major farmers' unions which supported the “bandh” call are the Bharti Kisan Union (Krantikari); Kirti Kisan Union; Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan); BKU (Lakhowal); BKU (Kadiyan); BKU (Sidhupur); BKU (Doaba) and BKU (Dakunda), said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the three Bills will pave a way for dismantling the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. The three legislations--Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill--were passed by the Lok Sabha recently. These will now be tabled in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/31-farmers-outfits-join-forces-for-september-25-punjab-bandh-890102.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||149 people fined for not wearing face masks in Jammu||As many as 149 people were fined on Saturday for allegedly violating Covid-19 protocol by not wearing face masks at public places here, police said. A fine to the tune of Rs 74,500 was collected from the violators in different parts of Jammu district, a police spokesman said. He said police acted tough against the violators amid a spike in coronavirus cases. “Jammu Police have once again requested the general public to follow the directions issued by government in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Also, those who are found violating the restrictions will be dealt strictly," the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/149-people-fined-for-not-wearing-face-masks-in-jammu-890105.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Wanting son, man rips open pregnant wife's stomach in Uttar Pradesh||In a shocking incident, a man tried to 'rip' his seven-month pregnant wife's stomach allegedly to know if she was carrying a male child at Nekpur locality in Uttar Pradesh's Badayun district on Saturday. The couple has five daughters. While the man was arrested, the woman, who suffered serious injuries, was admitted to a hospital where her condition was stated to be critical. Sources said that the man, identified as Panna Lal, desperately wanted a son and he often quarreled with his wife over the issue as he did not want another girl child.  The couple had a heated exchange on Saturday evening on the same issue after which an infuriated Panna Lal took a sickle and tried to rip his wife's stomach. ''Panna Lal kept shouting that he would find out whether his wife carried a son,'' said one of the eyewitnesses.  Panna Lal fled the scene after the neighbours rushed to rescue his wife after hearing her cries. She was rushed to the district hospital from where she was referred to Bareilly Medical College Hospital, sources said. The accused was arrested from a hideout a little later, police sources said. Police said that preliminary investigations revealed that Panna Lal might have been under the influence of some 'tantrik' (exorcist) and might have perpetrated the crime on his instruction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wanting-son-man-rips-open-pregnant-wifes-stomach-in-uttar-pradesh-890106.html
19-09-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Lockdown in Raipur district, some other urban areas||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in Chhattisgarh's Raipur, the local administration on Saturday announced lockdown in the district between September 21-28. Raipur Collector S Bharathi Dasan issued an order declaring Raipur district as a containment zone and restricted several activities from 9 pm on September 21 till midnight of September 28, a state public relations department official said. "Raipur district has so far reported over 26,000 Covid-19 cases and 900-1000 cases are being recorded daily. To break the chain of transmission, it has become necessary to declare the entire district a containment zone. Inter-district borders in Raipur will remain sealed during this duration," the order said. All Central, state and semi government as well as private offices will remain closed while no public meeting or rally will be allowed, though government staff engaged in prevention and control of Covid-19 will continue to work as earlier, it said. "All shops and commercial establishments, including grocery shops will be closed during the period. Medical shops will be allowed to remain open while home deliveries of medicines will be given priority. Milk shops will be open from 6am to 8am and then 5pm to 6:30pm," an official said. Petrol pumps will provide fuel only to government vehicles, private vehicles engaged in medical emergency and ambulances. LPG cylinder distributors are allowed to take orders only via telephone and provide home delivery, while liquor shops will remain closed. The order said industrial houses and construction units will have to make on-site residential arrangements for their labourers. Essential services, like health, electricity and water supply, sanitation works and emergency services have been kept out of the purview of restrictions, and those needing to move out of the district will need an e-pass, an official said. Lockdown has also been imposed in seven urban bodies in Bilaspur from September 22 morning till September 28 midnight, while it will be between September 20-30 in six areas, including Durg and Bhilai. Moreover, Ambikapur municipal corporation area in Surguja district has also been declared as a containment zone from 9 pm on September 21 till September 28 midnight, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-lockdown-in-raipur-district-some-other-urban-areas-890109.html
19-09-2020||Opinion||Ruth Bader Ginsburg knew what to do with her time||“Now I happen to be the oldest,” Ruth Bader Ginsburg told me in 2015 when she was still 81 and I was asking her about retirement for a piece in this newspaper. “But John Paul Stevens didn’t step down until he was 90.” She was good at extending the deadline. For a long time, she would point out that Justice Louis Brandeis didn’t retire until 82. Then, when she approached that mark, she found a new goalpost. Now that she’s gone, the world is talking about her achievements as the defining liberal light in the Supreme Court in the Trump administration. But naturally, the age thing comes up as well. Lots of liberals urged her to retire during the administration of Barack Obama, so the president could nominate a successor who reflected her principles. You saw lots of opinion pieces with headlines like “Justice Ginsburg, Resign Already!” Her argument was that it never would have worked. “And who do you think Obama could have nominated and got confirmed that you’d rather see on the court?” she asked. Well, nobody. But even some of her fans wondered if she shouldn’t step down just to make way for a sane moderate. Then in 2014, Republicans won control of the Senate, and there was nothing left to discuss. Mitch McConnell slowed the process to a crawl. The whole point was to pile up a huge stack of nominations for the next Republican president to fill. Even when the pile began to seem shocking, McConnell never had a shade of a doubt that his job was to refuse to let the system work until the Republicans controlled it. After Antonin Scalia died, Obama picked the most moderate, acceptable-to-everybody justice in sight, Merrick Garland. McConnell never even let him have a hearing. And Ruth Bader Ginsburg, understanding this part very clearly, hung in there. Through colon cancer, pancreatic cancer, a coronary stent and two tumours in her lung. She was down to 100 pounds and even those defiant workout performances were no longer possible. She must have been at least occasionally tempted to retire and hope for the best. But she knew something about the unreliability of happy endings. And within hours of her death, McConnell made it clear that she was right, vowing to push for a vote on a successor while completely ignoring his argument, during the Obama years, that the Senate shouldn’t consider any new justices during the last days of a presidential administration. The second woman ever appointed to the Supreme Court, Ginsburg was great friends with the first woman, Sandra Day O’Connor. O’Connor, a Republican appointee, was famous for her moderate philosophy, her willingness to go with either side. O’Connor retired at 75 to spend more time with her husband, John. He was suffering from Alzheimer’s disease, and O’Connor wanted to make his last years as full of companionship and good times as possible. But there wasn’t any time. John O’Connor deteriorated much faster than his wife had expected. “John was in such bad shape she couldn’t keep him at home,” Ginsburg told me. It was a lesson, maybe, in how even the noblest motives aren’t always enough reason to throw in the towel. Ginsburg kept fighting and working in part because she knew she was playing a major role in history. She came up as part of that first generation of women who proved they could mix families and careers, who stunned the authority figures in even the most demanding parts of their profession with their determination. While she was in law school at Harvard, her husband came down with testicular cancer. She went to his classes, brought him back notes, took care of their little girl ... and made the law review. When she was old and frequently sick she still kept on keeping on. Her worries about problems with naming a successor were real. But there was also just the way she lived her life. There are some American heroes who never do appreciate the concept of taking it easy. She avoided retirement in part because it was just her character to always continue fighting. I’ll bet if Hillary Clinton — or any moderate Republican — had won the last election, Ginsburg would have still wanted to hang in there. But we’ll never know. She was certainly a total realist about the prospects of President Donald Trump picking a middle-of-the-road successor. This is the moment the Republican right has been waiting for. When we celebrate the amazing achievements of Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s life it’s impossible not to also regret that the ending came when it did. “My most fervent wish is that I will not be replaced until a new president is installed,” she said right before she died. Ours too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ruth-bader-ginsburg-knew-what-to-do-with-her-time-889719.html
19-09-2020||Opinion||Donald Trump's nasty nicknames spreading like a virus||In an interview Tuesday morning with Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, CNBC host Jim Cramer addressed her as “Crazy Nancy.” Here’s the transcript: Jim Cramer: What deal can we have, Crazy Nancy?  I’m sorry, that was the President. I have such reverence for the office. I would never use that term, but it is – Speaker Pelosi: But you just did. [Laughter] But you just did. Cramer: Oh, come on, you know what I mean. You know what I mean. Pelosi: I know what you meant, I do. Cramer later apologized, saying, “I made a very stupid mistake.” President Donald Trump tweeted back: "Jim, you didn’t make a mistake. It’s true, and that’s why you said it. No pandering!"  Taken by itself, the incident is merely revolting. But it reveals some larger truths. Let’s assume what is probably the case: Cramer had no conscious intention of addressing the speaker of the House as "Crazy Nancy." But Trump’s ugly nickname stuck in his head, so that when he saw her face, that’s what came to mind. He used the term automatically and without reflection. There is a clue here about the immense power of ugly nicknames — and also of deception and lies. With respect to statements of fact, human beings show “truth bias”: people tend to think that what they hear is truthful, even when explicitly told that it is false, or otherwise have excellent reason not to believe it. Indeed, research shows that a real-time disclosure that a statement is untrue may not be enough to stop us from remembering it as true, and potentially from repeating it later, with conviction. It’s hard to get some things out of our heads, even if they are accompanied with strong disclaimers. (Social media platforms, are you paying attention?) It follows that if you are told that some public official is a crazy or a crook, you might continue to believe that in some part of your mind — even if you know, on reflection, that she’s perfectly sane and entirely honest. Ugly nicknames often contain falsehoods. But whether or not they do, they can define their objects. High school students know this, and so does Trump. There are two dangers here. The first involves character assassination and its effects in business, elections and ordinary life. If high-level officials are using that strategy, and if it is working, others will do the same thing. Social norms can unravel in a hurry. Ugliness feeds on itself. Trump has been unleashing a lot of it, with devastating effects on individuals and institutions. The second danger involves the risks of literal violence. If people are described as crooked or crazy, as criminals or as traitors, or as guilty of sedition, they become dehumanized, and they are more likely to be hurt. There are two remedies. The first is to call out savagery for what it is. Cramer’s way of addressing the House speaker was savage, and his apology was not a matter of pandering. The second is to model something different, which is civility and grace. Abraham Lincoln gets the final words: We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battlefield and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union, when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/donald-trumps-nasty-nicknames-spreading-like-a-virus-889751.html
19-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Death be not proud!||The New Year began with a bang, especially for teachers, students and alumni of Sri Vidya Mandir Education Society. It was the golden jubilee year of the school and was being celebrated with much fanfare through a series of functions. The gala fete rolled from one day to another and gained new momentum. The grand dame responsible for this festivity thought like Robert Browning. “God is in his heaven—All is right with the world.” She enjoyed all the attention, acknowledgment and admiration from the thousands of lives she had helped evolve. At the same time, the octogenarian became increasingly conscious of Robert Frost whispering to her that she had miles to go before sleep! She brainstormed fresh ideas with renewed zeal to make her fifty-year-old project more accomplished than ever before.  Leela Miss, as she was popularly known, was well known for her successful life and career. She seemed to be working Leelas – miracles!  Yet as all of us know, Rome was not built in a day! This extremely enterprising educationist, who came to Bengaluru as a young bride, had the choice to lead a normal secure life. Yet she chose to take the road less travelled by and that made all the difference!  She dared to head a school with a grand total of three students. Her genuine love for children and learning inspired her to leave no stone unturned to make her dream school come true. She worked day and night, walked in and out of courtrooms to secure the rightful needs of her school premises. Over the last half-century, she built an efficient like-minded team to cater to holistic education for she was aware that the child is the father of man!  Work was worship to her. She never slacked nor did allow anyone in her radius to slack. The thousands of condolence messages, nostalgic trivia, photographs and videos that flooded the social media within a couple of hours of her passing were testament to her charismatic character and alluring accomplishments in her chosen field.  Even in her death, Covid-19 restrictions could not thwart her ability to enable virtual bonding among the lives she touched.  I picture my beloved teacher who taught me to appreciate poetry in my formative years smiling from the heavens and reciting John Donne’s sonnet, enunciating each word in her signature style, coaxing the meaning out of the verse, “Death! Be Not Proud”!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/death-be-not-proud-889673.html
19-09-2020||Second Edit||Life on Venus? That would be interesting||Indications of the presence in ample measure of a chemical, phosphine, in the atmosphere of Venus, has given rise to speculation about the existence of life on the planet. Phosphine, a compound of phosphorus and hydrogen, is a biomarker as it is given out by some microbes during biochemical processes. The chemical is present in other planets, and it is produced by many natural processes. But there is something special about its presence in the atmosphere of Venus. Venus had volcanic activity long ago. The phosphine produced by the volcanoes could not have survived for very long in an atmosphere heavy with carbon dioxide. Though the chemistry of the decomposition of phosphine in such an environment is not fully understood, it is considered unusual for it to be present in large quantities in the atmosphere of Venus. Known science does not fully explain it.  The finding was made by Cardiff University astronomers and has been published in Nature Astronomy. More research is needed on the subject. Venus is the earth’s close neighbour and has a rocky surface but is extremely hot and has a dense atmosphere. It is covered by clouds of acid. Probes from the US have tried to get more data about the planet, and there will be greater interest now due to the speculation about life there. The conditions on Venus are considered to have been moderate once, with liquid water flowing on the surface and perhaps even supporting life. It is speculated that the presence of phosphine could be a legacy of the times when some forms of life existed there. Or some life forms could have survived or sprouted later.  Speculation about extra-terrestrial life gets a boost once in a while with new information. The discovery of microbes that live on arsenic in a lake in the US or that of a dwarf star that has planets resembling the earth were recent triggers. Phosphine on Venus may or may not be a sign of life, and we have to wait for future explorations of the planet for clarity on that. NASA has planned a probe for next year; ISRO has a mission planned for 2023. The idea of extra-terrestrial life has always aroused curiosity and excitement, and we have been looking for it in planets hundreds of light-years away. The possibility of its presence next door is of special interest. But our idea of life and life forms is limited by our experience of it. Would we be able to recognise it when it pops up in the most unlikely form in the unlikeliest of places?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/life-on-venus-that-would-be-interesting-889669.html
19-09-2020||South||Opposition's protests against Kerala minister are anti-Quran, says CPI(M)||The CPI(M) termed the protests staged by Opposition parties demanding the resignation of Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel as an “anti-Quran agitation”. Jaleel was grilled by the Enforcement Directorate over alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) by accepting consignments of the Holy Quran brought from UAE through diplomatic channels. He also appeared before the National Investigation Agency probing the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage. “IUML is adding fire to the anti-Quran agitation of RSS. Congress will also be with IUML in that act. We are opposing the agitation against Quran on the ground that no religious text should become subject of ridicule,” he wrote in his weekly column. On the other hand, the Opposition rejected Balakrishnan’s claims and accused the LDF of communalising the issue. “The government has lost its face. Using the Quran for political ends is dangerous,” Congress state president Mullappally Ramachandran told the publication. As per the report, attacking the CPI(M), the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) national general secretary P K Kunhalikutty said that the CPI(M) and Jaleel should answer to the allegations related to the gold smuggling. Adding to that, BJP state chief K Surendran also said that the CPI(M) is trying to project Jaleel as the symbol of a religion. “It is communalising the issue,” he told The Indian Express. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said at least 385 cases had been registered and 1,131 people arrested for taking part in "various violent protests" against Jaleel in the past week, demanding his resignation. The CPI(M) countered the Customs claim, saying that the Protocol Department under the state government was not approached by the UAE Consulate authorities for attestation of the tax exemption certificate for consignments of Holy Quraan because as per rule, exemption certificate cannot be given to religious books imported from a foreign country. The party claimed as per rule, it is specifically stated that Exemption Certificate (EC) should not be given to religious books and the consulate officials never approached the state protocol officer for getting the attestation of the EC. Meanwhile, Jaleel hit out at the media for targeting him over the issue. In a Facebook post, Jaleel said he sympathises with media friends who provide live details of his movements and the places of his stay during his journey, which help those protesters who target him on roads. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/oppositions-protests-against-kerala-minister-are-anti-quran-says-cpim-889764.html
19-09-2020||South||Telangana reports 2,123 new Covid-19 cases, nine deaths||Telangana added 2,123 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the total infection count to 1,69,169, while death toll rose to 1,025 with nine more fatalities. Out of the 2,123 fresh cases, 305 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Rangareddy (185), Medchal Malkajgiri (149), Nalgonda (135), Karimnagar (112) and other districts, a state government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 pm on September 18. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,37,508, while 30,636 were under treatment. The bulletin said 54,459 samples were tested on September 18. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested stood at 24,34,409. The samples tested per million population was 65,570, it said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.60 per cent, while it was 1.61 per cent at the national level, it said. The recovery rate in the state rose to 81.28 per cent, while it was 79.26 per cent in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-2123-new-covid-19-cases-nine-deaths-889787.html
19-09-2020||South||Understanding between CM, Dy CM like Lord Rama, Lakshmana: Tamil Nadu Minister||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam have an excellent understanding similar to what was seen between Lord Rama and his brother Lakshmana, Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar said here on Saturday. The duo was leading the party with military-like discipline, he told reporters answering a question on Friday's party meet vis-a-vis claims of differences on some issues between the top two leaders. Both the leaders have about 1.5 crore cadres bound by love and they were taking along everybody with motherly affection, he said. Some news reports on the party meet and alleged differences were aimed at mere sensationalism, Udhayakumar, a Madurai-based party leader said adding, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam "have a very good understanding like the one between Rama and Lakshmana and this is the Satyam (truth)." Taking potshots at the DMK without naming it, he said there were no takers for its initiatives like 'Ondrinaivom Va," whereas young people flocked to the AIADMK. The ruling party on Friday took stock of the political developments including the possible release of V K Sasikala from prison in January 2021 and announced convening its executive committee meeting for a consultative process on the strategy for the Assembly polls next year. The Minister's remark comes against the background of reportage in a section of media over alleged differences between Panneerselvam and Palaniswami like the one related to setting up a steering committee to lead the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/understanding-between-cm-dy-cm-like-lord-rama-lakshmana-tamil-nadu-minister-889819.html
19-09-2020||South||Puducherry to seek expertise of WHO chief scientist over Covid-19 death rate, says CM||Jolted by the two per cent Covid-19 fatality rate here, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Saturday said the territorial government would consult the World Health Organization (WHO) for steps to reduce the rate. Addressing reporters here, the Chief Minister said a meeting has been planned with WHO chief scientist Sowmya Swaminathan next week, to get suggestions and recommendations to cut the death rate. "Once again, we will have a meeting with Sowmya Swaminathan and officials of the Health Department of Puducherry on the issue," he said. Swaminathan visited Puducherry sometime ago and came to know of the measures taken to battle the pandemic. Stating that the recovery rate was around 77 per cent in Puducherry and the fatality rate should be specifically looked at, he said he was unhappy over the continued carelessness on the part of the people in adhering to the Covid-19 safety norms. The Chief Minister said one could see a large turnout of guests at weddings and funerals, which could lead to infection. He voiced concern over the people not cooperating with medical teams during their visit to the residences to collect details of the health status of the household. He said infrastructure was available in the government-run and private medical college hospitals. Therefore, he said, people having even the slightest of symptoms of coronavirus should not delay or hesitate to approach hospitals. "We have already utilised the funds from the Chief Minister's Covid-19 Fund and also from the budget of the Health Department," he said. Narayanasamy said the Centre has not come to the rescue despite several pleas for financial support to tackle the pandemic. Under such circumstances, he said, industrialists, businessmen, traders and members of the public should contribute liberally to help the government meet its expenditure. Strengthening manpower and augmenting infrastructure have already been done by the government. Meanwhile, the Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, speaking to reporters through virtual press conference, said the pandemic appears to continue for the next five months. Hence, he said, people should be more careful and cautious in observing safety protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-to-seek-expertise-of-who-chief-scientist-over-covid-19-death-rate-says-cm-889849.html
19-09-2020||South||DMK convenes allies' meet on September 21 to shape strategy against Centre's farm bills||The DMK on Saturday announced a meeting of its allies here on September 21 to deliberate on the next course of action over farm bills that were adopted by the Lok Sabha alleging these would lead to hoarding of agricultural produce by corporates. The bills would "lead to hoarding of farm produce by the corporates and adversely affect the support price," DMK chief M K Stalin alleged adding, farmers were protesting across the country since the move by the Centre was "against" them. Singling out the AIADMK, he hit out at the archrival for supporting the Centre on the issue and mocked Chief Minister K Palaniswami for claiming to be a farmer and yet backing the bills. The AIADMK regime's support "proved" that it was "subservient" to the Centre,the DMK top leader alleged in a letter to party cadres. Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal went to the extent of resigning from the union council of ministers over the issue, he pointed out. The meeting of allies, scheduled to be held at "Anna Arivalayam" the DMK headquarters on Monday would be chaired by party president Stalin, the main opposition in Tamil Nadu said in a statement dubbing the farm bills as anti-farmer. The Congress, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the Indian Union Muslim League and the Left parties are among the allies of the DMK. Lok Sabha has passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, which seek to promote barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade in agricultural produce. Stalin, accusing the AIADMK of "talking lies in a high pitch", said the ruling party's "drama" would end in about six months with the Assembly elections scheduled for next year (April-May), and exuded confidence of his party capturing power. Stalin had on Friday said the new bills would sound a "death knell" to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-convenes-allies-meet-on-september-21-to-shape-strategy-against-centres-farm-bills-889909.html
19-09-2020||South||Telangana CM Chandrashekar Rao asks TRS MPs to reject 'anti-farmer' bills in Rajya Sabha||Telangana Chief Minister Chandrashekar Rao has expressed his opposition to the farmers’ Bills brought in by the Narendra Modi government, asking his MPs to vote against the legislation in the Rajya Sabha. The Farmer Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 were passed by the Lok Sabha and are slated for introduction in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. The Bills have become controversial with one alliance minister - Harsimrat Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal - resigning from the NDA government opposing their provisions. The BJP, which lacks a majority in the upper house, was banking on the support of the TRS, YSRCP and other parties to get the Bills passed. The TRS has seven MPs in the Rajya Sabha, while Jaganmohan Reddy’s YSRCP has six. On Saturday, Rao said the Bills would benefit the corporate sector while adversely impacting farmers. “For public consumption, the Bills state that farmers could sell their produce anywhere in the country. But is it possible for farmers to take their small produce to long distances areas bearing the heavy transport charges and sell at a good price? Effectively, these Bills would enable traders to go anywhere in the country to buy produce. The Bills would thus help the corporate lobby spread all over the country,” the chief minister said. “These Bills are sugar-coated pills and should be opposed at all costs. They would do a great injustice to the country’s farm sector,” Rao asserted. The Modi government is assuring that the Bills would enable farmers to get a good price for their produce. Rao also found fault with “the Central government's decision to reduce the import duty on corn while intending to import one crore tonne of corn.” “About 75 lakh tonnes of corn was purchased already. For whose benefit is this import duty reduced? When the country is going through an economic crisis, how is such a decision taken? What will happen to our own corn producers? the chief minister questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-chandrashekar-rao-asks-trs-mps-to-reject-anti-farmer-bills-in-rajya-sabha-889941.html
19-09-2020||South||West Bengal natives with Al-Qaeda links used migrant workers' cover in Kerala||The three men arrested by the NIA from Kerala for having Al-Qaeda links had been working as migrant workers with one of them living with his wife and two children in the state. The family members and roommates of the three, all hailing from Murshidabad, claimed that they had no suspicion about their activities. Sources in the state police intelligence wing also said that so far, they hadn't come across any sort of suspicions about the three, even as there were reports of many people who had illegally migrated to India through Murshidabad being present in the locality. The Kalamassery and Perumbavoor areas of Ernakulam, around 15 to 25 kilometres from Kochi city from where the three were held, are considered as migrant workers' hubs in Kerala. Over the last few years, around 100 Malayalis have joined the ISIS from Kerala but no specific cases of Al-Qaeda operatives in Kerala have been reported so far. Among the three held during the wee hours of Saturday, Mosaraf Hossein was the one staying with wife and two children at Vazhakulam near Perumbavoor. He was working at a textile shop in Perumbavoor over the last few months. Hossein's wife supposedly told the NIA that she was unaware of any sort of terrorist links of her husband. He reached Kerala as a migrant worker about ten years ago and was involved in various jobs. His family was said to be involved in agriculture in West Bengal. V C Chandran, a local ward member, also said that nobody had raised any suspicion about Hossein. Murshid Hasan, who was held in Pathalam near Kalamassery, was staying with five other West Bengal natives in a rented house over the last three months. His roommates said that he did not go to work on many days and would remain in the room. The NIA had examined his roommates and let them off. Iyakub Biswas, who was also held from Perumbavoor, earlier worked at a chappathi shop at Adimali in Idukki district. He landed in Perumbavoor only a few months ago. The arrest of three men has also brought to focus the safety issues pertaining to the uncontrolled flow of migrants, including illegal migrants from Bangladesh. Many West Bengal natives have also been held in criminal cases, including fake currency circulation and ganja trade. The executive director of the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development Benoy Petre, who has been conducting studies among the migrant workers in Kerala, said that 99.9% of the migrant workers come down for work only. Of the migrant workers from West Bengal in Kerala, 75% were from Murshidabad. At least 30% of the migrant workers in Ernakulam district were from Murshidabad, especially along the border areas of Domkal and Jalangi. Hence, the chances of West Bengal natives involved in unlawful activities preferring Kerala as a hideout could not be ruled out, he said. Even as studies suggested that the number of the migrant population in Kerala was over 20 lakh, the number of migrant workers who had enrolled with the Kerala government during the Covid-19 lockdown was only around four lakh. This also points to suspicions that many migrant workers could be illegal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/west-bengal-natives-with-al-qaeda-links-used-migrant-workers-cover-in-kerala-889951.html
19-09-2020||South||Extremely heavy rains predicted in Kerala; Red, Orange alerts issued||Extremely heavy rains have been forecast in Kerala's Idukki, Kannur and Kasaragod districts on Saturday and Sunday, prompting the IMD to sound a 'red alert' and authorities to take precautionary steps to shift people staying in disaster prone areas to safer places. According to the India Meteorological Department, a low pressure area is likely to develop over the North East Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around September 20 and under its influence widespread rains with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely over Kerala during September19-21. Several parts of the state have been receiving heavy rains in the past few days. Vadakara in Kozhikode received 10 cm rain, while Hosdurg (kasaragod) recorded 9 cm and Taliparambu in Kannur and Kudulu in Kasaragod received 7 cm each as per the weather report this morning. An orange alert (a warning indicating heavy to very heavy rain) has been issued for eight districts on Satuday and six on Sunday. In view of the alerts, the Navy, the Indian Air Force helicopters, Police, Fire Force, are all ready to swing into action in case of any emergency requests,according to sources. In districts where the Red and Orange alerts have been issued, people living in disaster prone areas would be shifted to camps as a precautionary measure. During night, as the rains are likely to intensify, people in areas prone to landslides and mudslides will be shifted to a safer places during the day time itself as a precautionary measure. Night travel in hilly areas from 7 pm to 7 am has been banned, Kerala State Disaster Management Authority said. Fishermen have been warned not to put out to sea as strong winds with speed reaching 45-55 kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala, Karnataka Coasts and over Lakshadweep area. A landslide triggered by heavy rains in the hilly district of Idukki on August 7 had flattened a row of dwelling units of tea estate workersat Pettimudi in Rajamalai claiming 66 lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/extremely-heavy-rains-predicted-in-kerala-red-orange-alerts-issued-889978.html
19-09-2020||South||42 MoUs inked during coronavirus lockdown; 3 new policies unveiled: Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu has signed 42 memoranda of understanding (MOUs) during the Covid-19 enforced lockdown while three policies in the information technology sector were launched on Saturday. The policies are on cyber security, block-chain and artificial intelligence, which were unveiled by Chief Minister K Palaniswami. "During the Covid-19 lockdown period, we signed 42 MoUs, involving an investment of Rs 31,464 crore with a potential to create 69,712 jobs," he said. The Chief Minister said this in an address during the valedictory session of the CONNECT 2020 organised by CII- Tamil Nadu. The block chain policy was the first of its kind in the country, ensuring transparency in the distribution of social welfare schemes by the government while enhancing cyber security in the state. Tamil Nadu safe and ethical artificial intelligence policy 2020 would enable the state reach its developmental goals in the IT sector, the policy said. Palaniswami said the state leads in information technology (IT) and Information Technology-enabled Services (ITeS). "The state continues to be the destination of choice for the IT/ITeS sector in the country. It has been upgrading its IT infrastructure in a dynamic manner to facilitate speedy access to information and delivery of various services of the government," he said. Stating that the government was gradually opening up to the economic activities by announcing relaxations, he said, "We have been attracting investments over the years and I'd like to mention that81 projects signed during the Global Investors Meet 2019 have commenced commercial production while another 191 are under various stages of implementation." The state attracted 63 projects with an investment of Rs 19,000 crore following his visit to the United States and United Arab Emirates that would create 83,300 jobs, the Chief Minister said. "The government aims to transform Tamil Nadu as the innovation hub and knowledge capital of the country through creation of worldclass institutions in various fields," he said. To revolutionise the way government services were offered to citizens, a knowledge proof identity-based services delivery project would be implemented by establishing and leveraging the state family data base and block chain backbone infrastructure, he said. "This pioneering initiative will take government to the citizens thus eliminating the need for the citizens to request G2C (government to citizen) services. The ambitious BharatNet and TamilNet projects will be implemented to connect 12,524 village panchayats of the state with 1Gbps high-speed connectivity," he said. "It is our endeavour to work with industry in addressing and resolving all the issues impacting the economic and industrial growth of the state," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/42-mous-inked-during-coronavirus-lockdown-3-new-policies-unveiled-palaniswami-889999.html
19-09-2020||South||Gas filled balloons explode during PM Narendra Modi's birthday fete in Tamil Nadu||A huge bunch of balloons burst into a ball of fire after sparks from firecrackers punctured them just before release during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's weeklong birthday celebrations here injuring a number of people, police said on Saturday. The incident occured when BJP members, all set to release the balloons, burst firecrackers while garlanding a farmers wing state level office-bearer, Muthuraman at Padi on Friday. The BJP is celebrating Modi's birthday (September 17) as "Seva Diwas" for a week. Sparks, that emanated from the crackers punctured the balloons and in a trice they burst into a huge ball of fire, prompting party workers to take to their heels and the blaze dissipated in moments, police said. The BJP members had planned to release a hundred hydrogen-filled balloons into the air and the mild explosion caused minor injuries to a number of people who were admitted to the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital for treatment,they said. Since the event was held without permission, the Korattur police booked a case against the organisers and a brief video of the freak accident went viral in social media. While the party cadres were holding hundreds of balloons filled with hydrogen gas, sparks from firecrackers hit some balloons and in no time all balloons burst leading to a fire, police said. Meanwhile,a case was booked against BJP state unit chief L Murugan and others for taking out a "chariot ride" in violation of prohibitory orders clamped in view of the coronavirus pandemic and for alleged "unlawful" assembly. Also, a case was registered for putting up illegal banners,they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gas-filled-balloons-explode-during-pm-narendra-modis-birthday-fete-in-tamil-nadu-890009.html
19-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 5,569 fresh Covid-19 cases, 66 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Saturday registered 5,569 new coronavirus cases taking the aggregate to 5.36 lakh, while the toll mounted to 8,751 with 66 more deaths. Chennai shared 987, Coimbatore 565, Salem 286, Chengalpet 293, Tiruvallur 282, and Kancheepuram 175 of the fresh infections and the rest scattered across various districts, a health department bulletin said. Of the 5.36 lakh plus positive cases, Chennai accounted for 1,54,624 till date. While the active cases stood at 46,453, as many as 5,556 patients got discharged from various hospitals, taking the total number of those recovered to 4.81 lakh. Of the 66 people who died, 56 had comorbidities. Nearly 34 patients who succumbed to the virus were above the age of 60 years, the bulletin said. As many as 85,117 samples were tested and cumulatively 63.88 lakh specimens have been examined so far. Eighteen of those who tested Covid-19 positive were returnees from other states, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-5569-fresh-covid-19-cases-66-fatalities-890040.html
19-09-2020||South||No shift-based classes when schools reopen: Tamil Nadu Education Minister||The Tamil Nadu government ruled out shift-based classes when schools reopen across the state and said all the classes would start functioning simultaneously. Hinting that there will not be any phased reopening, state education minister K A Sengottaiyan said schools across Tamil Nadu will open simultaneously once the pandemic situation is brought under control. "All classes will start functioning simultaneously when schools reopen in the state. There will not be classes in shift, as all the schools have adequate infrastructure," he told reporters here on Saturday. The schools are equipped with sufficient numbers of classrooms to ensure the social distancing norms, he said. Schools and colleges in Tamil Nadu have been closed since March when lockdown was announced to contain the spread of Coronavirus. Owing to the extended lockdown, the Tamil Nadu government had launched classes through its Education Television channel while several private and aided schools switched to online mode of teaching. Taking into account the practical difficulties in conducting classes during the pandemic times and also to reduce the burden of children, the government had reduced the school syllabus for the academic year 2020-2021 by about 40 per cent, as per the recommendation of the expert committee, the minister had said on Friday. Sengottaiyan said the state government had formed another committee under Commissioner of School Education Sigy Thomas Vaidhyan to evaluate and recommend the way forward for school education with the implementation of the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-shift-based-classes-when-schools-reopen-tamil-nadu-education-minister-890056.html
19-09-2020||South||'Adhika Masam Brahmotsavam' begins at Tirumala||The nine-day 'Adhika Masam Brahmotsavam' held once in three years began at the shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala, near here, on Saturday. The 'brahmotsavam' began with the hoisting of the 'Garuda' flag atop the golden 'dwajathambham' (flag mast) by high priests amid chanting of Vedic hymn amid observing Covid-19 precautionary measures, a temple official said. Later, the centuries-old processional idols of Lord Venkateswara and consorts Padmavathi and Lakshmi, adorned with diamond-set ornaments and mounted on Pedda Sesha Vahanam (carrier) would be taken out of the sanctum sanctorum to the Kalyanotsava Mandapam inside the shrine, the official told PTI. Special pujas were conducted for the celestial idols, he said. For the first time in the history of the ancient hill temple, the customary practice of taking out Lord Venkateswara in a grand procession on the 'vahanas' (celestial vehicles) around the temple was cancelled to avoid the huge congregation of devotees due to the coronavirus norms, the official said. Because of 'Adhika Masam' (an extra month which makes it 13 months this year) in the traditional Hindu Lunar calendar, two 'Brahmotsavams' of nine days each are being conducted this year, he said. The regular 'Navaratri Brahmotsavam' would commence on October 16, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/adhika-masam-brahmotsavam-begins-at-tirumala-890061.html
19-09-2020||State||One-year-old leopard trapped in cage in Chitradurga district||A one-year-old female leopard was found trapped in a cage kept near the hill at Aanjaneya Swamy layout on the outskirts of Molakalmur town, Chitradurga district on Friday night.  According to local people, four leopards had been straying into human habitats for the past four to five months causing panic among people. They had even killed many sheeps. Following this, the forest department had decided to capture them. Two leopards were found trapped in the cage earlier and the other leopard was found dead in the hill.  The leopard that had been captured used to enter residential areas at night triggering fear among people. So, the forest department kept a cage and it was trapped. Forest department officer Nagendra Nayaka said the female leopard which had been captured would be released in the Jogimatti forest area in Chitradurga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-year-old-leopard-trapped-in-cage-in-chitradurga-district-889758.html
19-09-2020||State||Hindi imposition will harm regional languages, says Mandya MP Sumalatha in Lok Sabha||The imposition of Hindi on regional language-speaking states would hamper the implementation of central government welfare programmes, Mandya Lok Sabha MP Sumalatha said on Saturday. Raising the issue of 'imposition' of Hindi during the Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha, she said that several central government office employees, including bank employees, working in Karnataka didn't know the regional language. The citizens who know only Kannada were hence facing difficulties in such situations. This will certainly deprive the common man of the benefit of welfare schemes, she said. "Though I am not against Hindi, the imposition of Hindi on regional languages should be opposed," she said. "Kannada is an ancient language and the central government had granted the classical status to it. Undermining our language by imposing Hindi would hurt the people's sentiment," she said. She also urged the Centre to give equal importance to Kannada on the lines of Hindi. Opposing the 3-languages policy of the central government, she said the sole purpose of this policy seemed to be the imposition of Hindi on regional language-speaking states, which was not acceptable. The central government must follow the unity in diversity principle, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hindi-imposition-will-harm-regional-languages-says-mandya-mp-sumalatha-in-lok-sabha-889998.html
19-09-2020||State||Actor-choreographer Kishore Aman Shetty, associate held with drugs in Mangaluru||Police on Saturday said they have arrested two persons, including actor-choreographer-dancer Kishore Aman Shetty, who were allegedly trying to sell banned drug MDMA, also known as Ecstasy. According to police, they nabbed the two this morning for possessing the drug and engaging in selling it. ".. After securing them, we got to know that one of them had acted in a Bollywood movie and is a choreographer dancer. His name is Kishore Aman Shetty, and the other person is Aqueel Nousheel. Both of them were caught while on a motorcycle," Mangaluru city police commissioner Vikash Kumar said. They had sourced the material from Mumbai and further investigation is on, he said. According to officials, a motorcycle, two mobile phones, and MDMA worth one lakh were seized during the operation, adding that a case has been booked under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Shetty was a participant in the popular dance reality show 'Dance India Dance' and was also part of Bollywood film, 'ABCD: Any Body Can Dance', sources said. Meanwhile, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the Bengaluru police have arrested two foreign nationals who were allegedly involved in drug peddling and seized 134 Ecstasy pills (MDMA) and 25 LSD strips worth Rs 10 lakh from them in the city. Acting upon credible information, CCB sleuths on Friday arrested Nonso Joachin (36) a native of Nigeria, and Traori Ben (25) from Abidjan (Ivory Coast), a CCB release said. Two mobile phones, two two-wheelers, among other items, have also been seized from them. According to CCB, they had come to India under a medical attendant visa and were involved in illegal activities in violation of passport and visa rules. From preliminary inquiry, there is information regarding cases being booked against them in two police stations earlier, the release said, adding that a case has now been registered against them under the NDPS Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actor-choreographer-kishore-aman-shetty-associate-held-with-drugs-in-mangaluru-890067.html
19-09-2020||State||Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge tests Covid-19 positive||Former minister and Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Posting this in his official twitter account, the MLA said he was asymptomatic and requested those who have come in his contact in the past few days to get tested for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chittapur-mla-priyank-kharge-tests-covid-19-positive-890086.html
19-09-2020||State||IMD issues red alert in coastal, Malnad districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert in seven coastal and Malnad districts with a forecast of heavy rainfall for Sunday and Monday. According to the weather department, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, and Shivamogga districts are likely to receive heavy showers, coupled with thunder activity, for the next two days. The IMD has sounded a yellow alert in several north and south interior districts predicted thunderstorms for Sunday and Monday. Raichur’s turn on Saturday Meanwhile, heavy rain on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday hit normal life in Raichur city and parts of the district. The overnight rain flooded many houses and shops in the low-lying areas of Raichur, including Siyatalab, Jalalnagar, and Neerbhavikunta. Overflowing streams have cut off many villages in the taluk. Vast tracts of farmland have been flooded following a breach in Narayanapur Right Bank Canal near Yeragunta. Rain recedes in Bidar Rain gave a break in most parts of Bidar and Kalaburagi districts. But Basavakalyan taluk continued to receive downpour. Chikkanagaon village in the taluk recorded a whopping 355 mm (35 cm) of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Friday). An elderly woman was killed on the spot after a portion of her house wall fell on her at Janawada in Bidar taluk. Deceased has been identified as Gowramma (72). Unprecedented rain in the region has filled most of the water bodies in three Kalyana Karnataka districts - Bidar, Kalaburagi, and Raichur. Hubballi-Dharwad twin cities, Belagavi, Bailhongal, Gokak and Gadag experienced heavy showers on Friday evening. The water-level in Triveni Sangama at Bhagamandala and Harangi reservoir has gone up following incessant showers in the Kodagu district.Many parts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts witnessed sporadic spells of heavy rain. Mangaluru Airport registered 8 cm of rain while Moodbidri and Udupi saw 5 cm and 4 cm of rain on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/imd-issues-red-alert-in-coastal-malnad-districts-890094.html
19-09-2020||State||Intellectuals' Forum wants Bharat Ratna for Devaraj Urs||A forum of intellectuals comprising Supreme Court judge Justice Gopala Gowda, litterateur Baraguru Ramachandrappa and former advocate-general Ravi Varma Kumar, among others, has demanded Bharat Ratna be conferred posthumously on ex-chief minister D Devaraj Urs. In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, under the banner "Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Thinkers Forum, Karnataka", the intellectuals have stated that the former chief minister was an exemplary leader "worthy of emulation for the generation of leaders not only in the state of Karnataka but across the country." Urs is credited with introducing revolutionary land reforms in the spirit of the 'land to the tiller' call, they said in their letter to Shah. Urs was a technocrat far ahead of his times who introduced technology into good governance. Abolition of bonded labor, redistribution of land to the landless, rehabilitation of beggars, debt relief, were among his contributions, they said, seeking recognition for Urs' work through the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/intellectuals-forum-wants-bharat-ratna-for-devaraj-urs-890099.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Dy CM Ashwath Narayan tests Covid-19 positive||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday that he had tested positive for Covid-19.  Narayan got himself tested for the virus ahead of the monsoon session of the legislature that starts on September 21. It is mandatory for all legislators to get tested for Covid-19, and only those who test negative would be allowed to attend the session.  “In anticipation of the upcoming Assembly sessions, I underwent a Covid-19 test on Saturday and my results have returned positive,” Narayan said. “I am asymptomatic and will be under home isolation,” he said, requesting those who came in contact with him to take “necessary precautions.” Earlier this week, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Food & Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah tested positive for Covid-19. While Bommai is under home isolation, Gopalaiah said he was undergoing treatment at a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-dy-cm-ashwath-narayan-tests-covid-19-positive-889867.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka farmers demand exemption to Bangalore Rose from onion export ban||Farmers growing the Bangalore Rose variety of onion in Karnataka on Saturday urged the Centre to allow them to export 10,000 tonnes of onion to prevent it from going to waste, as these is no demand for the produce in domestic market. A farmers' delegation led by Kolar BJP Lok Sabha member S Muniswamy met Union Chemical and Fertiliser Minister D V Sadananda Gowda here and requested him to appraise the matter to concerned ministers of the Union Government immediately. "Sadananda Gowda assured the delegation that he would bring the notice of the farmers' concerns to Union Commerce Minister and Agriculture Minister," said a statement from Sandananda Gowda's office. The delegation said that farmers in Bengaluru Rural, Kolar and Chikkaballapur have grown more than 10,000 tonnes of Bangalore Rose this year. "This variety is being exported to Southeast Asian countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Taiwan, as it doesn’t have much demand in the domestic market," the delegation said. Requesting the Centre to allow to export 10,000 tonnes, the delegation said: " if we are not allowed to export the produce, then the entire quantity would go to waste." To check rising of prices, Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry on September 14, banned the export of onions, including Bangalore Rose and Krishnapuram onions (similar to Bangalore Rose). Though the Centre had banned the export of onions last year also to check price rise for a certain period, the government exempted Bangalore Rose from the ban on Karnataka Government's request.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-farmers-demand-exemption-to-bangalore-rose-from-onion-export-ban-889911.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cabinet expansion possible before Assembly session if BJP high command gives nod: Karnataka CM||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who returned to Bengaluru on Saturday, said he was awaiting communication from the BJP central leadership on whether or not he should expand or reshuffle his Cabinet.  Before heading to Delhi earlier this week, Yediyurappa had said he wanted to expand his Cabinet before September 21, when the start of the monsoon session of the legislature starts.  “BJP national president JP Nadda has told me that he will speak to the prime minister and let me know. I am waiting to hear from them,” Yediyurappa told reporters.  Asked if the exercise will happen before or after the legislative session, Yediyurappa said it would depend on the decision of the BJP central leadership. “I am waiting for their direction,” he said.  Sources close to the chief minister said the Cabinet expansion is likely to happen after the legislative session.  Yediyurappa’s Cabinet has six vacant berths and he is under pressure to accommodate MLCs M T B Nagaraj, R Shankar, and H Vishwanath - rebels who helped the BJP come to power. Apparently, Yediyurappa suggested an expansion by filling four berths whereas Nadda favored a minor reshuffle.  It is also said that the BJP central leadership favored the induction of Nagaraj, Shankar, and another MLC CP Yogeshwar.  “To put it simply, my visit to Delhi was greatly successful,” Yediyurappa said, adding that he held talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and seven Union ministers. “I explained to the PM about some of the state’s key projects. He assured that he’d act on them by issuing directions to the ministers concerned. I am fully confident that there will be solutions to various issues faced by the state and funds will be given for development works in the days to come,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cabinet-expansion-possible-before-assembly-session-if-bjp-high-command-gives-nod-karnataka-cm-889920.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Intellectuals forum wants Bharat Ratna for Devaraj Urs||A forum of intellectuals comprising Supreme Court judge Justice Gopala Gowda, litterateur Baraguru Ramachandrappa and former advocate-general Ravi Varma Kumar, among others has demanded Bharat Ratna to be conferred posthumously on former Karnataka Chief Minister D Devaraj Urs. In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, under the banner 'Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Thinkers Forum, Karnataka', the intellectuals have stated that the former CM was an exemplary leader "worthy of emulation for generation of leaders not only in the state of Karnataka but across the country." Urs is credited with introducing revolutionary land reforms in the spirit of the 'land to the tiller' call, they said in their letter to Shah. Urs was a technocrat far ahead of his times who introduced technology into good governance. Abolition of bonded labour, redistribution of land to the landless, rehabilitation of beggars, debt relief were among his contributions, they said, seeking recognition for Urs' work through the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/intellectuals-forum-wants-bharat-ratna-for-devaraj-urs-890021.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No shortage of oxygen for Covid-19 patients: Karnataka Minister||Karnataka is not facing shortage of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, state Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday. To ensure that the state does not run out of supplies, the government is sourcing oxygen tanks from Gujarat, the Minister said. Oxygen would be supplied to not only government hospitals but also private hospitals, an official press release quoted him as saying after inaugurating Covid Molecular Lab at Siddhartha Medical College and Research Centre in Tumakuru, nearly 70 km from here. The lab can conduct 2,000 coronavirus tests per day, the release said. Recently, a few hospitals faced a shortage of oxygen but the demand was addressed with cooperation from industrial zones at respective districts, he said. The government is taking measures to make sure there wont be shortage in the future. With surge in demand for oxygen, the state government had last month directed all the manufacturers of medical oxygen to augment production and supply it without interruption. It asked hospitals and medical institutions also to contact the Assistant Drugs Controllers of the respective areas to resolve any issue relating to the shortage. Sudhakar said a cost has been fixed by the government to prevent private hospitals from overcharging, and he requested the public to file complaints if they were being charged exorbitantly. He said strict action would be taken against hospitals if found fleecing the patients. However, he said, the allegation of overcharging must be scrutinised. He said a patient diagnosed with coronavirus could also be suffering from organ failure and other ailments. Therefore, the bills for the treatment for comorbidities should be separate and not be billed for Covid-19 treatment. Reacting to Congress leader Siddaramaiahs reported statement that the government has been ignorant of the increasing coronavirus cases in the state, Sudhakar said it is important to note that nearly four lakh people have recovered from the virus out of five lakh cases. "Compared to the death rate in the country, the state stands at 1.56 per cent. There is no question of ignorance. The opposition leaders must base their statements on the facts and figures and not politicise the ongoing health crisis, the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-shortage-of-oxygen-for-covid-19-patients-karnataka-minister-890036.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka reports 4 lakh recoveries, 8,364 new cases||Total number of Covid-19 recoveries in Karnataka so far crossed the 4 lakh mark on Saturday, as the state reported 8,364 new cases of coronavirus and 114 related fatalities, the health department said. The total number of infections in the state on Saturday stood at 5.11 lakh cases and the toll was at 7,922. The day also saw the number of recoveries outnumbering new infections, with 10,815 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 8,364 fresh cases reported on Saturday, 3,733 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of September 19 evening, cumulatively 5.11 lakh Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 7,922 deaths and 4,04,841 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 98,564 active cases, 97,742 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 822 are in ICU. Out of total 114 deaths reported on Saturday, 33 are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru 12, Ballari, Chamarajanagara and Koppal 7, Belagavi and Uttara Kannada 6, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad and Hassan 5, Tumakuru 4 and others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounts for 3,733, Mysuru 626, Dakshina Kannada 432, Gadag 391, Ballari 300, Dharwad 264, Udupi 215, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,91,438 infections, followed by Mysuru 29,303 and Ballari 28,785. A total of 41.79 lakh samples were tested so far, out of which 63,784 were tested on Saturday alone. Among the samples tested today 28,822 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-reports-4-lakh-recoveries-8364-new-cases-890054.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Transgender activist Akkai Padmashali to join Congress||Transgender activist Akkai Padmashali is all set to join the Congress on Sunday. The award-winning activist has been the face of the transgender movement in Karnataka for at least over a decade now, while her work is not limited to the state. Speaking to DH, Akkai said her decision to join the Congress came from an urge to defend the Indian democratic space. "There is so much intolerance in the country. There's a threat to the Constitution. Like-minded people need to converge to protect the Constitution. Congress has played a vital role in bringing people's issues to the forefront. This move is about my ideologies aligning with the core principles of the party," she said. The other important aspect was to ensure that there was no compromise to the sexual minorities' movement, she said. "It has been a long-drawn struggle. There have been several judgments to ensure the rights of the community, but implementing them is important. Political parties are otherwise preoccupied with other agendas," she added. In 2015, Akkai became the first transgender person to be conferred with the Karnataka Rajyotsava — the second-highest civilian honor in the state. In 2018, Akkai became the first transgender person to get her marriage registered. Her role as a political leader will not be limited to the transgender space, she said. "Me being part of the sexual minorities will not talk only about those issues. I will definitely talk about various other burning issues,” she said. “There are concerns about the economy, youth employment, silencing of dissent, and environmental justice. It is about standing up for the poor and the marginalised," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/transgender-activist-akkai-padmashali-to-join-congress-890072.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||60 leaders want to join Congress, says DK Shivakumar||The Congress has received applications from 60 leaders across different districts who want to join the party, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said on Saturday.  A committee headed by senior leader Allum Veerabhadrappa will scrutinize the applications and decide who should be onboarded, Shivakumar said. "Those who want to join our party should be able to work by taking locals into confidence. So, the applications are being discussed at the local level," he said.  On Saturday, former JD(S) leader Ramesh Babu was formally inducted into the Congress by Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. "We decided to process Babu's application fast keeping in mind the upcoming Legislative Council polls," Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/60-leaders-want-to-join-congress-says-dk-shivakumar-890095.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No visits to schools and PU colleges until 30th September: State government||Contrary to the Centre's Unlock 4.0 guidelines allowing kids to visit schools for consultation from 21 September, the Karnataka government on Saturday clarified it will not open schools and PU colleges until 30th September keeping in mind the spurt in Covid-19 cases. The State Primary and Secondary Education department has directed all schools and PU colleges not to allow kids to visit schools until the end of September. The Principal Secretary of the department on Saturday ordered, "No visits to schools and PU colleges by kids will be allowed till the end of September considering the spike in Covid-19 cases. Towards the end of September, we will seek the opinion of the Department of Health and Family Welfare and subsequently examine if these visits can be allowed from October onwards." Earlier this month, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had issued a standard operating procedures for students to visit schools to clear their academic doubts by consulting teachers. This was allowed for grade-9 and above on voluntary basis with the consent from parents. However, most of the private schools in the city were not expecting a good response as not many parents have responded to the messages and e-mails sent out by the schools asking parents to book slots for their children. Some of the schools had even insisted that parents must submit non-Covid certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-visits-to-schools-and-pu-colleges-until-30th-september-state-government-890098.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||55 taluk courts in Karnataka to reopen from September 28||The courts in the state are all set to re-open for physical hearing in a phased manner. As per the special Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the Karnataka High Court, recording of witnesses will also be allowed in 55 taluk courts from September 28. The physical hearing will resume in the remaining courts in a phased and restricted manner in two batches – first from October 5 and second fromOctober 12. The SOP issued by the order of the Chief Justice Abhay Shreeiwas Oka stated that all district and trial courts in the state will substantially reopen in a phased manner. With numerous directions on safety measures, the SOP also has details of the rules to be followed before allowing witnesses and the accused. Modified courtrooms The courtrooms will be modified for the purpose of recording of evidence by covering the witness box and the accused dock. The SOP said it will be open for the courts to physically record evidence of a maximum of five witnesses in the morning session. Witnesses and the accused (on bail) will be allowed entry only upon production of a negative report of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT)of the same date. A total of 55 taluk courts will reopen from September 28, while all courts in 13 districts - Davangere, Haveri, Chitradurga, Chikkaballapur, Raichur, Bidar, Ramanagara, Udupi, Gadag, Kodagu, Koppal, Chamarajanagar, and Yadgir will reopen from October 5. All courts in the remaining districts will be reopened from October 12, the SOP stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/55-taluk-courts-in-karnataka-to-reopen-from-september-28-890103.html
19-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's push for Mekedatu gives Tamil Nadu the jitters||The past week saw Karnataka hit the gas on the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project across the river Cauvery, even as its neighbor Tamil Nadu is looking to block it.  The Mekedatu row is an extension of a protracted battle both states have waged over sharing the Cauvery water. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa held talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Environment, Forest & Climate Change Minister Prakash Javadekar seeking clearance for the Mekedatu project.  Before Yediyurappa, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi met Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to push for the project.  Karnataka is awaiting environmental clearance after having submitted a detailed project report to the Centre, last year. The project aims to store and provide 4.75 tmcft of drinking water to Bengaluru and surrounding areas, apart from generating 400 MW of hydroelectricity at an estimated cost of Rs 9,000 crore. "We're clear the project is against our interests," Tamil Nadu Public Works Department secretary K Manivasan said. "The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) and the Supreme Court have quantified the level of water to be released to Tamil Nadu based on the existing reservoirs in Karnataka. Therefore, there is no need for another reservoir across Cauvery." Tamil Nadu has also moved the Supreme Court on this, with Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi whenever Karnataka pushes Mekedatu.  Karnataka has maintained that Tamil Nadu's concerns were misplaced. "Tamil Nadu is opposing it on the grounds that the reservoir will be an obstruction to the natural flow of the river. But isn't that the eventuality with the construction of any dam? As for their fears that their share of water will come down, we have the CWDT order in place, as per which we have to release 177.25 tmcft water annually to Tamil Nadu. There is no scope for violating this," a senior Karnataka Water Resources department official explained.  "Also, the balancing reservoir is also a way to optimise transmission loss. The water let out to Tamil Nadu travels about 200 km before reaching the state, resulting in huge transmission loss. With the Mekedatu reservoir, Tamil Nadu's share of water will reach Mettur in hardly 60-70 km. This is beneficial for both states," the official added.  But Tamil Nadu farmers fear the Mekedatu project will have cascading effects in the Cauvery delta region (Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, Nagapattinam and parts of Pudukkottai districts that depend on Cauvery water for irrigation). "Karnataka released about 45-50 tmcft excess water this year after the onset of monsoon. If a reservoir comes up in Mekedatu, they will release water only if that also fills up," Tamil Nadu Federation of All Farmers’ Associations P R Pandian said.  The BJP government's push for the project found support from Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar. "The DPR was submitted during my tenure as the water resources minister. We hope the project will be approved soon," he said.  Environmental concerns The Mekedatu project will come at a huge environmental cost.  The project requires a total land of 5252.4 hectares out of which 2925.5 hectares belong to the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary (CWS). This apart, 1869.5 hectares of forest land and 201 hectares revenue land will be submerged. The villages of Sangama, Kongedoddi, Madavala, Muthathi, and Bommasandra will get submerged.  The CWS is the only habitat in Karnataka for near-threatened grizzled giant squirrel, the endangered, endemic fish species Deccan Mahseer, Indian Pangolin among other rare flora and fauna. "We need to have developed but not at the cost of loss of fragile ecosystems, and human suffering. With the current engineering capabilities, there are surely alternatives available that need to be seriously explored," conservationist Sanjay Gubbi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-push-for-mekedatu-gives-tamil-nadu-the-jitters-890104.html
19-09-2020||West||Local train coach derails near Mumbai, no injury reported||One coach of a local train derailed near Atgaon station, about 95 kms from Mumbai, on Saturday morning, but there was no report of injury to any passenger, an official said. Atgaon station is located in neighbouring Thane district on the Central Railway (CR) route. According to the official, the train was going to Kasara station. "One trolley of a middle coach of the suburban train derailed near Atgaon station around 7.28 am. No casualty or injury was reported in the incident," Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the CR said. According to the zonal railway, it was a middle first class coach, which was not crowded when the incident occurred. Presently, only essential and emergency services staff along with the employees of nationalised bank and various state and central government offices are allowed to travel in local trains in Mumbai. The local derailed while approaching Atgaon station. The incident hampered the movement of trains on the Kalyan- Kasara route. "Relief trains have beenordered and the work for re- railing the coach will start soon," Sutar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/local-train-coach-derails-near-mumbai-no-injury-reported-889718.html
19-09-2020||West||Four members of family found dead in their house in Rajasthan||Bodies of four members of a family were found hanging at their house in Rajasthan's Jamdoli area on Saturday, police said. Police suspect that it is a case of death by suicide. The deceased were identified as Yashwant Soni, Mamta Soni and their children Bharat and Ajit. The incident came to light when Yashwant Soni's brother went to their house. A preliminary investigation revealed that the family members were under stress for a long time because of a financial dispute, police said. The bodies were being shifted to a hospital and the matter was being probed, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-members-of-family-found-dead-in-their-house-in-rajasthan-889837.html
19-09-2020||West||Bombay HC upholds acquittal of six persons linked to Sanatan Sanstha in 2009 Goa blast||The acquittal of six persons linked to a 2009 Goa bomb blast by a special court was upheld by the Bombay High Court bench in Goa on Saturday, even as the Court also expunged comments from the lower court's order which had accused the National Investigation Agency (NIA) of "manipulating" facts to rope in the Goa-based Sanathan Sanstha into the bomb plot. Two bomb carriers, both linked to the Sanatan Sanstha had died in 2009, while ferrying an improvised explosive device (IED) to a Diwali function in South Goa's Margao town, when the bomb accidentally exploded. “Today, the HC has passed a judgement which (in the) appeal filed by the NIA challenging the judgement passed by a special judge acquitting the accused in the blast case. The High Court has considered [the case] in larger detail [and has] now held that the benefit of doubt is given,” the NIA counsel Pravin Faldessai told reporters. There were in all 11 persons who were chargesheeted by the NIA, which included the two deceased, six accused Vinay Talekar, Dhananjay Ashtekar, Prashant Ashtekar, Vinayak Patil, Prashant Juvekar and Dilip Mazgaonkar and three others who are still absconding. According to the NIA, all the accused were regular frequenters at the Sanatan Sanstha ashram located in the Ponda, a temple town in South Goa district. The bomb blast case was initially investigated by the Goa Police Crime Branch, before it was taken over by the NIA, a central agency which is tasked with investigating terror-related crimes. But on December 31, 2013, a Special Court had acquitted all the accused while passing strictures against the NIA for manipulating facts to implicate the Sanatan Sanstha. “Facts stated in FIR appear to be manipulated with intention to rope in Sanatan Sanstha in the offence,” special Court judge PV Savoikar had said in his order. Saturday's order by the Bombay High Court bench comprising of Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar, according to Faldessai had expunged the malafide remarks made by the lower court. “The special judge had said that there were malafides by the investigating agency... those remarks are now expunged,” the NIA lawyer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-upholds-acquittal-of-six-persons-linked-to-sanatan-sanstha-in-2009-goa-blast-889856.html
19-09-2020||West||Missing boy from Uttar Pradesh found in Mumbai, now lodged in a shelter||A 16-year-old boy who went missing from Uttar Pradesh has been traced to Mumbai and is now lodged at a shelter home here, police said on Saturday. The boy, Dhruv, was found in Wadala area with the help of volunteers of an organisation working in child protection, a policeman at the Wadala police station here said. The process to send Dhruv back to his native place Varanasi is on, the policeman said. He was reported missing by his mother and aunt in Varanasi last month, he added. Sunita, a volunteer who first located Dhruv, said she saw him sitting near a trash can in Wadala and he told her he had run away from his home. "The success in tracing Dhruv shows what could happen if community safety networks existed in India," said Rahi Suryawanshi, Senior Associate in Communication and Advocacy at Aangan Trust, of which Sunita is a volunteer. "The next time a child goes missing, a community safety volunteer can immediately alert peer networks and locate and repatriate the child to safety," Rahi's colleague Mizan Tejani said. The boy is at the David Sassoon shelter home here now and will join his parents as soon as possible, he said, adding the delay in repatriation is due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/missing-boy-from-uttar-pradesh-found-in-mumbai-now-lodged-in-a-shelter-889861.html
19-09-2020||West||Maharashtra police force records 153 new Covid-19 cases as 5 cops succumb to the virus||At least 153 personnel of Maharashtra police tested positive for coronavirus, while five died of the infection in the last 24 hours, an official said on Saturday. With the addition of the latest infections, the police force's Covid-19 tally has reached 20,954, the official said. The fresh casualties have taken the toll in the department to 217, which includes 22 officers, he said. As many as 17,006 personnel have recovered from the infection so far, while 3,731 are currently undergoing treatment at various hospitals, the official said. Meanwhile, the police have registered 2,60,174 offences and arrested 35,086 people for violating prohibitory orders imposed to contain the viral spread, the official said. Nearly 358 incidents of assault on police have been reported in the state, in which 86 personnel were injured, he said, adding that 76 health professionals were also attacked. The police have collected fines to the tune of Rs 25.33 crore from people who violated prohibitory orders, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-police-force-records-153-new-covid-19-cases-as-5-cops-succumb-to-the-virus-889881.html
19-09-2020||West||Cop rescues woman from Maharashtra's Thane lake in suicide bid||A police constable rescued a 45- year-old woman after she allegedly jumped into Upvan Lake in Maharashtra's Thane city, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday evening, when constable Gajendra Sontakke and police naik S P More of Vartak Nagar police station were patrolling the area, an official said. The duo spotted a woman standing at the edge of the lake and jumping in, the official said. Sontakke swung into action and jumped in to rescue the woman, who was taken to a hospital for treatment, he said, adding that the reason for the suicide attempt is unknown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cop-rescues-woman-from-maharashtras-thane-lake-in-suicide-bid-889888.html
19-09-2020||West||Maharashtra minister reviews exam preparations in Marathwada varsity||Maharashtra Minister for Higher and Technical Education Uday Samant on Saturday reviewed the preparations afoot at the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University here to conduct exams scheduled to start from October 1. A total of 1.14 lakh students will appear for the exams, including 36,000 "repeaters", he said, adding that 92 per cent of all students had opted to appear for the exams in the online mode. Speaking about some student outfits trying to agitate and block his convoy on Friday in Jalgaon, some 195 kilometres from here, Samant said he would write a letter to state home minister Anil Deshmukh to probe the issue. He said the agitations by such outfits were localised and done by lower-level functionaries to gain prominence within the hierarchy. Samant was addressing a press conference here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-reviews-exam-preparations-in-marathwada-varsity-889910.html
19-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man jumps to death from hospital building in Palghar||A 42-year-man jumped to death from the second floor of a hospital in Boisar of Maharashtra's Palghar district on Saturday, police said. The incident took place in the early hours of the day, when Chandrakant Chowdhary jumped out of a window on the second floor of the hospital, the station house officer of the Boisar police station said. Chowdhary, a factory worker, was admitted to the hospital for the treatment of kidney stones, a couple of days ago, the official said. The victim died on the spot and his body has been sent for post-mortem, he said, adding that a case of accidental death was registered. The deceased lost his wife 10 years ago and has a 15- year-old daughter and an elderly mother, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-jumps-to-death-from-hospital-building-in-palghar-889931.html
19-09-2020||West||NCB arrests man linked to DJ, party organisers' network||In a major swoop, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested a man connected to a network of DJs and party organizers in Mumbai. S Ghangale, who was held from Vasai in Maharashtra's Palghar district, is said to have supplied cocaine to them. The operation was directly supervised by NCB Director General Rakesh Asthana. The investigation into the case commenced on September 1 when the NCB seized a parcel with 670 gms of cocaine at the Import Custom Examination Area, Delhi. The parcel's origin can be traced back to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, said NCB’s Deputy Director (Operations) KPS Malhotra. The NCB chief had ordered a 'controlled delivery operation' to reach the accused. Under such a delivery, the NCB can keep the parcel 'alive' even after seizing the contraband and replacing it with a dummy parcel. After executing the ‘controlled delivery’ and verifying the antecedents of the consignee, an NCB team reached Mumbai and successfully arrested Ghangale from Vasai, nearly 60 kms from Mumbai. The accused is associated with several high-profile users and drug traffickers in Mumbai, many of them engaged as property dealers or construction contractors who also work as drug peddlers. “Their network is also involved with several DJs and party organisers who in turn are linked to the high-end party circuits of Mumbai,” said Malhotra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-arrests-man-linked-to-dj-party-organisers-network-889970.html
19-09-2020||West||Wild ass population increases significantly in Gujarat||The population of the wild ass in Gujarat has seen a significant rise of over 36% in the last five years, a population estimation report published by the state forest department recently has claimed. The population estimation exercise conducted in March this year counted a total of 6,082 wild asses in the Little Rann Of Kutch (LRK). Five years back, the population was estimated to be 4,451. The report says that out of the total population, 1,039 were male and 3,003 were female. The gender of 1,481 couldn’t be identified. Out of them, 5,523 were adults while 559 were less than a year old. A majority of them were spotted in the Dhrangadhra region in Surendranagar district followed by Bhachau in Kutch and Radhanpur in Patan district. This data, according to officials, is the minimum population estimate of the Indian Wild Ass, also called Equus Hemionus Khur. The total area covered under the estimation exercise was above 15,510 sq km as against 15,174 sq km in 2014. The counting of wild ass population, kept under Schedule-I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, takes place once every five years. The forest department’s report also red flags the threats to the endangered subspecies in the LRK, which remains its only home in the country. The report warns that the wild ass population was facing the most direct threat from increasing human activities. It cites old surveys and reports to say that “The ecology of the Wild Ass Sanctuary, for example, is threatened by a canal-building project – the Sardar Sarovar Project of the Narmada Development Authority. There is growing competition for resources as an increasing number of livestock is grazing within the reserve during monsoon season.” It further states -- “Such increased activity is particularly disruptive as the period for salt mining coincides with advanced stage of pregnancy in the Khur. The increase in Khur population and its range expansion into the human-dominated landscapes has resulted in increased incidences of crop depredation. Agriculture has intensified with better irrigation facilities thus changing the land use patterns.” The report has suggested the preparation of a habitat map with the help of BISAG (Bhaskaracharya National Institute for Space Applications and Geo-informatics). It also suggests regulation of vehicular movement inside the sanctuary, check-post vigils at entry as well as control of the development of pilgrim places. The forest officials have also found 400 wild stray dogs in the sanctuary which are major threats for herbivores and birds. “It is also a threat on health of Wild Ass. So, the population of stray dogs should be controlled,” the report has recommended. The exercise has found a substantial decline in the population of the wolf. The department has suggested a plan for the rehabilitation of wolves which is also a natural control over the population of wild ass and blue bull. “To stabilize the population of wolf, the population of herbivores like Blackbuck and Chinkara should be increased by management intervention like Habitat Improvement works like Development of Grass Plots,” the report mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wild-ass-population-increases-significantly-in-gujarat-889992.html
19-09-2020||West||Nine RSS workers living at Sangh headquarters contract coronavirus||Nine senior workers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) who live in the organisation's headquarters here have tested positive for coronavirus, a Sangh functionary said on Saturday. "Nine swayamsevaks, mostly senior citizens, tested positive two or three days ago. All have been quarantined properly and the headquarters has been fully sanitised," he said. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and General Secretary Bhaiyyaji Joshi were not in the headquarters when these workers tested positive, he said. Around 20 senior swayamsevaks (volunteers) live at the RSS headquarters. Meanwhile, due to rising coronavirus cases in the city, Nagpur Mayor Sandip Joshi has appealed for a `Janta curfew' on Saturday and Sunday till September 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nine-rss-workers-living-at-sangh-headquarters-contract-coronavirus-890007.html
19-09-2020||West||10% staff of co-operative and private banks can now travel on Mumbai local trains||The Railways on Saturday said select 10 per cent employees of co-operative and private banks will be allowed to travel on Mumbai's suburban trains. Suburban train travel is currently restricted for the general public in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Employees of nationalised banks are already allowed to travel by trains. On the Maharashtra government's request, 10 per cent of the total staff strength of co-operative and private banks will be permitted to travel by local trains, a joint release issued by the Central and Western Railways stated. The railways have been operating special suburban services for people engaged in essential and emergency services since mid-June. The selected 10 per cent staff will need to obtain QR ID codes from the state government. Until then, those with valid identity cards can buy tickets and travel. Recently, the railway authorities allowed aircraft maintenance and repair staff to travel on local trains. The railways also said that additional booking counters will be opened at important stations, and appealed passengers to follow social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/10-staff-of-co-operative-and-private-banks-can-now-travel-on-mumbai-local-trains-890053.html
19-09-2020||West||Hotel, restaurant players urge Maharashtra govt to extend tax waiver to 6 months||The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) has urged the Maharashtra government to extend the property tax waiver for six months. The association also said that the three-month waiver announced by the BMC should have been granted to all hotels as well as restaurants for a six-month period during which they were asked to remain shut. Hotels and restaurants are facing major cash crunch and the pandemic crises has brought the shutters down on many establishments and in such times, with the industry being on the verge of collapse, not just hotels but restaurants as well are hoping for complete waiver on taxes or levies for the duration of at least 12 months, it added. "We are thankful to the Maharashtra government and the BMC for considering our plea and showing the industry the much-needed solidarity. It is nice to know that the state government cares and acknowledges the hospitality industry's contribution and support during the crises,” HRAWI president Gurbaxish Singh Kohli said. The HRAWI has consistently been making representations to the BMC to waive the property taxes for the entire industry for at least six months. The industry is under major crises, facing a severe cash crunch and is one of the hardest hit among all sectors. "Even by the most conservative estimates, it will take nothing less than a year or a year and a half before businesses might see some recovery. Until then, we will require the Government's support and which it can offer to us in the form of tax and levy waivers. If nothing, the waivers will help reduce the burden in outgoings for hotels and restaurants which as mentioned earlier, have no income whatsoever, at present,” Kohli added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hotel-restaurant-players-urge-maharashtra-govt-to-extend-tax-waiver-to-6-months-890071.html
19-09-2020||West||2009 Goa blast case: HC upholds lower court's acquittal order||The Goa bench of Bombay High Court on Saturday upheld the order of a special court acquitting all the accused charge-sheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with a bomb blast that took place in Margao in 2009. As per the NIA, those charge-sheeted allegedly had links with right-wing Hindu outfits. The bomb, which was placed in a scooter, went off on October 16 that year, on the eve of Diwali, killing two persons who police identified as Malgonda Patil and Yogesh Naik. The duo was ferrying the bomb when it exploded, the police had said at the time. NIA counsel Advocate Pravin Faldesai told reporters in Panaji on Saturday that Vinay Talekar, Dhananjay Ashtekar, Prashant Ashtekar, Vinayak Patil, Prashant Juvekar and Dilip Mazgaonkar were acquitted by the High Court bench of Justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar, which gave them the benefit of doubt. "The High Court considered the appeal in larger detail and held that the accused be given the benefit of doubt. The HC expunged a statement in the special court order which had said the NIA investigation was with malafide intention," Faldesai said. The special court had acquitted the accused in 2013 after which the NIA approached HC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2009-goa-blast-case-hc-upholds-lower-courts-acquittal-order-890076.html
19-09-2020||West||Maharashtra reports 21,907 Covid-19 cases, 425 deaths; 23,501 recover||Maharashtra reported 21,907 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the case tally to 11,88,015, according to a health department official. The death toll rose to 32,216 with 425 new fatalities, he said. But with 23,501 patients discharged from hospitals, the number of recovered patients in the state increased to 8,57,933. There are 2,97,480 active Covid-19 patients. The official said that Maharashtra's recovery rate of Covid-19 cases is 72.22 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.71 per cent. 57,86,147 Covid-19 tests have been conducted so far in the state. Currently 18,01,180 people are in home quarantine and 39,831 people are in institutional quarantine in the state. Out of 2,97,480 active Covid-19 patients across the state, the highest 79,489 are in Pune district, followed by Mumbai at 30,639. Also, of 8,57,933 recovered patients, the highest 1,72,732 are from Pune district, followed by 1,42,769 from Mumbai. In Mumbai division -- Mumbai and surrounding towns -- 5,228 new cases were found, taking the tally in the region to 4,29,964, while 113 fresh fatalities took death toll in the region to 14,681. In Pune division, 5,402 new Covid-19 cases were found, increasing the tally of cases to 3,17,434, while 97 fresh fatalities took the death toll in the region to 6,949. With 3,407 new cases and 31 deaths, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Nashik division rose to 1,55,178 and death toll increased to3,199. In Kolhapur division, 2,053 new cases took the tally of Covid-19 cases to77,942, and the death toll increased to 2,281 with 58 new deaths, the official said. With 2,768 new cases and 57 fatalities, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Nagpur division increased to81,775 and death toll to 1,838. Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: total cases --11,88,015, new cases-21,907, total deaths- 32,216, Total recoveries-8,57,933, active cases-2,97,480, number of tests conducted-57,86,147.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-21907-covid-19-cases-425-deaths-23501-recover-890108.html
