20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid casts shadow on colourful Madikeri Dasara||Normally, Madikeri town is abuzz with activities during October for historical Madikeri Dasara. With Dasara, even tourism sector thrives along with business activities. Unfortunately, this year Covid-19 has cast its ugly shadow on Madikeri Dasara and its celebrations. The Dasara committee office-bearers have decided to observe Madikeri Dasara in a simple manner. The plan of action for Dasara will be chalked out after discussing with Karagotsava Samithi, Dashamantapa Samithi and Dasara Samithi. The Dashamantapa Shobhayatre held on the day of Vijayadashami is known all over the country. Owing to Covid-19 pandemic, the Shobhayatre is unlikely to be held. Similarly, Makkala Dasara,Mahila Dasara, Makkala Santhe, dog show, flower show and Yuva Dasara too will not be organised this year. Karagotsava Karagotsava, observed as a part of Navarathri celebrations in Madikeri, has an interesting background. The religious leaders had sought divine intervention when the whole district was affected with an epidemic disease several years ago. As per the suggestion of the priests, it was decided to carry out ‘Karaga puja’, so as to appease four ‘Shakti Devata’ and accordingly, the spread of epidemic disease, contained. The tradition has been continuing since then. During Navarathri, Karagotsava of four shakti Devatas--Kanchi Kamakshiyamma, Kote Mariyamma, Kundooru Chowti Mariyamma and Dandina Mariyamma. By maintaining social distance, Karagotsava will be observed this year, sources said. Poets’ meet committee President Chi Na Somesh said, “If district administration permits, then Dasara poets’ meet will be organised. The poets’ meet will try to throw light into the imbalance in nature and Covid-19 woes in the district.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-casts-shadow-on-colourful-madikeri-dasara-890136.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Okkuta supports priests of Talacauvery||Kodagu Gowda Samajagala Okkuta has decided to support fully the priests who perform puja at Talacauvery Kshetra. The decision was taken during a meeting held in the presence of Gowda Federation Youth wing, said Okkuta president Somanna Soorthale. Okkuta office-bearers said, “The unscientific works at Gajagiri Betta led to its caving in. A delegation will be taken to the state government shortly demanding action against those who were responsible for such activities. At a time when the death of the Talacauvery priest and family members is still fresh in our mind, a few have been trying to recreate the history of Talacauvery, which is condemnable move.” A few are trying to disrupt peace in peace-loving district, Somanna alleged. Kodi and Ballada families have been discharging their duties at Talacauvery and Sri Bhagandeshwara Temples for several centuries. “We condemn all the unscientific activities that are carried out within 10-km radius of the Kshetra and all those that affect the sanctity of the Kshetra. However, we can not accept those who have been trying to harass those who are carrying out business activities in Talacauvery. Goddess Cauvery is worshiped by all. It is sad that a few are trying to distort the history of Talacauvery kshetra,” he added. It is good that Akhila Kodava Samaja is planning to conduct Shatarudrabhisheka at Talacauvery on September 21. It would have been good if all the communities were invited for the same. The meeting also condoled the death of Chief Priest Narayana Achar and four others in landslide at Gajagiri Betta in the first week of August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/okkuta-supports-priests-of-talacauvery-890138.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Flood alert across Kapila river in Mysuru||Due to heavy rainfall and huge inflow to Kabini reservoir at Beechanahalli in HD Kote taluk in Mysuru district, the outflow of the dam has increased to 35,000 cusec on Sunday morning. The authorities of Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited issued flood alert to the downstream villages. The water has reached its maximum level of 2284 feet, with 12,208 inflow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/flood-alert-across-kapila-river-in-mysuru-890182.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Houses submerge as rain lashes in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada districts||With copious rainfall lashing Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts, several low-lying areas have been inundated and threw normal life out of gear. Houses have been submerged and traffic has been disrupted on several places in Udupi. The flood in Kalsanka rivulet disrupted traffic on Udupi -Manipal main road. The artificial flood in Udupi town has affected several houses. Badagupete, Bannanje, Matadabettu, Kalsanka, Gundibailu, Moodusagri, Kodavooru, Kinnimulki, Adi Udupi, and Bailakere areas have turned into an island. The movement of vehicles has been suspended on Gundibailu-Kalsanka road with the water flowing on the road. The authorities have initiated rescue operations to shift the flood-affected people to the safer locations using boats. Flood water has entered the Krishna Mutt Parking area and several vehicles have been inundated. With River Swarna overflowing, Perdoor is also facing flood threats. Houses have also been affected due to artificial flood at Ennehole, Hermunde and other areas in Karkala. Three boats have been capsized in Malpe. Fisheries Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary has directed DK DC to send NDRF team to Udupi to carry out the rescue operations. Six persons suffered injuries when a hillock caved in on a house, at Banari, Babukatte in Vittal of Dakshina Kannada. The house belongs to Abdulla. The house has been completely damaged. The neighours helped in rescuing all the family members and have been shifted to hospitals in Vittal and Tumbe for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/houses-submerge-as-rain-lashes-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada-districts-890188.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rainfall floods Udupi district; four villages inundated||Very heavy rainfall pounded parts of Karnataka on Sunday, causing flooding in Udupi district and threatening another bout of floods during monsoons this year. National Disaster Response Force was called in for rescue efforts as four villages in Udupi taluk were inundated. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed officials from Udupi and Bengaluru Urban district to take measures to prevent any untoward incidents. According to a release from the CMO, Yediyurappa spoke to BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta over phone, with instructions to prevent flooding along storm water drains of the city. All officials should be available round the clock as rainfall is forecast to continue in the city, the CM said. He spoke to Udupi DC G Jagadeesh to review the rescue efforts being carried out in the district. Udupi and other coastal districts have received very heavy rainfall over the past two days. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters in Udupi that army helicopters will be used for rescue efforts if required. Due to heavy rainfall in the Western Ghats, rivers are in spate. Several bridges in Karkala taluk, Udupi district were washed away, he said. Efforts are on to rescue the staff at Baje Hydro Project in the district who are stranded in the flood waters. India Meteorological Department has issued red alert for very heavy rainfall in coastal districts till Tuesday, and in Malnad districts till Monday. Extremely heavy rainfall events exceeding 204.5 mm rainfall per day is also likely in isolated parts of these districts, along with thundershowers. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell dashboard, upto 64.5 mm rainfall was recorded since 8.30 am of Sunday morning in several pockets of coastal region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rainfall-floods-udupi-district-four-villages-inundated-890232.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rains in Dakshina Kannada: MU postpones exams||Following heavy rain in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi  districts, the scheduled exams for the final year UG and PG students of Mangalore University on September 21 has been postponed, said Mangalore University Registrar Evaluation Prof P L Dharma. The next date of the examinations will be communicated to the students shortly. Heavy rain coupled with gusty wind in the region, several low-lying areas have been inundated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rains-in-dakshina-kannada-mu-postpones-exams-890265.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rescue operation due to heavy rain underway in Udupi||Heavy rains have left the Udupi district in a grim situation and the rescue operations are underway amid heavy rain and gusty winds. Most of the areas are marooned and people living in low-lying areas face critical danger. Parliamentarian Shobha Karandlaje and district in-charge minister Basavaraj Bommai have requested helicopters for the rescue operation. Karandlaje told media persons that the chief secretary has already made arrangements for two choppers from Bengaluru and two more from the Naval base at Karwar. The choppers will be pressed into service immediately and the rescue operation will be carried out in the island areas and low-lying areas. Besides, another NDRF team from Mysuru will reach the district shortly. Deputy commissioner, G Jagadeesha told DH that one chopper would be used to carry out rescue operations. There are 35 families in danger and they would be rescued shortly. The families are in Bellampalli, Uppuru, Heeriyadka, Aroor, Bairampally and parts of Udupi city, the areas that are marooned. The situation is under control, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rescue-operation-due-to-heavy-rain-underway-in-udupi-890325.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Torrential rains wreak havoc in parts of Karnataka, Udupi worst hit||Heavy rains in the past few days have wreaked havoc in several parts of Karnataka, especially in coastal Udupi district where houses and crops have been submerged, prompting the government to rush disaster response force personnel for rescue operations on Sunday. Officials in the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said an alert for heavy rains has been issued for Malnad, coastal regions and a few interior and northern districts for the next couple of days. The second wave of southwest monsoon fury hit the state which is yet to recover fully from the floods in North Karnataka, the Malnad and the coastal regions last month amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The situation in Udupi was grim as some villages have been submerged, houses have collapsed, roads washed away and standing crops completely destroyed, a senior official in the KSNDMC said on Sunday. In the district headquarter town of Udupi,several houses, four-wheelers and roads have come under sheets of water. State Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said he has directed the Udupi district authority to take relief measures immediately. "I am aware of the floods in Udupi inundating a few villages. I have directed the district authorities to rush a 250-member team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) there. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) will also reach there," he said in a statement. The Minister said he would speak to Revenue Minister R Ashoka regarding requesting an Air Force helicopter for the rescue work. According to a Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officer, a helicopter has already been put on standby to carry out rescue operations there. Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada are also bearing the brunt of the torrential rains in the region, along with Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Hassan for the past few days. A KSDMA statement said there were no instances of loss to human lives or livestock though as many as 105 villages were affected due to the rains. The district authorities have set up 36 relief camps where 1,250 people have been put up, it said, adding that NDRF and SDRF have evacuated 4,124 people to safety. It also said that 13 houses were badly or completely damaged while 1,126 suffered partial damage. In North Karnataka, the rains have wreaked havoc in Vijayapura, Raichur, Kalaburagi and Bidar. Bengaluru, Mysuru and Tumakuru have also been receiving heavy rains in the past few days. In the wake of downpour in Bengaluru, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike administrator Gaurav Gupta to focus attention on low-lying areas and places near stormwater drains. "All BBMP officials have to be ready round-the-clock to meet any exigencies following the torrential rains," the Chief Minister's Office said in a statement. A KSNDMC bulletin said heavy rains are likely over the next few days in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Vijayapura, Yadgir, Koppal, Belagavi, Bagalkote, Gadag, Dharwad, Haveri and Ballari districts. There would be widespread moderate to heavy rains at most places with isolated very heavy to extremely heavy rains in Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu and Hassan districts. Regarding coastal Karnataka, the bulletin said very heavy to extremely heavy rains will take place over Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts. The latest rains come weeks after several parts of the state were lashed by heavy downpour and relief works were still on. The state government earlier this month declared 130 taluks in 23 districts as flood-affected. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had told a central team that visited the state to assess the damage that Karnataka has suffered a loss of Rs 8,071 crore due to the floods. The state government earlier this month said heavy rainfall since August 1 killed at least 20 people, displaced thousands, damaged more than 10,000 homes and crops in about 4.03 lakh hectares, and wrecked 14,182 km of roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/torrential-rains-wreak-havoc-in-parts-of-karnataka-udupi-worst-hit-890469.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kerala rain sparks flood fears in Mysuru's Kapila basin||Unrelenting showers in Kerala have sparked flood fears Kapila river basin in Mysuru district. With a significant increase in inflow to the Kabini reservoir, as much as 35,000 cusecs of water was discharged downstream Kapila on Saturday night.  The sudden discharge of water from Kabini caught the villagers by surprise. "The dam authorities did not sound alarm siren. They didn't even close the gates. We had a tough time in crossing the Bidarahalli bridge," villagers complained. Meanwhile, Kabini reservoir EE Sureshbabu, dismissing the allegations, told DH that siren was sounded and gates were closed before releasing water to the river. A flood alert has been sounded in downstream KRS after the outflow from the reservoir in Mandya district clocked 30,000 cusecs on Sunday evening. The water level in KRS has reached 124.69 feet against the full reservoir level of 124.80 feet. The boat ride in Ranganathittu bird sanctuary has been closed following the increase in water level in Cauvery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kerala-rain-sparks-flood-fears-in-mysurus-kapila-basin-890538.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bhadravathi MLA tests positive for Covid-19||He was shifted to a private hospital in Bengaluru from Shivamogga. It may be mentioned here that the entry of the public to his house and office was banned for one week from September 18 after four workers in his home were tested positive for the Coronavirus. Former MLA of Bhadravathi M J Appaji Gowda had died of Covid-19 in Shivamogga recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bhadravathi-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-890550.html
20-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Monsoon Session: H D Deve Gowda takes oath as Rajya Sabha MP||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Sunday took oath as Rajya Sabha MP. He took his oath in Kannada. After the former PM, who was elected unopposed earlier, took oath, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said Gowda was a good addition to the House. The JD(S) supremo was defeated in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/monsoon-session-h-d-deve-gowda-takes-oath-as-rajya-sabha-mp-890174.html
20-09-2020||National||PM Modi likely to hold Covid-19 review meeting with chief ministers on Sept 23||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to chair a meeting of the chief ministers of seven states next week to review the coronavirus situation. Sources said the meeting is likely to be held on September 23. Chief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh among others are expected to attend the meeting, they said.  The prime minister has been regularly holding meetings to review the pandemic situation across the country with a focus on states/UTs where the situation is more serious.  His last Covid-19 review meeting was on August 11 with chief ministers and representatives of 10 most-affected states, namely, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-likely-to-hold-covid-19-review-meeting-with-chief-ministers-on-sept-23-890128.html
20-09-2020||National||Saudi Arabia: Second batch of Indian deportees to leave for Chennai on September 24||A plane carrying the second batch of Indian deportees from Saudi Arabia will leave for Chennai on September 24, the Indian Embassy said on Saturday. In a statement, the Embassy said that it has been trying to resolve the issue of Indians in Saudi deportation centers in consultation with the Ministry of External Affairs for quite some time now. "Currently, the Mission in Riyadh, Consulate in Jeddah, and MEA are arranging flights and quarantine facilities for the second batch of deportees. The first flight from Riyadh-Chennai is scheduled to depart on September 24,” the statement said. It said that further flights from Riyadh and Jeddah are currently being worked out. The Mission and Consulate officials are in regular touch with deportation authorities, it added. The first batch of around 500 deportees was sent to Hyderabad in May. Several agencies were involved at both ends and several clearances were needed, besides strictly following health protocols to avoid the spread of COVID-19 in India, it added. There are over 2.6 million Indians working in Saudi Arabia, the largest expatriate community in the Gulf country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saudi-arabia-second-batch-of-indian-deportees-to-leave-for-chennai-on-september-24-890130.html
20-09-2020||National||Coronavirus: Rajasthan imposes Section 144 of CrPC in 11 districts||Concerned over the rising number of coronavirus cases, the Rajasthan government on Saturday decided to impose Section 144 of the CrPC in 11 districts of the state. The state has 33 districts and the provision prohibits an assembly of more than five persons at a place. According to a release, the government also decided to continue the ban on social or religious functions till October 31. However, the permission for 20 people at funerals and 50 in marriage functions will continue. The decisions were taken in a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, the release said. In view of the alarming situation regarding coronavirus, it was decided to impose Section 144 of the CrPC in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali and Nagaur, the release said. People will have to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. Health Minister Raghu Sharma, Chief Secretary Rajeeva Swarup, Principal Secretary (Home) Abhay Kumar, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Akhil Arora and other officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-rajasthan-imposes-section-144-of-crpc-in-11-districts-890147.html
20-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 20||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 53 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 54,49,712 as of September 20 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 87,807    No. of people discharged: 43,84,447 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-20-890149.html
20-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Is the Great Wall in China 'spying' on aliens? 'Extraterrestrial' beings fear||A Shenzen-based tech firm is monitoring over 10,000 individuals and organisations, including the Indian Prime Minister and President, across the world, according to multiple media reports. According to a copy of the database that was left unsecured on the Internet and retrieved by an Australian cybersecurity consultancy, China's Zhenhua Data Information Technology Co, which has ties with the Chinese government, and the country's Communist Party, has stocked a global database of "foreign targets". Amid reports of the snooping on some Indian leaders, the Indian government had taken up the issue with the Chinese envoy, according to a letter by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to Congress leader K C Venugopal. Jaishankar in his letter said that in their statement, a representative of Shenzen Zhenhua has stated that the data collected was from open sources and is no different from its peer organisations in western countries. The minister said they have denied accessing private information from confidential sources. Video-sharing app TikTok said on Saturday it has already committed to the US government oversight of data security in the country, and that it was "disappointed" by the Trump administration's decision to ban it from US app stores from Sunday. US Commerce Department officials said they were taking the extraordinary step because of the risks posed by the apps' collection of data. China and the companies have denied user data is collected for spying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-is-the-great-wall-in-china-spying-on-aliens-extraterrestrial-beings-fear-890153.html
20-09-2020||National||India's coronavirus infections surge to 54 lakh||India's single-day recoveries surpassed the number of new infections for the second consecutive day on Sunday, with 94,612 people having recuperated from Covid-19, even as the total caseload sprinted past 54 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. A total of 94,612 people recovered from coronavirus in a span of 24 hours, taking the national recovery rate to 79.68 per cent, while 92,605 people tested positive for the disease during the period, taking the total Covid-19 cases to 54,00,619. The death toll climbed to 86,752 with the virus claiming 1,133 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total Covid-19 recoveries have surged to 43,03,043. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.61 per cent. There are 10,10,824 active cases in the country which comprise 18.72 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 6,36,61,060 samples have been tested up to September 19 with 12,06,806 samples being tested on Saturday. Of the 1,133 new deaths, 425 are from Maharashtra, 114 from Karnataka, 84 from Uttar Pradesh, 66 from Tamil Nadu, 58 from Andhra Pradesh, 56 from West Bengal, 49 from Punjab, 42 from Madhya Pradesh and 38 from Delhi. Total 86,752 deaths reported so far in the country include 32,216 from Maharashtra followed by 8,751 from Tamil Nadu, 7,922 from Karnataka, 5,302 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,953 from Uttar Pradesh, 4,945 from Delhi, 4,298 from West Bengal, 3,302 from Gujarat, 2,757 from Punjab and 1,943 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-infections-surge-to-54-lakh-890181.html
20-09-2020||National||Farm bills introduced in Rajya Sabha; MSP will continue says Narendra Singh Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said minimum price or MSP based procurement of agriculture crops from farmers will continue and is not related to the farm bills that seek to give cultivators freedom to market their produce. Days after their passage in the Lok Sabha, Tomar introduced the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha. The bills are facing staunch opposition from farmer bodies as well as from within the ruling coalition. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the food processing minister from the Shiromani Akali Dal party, resigned from the government last week. K K Ragesh (CPI), Derek O'Brien (TMC), Trichi Siva (DMK) and K C Venugopal (Congress) moved resolutions for sending the two bills to a select committee of the House for consideration before they are taken up for passage. Speaking at the introduction, Tomar said the two bills are "historic and will bring a revolutionary change in farmer's lives". They seek to remove restrictions on marketing farm products and allow cultivators to engage with private companies to sell their crops. "Farmers will get the freedom to sell their produce at any place and person of their choice," he said adding the bills were brought after feedback from stakeholders that the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) were not doing justice to farmers. The bills seek to bring competition and ensure fair price to farmers, he said. "There are misconceptions being spread about the minimum support price (MSP). MSP is the government's administrative decision and not linked to the bills. MSP based procurement was there in the country, is there, and will continue," he said. Under MSP, the government guarantees the procurement of crops such as wheat and paddy at minimum prices from farmers. Opposition parties as well as SAD feel the bills are the first step toward removing the MSP which will force the farmers to make distress sales to private companies. Ragesh said the country is witnessing massive agitation by farmers over the bills. "I request the minister and the government to see the wrath of farmers and withdraw these orders and bills." The bills seek to replace emergency ordinances issued earlier. The agri bills, he said, are being dubbed as COVID relief package for farmers but in effect, these are "package for the corporates". "How can it be COVID package? COVID package could have been loan waiver for farmers," he said. Agriculture, he said, is a state subject and the union government was "snatching powers of the states". He said the bills will be throwing farmers at the mercy of the corporates. Farmers do not have bargaining power and they cannot enter into a contract with corporates from a position of strength, he said. Opponents of the bills see them as an attempt to dilute the country's public procurement system and lead to exploitation by private companies. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside the notified APMC market yards (mandis). This, the government says, is aimed at facilitating remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels. Farmers will not be charged any cess or levy for sale of their produce under this Act, according to the government. It will open more choices for farmers, reduce marketing costs, and help them get better prices. It will also help farmers of regions with surplus produce to get better prices and consumers in areas with shortages at lower prices. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price. It seeks to transfer the risk of market unpredictability from farmers to sponsors. Tomar said this legislation guarantees cultivators price they negotiate at the time of sowing itself. A third bill, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits, is to be moved separately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-bills-introduced-in-rajya-sabha-msp-will-continue-says-narendra-singh-tomar-890201.html
20-09-2020||National||Farm bills: BJD issues whip to its RS MPs telling them to remain present in House||The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) has issued a whip to its Rajya Sabha members directing them to remain present in the House on Sunday during the debate over the contentious farm bills. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday introduced in Rajya Sabha the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The bills are facing staunch opposition from farmer bodies as well as from within the ruling coalition. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the food processing minister from the Shiromani Akali Dal party, resigned from the government last week. Chief Whip of BJD in Rajya Sabha, Sasmit Patra said, a three-line whip has been issued to all the Biju Janata Dal Members asking them to be positively present in the House throughout the day. The BJD members have been informed that their presence is required in Rajya Sabha as some important legislative business will be taken up in the House during the day, he said. The BJD has nine members in the upper house. While the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance is yet to have a clear majority of its own in the 245-member Rajya Sabha, many regional parties have backed it for the last several sessions to ensure passage of various legislations proposed by the government. BJP leaders expressed confidence that they will get the support of over 130 members, including nine of the AIADMK and six of the YSR Congress -- both of whom are not part of the ruling alliance if a division of votes is sought on these bills. Lok Sabha has already cleared the bills despite stiff opposition from SAD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-bills-bjd-issues-whip-to-its-rs-mps-telling-them-to-remain-present-in-house-890219.html
20-09-2020||National||Explainer: Why farmers across India are protesting the Farm Bills||To relieve farmers from their burden, the government introduced three ordinances before the Parliament Session. Two of these Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha. These ‘reforms’ were to uplift the agriculture and farming sector, however, the peasants across the country have taken to the streets, protesting against these new ordinances. What are the three ordinances? The new reforms include The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. What do these three reforms tackle? While two ordinances are yet to be passed in the Lok Sabha, one has already been approved. The present law eliminates the middleman, allowing the farmer to sell his produce to consumers at a negotiable price. This puts the middleman at risk as they run the mandi or the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC).  Since these reforms benefit the farmer, why is there an uproar? Farmers in Haryana and Punjab have expressed dissent because of the uncertainty regarding the future of Minimum Support Price (MSP). The government has a massive procurement programme wherein large quantities of grain are bought at the MSP. The farmers were paid Rs 1840 per quintal, and the state government taxed the total value at 8.5 per cent. Certain states like Punjab depend on the APMC revenue, so if the system is removed, the farmer will have no assurance of earning a minimum price from produce sale. Only after the government has procured its due share through the mandi, will the farmer receive full price. How will the government implement the MSP system? The Modi-led government have not yet drawn up plans on how the MSP system will function. However, the Prime Minister and his cabinet have assured the farmers that the MSP will continue. What happened in Punjab and why did Harsimrat Kaur Badal resign? Farmers across Punjab and Haryana claim that this move will 'corporatise' the agriculture sector, furthering their financial disadvantage.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s filed her resignation from PM Narendra Modi's Cabinet on September 18, as a sign of protest over the three ordinances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explainer-why-farmers-across-india-are-protesting-the-farm-bills-890224.html
20-09-2020||National||631 people died cleaning sewers, septic tanks in last 10 years: NCSK||A total of 631 people have died in the country while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in the last 10 years, the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) said. The figure was provided by the NCSK in response to an RTI query on the number of deaths reported while cleaning sewers and septic tanks from 2010 to March 2020. According to the data, 631 such fatalities were reported during the period. The highest number of deaths were reported in 2019 at 115. Among states, Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of such deaths in total in the 10-year period at 122 followed by Uttar Pradesh at 85, Delhi and Karnataka each reported 63 deaths and Gujarat reported 61 deaths. In Haryana, 50 fatalities have been reported in the last 10 years. In 2020, two people died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks till March 31. In 2018, 73 such deaths were reported while in 2017 as many as 93 people died while cleaning sewers, the data showed. In 2016, 55 people died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks, 62 in 2015, 52 in 2014, 68 in 2013, 47 in 2012, 37 in 2011 and 27 in 2010, it said. The NCSK said the data is based on the information received by it from various sources and actual information may vary. "Further, this is a dynamic data which keeps changing as it is updated as and when information is received by the commission from any source," it said in the RTI response. An official said sanitation is a state subject and the NCSK maintains the data it receives from states and UTs. Activists, however, said that such deaths continue to happen because of poor implementation of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act. Bezwada Wilson, national convener of Safai Karmachari Andolan, an organisation working to eradicate manual scavenging, said the poor implementation of the law has left the sanitation workers in a lurch. "A single person has not been punished under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act since its enactment. An Act should not be a false promise like an election manifesto, an Act should be what we should implement in an unequal society," the Magsaysay award winning activist said. Sanjeev Kumar, secretary of Dalit Adivasi Shakti Adhikar Manch (DASAM) agreed with Wilson that strict implementation of the act is the biggest issue. "A person entering inside a sewer or septic tank must be completely banned and machinery must be brought in place instead. We have such cases too where sewer workers are struggling to survive after inhaling the toxic gases inside and they are not able to regain strength. The people who survive live with a lot of pain," he said. Kumar said in many cases, they don't have any proper training or equipment. "No one is taking seriously effective implementation of the Act. There is lack of awareness that making a person entering sewer or septic tank is a crime and for that the law has to be implemented strongly," he said. Akhila Sivadas, the managing trustee and executive director of the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) - a non-profit organisation, said firstly there is a need to recognise the magnitude of the problem and through the National Urban and Rural Livelihood Mission, pursue the issue with determination. While collaborating with unions and associations of safai karamcharis, take forward aggressively alternate means of livelihood and modernise and regulate fecal sludge and septage management to utmost safety of sanitation workers, she said. "The government needs to walk the talk. As long as there is poor implementation of the law prohibiting manual scavenging no one will have any faith in the ability of the system to liberate them from the worst form of bondage and servitude," Sivadas added. According to data presented by the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry in February in Parliament, there are about 63,246 identified manual scavengers  across the country in 17 states and about 35,308 have been identified from Uttar Pradesh alone. Parliament had enacted the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 which came in force from December 6, 2013. The Act makes it clear that cleaning of sewers or septic tanks without protective gear amounts to hazardous cleaning and attracts penal consequences. In the ongoing Parliament session, the government is likely to bring Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that makes the law banning manual scavenging more stringent by increasing the imprisonment term and the fine amount.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/631-people-died-cleaning-sewers-septic-tanks-in-last-10-years-ncsk-890242.html
20-09-2020||National||LS member N K Premachandran tests positive for coronavirus||Lok Sabha member and RSP leader N K Premachandran has tested positive for coronavirus, his office said on Sunday. He has been admitted to AIIMS. The leader of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) from Kerala has been attending the current Lok Sabha session and was also actively participating in discussions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ls-member-n-k-premachandran-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-890251.html
20-09-2020||National||Want to be sent back to India: 450 Indian workers forced to beg in Saudi Arabia, says report||As per the report, videos of the workers claiming that the Saudi authorities shifted them to the Shumaisi detention centre in Jeddah after identifying them have gone viral. "We have not committed any crime. We were forced to beg because of our situation as we lost our jobs. Now, we are languishing in the detention centres," a worker said. "My brother passed away and my mother is critical. I want to be sent back to India," another worker said in a video.  There are over 26 lakh Indians working in Saudi Arabia, the largest expatriate community in the Gulf country. While 2.4 lakh Indian nationals had reportedly registered to return to India, approximately 49,000 have been able to come back, as per a written response in Lok Sabha by Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan. Social worker and MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan told the publication that the local authorities shifted the workers to the detention centres after finding out that they had overstayed in the country. "Those who did not have the 'aqama' (work permit) were later taken to the detention centres," he said.  Khan has written a letter to Prime minister Narendra Modi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Civil Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Indian ambassador to Saudi Arabia Ausaf Sayeed demanding the Centre to aid the workers who are stuck. Responding, to the concerns, the Consulate General of India, Jeddah tweeted, "The Consulate & Embassy have been in close consultation with MEA and Saudi authorities for sometime for arranging special flights, ensuring clearances & fulfillment of necessary health protocols. Flights carrying Indian deportees, are likely to be operated in the next week." The Consulate & Embassy have been in close consultation with MEA and Saudi authorities for sometime for arranging special flights, ensuring clearances & fulfillment of necessary health protocols. Flights carrying Indian deportees, are likely to be operated in the next week. (with agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/want-to-be-sent-back-to-india-450-indian-workers-forced-to-beg-in-saudi-arabia-says-report-890254.html
20-09-2020||National||Over Rs 70k crore worth of loans sanctioned to discoms under liquidity package: Govt||As much as Rs 70,590 crore worth of credit has been sanctioned to discoms under the liquidity package for payment of dues by these utilities, Parliament was informed on Sunday. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May this year had announced a Rs 90,000 crore liquidity infusion into cash-strapped discoms for clearing their outstanding dues till March 2020. Now, the government is in the process of enhancing this package to Rs 1.2 lakh crore factoring in discoms outstanding dues till June this year. Some states had urged the central government to hike this liquidity package by factoring in outstanding dues of April and May as well. "As against Rs 90,000 crore of liquidity infusion package announced by the government, Rs 70,590 crore worth of loans have been sanctioned and Rs 24,742 crore has already been disbursed/released till September 16, 2020," said Power Minister R K Singh in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. The government is infusing liquidity in the power sector through Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and REC Ltd to enable the sector to maintain power supplies as cash flows had plummeted during lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. Under this intervention, the REC and PFC are extending special long term transition loans of up to 10 years to discoms for liquidating their outstanding dues of Central Public Sector Undertaking (CPSU) Generation (Genco) & Transmission Companies (Transcos), Independent Power Producers (IPPs) and Renewable Energy (RE) generators. In separate reply to the House, the minister stated that power demand would increase from 1,399.91 billion units (BU) in 2019-20 to 2,047.43 BU in 2026-27. He also told the House that the peak power demand would increase to 298.77GW in 2026-27 from 200.69GW in 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-rs-70k-crore-worth-of-loans-sanctioned-to-discoms-under-liquidity-package-govt-890261.html
20-09-2020||National||No data on number of Covid-19 plasma banks in country: Government||Convalescent plasma therapy has not been recommended by the Ministry of Health as a mainstay of Covid-19 therapy and there is no proposal under consideration to set up plasma banks, Rajya Sabha was informed. In a written reply, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said states have taken initiative to establish such banks to provide plasma therapy to Covid-19 patients but no central database of such banks is maintained. He was responding to a question on the total number of plasma banks running at present to provide plasma therapy to the Corona/Covid-19 patients in the country state-wise and if the government proposes to set up more plasma banks to cope with disease in the country. Convalescent Plasma therapy has been included in the Clinical Management Protocol for Covid19 as an investigational therapy for use in a defined subgroup of patients only, Choubey underlined. Use of this therapy may be considered in patients with moderate disease who are not improving by use of other mainstay therapies like oxygen supplementation, steroids, etc under strict medical supervision.  "Convalescent plasma therapy has not been recommended by the Ministry of Health as a mainstay of therapy and there is no proposal under consideration of Ministry of Health to set up plasma banks for providing Covid-19 therapy. "States, however, with a view to ensure availability of plasma, in case needed, have taken initiative to establish such banks in certain banks. No central database of such banks is maintained," he clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-data-on-number-of-covid-19-plasma-banks-in-country-government-890270.html
20-09-2020||National||Facebook is neutral, non-partisan, says India chief, defending handling of hate speeches||Facebook India Head Ajit Mohan has defended the handling of alleged hate speeches by members of the ruling BJP, saying the platform has remained true to its design of being neutral and non-partisan and acted based on inputs from various teams. In an interview with PTI, Mohan rejected charges of Facebook India's decisions being influenced by political leanings of individuals, saying the process followed at the platform is designed to ensure no one person can influence outcomes, let alone take any unilateral decisions. "The content policy of team that is at the centre of all the enforcement decisions (on hate speeches) is separate and independent in India from the public policy team (that handles government relations)," he said. "It's designed for independence." And the content management team is guided by only community standards. "And enforcement of that has to be objective, has to be non-partisan and neutral. I think that goes to the heart of how the platform has been designed from day one," he asserted. Individuals can have "points of views" or "leanings", the "system is designed to make sure no one person can influence the outcomes," he said. "And so the answer is yes," he said replying to a question on whether Facebook is a non-partisan and politically neutral entity. The comments come amid a political storm over a report published in the Wall Street Journal last month, alleging the social media giant ignored extremist posts by ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in order to protect its business interests in India. According to the report, Facebook deleted anti-Muslim posts by BJP's Telangana MLA T Raja Singh and three other Hindu nationalists only after being questioned by the paper. Facebook's head of public policy Ankhi Das, the report said citing company employees, had opposed the deletion of the posts despite being flagged internally as breaching standards. Facebook earlier this month banned the 42-year-old Telangana MLA, categorising him as a "dangerous individual". Mohan said there are no limits to respectable standard for free speech within and outside the company. While there are people from multiple political leanings and backgrounds in the company, Facebook values people of experience in government or in public service. "But at the same time, I think it is important to call out to you that the content policy of a team that is at the centre of all of these enforcement decisions is separate and independent in India from the public policy team here. It's designed for independence. So the public policy team that engages with government, for example, central and state governments, is a part of my team. That is separate from the content policy team which is part of the global team," he said. "So, I think the point is while people can have points of view, they can have leanings, the system is designed to make sure no one person can influence the outcomes, let alone have any unilateral decision making power on this aspect. The separation in India context tells you how design is meant for independence," he said. Mohan said the content moderation is largely done through automated systems and human reviewers. In dealing with complex issues such as designating individuals, especially elected officials, the content policy team comes into play. "The public policy team does seek inputs from multiple functions and disciplines and teams including public policy team in India. That is not interference. That is the process, that is being designed to have enough local context from the local team," he said. "But finally the decision that is taken is not taken by the public policy team." "So you have the opportunity in certain cases like designation, from multiple local and international teams, to provide a point of view that is by design. But it is not for them to take any unilateral decision. That still goes through the content policy team," he said. Facebook has over 300 million users in India, while its associate WhatsApp is the leader in messaging with over 400 million users. In April this year, Facebook invested USD 5.7 billion to buy a 9.9 per cent stake in Jio Platforms, the digital arm of energy-to-telecom conglomerate Reliance Industries Ltd owned by India's richest man Mukesh Ambani. Mohan said Facebook has an impartial approach to dealing with content and that this is governed strongly by its community standards. These policies are enforced globally without regard to anyone's political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural beliefs, he emphasised. "That is the basis and enforcement of that has to be objective, has to be non-partisan and neutral. I think that goes to the heart of how the platform has been designed from day one. It goes to the heart of something all of us embrace, that we have to be neutral, we have to be non-partisan," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-is-neutral-non-partisan-says-india-chief-defending-handling-of-hate-speeches-890274.html
20-09-2020||National||Opposition files no-confidence motion against RS Dy Chairman Harivansh, sits on dharna inside House||Thirteen opposition parties on Sunday submitted a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh protesting against the manner in which he allowed the passage of two contentious farm sector bills without permitting a voting on its motions. A number of Opposition MPs from the Congress, Trinamool Congress, DMK, RJD, Samajwadi Party, CPI(M) and CPI among others also sat in protest inside the Rajya Sabha chambers after the House was adjourned before shifting their demonstration to Gandhi Statue in Parliament House to enable Lok Sabha MPs who would be sitting the Upper House Chambers for the proceedings starting from 3 PM. Sources said leaders of Congress, Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi Party, DMK, NCP, RJD, CPI(M), CPI, AAP, Muslim League, TRS, LJD and Kerala Congress have signed the resolution expressing no-confidence in Harivansh. "The Deputy Chairperson did not even attempt to generate consensus in this regard (on extending timing) and did not allow RS members sitting in the Lok Sabha chamber to even participate. The Deputy Chairperson attempted to have the Bills passed in haste and without application of mind, circumvented all demands for proper voting by division...," the letter signed by at least 47 MPs said. The letter also accused Harivansh packed the House with security personnel ``deliberately designed to overawe and outnumber" the Opposition "protested strongly". The no-confidence motion comes a week after Harivansh was elected as Deputy Chairman for a second time, defeating the joint Opposition candidate in a voice vote. The Opposition had then not pressed for voting, as it was clear that it did not have the numbers. High drama was witnessed in the House during the discussion on the two bills after Harivansh first went ahead with extending the sitting beyond 1 PM amid Opposition parties objecting to it. Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh accused the BJP and the Deputy Chairman for the "chaos" in the Rajya Sabha, saying it was due to the government floor managers unilaterally cutting short the debate time by 45 minutes and "dictatorial attitude" of the Chair on extending the sitting. He also referred to the "unacceptable and truly" awful behaviour of Harivansh towards former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda by cutting short his speech citing time-limit. In a series of tweets, he said, "All parties including the BJP had agreed to a four hour discussion on the two farm bills in the Rajya Sabha. This was unilaterally cut short by the government's floor managers by almost 45 minutes. This was the starting point for the chaos in the Parliament this afternoon." On Harivansh, he said, "the dictatorial attitude of the Chair in not wanting to get a sense of the House, which is the convention to extend the session beyond the scheduled 1 PM, led to bedlam and chaos. The anti-farmer Bills were passed in the din without voting. Why the tearing urgency? On whose orders?" Referring to the former Prime Minister, Ramesh said, "what happened to Deve Gowda-ji today in Rajya Sabha was completely unacceptable and truly awful...The Deputy Chairman was very, very rude to him." Several Opposition members had objected to Harivansh cutting short Gowda's speech, saying the 87-year-old was a former prime minister and he should be shown respect. Inside the House, Ramesh said, "he is a former Prime Minister. Let us give him some respect." As Harivansh asked him to conclude, Gowda said, "this is the last leg of my career, most probably. I don't want to go into all these things.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-files-no-confidence-motion-against-rs-dy-chairman-harivansh-sits-on-dharna-inside-house-890284.html
20-09-2020||National||Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network to track Covid-19 vaccine||The Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system, which provides real-time information on vaccine stocks and storage temperatures across all cold chain points in the country, is being enhanced to address the needs for distribution and tracking of Covid-19 vaccine, whenever it becomes available, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Sunday. A national expert group on Covid-19 vaccine has been constituted to guide the government on prioritisation of population groups for vaccination, selection of vaccine candidates, delivery mechanism of the vaccine, cold chain and associated infrastructure for roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination, etc. Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey said in a written reply. The minister also clarified that the government has not entered into any contract with foreign pharmaceutical company in this regard. Choubey was responding to a question on whether the government has formulated any road map to introduce vaccines for Covid-19 in the country in the immediate future. Currently, under the Universal Immunisation Program (UIP), vaccine distribution is based on Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system, which is an internet-based digital system to track routine immunisation, vaccine stocks, storage temperature in about 25,000 dedicated cold chain storage points across the country as well as movement of vaccine. The vaccine is distributed to health facilities and outreach station sites, so as to reach all areas. The eVIN system is regularly monitored by health authorities at state and district level. "The eVIN system is being enhanced to address the needs for distribution and tracking of Covid-19 vaccine, when it becomes available," the minister said. Choubey said the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has informed that it has granted test license permission for manufacture of Covid-19 vaccine for preclinical test, examination and analysis to the seven manufacturers in India. These are Serum Institute of India in Pune, Cadila Healthcare Ltd., Ahmedabad,  Bharat Biotech International Ltd in Hyderabad, Biological E Ltd., Hyderabad, Reliance Life Sciences Pvt Ltd in Mumbai, Aurbindo Pharma Limited in Hyderabad and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited, Pune. Choubey said the phase-1 clinical trials have revealed excellent safety of the two candidate vaccines indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the ICMR and Cadila Healthcare Ltd, and now their immunogenicity testing is in progress. Their phase-2 clinical trials are ongoing. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is facilitating studies related to Covid-19 vaccines. An inactivated whole virion candidate vaccine (BBV152) for SARS-CoV-2 has been developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd using the virus isolate provided by ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. "Phase-1 clinical trials along with parallel studies in hamsters and rhesus macaques have been completed and have revealed excellent safety of the candidate vaccine. Immunogenicity testing is in progress. Phase II clinical trials are ongoing," Choubey said. A DNA vaccine has been developed by Cadila Healthcare Ltd. Pre-clincial toxicity studies were conducted on small animals: mice, rats, rabbits and guinea pigs. "The vaccine has been found to be safe and immunogenic. Cadila has partnered with ICMR for conduct of parallel pre-clinical studies in rhesus macaques. Phase-1 clinical trials have been completed. The trial has revealed excellent safety of the candidate vaccine. Immunogenicity testing is in progress. Phase II clinical trials are ongoing," he said. The Serum Institute of India (SII) and ICMR have partnered for clinical development of two global vaccine candidates -- ChAdOx1-S, which is a non- replicating viral vector vaccine developed by University of Oxford/AstraZeneca.  This vaccine is undergoing phase-3 clinical trials in Brazil. Phase-2 and 3 bridging studies have been initiated by the ICMR at 14 clinical trial sites, the minister said. The ICMR and SII have also partnered for clinical development of a glycoprotein subunit nanoparticle adjuvanted vaccine developed by Novavax from the US. The trial will be initiated in second half of October after the vaccine is manufactured by SII. The trial is led by ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), Pune. Department of Biotechnology (DBT)/Department of Science and Technology (DST) are also supporting more than 30 vaccine candidates which are in different stages of development, Choubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/electronic-vaccine-intelligence-network-to-track-covid-19-vaccine-890291.html
20-09-2020||National||Govt forms committees for inspection of Covid hospitals||The Centre has formed expert committees for inspection of government and other Covid facilities following directions of the Supreme Court, which took cognizance of shortcomings in the care of coronavirus patients in different hospitals in the country.  The expert committees constituted by the Ministry of Health have been tasked to inspect, supervise and guide government and other hospitals dedicated to Covid-19, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. The Ministry of Health has written to all the states and union territories with regard to prescribing reasonable rates for testing and treatment of Covid-19, Choubey said in a written reply. He said the central government has issued an advisory to all states that dead bodies of suspected Covid patients be handed over to their relatives immediately without waiting for laboratory confirmation and the body be disposed of as per guidelines on dead body management issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Choubey was listing the response by the government to the observations made by the Supreme Court on the "callous and insensitive" manner in which government hospitals in certain states were treating Covid-19 patients and handling cremation and burial of bodies of deceased patients. Hospital infrastructure in the country for managing Covid-19 cases is being continuously monitored by the central government.  States have been advised to prepare for requisite surge capacities to manage cases in accordance with existing and projected growth rates. States have been supported in terms of logistic and financial requirements for setting up Covid treatment facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-forms-committees-for-inspection-of-covid-hospitals-890295.html
20-09-2020||National||India extends $250 million to Maldives to overcome Covid-19 impact||India has provided financial assistance of $250 million to the Maldives to help it mitigate the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian embassy here said on Sunday. The grant, provided under the most favourable terms possible, was in response to the request made by President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to overcome the difficult economic situation in the Maldives. A handover ceremony was held on Sunday at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Government of Maldives to mark the occasion in the presence of Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid, Finance Minister Ibrahim Ameer, High Commissioner Sunjay Sudhir and CEO, SBI, Male Bharat Mishra, the embassy said in a statement. The financial assistance was announced first during a virtual meeting with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and provided through a Treasury Bond sale to the State Bank of India (SBI), Male which has a tenure of 10 years for repayment, it said. The India-Maldives partnership is unique and the Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted this. India will continue to stand by the people and Government of Maldives during these difficult times, the embassy said. The $250 million budgetary support showcases the resilience and reliability of the India-Maldives relationship. India's Neighbourhood First policy and the Maldives' India First policy have worked in tandem during the Covid-19 pandemic to safeguard the well-being of our peoples. Today is another milestone in our historic ties that have expanded in scope and risen in ambition in the recent past, it said. India had provided substantial and continued assistance to the Maldives during the Covid-19 pandemic. A team of doctors and specialists visited the Maldives in March to assist in Covid-preparedness. A consignment of 5.5 tonnes of essential medicines was donated in April, another consignment of 6.2 tonnes of medicines was airlifted from 4 Indian cities to Male by the Indian Air Force, and 580 tonnes of food aid was provided in May. India continuously lifted export restrictions on medical consumables, respiratory apparatus, and testing kits and reagents throughout the pandemic to assist Maldives in its battle against Covid-19. On the request of the Government of Maldives, India will also send doctors and nurses recruited on short-term contracts to reinforce the health system in the Maldives in the battle against Covid-19. Tourism constitutes a third of the Maldives' national revenue. Neeza Imad, Minister of State for Economic Development of Maldives, has said that Covid-19 has had a "devastating impact" on the country's economy, particularly to SMEs that account for most of the tourism-related employment. As a result of the ongoing crisis, the International Monetary Fund has projected that the country's economy will contract by 8.1 per cent in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-extends-250-million-to-maldives-to-overcome-covid-19-impact-890301.html
20-09-2020||National||Govt set to amend FCRA, to make Aadhaar mandatory for NGOs seeking foreign donations||The Centre on Sunday introduced a Bill in the Lok Sabha seeking to make Aadhaar mandatory for all office-bearers of an NGO seeking foreign donations, amid Opposition allegations using the changes to the law to target detractors. The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, introduced by Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai, seeks to streamline the provisions of the law by strengthening the compliance mechanism to enhance transparency and accountability in receipt and utilisation of foreign contributions. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury opposed the introduction of the bill contending that it sought to give unnecessary powers to the Centre to suppress the Opposition. Trinamool Congress member Saugata Ray claimed that the bill was an attempt to stop social organisations working in tribal and rural areas from getting foreign donations. Rai sought to allay apprehensions voiced by the Opposition, quoting the then Home Minister P Chidambaram, who had moved the FCRA Bill in 2010 citing non-compliance by more than half of the registered NGOs when it came to submitting details of foreign donations. Rai said Chidambaram had told the House that of 40,000 odd NGOs registered under the FCRA, more than half did not submit details about foreign donations or furnish accounts for audit. The minister said rejected allegations of discrimination against political opponents, insisting that the bill would usher in a transparent process on seeking accountability. The proposed amendments also seek to bar public servants from receiving foreign funding. It also seeks to limit the use of foreign funds received under the FCRA for administrative purposes from the current limit of 50% to 20%. The government had cancelled certificates of registration of more than 19,000 NGOs between 2011 and 2019 for failing to meet basic statutory compliances. The bill also seeks to empower the government to ask a violator to not use the funds by holding a “summary inquiry”. After the amendments are passed, no organisation will be able to transfer foreign contribution to any association/person under Section 7 of the FCRA. “Every person who has been granted a certificate or prior permission for foreign funding shall receive foreign contribution only in an account designated as “FCRA Account” which shall be opened by him in such branch of the State Bank of India at New Delhi, as the Central Government may, by notification, specify and for other consequential matters relating thereto,” the proposed amendment says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-set-to-amend-fcra-to-make-aadhaar-mandatory-for-ngos-seeking-foreign-donations-890304.html
20-09-2020||National||Generated over 9 lakh man-days of work under Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan in six states: Railways||The Railways has generated 9,79,557 man-days of work till September 18 under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan in Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, the national transporter said Sunday. Around 164 railway infrastructure projects are being executed in these states. Till September 18, 12,276 workers have been engaged in the scheme and the payment of Rs 2056.97 crore has been released to the contractors for the projects being implemented, the railways said. Railways has appointed nodal officers in each district as well as in the states so that a close coordination is established with the state government, it said. The national transporter has identified a number of works which are being executed under this scheme. The works are related to the construction and maintenance of approach roads for level crossings, development and cleaning of silted waterways, trenches and drains along the track, construction and maintenance of approach road to railway stations, repair and widening of existing railway embankments or cuttings among others. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched a massive employment-cum-rural public works campaign named Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan to empower and provide livelihood opportunities in areas or villages witnessing large number of returnee migrant workers affected by the devastating Covid-19, on June 20, 2020. The prime minister had announced that Rs 50,000 crore would be spent for building durable rural infrastructure under the scheme. This Abhiyaan of 125 days is being undertaken in mission mode, and involves focused implementation of 25 categories of works/activities in 116 districts, each with a large concentration of returnee migrant workers in six states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. Public works is being undertaken during this campaign will have a resource envelope of Rs 50,000 crore. The scheme is a convergent effort between 12 different ministries/departments namely; Rural Development; Panchayati Raj; Road Transport & Highways, Mines; Drinking Water & Sanitation, Environment; Railways; Petroleum & Natural Gas; New & Renewable Energy; Border Roads; Telecom and Agriculture, to expedite implementation of 25 public infrastructure works, and works relating to augmentation of livelihood opportunities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/generated-over-9-lakh-man-days-of-work-under-garib-kalyan-rozgar-abhiyaan-in-six-states-railways-890307.html
20-09-2020||National||2.39 crore Covid-19 tests conducted in India in August: Minister of State for Health in RS||India conducted 2.39 crore Covid-19 tests in August, of which 1.24 crore were done using rapid antigen kits, the government said on Sunday. Till September 18, a total of 6,17,33,533 tests were conducted across the country, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said in the Rajya Sabha. He said 2,39,66,859 tests were conducted in August, 1,05, 32,288 in July, 49,93,422 in June, 29,37,284 in May, 8,64,517 in April and 33,330 in March. "In March, only RT-PCR testing centres were available. Later, cartridge-based tests were approved by ICMR like Truenat, CBNAAT, Abbott and Roche. In the month of June, rapid antigen kits were approved by ICMR for testing," the minister said in a written reply. "The number of Covid-19 tests conducted in August using rapid antigen kits is 1,24,17,396," Choubey said. The Ministry of Health has followed a graded approach and is advising states to expand Covid-19 dedicated hospital infrastructure. The states are also advised to plan for the requisite number of isolation, oxygen supported and ICU beds based on the prevalent and expected case growth rate, he said. As on September 18, 15,446 Covid treatment facilities with 13,32,225 dedicated isolation beds without oxygen support have been created.  Besides, 2,32,665 oxygen supported isolation beds and 64,285 ICU beds, including 32,609 ventilator beds, were created, Choubey replied to another question. Guidelines on clinical management of Covid-19 have been issued and are being updated regularly. States are being supported in terms of supply of logistics, the minister said. So far, 1.41 crore of PPE Kits, 3.44 crore N-95 masks, 10.84 crore tablets of hydroxychloroquine, 30,796 ventilators and 1,02,400 oxygen cylinders have been supplied to states, union territories and central government hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/239-crore-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-india-in-august-minister-of-state-for-health-in-rs-890309.html
20-09-2020||National||PIL in Supreme Court seeks uniform law for succession, inheritance||A PIL seeking to remove anomalies in succession and inheritance laws and make them uniform for all citizens has been filed in the Supreme Court. The petition filed by BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay said gender and religion-neutral laws in succession and inheritance is necessary to secure justice, equality and dignity of women, and alleged that the central government has not taken any steps in this regard till date. The plea, filed through advocate Ashwini Kumar Dubey, has also sought directions to the Law Commission to examine the laws relating to succession and inheritance of the developed countries and international conventions in this regard and prepare a report on 'uniform grounds of succession and inheritance' for all citizens within three months. "The injury caused to the citizens is extremely large because gender-biased and religion biased personal laws relating to succession and inheritance are not only against the constitutional ethos of gender justice & gender equality, guaranteed under articles 14-15, but also against the dignity of women, which is an important element of right life to life & liberty, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution," the plea said. "However even after 73 years of independence and 70 years of becoming sovereign socialist secular democratic republic; the Centre has failed to provide gender-neutral and religion-neutral uniform grounds of succession & inheritance in the spirit of the articles 14, 15, 21, 44 and international conventions," it said. The PIL stated that existing personal laws being very "complex and cumbersome" are against the goals of preamble. It said that Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs and Jains are governed by the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and Christians, Parsis and Jews are governed by the Indian Succession Act, 1925. "Similarly, Muslims are governed by the Shariat Act, in which the share of a female heir is half of the male heirs. Moreover, existing personal laws relating to succession and inheritance are not only against the constitutional ethos of gender justice, gender equality & dignity of women but also brazenly offend Articles 14, 15, 21 of the Constitution and international conventions," the plea said. The PIL contended that succession and inheritance is the most crucial and pivotal issue and directly affects the right to life, liberty and dignity, guaranteed under Article 21. "Discriminatory grounds of succession & inheritance not only reinforce patriarchal stereotypical notions but also contravene principles of gender justice, gender equality and dignity of women guaranteed under Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution," it said. The plea has also sought to declare that the discriminatory grounds of succession and inheritance are violative of articles 14, 15, 21 of the Constitution and frame gender-neutral, religion-neutral, uniform guidelines of succession and inheritance for all citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-supreme-court-seeks-uniform-law-for-succession-inheritance-890313.html
20-09-2020||National||Espionage case against journalist Rajeev Sharma 'false', 'evidence planted': Lawyer||The espionage case lodged against arrested freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma under the Official Secrets Act is "false" and the "evidence was planted" by the Delhi police, his lawyer claimed on Sunday. The Delhi Police on Saturday said Sharma, a resident of Pitampura, was allegedly passing sensitive information about India's border strategy, Army's deployment and procurement, and foreign policy to Chinese intelligence agencies. He was arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police in connection with a case under the Official Secrets Act as he was allegedly found in possession of defence-related classified documents. Senior advocate Adish Aggarwala, who is representing the journalist, alleged that the police's claim of finding incriminating evidence from his possession was "not true". "We are not denying that he was working for a Chinese news organisation. The only dispute is the police's claim that they have found incriminating evidence, which is not true. "The evidence was planted later on. On September 14, when the police took him in custody, they searched his house that night and no incriminating evidence was found. He is being framed in a false case. He has not committed any of offence," Aggarwala told PTI. The advocate said the police could have informed the media on the day of the arrest itself, but they did not "as nothing incriminating was found". "Once they (police) analysed and could not find any anything incriminating, they planted the evidence," he further alleged. "They are not interrogating any official from the Defence Ministry. He must have found the documents from someone. It isn't that he printed them at his home," he claimed. Aggarwala also alleged that Sharma's family was not allowed access to him, nor was any information regarding the allegations furnished to them. "No copy of the FIR is uploaded online. Despite multiple requests, the police have not furnished a copy of the FIR. He was not given access to a lawyer when he was produced before a judge through video conferencing," he said and termed it "illegal". The lawyer said the only thing the police had was that Sharma was working with a Chinese media organisation. "Our country has not stopped business with China. A lot of people from China are working here and a lot many Indians are working there. There's nothing wrong in that," he said. Sharma's counsel has filed a bail application which is scheduled to come up for hearing on September 22 before a Delhi court. In the application, the counsel has said that there is "no risk of him running away from the process of justice". "The applicant has deep roots in society and is a respected senior journalist. His wife is also Associate Professor at Venkateswara College, Delhi University. Therefore, there is no risk of him running away from the process of justice. "There is no chance of influencing any witness or tampering with any evidence. The investigation would no longer require custodial interrogation of the applicant, and he can join the investigation as and when directed," the application stated. It added the accused was of 61-years-old and was "suffering from an acute case of sinus problems, and requires constant treatment from a nebulizer". "He has also undergone two surgeries for the same. Due to the same, he stands to be high risk to Covid-19. He is also a patient of high blood pressure, and taking medication for the same for the past decade," it said. The journalist had sent several documents in the form of reports to Chinese intelligence officers and got a handsome remuneration in return, police alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/espionage-case-against-journalist-rajeev-sharma-false-evidence-planted-lawyer-890318.html
20-09-2020||National||Watershed moment for Indian agriculture, will ensure complete transformation of sector: PM Modi on farm Bills||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday described the passage of two farm sector bills as a "watershed moment" in the history of Indian agriculture, asserting that they will ensure a complete transformation of the farm sector and empower crores of farmers. In a series of tweets after Rajya Sabha passed the bills by voice vote amid din created by protesting opposition members, Modi said these proposed laws will liberate farmers from numerous adversities as he noted that peasants were for decades bound by various constraints and bullied by middlemen. A watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture! Congratulations to our hardworking farmers on the passage of key bills in Parliament, which will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector as well as empower crores of farmers. He again assured farmers that the existing government support system for them will continue. Farmers in states like Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against these bills, with their leaders alleging that the legislations will dismantle the existing system and leave them to the mercy of corporate interests. Modi asserted, "I said it earlier and I say it once again: System of MSP will remain. Government procurement will continue." I said it earlier and I say it once again: System of MSP will remain. Government procurement will continue. We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming generations. "We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming generations." These bills will add impetus to the efforts to double income of farmers and ensure greater prosperity for them, he said. "Our agriculture sector is in desperate need of latest technology that assists the industrious farmers. Now, with the passage of the bills, our farmers will have easier access to futuristic technology that will boost production and yield better results. This is a welcome step," the prime minister said. Our agriculture sector is in desperate need of latest technology that assists the industrious farmers. Now, with the passage of the bills, our farmers will have easier access to futuristic technology that will boost production and yield better results. This is a welcome step. The two bills were earlier passed by Lok Sabha. After they get the presidential assent, they will be notified as laws. "A watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture! Congratulations to our hardworking farmers on the passage of key bills in Parliament, which will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector as well as empower crores of farmers," Modi added in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/watershed-moment-for-indian-agriculture-will-ensure-complete-transformation-of-sector-pm-modi-on-farm-bills-890331.html
20-09-2020||National||Mosque in Ayodhya may not have traditional shape: Trust official||The mosque to come up in Ayodhya pursuant to the Supreme Court verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi case may have a shape that is different from the traditional shape of mosques and will not be named after any emperor or king. Secretary and spokesperson of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) Athar Hussain told PTI on Sunday, "A mosque measuring 15,000 square feet will be built in Dhannipur village. It will be of the same size as that of the Babri mosque. The shape of the mosque may be completely different from that of other mosques. It may be square-shaped like the Kaaba Sharif in Mecca, as hinted by architect SM Akhtar." To a question on whether the mosque at Dhannipur will have no domes or minarets like the Kaaba Sharif, Hussain said it could be a possibility. He said the architect has been given a free hand in this regard. "The mosque will not be named Babri Masjid. It will not be named after any king or emperor. My personal opinion is that it should be called the Dhannipur Masjid," Hussain said. He also informed that the trust is making its portal so that people can donate for the mosque and the museum, hospital and research centre which will be built inside the complex. Write-ups by national and international Islamic scholars will also appear on the portal. He said some work on the portal is yet to be completed and hence, donation is yet to begin. The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board has formed the IICF, a trust, for the construction of the mosque on a five-acre plot. The state government has allotted the five-acre plot in Ayodhya's Dhannipur for the construction of the mosque on the directive of the apex court. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court, on November 9 last year, ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. The Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by "karsevaks", who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mosque-in-ayodhya-may-not-have-traditional-shape-trust-official-890332.html
20-09-2020||National||Clone trains to arrive 2-3 hours before parent trains: Official||Clone trains, which started on Monday to meet the extra rush of passengers, will reach its destinations two-three hours before the corresponding parent train, railways said. The Indian Railways started operating 40 trains in some routes where there is a long waitlist of passengers. The clone trains which will have three AC coaches, limited halts and will run ahead of already operated special trains. The Railways has introduced these 40 pairs of trains on high demand routes with most trains, between Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The Railway Board has given the power to the zonal railways to decide how much of a headstart clone trains will be given depending on the availability of routes and commercial viability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clone-trains-to-arrive-2-3-hours-before-parent-trains-official-890337.html
20-09-2020||National||Covid-19 provides opportunity to India, Japan to further strengthen ties: Report||The report, prepared by Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas and FICCI, also said that Japan has always treated India as a preferred partner in terms of economics, trade and commerce. "Covid-19 pandemic has provided great opportunities for the two nations and its businesses to join hands and forge a new alliance in terms of harvesting the fruits of demographic dividend that India provides, and push India towards becoming a major global manufacturing hub amidst the changing economic atmosphere," it said. The Japanese business community is upbeat about its investments and ventures in India, it said adding Japan continues to be the fourth largest investor in India. It suggested that policy reforms are required in India to bring in greater synergies and reap the benefits of the de-risking activities being undertaken by Japanese companies to move their supply chains out of China to countries like India, Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and Myanmar. Shardul S Shroff, Executive Chairman and National Practice Head - Insolvency and Bankruptcy, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said, "We need to look at the pandemic as an opportunity to bring India and Japan's economic relationship closer". He said that the Indian economy holds the potential to bounce back quickly on the back of a slew of fiscal and economic measures undertaken by the government such as reduction in corporate tax rates, further reforms in the GST regime, revamping labour laws, taking measures to ensure ease of doing business, to attract foreign investment. "While the Indian government has taken plethora of measures and policy decisions to make India an investor friendly destination for the Japanese business community, a lot more needs to be done to meet the new challenges posed by the pandemic and to harvest the investor sentiments looking for safe investment destinations," he added. Rudra Kumar Pandey, Partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co said that the technological and economic prowess of Japan coupled with India's strengths in manufacturing, skilled workforce and its large domestic markets will further strengthen the relationship between India and Japan. The report recommended certain steps such as simplification of the form to incorporate a new company and appoint directors, ensuring easy customs clearance procedures, and immediate refunds of GST credit related to exports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-provides-opportunity-to-india-japan-to-further-strengthen-ties-report-890342.html
20-09-2020||National||Record over 12 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in 24 hours, says Government||Crossing a crucial milestone in the battle against Covid-19, a record number of over 12 lakh tests were conducted in the country for the detection of the disease in a span of 24 hours, taking the total number of such tests performed so far to more than 6.36 crore (6,36,61,060), the Centre said on Sunday. This strongly demonstrates a substantial strengthening of the Covid-19 testing infrastructure in the country, the health ministry said, underlining that India's daily testing numbers are among the highest in the world. From conducting merely 10,000 tests per day on April 8, the average daily number has crossed 12 lakh with 12,06,806 tests conducted on Saturday. The last one crore tests were conducted in merely nine days and the Tests Per Million (TPM) have been boosted to 46,131, the ministry highlighted. "Higher testing leads to early identification of positive cases and a timely and effective treatment. This eventually leads to a lower mortality rate," it said. As evidence has revealed, higher numbers of testing also result in a lowered positivity rate, it added. The sharp decline in the daily positivity rate has demonstrated that the rate of spread of the infection is being contained, the ministry underscored. Higher testing forms an integral part of the "chase the virus" strategy, which aims to catch every missing person to curb the spread of the infection, it said, adding that the states have been advised that all symptomatic negatives of rapid-antigen tests should mandatorily be subjected to RT-PCR testing. The Centre's policies in the context of Covid-19 are continuously evolving. Following several measures to facilitate a wider testing by people, the government has recently provided "testing on demand" for the first time, the ministry said. The states and Union territories have also been given wider flexibilities to simplify the modalities in order to enable higher levels of testing. The government has also allowed Covid-19 tests to be conducted on the prescription of any registered medical practitioner and not exclusively a government doctor. The Centre has strongly advised the states and Union territories to take immediate steps to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private practitioners, to prescribe Covid tests to any individual fulfilling the criteria for testing in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Expanding the network of diagnostic laboratories and facilitating easy testing across the country have given a sharp boost to the enhanced testing numbers. The country has performed remarkably on fulfilling the World Health Organization's (WHO) advice of 140 tests per day per 10-lakh population, the ministry said. In its Guidance Note on "Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19", the WHO has advised this strategy.   "In another row of achievements, 35 states and Union territories have crossed the advised number of tests," the ministry said. A prominent determinant of the strengthened testing numbers is the steadily widening diagnostic laboratory network in the country. This has grown to 1,773 laboratories -- 1,061 in the government sector and 712 private ones -- the ministry informed. India's Covid-19 caseload has mounted to 54,00,619 with 92,605 people testing positive for the disease in a day, while the death toll has climbed to 86,752 with the virus claiming 1,133 lives in a span of 24 hours, health ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-over-12-lakh-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-24-hours-says-government-890349.html
20-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Tensions soar in Rajya Sabha over Farm Bills; heavy rains pound parts of Karnataka||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Tensions soar in Rajya Sabha over Farm bills; very heavy rainfall pounds parts of Karnataka and no Question Hour during the five-day monsoon session of the Gujarat Assembly session.  Here are the top news of today, Sunday: September 20, 2020: Disposal of biomedical waste including PPE kits worn by healthcare professionals and public became a challenge during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Union Health Ministry told the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. On being asked whether Covid-19 cases increased among individuals employed in garbage collection and disposal, the minister said the data is not maintained by the Centre. Elaborating on the steps taken by the government for improvement in biomedical waste disposal, the minister said the CPCB has issued separate guidelines for their 'Handling, Treatment and Disposal   Tensions soared in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday as the voting on two contentious agriculture-related bills was taken up. The trouble started at 1 PM, the scheduled closing of the proceedings when Deputy Chairman Harivansh went ahead after a request from the government.  However, Opposition parties demanded that the discussion and voting on the Bill be taken upon Monday morning and that there was no consensus on extending the timing. As Harivansh went ahead and allowed Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to continue his reply, Opposition MPs from Congress, Trinamool Congress and AAP among others went to the Well of the House shouting slogans. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien then went to the Chair waving the Rule Book. One of the MPs even touched the microphone of the Chair even as more lawmakers rushed to the Well of the House. The resignation of Akali Dal's Harsimrat Kaur from the Union Cabinet protesting against the Bills came up during discussion. Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut said the Prime Minister has noted the government was not ending the MSP system and it was just a rumour. "So, did a union minister resign on the basis of a rumour?" he said. Opposition to move no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh    There will be no Question Hour during the five-day monsoon session of the Gujarat Assembly session which will begin from Monday under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, a state minister said on Sunday. Nearly 20 bills will be taken up for discussion during the session which will be conducted while adhering to all Covid-19 prevention protocols, he said. Seating arrangements will be made while following the social distancing norms and no visitors will be allowed in the premises, a release from the state Assembly earlier said. Covid-19 tests were conducted on Speaker Rajendra Trivedi and 505 staff members of the Assembly over the past couple of days, and five were found to be infected, it said.   Very heavy rainfall pounded parts of Karnataka on Sunday, causing flooding in Udupi district and threatening another bout of floods during monsoons this year. National Disaster Response Force was called in for rescue efforts as four villages in Udupi taluk were inundated.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed officials from Udupi and Bengaluru Urban district to take measures to prevent any untoward incidents. According to a release from the CMO, Yediyurappa spoke to BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta over the phone, with instructions to prevent flooding along stormwater drains of the city. All officials should be available round the clock he said    England all-rounder Sam Curran termed Chennai Super Kings captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni a "genius" after justifying his surprise promotion in the batting order in their Indian Premier League (IPL) opener against Mumbai Indians on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-tensions-soar-in-rajya-sabha-over-farm-bills-heavy-rains-pound-parts-of-karnataka-890357.html
20-09-2020||National||NBA asks SC to make its regulatory mechanism binding on all news channels||The News Broadcasters Association has asked the Supreme Court to pass an order making its programme code as part of statutory framework and the orders passed by its independent self-regulatory mechanism binding and enforceable on all news channels. The organisation sought recognition to its independent self regulatory mechanism, applied through News Broadcasting Standard Authority, headed by former Supreme Court judge, Justice A K Sikri, to all news channels. "Amenability to NBSA mechanism should be made a term of uplinking and downlinking permission for news channels as not all broadcasters come within its jurisdiction," the association. The response was filed by Annie Joseph, secretary general of NBA in a petition filed by advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan against a programme telecast by Sudarshan TV on alleged infiltration of Muslims into the UPSC. The court had on September 18 asked the NBA to give suggestions as to how the self-regulatory mechanism of the NBSA could be strengthened and made more effective in respect of electronic media. In its suggestion, the association said, "the NBA code of ethics should be included under Rule 6 of the Programme Code of the Cable Television Network Rules, 1994 by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to make it binding on all news broadcasters, irrespective of the membership." The recognition to the NBSA would strengthen the News Broadcasting Standard Regulations and the penalties mentioned therein could be made more stringent, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nba-asks-sc-to-make-its-regulatory-mechanism-binding-on-all-news-channels-890363.html
20-09-2020||National||Sudarshan TV editor points out to programmes on 'Hindu Terror' to justify its show on 'UPSC Jihad'||Faced with a charge of using "stereotypes" in showing a programme on entry of Muslims into the top bureaucracy, Sudarshan TV's editor-in-chief Suresh Chavhanke asked the Supreme Court as to how the shows on 'Hindu Terror' with the most sacred symbols were allowed to air in other channels. "The deponent was shocked and pained when on September 17, 2008 NDTV (English News Channel) had broadcast a programme anchored by Barkha Dutt titled as “‘Hindu’ Terror: Myth or fact?" In this programme just adjacent to the programme caption i.e. “‘Hindu’ Terror: Myth or fact?”, a Hindu Saint was shown with ‘Tilak’ and ‘Chillam’ and also a ‘Trishul’ (one of most scared symbols for Hindus and associated with most revered deity of the Hindus, ‘Lord Shiva’)," he said. NDTV had also broadcast on August 26, 2010 a programme, again anchored by Dutt titled as “Is ‘Saffron Terror’ real?” In the said programme, a Hindu cultural gathering was shown in Saffron colour clothes, he pointed out. The affidavit was filed by advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain on behalf of Chavhanke as the top court on September 18 asked him to assuage its apprehension on use of "stereotypes", "rants", "rhetorics" and "hurtful" denigration of an entire community. The court had asked him why every time, a Muslim was shown, he was seen wearing a green shirt and skull cap, generating hate. Chavhanke assured the court that he will strictly comply with all laws while airing the remaining episodes of ‘Bindas Bol’ programme series on the subject of "UPSC Jihad". The TV channel, which aired four out of 10 episodes of the programme, was restrained by the top court on September 15, saying it made insidious attempt to vilify Muslims as it propagated that they are "infiltrating" civil services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sudarshan-tv-editor-points-out-to-programmes-on-hindu-terror-to-justify-its-show-on-upsc-jihad-890372.html
20-09-2020||National||Disposal of PPE kits, other biomedical waste challenge during Covid-19 pandemic: Govt||Disposal of biomedical waste including PPE kits worn by healthcare professionals and public became a challenge during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Union Health Ministry told the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. “As informed by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), disposal of bio-medical waste including Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit worn by healthcare professionals as well as general public became a challenge during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey said. The minister was responding to a query by BJP MP Mahesh Poddar in the Upper House over the disposal of biomedical waste during the coronavirus crisis in the country. On being asked whether Covid-19 cases increased among individuals employed in garbage collection and disposal, the minister said the data is not maintained by the Centre. “Public Health being a State subject, information relating to increase in Covid-19 cases among individuals employed in garbage collection and disposal, due to mismanagement in disposal of bio-medical waste including PPE kit etc., is not centrally maintained,” Choubey said. Elaborating on the steps taken by the government for improvement in biomedical waste disposal, the minister said the CPCB has issued separate guidelines for their 'Handling, Treatment and Disposal These guidelines -- on management of coronavirus related bio-medical waste including used masks and gloves -- were initially issued on March 19 and later revised on July 17, he said. “As per CPCB guidelines, used PPEs like face shields, goggles, hazmat suits, plastic coverall, used masks, head cover, shoe cover etc. generated from Covid-19 isolation wards at Healthcare Facilities shall be segregated and sent to Common Facilities for disposal as per Bio-medical Waste Management Rules, 2016 (BMWM Rules). “However, used PPEs like masks and gloves generated in Common Households, Commercial Establishments, Institutions, etc., are required to store separately for a minimum 72 hours for disposal along with solid waste after cutting or shredding. “Such shredded used masks from households can be collected as dry solid waste by Urban Local Bodies (ULBs),” the minister told the Rajya Sabha in a written response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disposal-of-ppe-kits-other-biomedical-waste-challenge-during-covid-19-pandemic-govt-890380.html
20-09-2020||National||32,238 paramilitary personnel contract Covid-19: Govt||The government on Sunday said a total of 32,238 paramilitary personnel were infected by the Coronavirus so far. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said in Lok Sabha that 9,158 personnel of the CRPF, 8,934 personnel of the BSF, 5,544 personnel of the CISF, 3,380 personnel of the ITBP, 3,251 personnel of the SSB, 1,746 personnel of the Assam Rifles and 225 personnel of the NSG were infected by the virus. Among the infected, the highest recovery rate is reported in CRPF (84.4 per cent), followed by BSF (80.41 per cent) and CISF (75.25 per cent), he said replying a written reply. Rai said the highest death rate has been reported in CISF (0.43 per cent), followed by the Assam Rifles (0.40 per cent) CRPF (0.39 per cent). The minister said the government has established Covid-19 Hospitals, Covid Care Centres and Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) for treatment and to support the recovery of paramilitary personnel, who are found positive for Covid-19. In addition to normal benefits available to a paramilitary personnel on death, it has been decided to provide Rs 15 Lakh to next of kins through “Bharat Ke Veer” funds, in Cases any personnel dies due to Covid-19 infection contracted while deployed on Covid-19 related duties. Immediate grant for funeral expenses and support for Expeditious processing of family pension and other dues is provided, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/32238-paramilitary-personnel-contract-covid-19-govt-890382.html
20-09-2020||National||Kin of only 64 doctors who died of Covid-19 claimed insurance, says govt as IMA places the number of deaths at 400||Families of only 64 doctors have claimed the benefits of government’s special Rs 50 lakh Covid-19 insurance package though India’s biggest body of doctors asserted that nearly 400 doctors perished in the pandemic. The discrepancy in the number of doctors killed by Covid-19 showed the government’s “indifference to the sacrifice of (private) doctors and health care workers”, the Indian Medical Association said in a statement.  Responding to a question in the Parliament on Friday, the Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey said families of only 64 doctors applied for the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Insurance package along with 91 healthcare workers.  An IMA list dated September 16 mentioned the names of 382 doctors who died due to Covid-19 infection. A day later (Sept 17), Trinamool Congress MP and a former IMA office-bearer Santanu Sen said in the Rajya Sabha that 389 doctors were killed in the epidemic.  The Union Health Ministry, however, informed the House that no list of health care workers died in the epidemic was maintained at the central level. “No nation has lost as many doctors and health care workers like India. Doctors suffer four times more mortality than an ordinary citizen and private practitioners suffer eight times mortality on the same scale. To feign that this information doesn’t merit the attention of the nation is abominable,” the IMA said.  Earlier this week, the World Health Organisation too flagged the higher risks taken by doctors and other healthcare workers.  “While health workers represent less than 3% of the population in the large majority of countries and less than 2% in almost all low-and middle-income countries, around 14% of Covid-19 cases reported to WHO are among health workers,” said the world body. In addition to physical risks, the pandemic has placed extraordinary levels of psychological stress on health workers exposed to high-demand settings for long hours, living in constant fear of disease exposure while separated from family and facing social stigmatization. In the Rajya Sabha, Sen said 573 healthcare workers died in the last eight months due to the pandemic. The government list presented in the same House showed a figure of only 155 displaying the chasm between the private and government healthcare services. “If the government doesn’t maintain the statistics of the total number of doctors and health care workers infected by Covid-19 and the statistics of how many of them sacrificed their lives due to the pandemic, it loses the moral authority to administer the Epidemic Act 1897 and the Disaster Management Act. This also exposes the hypocrisy of calling them corona warriors on one hand and denying them and their families the status and benefits of martyrdom,” noted the IMA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kin-of-only-64-doctors-who-died-of-covid-19-claimed-insurance-says-govt-as-ima-places-the-number-of-deaths-at-400-890383.html
20-09-2020||National||Anurag Kashyap calls sexual harassment allegations 'baseless', industry friends support director||Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, who has been accused by actor Payal Ghosh of sexual harassment, on Sunday said the claim is "baseless" and found support in his industry friends, with Hansal Mehta, Taapse Pannu, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub as well as former wife, film editor Aarti Bajaj crediting him for creating safe work space for women. On Saturday, Ghosh took to Twitter and wrote that the "Gangs of Wasseypur" director was sexually inappropriate towards her, a claim he has dismissed. The 30-year-old actor tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in her tweet, requesting him to take action against Kashyap. "@anuragkashyap72 has forced himself on me and extremely badly. @PMOIndia @narendramodi ji, kindly take action and let the country see the demon behind this creative guy. I am aware that it can harm me and my security is at risk. Please help!" Ghosh wrote. In a video released to ABN Telugu, Ghosh claimed that the incident happened in 2014-2015. The actor, who made her Hindi debut with Rishi Kapoor-Paresh Rawal starrer "Patel Ki Punjabi Shaadi", also claimed that Kashyap boasted about his connection with megastar Amitabh Bachchan and claimed that there were other female artistes who he got intimate with. Dismissing the allegations, Kashyap called Ghosh's claim an attempt to "silence" him. An outspoken critic of administration and a member of the Indian film industry who is vocal about the vilification of Bollywood by celebrities and trolls online, the director said it had taken some people "such a long time" to "shut me up". "(But) while shutting me up, you lied so much that you dragged other women also in it. Please maintain some dignity madam. All I will say is that all your allegations are baseless," Kashyap, 48, tweeted. "Any lover or all those female actors with whom I've worked or the team of all those girls and women that have been working with me or all those women I've met in private or in public. I neither behaved like this nor do I tolerate such a behaviour at any cost. Rest we will see what happens," he added. While Ghosh found support in National Commission for Women, with its chairperson Rekha Sharma assuring the actor that the NCW will take cognisance of the case, several film personalities including Sayani Gupta, Tisca Chopra, Surveen Chawla and Anubhav Sinha urged that the #MeToo movement must not be abused for vendetta. Calling Ghosh's allegation the "cheapest" stunt, Kashyap's first wife, Bajaj said the filmmaker was somebody who makes sure to create a safe work environment for his female co-workers. "There is no integrity left and the world is full of losers and no brains baying for blood of anyone who has a voice. If everybody spend that energy which they use in hating others constructively this world will be a better place," she added. "Worst of human kind seen in the last few months: 1. Appropriating someone's death for personal vendetta. 2. Appropriating one of the most important movements for political vendetta MeToo #StandwithAnuragKashyap," wrote Gupta. At least "spare an important movement like #MeToo", appealed Ayyub. In a carefully worded, lengthy thread, Mehta questioned whether the allegation against Kashyap was just another "witch hunt", adding he was "troubled and full of questions". "This happening at a time when Anurag often against advice has been outspoken and provided a contrarian view on things happening around us. is he making some people uncomfortable? there are so many questions and they are not necessarily about the allegations levelled against AK. "Is this a witch-hunt yet again? are they trying to shut up an artist with a dissenting opinion? where are we headed? and then after hearing the accusation - can this even be anurag? it is definitely not the anurag I know," the director wrote. Mehta said lies will do a "huge disservice" to women who are regularly subjected to sexual harassment and abuse, adding #MeToo movement must "not become a target of abuse for somebody's selfish gains". "The #metoo movement is way too important. Let every victim out there always be heard and justice be done," he said. Pannu, who collaborated with Kashyap on the 2018 romantic-drama "Manmarziyaan", took to Instagram and wrote that the filmmaker was "the biggest feminist" she knew. "See you on the sets soon of yet another piece of art that shows how powerful and significant women are in the world you create," she wrote. Sinha said the existence of the #MeToo movement is to amplify voices of harassed women and should not be misused. "It is the joint responsibility of women and men both to carefully protect the sanctity of #Metooindia. It is a very very very important movement that should not be misused for any other reason but the dignity of women," he tweeted. Chawla, who worked with the filmmaker on his two-part Netflix series "Sacred Games", said the allegation against the director reeked of "opportunism". Chopra, who featured alongside Kashyap and Chawla in the short film "Chhuri", said the director was one of the biggest supporters of talent, be it men or women. "To know my friend @anuragkashyap72 is to know generosity, honesty and decency at its core .. even a cursory look at his work reveals his worldview on women .. don't know a bigger supporter of talent, men or women," she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-kashyap-calls-sexual-harassment-allegations-baseless-industry-friends-support-director-890391.html
20-09-2020||National||83,008 pending cases of doubtful voters in Assam, over 86,000 declared foreigners in 5 years: Govt||A total of 83,008 cases of doubtful voters is pending in Foreigners Tribunals in Assam while 86,756 others were declared as foreigners in the last five years, Lok Sabha was informed on Sunday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said at present Foreigners Tribunals (FTs) are functioning only in Assam. "Government of Assam has informed that pending cases of doubtful voters in Assam in FTs are 83,008 and the number of people declared as foreigners in Assam from 2015 to June 30, 2020 are 86,756," he said in a written reply to a question. Rai said detention centres are set up by the state governments and Union Territory administrations as per their requirement to detain illegal immigrants or foreigners who have completed their sentences pending their deportation to their native country. Details of the number of detention centres set up by the state governments and Union Territory administrations along with number of foreign nationals detained therein are not centrally maintained, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/83008-pending-cases-of-doubtful-voters-in-assam-over-86000-declared-foreigners-in-5-years-govt-890398.html
20-09-2020||National||Pvt healthcare providers see green shoots of recovery||Healthcare sector in India which has been under severe financial stress due to the impact of Covid-19 pandemic is seeing green shoots of recovery post lifting of lockdowns, according to leading private players. "As the nation begins unlocking, we are confident of weathering the initial setbacks that we faced due to the lockdowns. Our hospital operations, including surgical work, are showing good improvement in the last two months and we have, in addition to our work for Covid-19 also accelerated the work on other diseases, especially NCDs," Apollo Hospitals MD Suneeta Reddy told PTI. The company expects to see a sequential improvement as it moves ahead, and travel restrictions ease, she added. While the impact of Covid-19 was for only a few days in the last quarter of FY2020, the first quarter of FY2021 has withstood the peak of the lockdown and the containment measures, Reddy said. On the challenges, the group hospitals have faced, Reddy said: "The most important challenge has been to prepare very quickly and comprehensively for handling both Covid and non-Covid cases within our hospital facilities." Apollo Hospitals made several infrastructure modifications that were needed to put in place an iron curtain between Covid and non-Covid such that we are able to treat both sets of patients safely, she added. "We also worked on taking the message of safety to consumers, because we understood that there is a sense of fear at play about visiting a hospital for other ailments," Reddy said. In a similar vein, Max Healthcare Senior Director and CFO Yogesh Sareen said that Covid-19 has impacted footfalls and revenues significantly. The impact of nation-wide lockdown in April was all-pervasive. On being asked when does the healthcare chain expect the business to attain the pre-Covid levels, Sareen said: "We expect the domestic patients' situation to normalize in Q-3 FY21 and since we also have a reasonable part of our revenues from international patients, the full stabilization will occur only once international travel is allowed." Stating that hospitals are under tremendous stress owing to the drop in non-Covid patients and many other related challenges, Columbia Asia Hospitals India Chairman CEO and GMD Nandakumar Jairam said: "Revenues are still low and not likely to pick-up until this pandemic is brought under control. This will happen with an increase in elective cases. We do not see this happening until December or later." Expressing similar sentiments, Narayana Hrudayalaya Group COO Viren Prasad Shetty said: "Revenues are picking up slowly because of continued Covid spread and movement restrictions across the country. Barring any further restrictions or second wave of infections, we should achieve breakeven revenue by the second quarter". Pointing out that the pace of recovery will be gradual, P D Hinduja Hospital CEO Gautam Khanna said: "The revenues are picking up now, but slowly. Many non Covid- 19 patients who had postponed their planned surgeries and procedures are coming to the hospital for treatment with the lockdown restrictions being eased. But, still, it is not close to the pre-Covid revenue". The recovery will be gradual and the time by when the hospital can reach pre-Covid levels depends on how the pandemic progresses, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pvt-healthcare-providers-see-green-shoots-of-recovery-890405.html
20-09-2020||National||No proposal to abolish Inner Line Permit system: Govt||The Centre has no proposal to abolish the Inner Line Permit (ILP) system currently prevalent in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram and Manipur, Parliament was informed on Sunday. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the ILP system came into existence in 1873 with the promulgation of the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR). "Presently, it is in existence in the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram and parts of Nagaland. There is no proposal with the Government of India to abolish the ILP system," he said. Reddy said the ILP system was promulgated to preserve the culture and traditions of the tribes living in the area beyond the Inner Line, safeguard their title to tribal land and protect their resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-to-abolish-inner-line-permit-system-govt-890421.html
20-09-2020||National||No significant mutation of coronavirus in India: Vardhan||No significant or drastic mutation in strains of SARS-CoV-2 has been found in India till now, Union Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday during an interaction with his social media followers. He also said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has been conducting large-scale sequencing of nationally representative strains collected over a few months and detailed results on mutations of the virus will be available in early October. Replying to queries during the 'Sunday Samvad' platform, Vardhan further said enough oxygen is being produced in the country and the health ministry is closely monitoring the situation. He took the occasion to remind everyone that the ministry had dispatched oxygen concentrators to the rural parts of the country specifically to avert the logistic issues coming to light, a health ministry statement said. On the recent saliva-based test for Covid-19, Vardhan noted that ICMR has validated a few tests, but no reliable test has been found and companies with tests approved by US-FDA have still not approached the Government of India. The minister added that ICMR is actively exploring this test method and will inform as soon as reliable options are available, the statement said. To a question regarding the Centre's achievement of engineering polio eradication in India, he reminded the audience that coronavirus is a novel pathogen and unlike polio, literature is absent on it. India's handling of outbreaks in the past such as SARS, Ebola and Plague will play a major role in containing coronavirus, Vardhan said. "The Union Minister assured another follower that no significant or drastic mutations have been found in strains of SARS-CoV-2 in India (available in GISAID, global database), till now," the statement said. The ICMR has been conducting large-scale sequencing of nationally representative strains of SARS-CoV-2 virus collected over the past several months over different time-points and detailed results on mutations and evolution of the virus will be available in early October, Vardhan said. Vardhan said 155 families of Covid Warriors have claimed relief under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package: Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting Covid-19. These include 64 doctors, 32 auxiliary nurse midwives and multipurpose healthcare workers, 14 ASHA workers and 45 other frontline workers who lost their lives. ] He also noted that it would take a substantive amount of time for developing herd immunity to be able to cover about 70 per cent of the population. Hence the focus of the government is primarily towards putting together a strategy that combines containment and hospital management, the minister said. Being a doctor himself, Vardhan answered questions on the clinical management of Covid-19 in great detail dispelling myths surrounding the use of hydroxychloroquine and plasma therapy in treating coronavirus patients. He also explained to his audience how coronavirus becomes fatal for the elderly and those with comorbidity. He also dispelled fears caused by the suspension of trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, saying vaccine development is a complex process and trials have restarted only after an independent investigative expert committee permitted them to proceed. "He explained the difference between various vaccines under clinical trial in India and that since formulations, doses, route of administration are different for the vaccines, their mechanisms of action are also different. "However, the desirable outcome of each vaccine is much the same, that is ensuring healthy individuals with immunity against the novel coronavirus," the statement said. During the Sunday Samvaad, he shared several tips for the mental wellbeing of senior citizens. About concrete measures planned to handle such public health emergencies in the future, Vardhan said, the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' will strengthen the nation to an extent where "we will be able to overcome any eventuality including another pandemic". The health minister said 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' underlines the government's commitment for increased investments in public health and other health reforms to prepare India for future pandemics. A major proposal under consideration at the Expenditure Finance Committee level includes strengthening surveillance of infectious diseases and outbreak response including that for points of entry, the establishment of dedicated infectious disease management hospital blocks in district hospitals and Integrated Public Health Laboratories, he added. Vardhan also spoke on the role of traditional medicine in the present context and informed those who attended the 'Samvad' event that the AYUSH Ministry has developed research protocols for validating claims of various Ayush practitioners for Covid-19 solutions although no formulation has been validated as a specific drug. Vardhan also answered queries regarding India's plan to divert human resource to science and the role of government policy in achieving a clean environment witnessed during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Reminding the audience that India is the world's number one country in producing engineering and science graduates every year, he said that as per the latest estimate, India has as many as 3.42 Lakh full-time equivalent researchers, out of which nearly 50 per cent are young and below 45 years, 16 per cent are women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-significant-mutation-of-coronavirus-in-india-vardhan-890433.html
20-09-2020||National||Health Ministry mulling gathering data on suspected Covid-19 reinfection cases: Source||Taking note of instances of suspected Covid-19 reinfection reported from Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Gujarat, Delhi and Maharashtra, the Union Health Ministry is considering gathering data of such cases to ascertain their veracity, sources said. They said it needs to be confirmed whether these cases are indeed distinct second infection and not just lingering effects of the first one. This can be done only by genetic sequence analysis to see if it is the same strain of the virus which had caused the first infection or a different one. For gathering data on suspected cases of Covid-19 reinfection, the health ministry may also issue guidelines and a format based on which database of all such cases is to be maintained by the State Surveillance Units (SSUs) and District Surveillance Units (DSUs), sources said. Worldwide, there isn't sufficient evidence on reinfection. Most scientists describe the recurrence as shedding of the residual virus which may happen for up to three months since the first infection is diagnosed, Dr Neeraj Nischal, an associate professor in the Department of Medicine at AIIMS said. During such a time their RT-PCR test may come positive, he said. "The second possibility is that it could be a different strain which is causing the infection. To know whether it is reinfection or active infection, one can do viral culture, sub-genomic RNA analysis or compare the genome of the two samples -- that of the first infection and the supposed recurrence. "But these methods are technically demanding and not easily available," Dr Nischal explained. ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava had last week said reinfection of Covid-19 is possible, even though it is a "very rare" occurrence. He, however, stressed that it is not a matter of serious concern. "We have seen someone gets measles and is supposed to be protected all his life because he generates certain antibodies. But then, we have seen reinfection occurring in measles as well. "Similarly, we can have Covid-19 reinfection as has been described by the case in Hong Kong. But, it is not a matter of serious concern. It has been noted that whenever reinfection occurs, both the infections have been mild," Bhargava said. He had earlier said there is a need to find out how long immunity lasts. Suspected cases of Covid-19 reinfection has also triggered concerns regarding the effectiveness of vaccines being developed. According to some researches, immunity to coronavirus probably lasts at least three months or even longer, but it has not been scientifically established yet how long immunity lasts. "Understanding how our immune system responds to the virus is an important step towards vaccine development," Dr Sanjay Rai, a professor in the department of community medicine at AIIMS said. "What should be of concern is whether the virus is mutating very fast and to find out if the magnitude of mutation is very large. Then the vaccine developed against the virus may not act on this mutant variety. We don't have evidence to suggest drastic mutations in strains of SARS-CoV-2 in India till now," he said. The concept of immunity after an infection is important because if immunity wears off it could pose a challenge for vaccines, another researcher said, adding that booster shots may be needed. It is also unclear whether reinfected people would be able to spread the virus. That's another reason why scientists say people should continue to wear masks, practise social distancing and good hygiene, experts said. Instances of coronavirus reinfection have been reported from Hong Kong, Belgium and the Netherlands raising concerns that herd immunity may not be enough to curb the pandemic. However, scientists in India and elsewhere said more studies are needed for reliable inference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-mulling-gathering-data-on-suspected-covid-19-reinfection-cases-source-890446.html
20-09-2020||National||Only 'swadeshi' products available in Central Police Canteens: Govt||The Central Police Canteens (CPC), now renamed as Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandar (KPKB), have been selling only 'swadeshi' products in order to promote domestic industries, the Lok Sabha was informed on Sunday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai told the Lower House that 119 'master bhandar' and 1,871 'subsidiary bhandar' are functioning for the benefit of serving and retired personnel of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs). Besides, he said, 10 'mini bhandar' have been sanctioned for Ex-Central Armed Police Force Personnel Association, out of which, seven are functioning under the supervision of 'master bhandar'. "In order to promote domestic industries, it has been decided to sell only 'swadeshi' products through KPKB with effect from June 1, 2020," Rai said in a written reply. The MoS said quality products are being provided to KPKB beneficiaries at discounted rates through direct negotiation with the firms and suppliers. To ascertain quality of the products, all standard parameters as per government rules and guidelines are ensured before registration of the products with KPKB. Goods in KPKB are available at discounted rates, he said. At present, the minister said, there is no exemption in GST on products sold through KPKB, as available to canteen stores department (CSD) canteens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-swadeshi-products-available-in-central-police-canteens-govt-890478.html
20-09-2020||National||Congress steps up protests against farm bills||A year after promising farm sector reforms, Congress on Sunday went all out against the Modi government's move to create more trade avenues for farmers beyond the APMC markets, raising the issue strongly from streets to Parliament. Congress leaders opposed the two farm sector bills tooth and nail in the Rajya Sabha, dubbing it as a death warrant of farmers and accusing the BJP of misleading the farmers. Congress leaders also hit the streets by embarking on a tractor rally of farmers from Chandigarh to Delhi to protest against the farm sector bills passed in both Houses of Parliament. The Kisan Aakrosh Tractor Rally was stopped at the Punjab-Haryana border, where the protestors faced water cannons. “The Kisan Aakrosh Rally is being stopped at the Haryana border, but we will continue to march ahead,” Srinivas B V, President of the Indian Youth Congress said. A number of farmers’ organisations, including the Bharat Kisan Union, have taken to the streets, blocking rail and roads in parts of Punjab and Haryana. Congress likened the farmers’ agitation against the Bills to the first war of Independence of 1857. “We are not going to leave this issue. We are going to fight it out,” Congress Rajya Sabha member K C Venugopal said. As BJP stepped up attack on the Congres, claiming that it had promised similar farm sector reforms in its party manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, senior leader Ahmed Patel hit back accusing the BJP of quoting selectively from the document. “We had made 22 promises regarding the farm sector, but BJP is picking up two to mislead everyone,” Patel said. “We promised to repeal APMC Act to free agricultural trade from all restrictions but we suggested this only after providing five major safeguards for the farmer,” Patel said. Patel said the Bills moved by the government were skewed in favor of the corporates and put farmers in peril. He said the Congress manifesto had promised setting up small markets in every major village, a dedicated export-import policy for farm produce, replacing the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices with a National Commission on Agricultural Development and Planning among others. Congress and other opposition members demanded that the bills be referred to the Select Committee for further scrutiny.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-steps-up-protests-against-farm-bills-890480.html
20-09-2020||National||Opposition members' conduct in Rajya Sabha 'shameful': Rajnath Singh||The top brass of the central government on Sunday flayed the opposition over its members' "unruly conduct" in Rajya Sabha during the passage of the two farm bills, condemning their behaviour as "shameful" and unprecedented in Parliament's history. Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Prakash Javadekar, Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Thawarchand Gehlot and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi held a press conference to hit out at opposition members, with Singh asserting that such conduct was not expected in a healthy democracy. Singh noted that opposition members tore rule book, threw papers at the desk of the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the Chair, and climbed the officials' table -- something, he added, he had never witnessed before. Lauding Harivansh as a man of values, he said the "misconduct" of opposition members towards him was unprecedented. Even if opposition leaders were not convinced with the Chair's decision, does it allow them to attack him and be "violent," he asked. Asked about the decision of BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal to quit the Modi government in protest against the farm bills, he said there are some "political reasons" behind certain decisions. "I want to assure farmers that minimum support price and APMC will continue. These will never be removed at any cost," he said. The Upper House, which witnessed a brief adjournment due to the pandemonium, passed by voice vote the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now go to the President for his assent before they are notified as laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-members-conduct-in-rajya-sabha-shameful-rajnath-singh-890483.html
20-09-2020||National||15,012 Bangladeshi, 2,668 Pakistani nationals given Indian citizenship during 2015-2019: Govt||As many as 15,012 Bangladeshi nationals and 2,668 Pakistanis were granted Indian citizenship from 2015 to 2019, the Lok Sabha was informed on Sunday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said that altogether 18,855 people of 56 nationalities were granted Indian citizenship in the last five years. A total of 15,012 Bangaldeshi, 2,668 Pakistani, 109 Sri Lankan, 665 Afghan and 105 American citizens were given Indian nationality during 2015-2019, he said in a written reply. The minister added that 40 Nepali, 40 UK, 23 Kenya, 21 Malaysia, 18 Canada and 18 Singapore citizens were also given Indian citizenship during the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15012-bangladeshi-2668-pakistani-nationals-given-indian-citizenship-during-2015-2019-govt-890485.html
20-09-2020||National||Post Graduate medical students to serve in districts for three months||Struggling for years to find doctors for the districts, the Medical Council of India (MCI) has made it mandatory for post-graduate medical students to serve three months in a district as part of their academic programme. The District Residency Programme, notified by the Board of Governors of MCI this week, would start from the 2020-21 academic programme. The PG medical colleges and MCI will work together to create a rotation system for the students in the 3rd, 4th, or 5th semester and place them in the districts. India has one doctor for every 1,445 individuals, which is lower than the World Health Organization standard doctor-patient ratio of 1:1,000, as per the government data presented in the Parliament. But the majority of the doctors are located in the metropolis or at least in urban centres leaving the smaller towns and rural India bereft of expert medical advice. Several past efforts to infuse doctors in the districts and rural India have failed. The MCI board has now finalised the district residency programme under which the MD/MS students will serve either in a district hospital or any other facility identified by the district administration. They will receive their salary of stipend from the medical college subject to the attendance evidence provided by the district administration. Those pursuing the post-graduate programmes in clinical specialities will be posted in units concerned at district hospitals or other health care units whereas the students of pre and para-clinical specialities like anatomy, microbiology, forensic science, community medicine, pathology, physiology and pharmacology can serve the district health administration in diagnostic service, public health programmes, pharmacy, forensic service, and general clinical duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-graduate-medical-students-to-serve-in-districts-for-three-months-890490.html
20-09-2020||National||Farm bills will limit bargaining power of farmers: RS member Shreyams Kumar||Opposing two farm bills passed in Rajya Sabha on Sunday, LJD leader and Rajya Sabha member M V Shreyams Kumar said enactment of these legislations will limit the bargaining power of farmers. The Upper House passed by voice vote the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now go to the President for his assent before they are notified as laws. "Retailers will decide what needs to be cultivated with a pre-decided price decided by corporates where the bargaining power of farmers is limited or nil," the LJD (Loktantrik Janata Dal) leader told reporters here on Sunday. In recent past, there have been lot of merger and acquisitions happening in the retail sector. That means, the entire food industry will be controlled by few corporates, he said. Strongly opposing the proposed legislations, he said they are only to encourage certain corporates to harvest more money and compromise the interest of farmers. Earlier in the day, while participating in the debate on the bills, he alleged that the real intent is to do away with MSP (Minimum Support Price) and urged that the House should send the bills to select committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-bills-will-limit-bargaining-power-of-farmers-rs-member-shreyams-kumar-890503.html
20-09-2020||National||Opposition alleges failure in strategy to deal with Covid-19; BJP says Modi took all along, did well||The Opposition in Lok Sabha Sunday alleged a failure in the strategy to deal with the coronavirus crisis, saying a sudden lockdown caused hardships to the migrants and the poor, a charge rejected by BJP and its ally JD(U). The ruling allies said Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the fight against the killer virus well by taking states into confidence and several lives were saved by the government's persistent efforts. Initiating the debate on "Covid-19 pandemic in the country", Shashi Tharoor (Congress) alleged "utter mismanagement" in dealing with the pandemic, saying the country witnessed a "fundamental breakdown" in government machinery in the past few months, instead of mature and proactive governance. He said that instead of clearly-communicated protocol and comprehensive strategies on part of the government, the country witnessed a lack of clarity, readiness and preparedness to combat the virus. Had the government listened to warning about the virus made by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and others, the situation would have surely been managed better, Tharoor said. Participating in the debate, BJP member Kirit Solanki highlighted various welfare schemes announced by the Modi government and said the poor and downtrodden were provided free foodgrains and cash incentives during the lockdown and afterwards. Solanki said the country has so far tested five crore people for coronavirus of which 1.5 crore tests were conducted in the last two weeks. The BJP member pointed out that 33 crore poor people were given Rs 31,235 crore through the direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) and the beneficiaries include farmers, women and senior citizens. Without naming anyone, Solanki said a leader was tweeting on ways to deal with the virus, but he is not present in the House to debate on the issue. Rajiv Ranjan Singh of the JD-U slammed opposition members for criticising the government "rather than giving constructive suggestions". "The more you criticise the Prime Minister, the more his popularity graph will go up," he said. Singh said because of a timely announcement of the lockdown, the country did not face community spread of the virus. The ruling dispensation, Tharoor earlier said, continued to delay the implementation of a national strategy to stop the spread of the virus. "This was the first failure of the government," he said. The failure to adequately recognise the scale and complexity of the problem compounded their unwillingness to listen to the voices that warned well in advance of the consequences of ignoring the problem of such magnitude, he said. When the number of cases were comparatively low in India there was still time for the government to execute comprehensive strategy to curb it, he said. "It is moral responsibility of any government to take the nation into confidence and not leave them in dark." He also said that due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the country's economy is in a bad shape now, and added arrangements were not made to fight with the virus. If the migrant workers were allowed to go to their hometowns in the beginning, the current situation would have not arisen, he said. The government should have taken the nation into confidence which it did not do as a result the nation "is losing confidence in you (government)", he said. DMK’s Dayanidhi Maran slammed the government for its alleged failure in creating enough health infrastructure in the country during the lockdown. He said when the first case was detected in February, the government allegedly did not take initiatives to fight the virus and instead "it was busy gathering people" for the US President Donald Trump's Gujarat visit. Maran said during the Budget Session in February-March, no one was speaking about the virus and alleged he was not allowed to speak in the House on the issue. "When the lockdown was announced, people got just four hours to prepare. There was no planning. The states were not informed, the way demonitisation was announced in 2016. There was chaos everywhere," he alleged. The lockdown was "fantastic" but the government "failed" to create the required health infrastructure, Maran said. "We have lost time. We let go the golden window.” He also said after the PM's announcement of the salary cut for MPs, many firms also resorted to the same steps, besides sacking some of their employees. In an apparent reference to the Tablighti Jamaat incident in Delhi where scores of people tested positive, Marana criticised the government for "blaming" Muslims for the initial spread of Covid-19 in the country. TMC member Kalyan Banerjee said the Centre should provide financial help to states and the GST dues of West Bengal should be released expeditiously. He said the pandemic should be fought by the states and Centre together. "This is not the time to start a blame game. We have to fight coronavirus going beyond political considerations.” He also lauded the state government's handling of the migrant workers crisis during the initial phase of the lockdown. B V Satyavathi of the YSR Congress lauded healthcare workers. Shiv Sena's Arvind Sawant alleged the migrant crisis was not handled properly by the Centre and "there were mistakes somewhere". Sawant appealed to the PM to fight the pandemic unitedly, the way the whole country is standing united on the border standoff with China. "The PM should lead, we all will support. Please don't discriminate us. Help us," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-alleges-failure-in-strategy-to-deal-with-covid-19-bjp-says-modi-took-all-along-did-well-890504.html
20-09-2020||National||Parl passing farm bills 'historic' moment for Indian farmers: Niti Aayog Vice Chairman||Terming Parliament clearing two key farm bills as a "historic and landmark moment" for Indian farmers, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar on Sunday said there is no risk of farmers being exploited by big corporates. The Upper House passed the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. "A historic and landmark moment for Indian farmers with the Parliament passing the two bills liberating the farmers from traders cartels. The government will guarantee procurement of farmers' output at MSPs announced." Kumar said in a tweet. He also noted that there is no risk of farmers being exploited by big corporates and that the "central government is committed to ensure that". Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said these reforms open doors for new jobs and a new consumption boom in rural areas of India. "These long-due structural reforms will lead to income & wealth generation for farmers. Vast arbitrage usurped by a range of middlemen will vanish. "This required immense political will," Kant said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parl-passing-farm-bills-historic-moment-for-indian-farmers-niti-aayog-vice-chairman-890506.html
20-09-2020||National||UN report on IS presence in Karnataka, Kerala factually incorrect: MHA||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Sunday debunked a United Nations report claiming presence of “significant numbers” of Islamic State (IS) terrorists in Kerala and Karnataka and said it is factually incorrect. This was disclosed by Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy in a written reply to questions posed by Karnataka MP GS Basavaraj (BJP) and Kerala MP Kodikkunnil Suresh (Congress) in Lok Sabha. Reddy said the government is aware of the presence of terrorist outfits like the Islamic State, Islamic State (Khorasan) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) among others. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered 34 cases related to the presence of IS in India and have arrested 160. Twenty cases related to the presence of LeT have been filed in which 80 accused have been arrested, he said. Last week, the MHA had said in Rajya Sabha that the NIA has registered 17 cases related to the presence of the Islamic State (IS) in southern states of Telangana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and arrested 122 accused persons. Investigations by the NIA have revealed that the IS is most active in Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, Reddy had said on September 16. To the question on the UN report, Reddy said, the report "claiming presence of 'significant numbers' of ISIS terrorists in Kerala and Karnataka, is factually not correct. The Government continuously takes necessary measures to put forth India’s correct position through established mechanism in unequivocal and categorical terms at various international, multilateral and bilateral for a and also through diplomatic channels."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-report-on-is-presence-in-karnataka-kerala-factually-incorrect-mha-890513.html
20-09-2020||National||Government mulls action against unruly behaviour of MPs in Rajya Sabha||Government is mulling action against Rajya Sabha members who charged at Deputy Chairman Harivansh, broke microphones and disrupted proceedings by climbing on tables in the House. The government was weighing options of moving breach of privilege proceedings or suspending the members who indulged in unruly scenes in the Rajya Sabha during the discussion on farm sector Bills. Addressing a press conference here, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh condemned the behaviour of opposition members in the Rajya Sabha contending that it had tarnished the dignity of the House and the post of Deputy Chairman. “This has never happened in the Parliamentary history of India when the rule book was torn in front of the Chair. The mic was broken and the copy of the Bill was torn by snatching it from the Chair and a shameful behaviour was exhibited by some members who climbed on to the Chair’s desk. All that happened today was dangerous and a breach of democratic traditions,” Singh told reporters here. Singh said the manner in which opposition members jostled with House marshals and other staff suggested that the disruptions were pre-planned to destroy the democratic traditions. Asked about the no-confidence motion against the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman, Singh said to admit the motion or not was the prerogative of Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. Congress leaders hit back at the Modi government alleging a conspiracy to push through the Agri bills in a roughshod manner through the Rajya Sabha. “We saw BJP member Bhupendra Yadav whispering in the ear of the Deputy Chairman. What conspiracy was being hatched,” Congress Rajya Sabha member K C Venugopal said. He sought to defend the unruly behaviour of opposition members in the Rajya Sabha as “quite natural”. “We had moved resolutions for referring the bills to the Select Committee. We sought a vote on it, which was denied. It was quite natural for members to be upset and go to the Well of the House,” Venugopal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-mulls-action-against-unruly-behaviour-of-mps-in-rajya-sabha-890514.html
20-09-2020||National||Hong Kong bars Air India flights till October 3 after passengers test positive for Covid-19||Hong Kong has banned Air India flights from Sunday to October 3 after a few passengers on its flight on Friday tested positive for Covid-19 post arrival, a senior government official said on Sunday. Air India passenger flights were barred from landing in Hong Kong between August 18 and August 31 after 14 passengers on its Delhi-Hong Kong flight of August 14 tested positive for Covid-19 post arrival. Passengers from India can arrive in Hong Kong only if they have a Covid-19 negative certificate from a test done within 72 hours prior to the journey, according to rules issued by the Hong Kong government in July. Moreover, all international passengers are required to undergo a post-flight Covid-19 test at the Hong Kong airport. A spokesperson of the national carrier confirmed the recent order, saying, "Hong Kong has prohibited Air India for two weeks -- September 20 to October 3." "There is only one flight scheduled in the two weeks -- the Delhi-Hong Kong flight of September 21. That flight is cancelled and the passengers have been informed," the spokesperson added. Air India Express had on Friday said its flights were suspended for 24 hours by the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) for bringing two passengers with Covid-positive certificates on August 28 and September 4. Air India Express, which is a subsidiary of Air India, resumed its Dubai flights on Saturday. According to rules in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), every passenger travelling from India is required to bring an original Covid-negative certificate of an RT-PCR test done within 96 hours prior to the journey. "A few passengers on a September 18 Delhi-Hong Kong flight tested positive for Covid-19 post arrival," the senior government official said. "As a result, Air India's flights have been banned from September 20 to October 3 by the Hong Kong government," the official added. Besides India, a pre-flight Covid-19 negative certificate is mandatory for all passengers from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, South Africa and the US, according to the Hong Kong government's rules.  An airline operating a flight to Hong Kong from any of these nine countries has to submit a form before departure, stating that all passengers on board have Covid-19 negative certificates. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating with the approval of aviation regulator DGCA. Air India has been operating special international flights since May 6 under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Since July, India has established separate bilateral air bubble arrangements with countries such as the US, Germany, France, the UAE, the UK and the Maldives for international flight operations. Under a bilateral air bubble pact, the airlines of both countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hong-kong-bars-air-india-flights-till-october-3-after-passengers-test-positive-for-covid-19-890519.html
20-09-2020||National||No restriction on accessing any website in J&K: Centre||There is no restriction on accessing any website, including social media sites, in Jammu and Kashmir, the Lok Sabha was informed on Sunday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the mobile data services are presently restricted to 2G speed in all but two districts of the Union territory. "There is no restriction on accessing any sites, including the social media sites," he said in a written reply. Reddy said the internet services are already available in Kashmir on fixed-line (without any speed-related restrictions) as well as mobile data services (at 2G speed) since January 24, 2020. He said restrictions on accessing social media sites were also lifted on March 4, 2020. Further, high-speed mobile data services too have been commenced in the districts of Ganderbal (Kashmir Division) and Udhampur (Jammu Division) with effect from August 16, 2020. The minister said fixed-line internet connectivity is available without any speed-related restrictions, with Mac-binding. He said the businesses have had access to the internet through fixed-line connectivity and internet kiosks opened in large numbers across the Valley without any speed restrictions. Reddy also informed the Lower House that 2G mobile internet speed is not an impediment in Covid-19 control measures, including dissemination of information to the general public as well as health workers. Also, he said, e-learning apps and education/e-learning websites of the Government of India, Government of J&K are accessible over 2G internet for downloading e-books and other study material. "Further, the restriction on high-speed mobile internet services has not been an impediment in the administration of justice and the courts have taken special measures to conduct their proceedings during the pandemic by providing video links/URLs to lawyers and the litigants," the minister said. "Considering the overall security scenario and in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the Government of Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir issues orders from time to time regulating telecom and internet services in terms of the applicable rules and the principles laid down and directions contained in the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India..," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-restriction-on-accessing-any-website-in-jk-centre-890522.html
20-09-2020||National||LS passes bill to set up National Forensic Sciences University||A bill to establish a National Forensic Sciences University by upgrading the Gujarat Forensic Sciences University was passed by Lok Sabha on Sunday without a debate. The National Forensic Sciences University Bill was introduced in the House in March during the last session. When it came up for passage, it was passed without a debate. Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy moved the bill for consideration and passage. The proposed university would facilitate and promote studies and research and help achieve excellence in the field of forensic science in conjunction with applied behavioral science studies, law, criminology and other allied areas. The university will grant degrees and other academic distinctions and will be open to all persons irrespective of gender, race, caste, creed, disability, domicile, ethnicity, social or economic background.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ls-passes-bill-to-set-up-national-forensic-sciences-university-890524.html
20-09-2020||National||No bed shortage in Jammu's Govt Medical College, associated hospitals: J&K L-G's advisor||There was no shortage of beds in the Government Medical College (GMC) and its associated hospital in Jammu region, said Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, the advisor to the Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor, on Sunday amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the Union Territory. He assured the people of Jammu region that the shortage of oxygen has been taken care of and there is no need to panic. Bhatnagar visited the GMC hospital here and took stock of medical facilities given the ongoing pandemic Covid-19, besides inspecting the facilities at the recently established Control Room, a spokesperson said. "There is no shortage of beds in GMC and its associated hospitals. Shortage of oxygen has been taken care of and it has been decided that the daily status of vacant beds and other steps taken by the authorities to improve patient care shall be shared with the public," the advisor to the L-G said. He also assured people that asymptomatic patients being treated at home would be provided with pulse oximeters to monitoring oxygen saturation. Through a helpline, doctors would enquire about the wellbeing of asymptomatic patients and give them proper guidelines for home isolation, he said and appealed to the people not to panic as the number of cases has increased due to an increase in the rapid testing in the Jammu division The administration is committed to providing the best possible medical care to the people, Bhatnagar said. He also asked the people to practise social distancing, wear face masks, avoid crowded areas, and follow government guidelines. While inspecting the control room, Bhatnagar directed the officials to maintain a proper record of the patients and provide them with all possible treatment and facilities. He asked the Medical Superintendent to ensure that specialist doctors are deployed in the control room and regular feedback should be obtained from patients. During the visit, Bhatnagar also discussed with the officials in detail the issue of increasing oxygen-supported beds and other facilities. He was assured that an additional 150 oxygen supported beds would become operational in the hospital by Monday and other facilities will be upgraded on time, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-bed-shortage-in-jammus-govt-medical-college-associated-hospitals-jk-l-gs-advisor-890541.html
20-09-2020||National||Three Covid-19 vaccine candidates in different stages of clinical trial: Harsh Vardhan||The government is giving all necessary support for development of a vaccine against the novel coronavirus in the country and three vaccine candidates are in different phases of clinical trial, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in Parliament on Sunday. Replying to a discussion in Lok Sabha on the coronavirus pandemic, the Health Minister said there are 13,000 quarantine centres in the country with over 6 lakh beds. "Yesterday (Saturday), we did 12 lakh tests in the country," Vardhan said. He noted that when the pandemic began, there were a few testing laboratories in the country but now India has the capacity to conduct 10 lakh tests a day. "Three vaccine candidates are in different stages of clinical trial," Vardhan informed. He said India had geared up to deal with the pandemic before the World Health Organization had cautioned the world about the novel coronavirus on January 30. He said the Centre had issued an advisory on it on January 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-in-different-stages-of-clinical-trial-harsh-vardhan-890549.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urges non-BJP parties to unite against Farm Bills in Rajya Sabha again||National convener of AAP and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to all non-BJP parties to vote against three agriculture-related bills in the Rajya Sabha, saying farmers in the country wished so. Earlier, Kejriwal had said his party will vote against the three bills and termed them "anti-farmer". "Farmers all over the country are watching the Rajya Sabha today. The BJP is in minority in the Rajya Sabha. I appeal to all the non-BJP parties to defeat these bills, this is what farmers in the country wish," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. He on Thursday had demanded that the Centre should withdraw the three bills and said his party MPs will vote against them in Parliament. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has three Rajya Sabha and one Lok Sabha MPs. The Centre had on Monday introduced 'The Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill', 'The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill', and 'The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill' to replace the ordinances promulgated earlier. These bills seek to provide barrier-free trade for farmers' produce outside notified farm mandis, and empower farmers to enter into farming agreements with private players prior to production for sale of agri-produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-urges-non-bjp-parties-to-unite-against-farm-bills-in-rajya-sabha-again-890220.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Issues of private school fee, security, NEET examinations raised in Rajya Sabha||A demand to regulate the fee charged by private schools was made in Rajya Sabha on Sunday by a Congress MP, who said schools were also charging high rates for books and dresses. Raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, Rajamani Patel of the Congress said "crores of rupees in commission" were being charged on school material and dresses that parents are forced to buy. Schools are charging fees for even the holiday period, he said, adding the government should bring a bill to regulate fees charged by private schools to prevent the poor from exploitation. Biswaji Daimary (BPF) demanded that the government strengthen road infrastructure in Arunachal Pradesh particularly from Itanagar to Tawang to facilitate easy troop movement to counter any misadventure by China. "China will not bomb Arunachal Pradesh because they claim Arunachal Pradesh is their land. They will come in from land (route) and you have to protect it from land (route)," he said. Saroj Pandey of the BJP raised the issue of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana not being fully implemented in Chhattisgarh. The scheme provides free access to healthcare to the poor. However, when she sought to criticise the Congress-ruled state government, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu reminded her that she should place her demand and not get into criticism of state governments. Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar of the TDP demanded that the policy of devotees giving a declaration of their faith in Lord Balaji before entering the famed Tirupati temple should continue. Dinesh Trivedi of the TMC sought changes in dates for the NEET examination to be held between October 1 and 23, saying October 21, 22, and 23 are the most important days of the Durga puja festival. "Kindly pre-pone or postpone the examination," he said. Naidu said the demand should be conveyed to the Education minister. While Manoj Kumar Jha of the RJD raised the issue of Bihar facing a double onslaught of Covid-19 and floods, Akhilesh Pratap Singh of the Congress raised the issue of inmates in Bihar jails rising by 20 per cent to 50,000 due to bail hearings being impacted by curtailed court functioning amid Covid-19. Kamakhya Prasad Tasa (BJP), through a special mention, demanded bus service between all northeastern states. Dola Sen of the TMC raised the issue of removal of subjects such as secularism, demonetisation, and challenges to democracy from the syllabus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/issues-of-private-school-fee-security-neet-examinations-raised-in-rajya-sabha-890228.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Will not sign death warrant of farmers: Congress in Rajya Sabha on farm bills||Opposition parties led by the Congress criticised the farm bills tabled in Rajya Sabha on Sunday, saying they will not sign on the "death warrant" of farmers The opposition charged that the two bills are aimed at benefitting big corporates and ending the minimum price based procurement by the government. Rajya Sabha took up the discussion on The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill that have already been passed by Lok Sabha. K K Ragesh (CPI-M), Derek O'Brien (TMC), Trichi Siva (DMK) and K C Venugopal (Congress) moved resolutions for sending the two bills to a select committee of the House for consideration before they are taken up for passage. Initiating the discussion on these two bills, Congress leader Partap Singh Bajwa, who hails from Punjab, described the proposed laws as "ill-conceived and ill-timed" and said his party "completely rejects" them. He said the bills are against land owners across the country, especially those of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. "We will not sign on death warrants of farmers", he said. With agriculture being a state subject, he said the bills are against the federal cooperative spirit. "We do not want any tinkering in APMC and the minimum support price ( MSP)," he said, and wondered what was the need to bring these bills during Covid-19. Bajwa said farmers are on streets to protest against these two bills. "Those whom you want to benefit are on the streets". The Congress leader said that the BJP's alliance partner Akali Dal has already opposed the Bills and Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet. Bajwa said the bills have been brought with an "intention of ending the MSP (minimum support price) operations". "Slowly, the government will come out of this and then Ambani, Adani and big corporate houses will enter (market)," he alleged. The Congress leader said the two bills are against the economic interest of Punjab, which has contributed a lot in making India self-sufficient in foodgrain production. Defending the two Bills, Bhupender Yadav of the BJP charged that the Congress was doing politics over this issue and misleading farmers. He asked the Congress why the farmers' income did not increase in the last 60-70 years even as the country become self-sufficient in farm production. These two important bills are the biggest agriculture reform in the country and will give justice to farmers by increasing their income, Yadav said. He rued that food processing level is still very low in India and said the new age agriculture bills will boost processing, marketing, and exports of farm produces. Yadav said a report of working group of agriculture production in 2010 suggested similar reforms. "Today, you (Congress) is doing politics. You are doing injustice with farmers because of politics," he said. However, he said the country and farmers are understanding the "politics" of the Congress. Farmers are a vote bank for the Congress, he said. He highlighted various schemes and programmes launched by the prime minister in the last six years for the growth of the agriculture and allied sectors while noting that the budget for the agriculture sector has been enhanced. Yadav said the government will continue to purchase crops at the minimum support price (MSP), which will prove the "falsehood" spread by the Congress. "Opposition should stop doing politics and also misleading farmers," he said. Yadav also said the contract farming already exist in many states including Punjab and Haryana. "We are not taking away land of farmers," he said, and added that the two bills are only meant to harness the huge potential of the agriculture sector. TMC leader Derek O'Brien demanded that the Bills should be send to a select committee. "These bills need to be debated in Parliament. You have the numbers to have your way and we have the right to have our say and to keep you on track of Parliamentary democracy. This is very very dangerous trend we are following. Select committee is not a hand break...it is there to contribute. I am going to move select committee," he said. The TMC leader said the States have not been consulted on these Bills and questioned the government's tall promises and its credibility. "The PM said the opposition is trying to mislead the farmers. Let us see what credibility you have to make these speeches. You promised to double farmers' income by 2022. At current rate, the farmer incomes would not double till 2028. I can also give big talk," he said. "You gave big lecture on 'notebandi'. what has happened? After 50 minutes of announcing 'notebandi', Mamata Banerjee said withdraw this draconian decision. We told you but you did not listen," he added. Noting hat the government promised two crore jobs every year, he said: "Now you have the highest unemployment. You credibility is low to make promises." SP's Ram Gopal Yadav said there seems to be some compulsion that the ruling party does not want to discuss the bills and is in a hurry to pass them. He asked how farmers would find corporations to sell their produce. "It appears that this bill has not been drafted by you. A son of a farmer cannot draft such a bill. When you go back to your native place, the youth would ask you what were you doing when our death warrants were being issued in Parliament," he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-not-sign-death-warrant-of-farmers-congress-in-rajya-sabha-on-farm-bills-890241.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Parliament passes two contentious Farm Bills amidst chaos and drama in Rajya Sabha||High drama was witnessed in Rajya Sabha during the passage of two contentious farm sector Bills on Sunday with the Opposition MPs trooping to the Well of the House, shouting slogans, throwing the rule book at the Chair, breaking microphones and throwing papers. An angry opposition did not leave the House even after it was adjourned at around 2 PM and sat on a dharna, protesting against Deputy Chairman Harivansh "not allowing" voting on their motion to send the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill to Select Committees. The Opposition also moved a no-confidence motion against Harivansh, who was conducting the proceedings during the passage of the Bills, protesting against the "manner" in which he allowed the passage of two contentious farm sector bills without permitting a voting on its motions. He had also refused to accede to their request to postpone Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar's reply and voting on the Bills to Monday. The two Bills aimed at replacing ordinances issued in April this year came to Rajya Sabha after its passage in Lok Sabha last week. The Opposition was against the Bills and wanted it to be sent to a Select Committee for which four MPs had submitted motions against it. Allegations and counter allegations flew thick and fast with the BJP accusing the Opposition of "murdering democracy" and resorting to "gundagardi" when it realised it did not have the numbers. Opposition responded saying the "dictatorial" attitude in continuing with the session and refusal to allow division of votes to motions and the Bill led to their protest. The trouble started at 1 PM, the scheduled closing of the proceedings of a day, when Tomar was replying to the debate. Deputy Chairman Harivansh extended the sitting beyond 1 PM after a request from the government but this was objected to by Congress and others with Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said the discussion could continue on Monday as such a move could be adopted only by consensus. Harivansh over-ruled the Opposition and went ahead with the business and asked Tomar to resume his speech following which a few Opposition MPs first rushed to the Well. As Tomar concluded his reply within minutes, Harivansh took up voting on the Bills. It was then Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien rushed to the Chair waving the Rule Book while more MPs joined. One of MPs hurled the rule book at the Chair while O'Brien was arguing with Harivansh.  Microphones in front of the Chair were broken while allegations were raised against O'Brien that he tore the book. Denying the allegations, O'Brien said all rules were violated by the government while pushing these bills and "what is the use of a Rule Book when all rules are violated by the ruling party". After waiting for a few minutes for the chaos to end, Harivansh then adjourned the House for 15 minutes. When the House resumed at 1:41 PM, the chaos continued and two MPs, AAP's Sanjay Singh and Congress' Rajeev Satav, climbed a table to protest while others shouted slogans. A video footage showed marshals trying to take Singh out of the House. Harivansh, however, continued with the proceedings. After negating the statutory resolutions objecting to the ordinances, Harivansh called CPI(M)'s K K Ragesh to move his motion to send the Bills to Select Committees and the latter demanded a division of votes. Amid the din, Harivansh moved forward after a voice vote, which further angered the Opposition. Ragesh told DH, "to seek a vote is an MP's right. That was denied."  Repeated attempts by Opposition MPs like Tiruchi Siva and others for voting on their motions and amendments were also not allowed with Harivansh asking protesting MPs to return their seats if they wanted a division. Harivansh also said MPs cannot seek voting while standing in the Well. The two bills were then passed by a voice vote. While the Opposition justified its protest during the proceedings, BJP president J P Nadda said the opposition conduct was "highly irresponsible" and an "attack on democracy".  Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh said, "The dictatorial attitude of the Chair in not wanting to get a sense of the House, which is the convention to extend the session beyond the scheduled 1 pm, led to bedlam and chaos. The anti-farmer Bills were passed in the din without voting. Why the tearing urgency? On whose orders?" Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi accused the Opposition of murdering democracy and said the Congress and Trinamool Congress think they are 'badshahs' (emperors) but the ruling party and the government will not budge to this." Tomar said Congress resorted to 'gundagardi' when it realised that it did not have the numbers to defeat the government. With the passage of The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill in Rajya Sabha, the government is now looking at passing the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, the two other legislations the Opposition has objections and want it to go to a Select Committee. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill allows intra-state and inter-state trade of farmers’ produce beyond the physical premises of APMC markets while state governments are prohibited from levying any market fee, cess or levy outside APMC areas. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill seeks to provide for a national framework on farming agreements. During the debate, Opposition MPs expressed concerns that the Bills will lead to doing away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP). Tomar responded saying MSP will continue and is not related to the legislations that seek to give farmers freedom to sell their produce. "There are misconceptions being spread about the minimum support price (MSP). MSP is the government's administrative decision and not linked to the bills. MSP based procurement was there in the country, is there, and will continue," he said adding these "historic" legislations will bring "revolutionary" changes in the lives of farmers. Initiating the debate from the Opposition, Congress' Pratap Singh Bajwa said his party opposes the "ill-conceived and ill-timed" Bills. "We will not sign on this death warrant of farmers," Singh said. However, BJP's Bhupender Yadav countered the Congress saying, "I want to ask why has rural income reduced in the years you (Congress) were in power...Why are you opposing these Bills? Opposition always has a negative outlook on things." Opposing the Bills, Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien said the credibility of the Modi government is low to make promises. "The Prime Minister is saying that the Opposition is misleading the farmers. You (Centre) said double farmer income by 2022. But, at current rates, the farmer income will not be doubled before 2028," he said. Asking how many BJP MPs have read the Bills and demanding the Bill be sent to the Select Committee, O'Brien said the bills need to be scrutinised. "We can't do six minutes here, eight minutes there. We will keep fighting for our democratic right in parliament. You may have numbers, but we have the right to keep our say in a parliamentary democracy. We are following a very dangerous trend," he added. Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav said there is "definitely some compulsion" that this government wants to rush through all these bills. The resignation of Akali Dal's Harsimrat Kaur from the Union Cabinet protesting against the Bills came up during discussion. Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut said the Prime Minister has noted the government was not ending the MSP system and it was just a rumour. "So, did a union minister resign on the basis of a rumour?" he said. Akali Dal MP Naresh Gujral demanded that the Bills be sent to Select Committees. "These Bills should be sent to a select committee so that all stakeholders can be heard. Don't think that the farmers of Punjab are weak. The farmer of Punjab feels threatened today by the bills you are about to pass. There is a trust deficit or a communication gap," he said. The debate also had its share of drama when YSR Congress' Vijaysai Reddy made a remark against Congress, which was expunged. Reddy said there was no reason to oppose these Bills and made the remark, prompting Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma and others to demand an apology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-passes-two-contentious-farm-bills-amidst-chaos-and-drama-in-rajya-sabha-890243.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||High drama in Rajya Sabha over two Farm Bills; Oppn demands voting to be postponed||High drama was witnessed in Rajya Sabha on Sunday as the voting on two contentious agriculture-related bills was taken up. The trouble started at 1 pm, the scheduled closing of the proceedings, when Deputy Chairman Harivansh Kumar went ahead after a request from the government. However, Opposition parties demanded that the discussion and voting on the Bill be taken up on Monday morning and that there was no consensus on extending the timing. As Harivansh went ahead and allowed Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to continue his reply, Opposition MPs from Congress, Trinamool Congress and AAP among others went to the Well of the House shouting slogans. Soon after Tomar finished his reply, Harivansh started the voting proceedings amid Opposition sloganeering. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien then went to the Chair waving the Rule Book. One of the MPs even touched the microphone of the Chair even as more lawmakers rushed to the Well of the House. As the pandemonium continued, Harivansh adjourned the House till 1:41 pm. The Opposition parties are against  The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and want them to be sent to a Select Committee. Amid Opposition expressing concern that the Bills will lead to doing away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP), Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said MSP will continue and is not related to the legislations that seek freedom for farmers to sell their produce. "There are misconceptions being spread about the minimum support price (MSP). MSP is the government's administrative decision and not linked to the bills. MSP based procurement was there in the country, is there, and will continue," he said adding these "historic" legislation will bring "revolutionary" changes in the lives of farmers. Initiating the debate from the Opposition, Congress' Pratap Singh Bajwa said his party opposes the "ill-conceived and ill-timed" Bills. "We will not sign on this death warrant of farmers," Singh said. However, BJP's Bhupender Yadav countered the Congress saying, "I want to ask why has rural income reduced in the years you (Congress) were in power...Why are you opposing these Bills? Opposition always has a negative outlook on things." Opposing the Bills, Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien said the credibility of the Modi government is low to make promises. "The Prime Minister is saying that the Opposition is misleading the farmers. You (Centre) said double farmer income by 2022. But, at current rates, the farmer income will not be doubled before 2028," he said. Asking how many BJP MPs have read the Bills and demanding the Bill be sent to the Select Committee, O'Brien said the bill need to be scrutinised. "We can't do six minutes here, eight minutes there. We will keep fighting for our democratic right in parliament. You may have numbers, but we have the right to keep our say in a parliament democracy. We are following a very dangerous trend," he added. Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav said there is "definitely some compulsion" that this government wants to rush through all these bills. The resignation of Akali Dal's Harsimrat Kaur from the Union Cabinet protesting against the Bills came up during discussion. Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut said the Prime Minister has noted the government was not ending the MSP system and it was just a rumour. "So, did a union minister resign on the basis of a rumour?" he said. Akali Dal MP Naresh Gujral demanded that the Bills be sent to Select Committees. "These Bills should be sent to a select committee so that all stakeholders can be heard. Don't think that the farmers of Punjab are weak. The farmer of Punjab feels threatened today by the bills you are about to pass. There is a trust deficit or a communication gap," he said. The debate also had its share of drama when YSR Congress' Vijaysai Reddy made a remark against Congress, which was expunged. Reddy said there was no reason to oppose these Bills and made the remark, prompting Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma and others to demand an apology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/high-drama-in-rajya-sabha-over-two-farm-bills-oppn-demands-voting-to-be-postponed-890245.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Why is govt 'running away' from giving legal responsibility for MSP, asks Congress||As agriculture-related bills were tabled in the Rajya Sabha, the Congress on Sunday stepped up its attack on the Centre over the issue and accused it of "running away" from giving legal responsibility for the Minimum Support Price (MSP). Days after their passage in the Lok Sabha, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar introduced the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha. Tomar said minimum price or MSP based procurement of agriculture crops from farmers will continue and is not related to the farm bills that seek to give cultivators freedom to market their produce. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Modi government will get the "three black bills" passed in the Rajya Sabha through whip. "But no answer -- how will the 15.5 crore farmers' land get MSP, who will give?" Surjewala said. "Why is the government running away from giving legal responsibility for MSP? Who will take the responsibility for MSP outside the 'Mandi'?" he said. The bills are also facing staunch opposition from farmer bodies as well as from within the ruling coalition. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the food processing minister from the Shiromani Akali Dal party, resigned from the government last week. Under the MSP, the government guarantees the procurement of crops such as wheat and paddy at minimum prices from farmers. A third bill, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, that seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits, is to be moved in the Rajya Sabha separately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-govt-running-away-from-giving-legal-responsibility-for-msp-asks-congress-890246.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Overall Covid-19 deaths per million population in India low compared to other countries, says government||The overall number of cases and deaths per million population due to Covid-19 in the country is low compared to similarly affected countries,  Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey told Rajya Sabha on Sunday. Noting that there are no established pharmaceutical interventions that can break the chain of transmission, Choubey said non-pharmaceutical interventions such as hand and respiratory hygiene, wearing of mask/face cover, physical distancing measures, preventing large gatherings, etc are the only tools to suppress and break the chain of transmission.  This has to be in turn supported by heightened community awareness and behavioral change communication.   He was responding to a question on the reasons for spread of Covid-19 at an increased rate despite lower numbers at the initial stage in India as compared to other countries. "COVID-19 is a highly infectious disease. Many of the epidemiological parameters such as agent-host interaction, socio-cultural and environmental factors, modes of transmission, susceptibility of individuals, immune response are still under research," Choubey said in a written reply. The Government of India since January, has followed a pre-emptive, graded and proactive approach for managing Covid-19, the minister said. States have been supported in terms of logistics, funding and technical guidance right from the beginning. To blunt the progression of cases in the country, the government had taken series of steps under Disaster Management Act, 2005 including lockdown, Choubey highlighted. "This in effect reduced the growth rate of cases, increased community awareness, and the period was utilized to upgrade health infrastructure and health staff capacities which has supported the country in terms of managing the disease.  "In effect, the overall number of cases and deaths per million population due to Covid-19 in the country is low compared to similarly affected countries," Choubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/overall-covid-19-deaths-per-million-population-in-india-low-compared-to-other-countries-says-government-890249.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Congress and YSRCP clash on farm bills in Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha on Sunday witnessed heated exchanges between Congress and YSRCP members during the debate on the farm bills after an MP of the ruling Andhra party made some remarks against the grand old party, prompting them to demand an apology. There was uproar in the House after V Vijaysai Reddy (YSRCP), while speaking in support of the bill, accused the Congress of "hypocrisy" as the bill contained the promises made by the Congress in its Lok Sabha poll manifesto. As Reddy accused the Congress of promoting "middlemen" and some other remarks, Congress members created uproar. Anand Sharma (Cong) said the member's conduct has not been as per the traditions of the House and he should retract his statement and apologise. L Hanumanthaiah, who was in the chair at the time, said he would look into the records and expunge any objectionable remarks made. "If there is anything objectionable it will be taken off the records," he said. The din continued for sometime in the House with YSRCP and Congress members engaged in heated arguments.   Reddy said the bill was in favour of the farmers as it promoted contract farming that would ensure sale of his produce and free him from the clutches of middlemen. He asked why tobacco is not included under the purview of the bill and demanded so. He also accuses the Congress of being hypocritical as it had promised the same in its manifesto. "What is this hypocrisy. Why they are opposing these bills. They are nothing but.....," he said that led to uproar. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar introduced the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha. Ram Gopal Yadav (SP) said the BJP should ensure that it doesn't do anything that the future generations should hold them guilty of. He said it was difficult to believe that these bills are being put forth by the son of a farmer. Yadav alleged that there seems to be some compulsion that the ruling party does not want to discuss or debate on any of the bills, as it was rushing through these bills without discussion. "You did not consult anyone before bringing these ordinances during the pandemic. You should have at least consulted the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh," he said. T K S Elangovan (DMK) said the two Bills are an insult to farmers and were not necessary. "This government has no right to bring these bills, as agriculture is a state subject. This bill also repeal the ordinance and the promise of this government to implement M S Swaminathan Committee's recommendations," he said. "This Bill is not for the sale of farmer's products, this bill will sell the farmers and make them slaves of big businessmen. This bill will affect farmers, kill them and make them commodities," he alleged. K Keshava Rao (TRS), while opposing the bill, said the Agriculture Minister claimed that this is a Bill for new-age agriculture, but was against it. Alleging that this bill seeks to change the very character of the country, he said, "you have made an agricultural country into a corporate country". He said farmers will not have a level playing field as the bills seek to put the poor farmers against the traders. "This government has set out to kill the golden goose," he said, accusing the government of not discussing the issue with states and people. He also alleged that these Bills are an assault on state rights and the Constitution. Ram Chandra Prasad Singh (JDU), while supporting the bills, said it is for the first time that a farmers' policy has come after a long time. He said in 1991 when the country saw liberalisation, it missed bringing agriculture reforms. He cited the example of Bihar where the Nitish Kumar government has abolished the APMC Act in 2006 and yet farmers are getting good price for their produce through MSP and farmers are producing more. He said farmers will get different options after the bills are passed. "I urge the Agriculture minister, both these bills are good tasks and agriculture will benefit from it. Please also do research to help increase the farmers' income," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-and-ysrcp-clash-on-farm-bills-in-rajya-sabha-890264.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Government running away from legal responsibility for Minimum Support Price, says Rahul Gandhi||As agriculture-related bills were tabled in the Rajya Sabha, the Congress on Sunday stepped up its attack on the Centre over the issue and accused it of "running away" from giving legal responsibility for the Minimum Support Price (MSP). Terming the bills "anti-agriculture black laws", Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also asked how will MSP be ensured with the ending of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) or farmers' market. "Why is there no guarantee on MSP?," he asked. "Modi ji is making farmers 'slaves' of capitalists, the country will not allow this to succeed," the former Congress chief tweeted in Hindi with the hashtag 'Kisan Virodhi (anti-farmer) Narendra Modi'. Days after their passage in the Lok Sabha, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar introduced the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha. Tomar said minimum price or MSP based procurement of agriculture crops from farmers will continue and is not related to the farm bills that seek to give cultivators freedom to market their produce. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Modi government will get the "three black bills" passed in the Rajya Sabha through whip. "But no answer -- how will the 15.5 crore farmers' land get MSP, who will give?" Surjewala said. "Why is the government running away from giving legal responsibility for MSP? Who will take the responsibility for MSP outside the 'Mandi'?" he said. The bills are also facing staunch opposition from farmer bodies as well as from within the ruling coalition. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the food processing minister from the Shiromani Akali Dal party, resigned from the government last week. Under the MSP, the government guarantees the procurement of crops such as wheat and paddy at minimum prices from farmers. A third bill, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, that seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits, is to be moved in the Rajya Sabha separately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-running-away-from-legal-responsibility-for-minimum-support-price-says-rahul-gandhi-890280.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||No study conducted to assess impact of Covid-19 on mental health: Government||The government has not conducted any study to assess the impact of coronavirus on the mental health of people though a number of initiatives have been taken to provide psychosocial support during the pandemic, the Rajya Sabha was told on Sunday. "The government has not conducted any study to assess the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the mental health of the population. "However, realizing the impact that Covid-19 may have on the mental health of the people, the government has taken a number of initiatives to provide psychosocial support during Covid-19," Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said in a written reply. He was responding to a question on whether the government has taken cognisance of the mental health issues arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. The initiatives taken by the government include setting up of a 24/7 helpline to provide psychosocial support, by mental health professionals, to the entire affected population, divided into different target groups viz children, adult, elderly, women and healthcare workers, the minister said. It also includes the issuance of guidelines/advisories on the management of mental health issues, catering to different segments of the society, advocacy through various media platforms in the form of creative and audio-visual materials on managing stress and anxiety, and promoting an environment of support and care for all, he said. Choubey said the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, also has issued detailed guidelines under "Mental Health in the times of Covid-19 Pandemic - Guidance for General Medical and Specialized Mental Health Care Settings". The government also did online capacity building of healthcare workers by NIMHANS to provide psychosocial support and training through (iGOT)-Diksha platform, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-study-conducted-to-assess-impact-of-covid-19-on-mental-health-government-890288.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||It is a landmark day: Rajnath Singh on passage of farm bills in Rajya Sabha||While major opposition parties are against the bills, the government has been maintaining that the proposed legislations will help small and marginal farmers secure competitive prices for their produce. "With the passing of two landmark agriculture Bills in Rajya Sabha today, India has cemented the strong foundation for ‘Atmanirbhar Agriculture’," the defence minister tweeted. "This is the result of endless dedication and determination of the Govt under the leadership of PM Shri @narendramodi," he added. "After the passage of these two legislators in Parliament, a new history of growth and development in the agricultural sector will be written," he said. He said the bills will not only strengthen India's food security, but will also prove to be a major effective step towards doubling the income of farmers. The two bills -- Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday. The first bill seeks to provide freedom to farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The second bill is aimed at setting up of a framework under which farmers will be able to engage with agri-business firms, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for farm services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/it-is-a-landmark-day-rajnath-singh-on-passage-of-farm-bills-in-rajya-sabha-890343.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Ads shouldn't communicate any discrimination as a result of skin colour, says Choubey in Rajya Sabha||Advertising should not communicate any discrimination as a result of skin colour and care should be taken in the pre-usage depiction of products to ensure the expression of a model is not negative in a way which is widely seen as unattractive, depressed or concerned, Union Minister Ashwini Choubey said on Sunday. To a question in Rajya Sabha on whether the Centre is considering a ban on advertisements promoting fairness and whiteness creams, the minister of state for health said the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI), a self-regulatory body of the advertisement industry has set up a Consumer Complaints Council to deal with advertising content and decide on complaints against ads making misleading, false and unsubstantiated claims. In a written reply, Choubey said ASCI is using self-regulatory guidelines according to which advertising should not communicate any discrimination as a result of skin colour. These advertisements should not reinforce negative social stereotyping based on skin colour. Specifically, advertising should not directly or implicitly show people with darker skin, in a way which is widely seen as, unattractive, unhappy, depressed or concerned, he said. These advertisements should not portray people with darker skin, in a way which is widely seen as, at a disadvantage of any kind, or inferior, or unsuccessful in any aspect of life, particularly with being attractive to the opposite sex, matrimony, job placement, promotions and other prospects, the minister said. "In the pre-usage depiction of product, special care should be taken to ensure that the expression of the model(s) in the real and graphical representation should not be negative in a way which is widely seen as unattractive, unhappy, depressed or concerned," he informed the Upper House of Parliament. According to provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, where the Central Consumer Protection Authority is satisfied after an investigation that any advertisement is false or misleading and is prejudicial to the interest of a consumer or is in contravention of consumer rights, it may direct the trader or manufacturer or endorser or advertiser or publisher to discontinue or modify those. Furthermore, the Ministry of Health has issued a notice on February 3 for stakeholders’ comments on a draft Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) (Amendment) Bill, Choubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ads-shouldnt-communicate-any-discrimination-as-a-result-of-skin-colour-says-choubey-in-rajya-sabha-890353.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Don't sign farm bills, Sukhhbir Badal urges President||Shiromani Akal Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday urged the President not to give his assent to the farm bills passed by Rajya Sabha, asking him to return them to Parliament for reconsideration. Badal said the passage of the bills marked a “sad day” for democracy and millions in the country. “Democracy means consensus, not majority oppression,” the SAD leader said in a statement shortly after Rajya Sabha passed two of the three bills. In a rarely exercised provision, the Constitution gives the President the power to withhold assent to certain categories of bills passed by Parliament. “Please stand by the farmers, 'kisan mazdoors', 'arhtiyas', mandi labour and Dalits,” Badal urged President Ram Nath Kovind. “Please intervene on their behalf with the government. Otherwise they will never forgive us,” he said in the statement. “Don't let the 'annadata' (farmers) starve or sleep on the roads,” he added. Amid an uproar by the opposition, Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. They were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday. A third bill is yet to be passed in Rajya Sabha. Akali Dal MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union cabinet in protest against the three bills, but the party remains with the ruling National Democratic Alliance. Farmers in Punjab have been protesting against the three bills. Their organisations have expressed apprehension that the bills would lead to dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The protests have continued despite assurances from the Centre that the system would stay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-sign-farm-bills-sukhhbir-badal-urges-president-890360.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||BJP jumps into campaign mode to defend Farm Bills, condemns Opposition for ruckus||Having burnt its fingers twice over farmers' issues in the past, the BJP has entered an aggressive campaign mode to counter the Opposition's campaign against new farm laws. Meanwhile, a number of farmer organisations are up in the arms and the Opposition is ratcheting it up calling the measure a “death warrant” and “obituary of farmers”. Immediately after the two Farm Bills were passed by the Rajya Sabha, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter, to reassure that the system of Minimum Support Price will remain. “Government procurement will continue this. We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming generations,” said PM Modi amid the Opposition campaign against the bills primarily centring around the allegation that once the bills are passed, the farmers will not be able to get MSP. He termed the passage of the bills a “watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture”. He said it will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector, empowering farmers with futuristic technology and will end bullying by the middlemen. After a detailed statement by BJP President J P Nadda who said that through the bills, the government has “freed farmers from the injustice that has been continued for the last 70 years”, the BJP fielded its farmer leader face and UP leader Rajanth Singh along with a battery of ministers. While Nadda claimed that the bills will boost the income of the farmers and make them their own bosses, Singh, who was accompanied by Prakash Javadekar, Pralhad Joshi, Thawar Chand Gehlot and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi highlighted his farming background and his stint as agriculture minister. Alleging that confusion is being spread among farmers about the abolition of MSP and APMCs, Singh said, "I want to categorically assure farmers that under no circumstances MSP and APMC will go." Singh, however, only said, “No such provision has been in any bill earlier as well” when he was told that RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch has asked why the bills do not clearly mention that farmers will continue to get the MSP. Another RSS affiliate Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh has also flagged its reservations. Singh also flagged “political reasons” when asked about Union Minister Badal resigning from the Modi Cabinet. The BJP also sought to remind the Congress party about its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, where the party talked about repealing the APMC system, while the MSP and APMC will continue to operate. The Bill cost the BJP two otherwise friendly allies in Opposition-BJD and TRS, who voted against the government in Parliament this time. even after having rescued the NDA during a number of contentious bills in past.   While the BJP said the protest to the bill will peter out as had happened with the protests to the construction of Bhakra Nangal Dam, there is no let-down in farmers’ protests. BJP lost a government in Madhya Pradesh in 2018 a year after six farmers were killed in police firing in Mandsaur in 2017. In 2015 it had to withdraw its much-touted land reform bill, which sought to make radical changes in UPA’s 2013 Land Acquisition Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-jumps-into-campaign-mode-to-defend-farm-bills-condemns-opposition-for-ruckus-890384.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Today's incidents in Rajya Sabha pained me: Deve Gowda||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, who took oath as Rajya Sabha member on Sunday, said that he is pained the about the incidents that happened in the Upper House of Parliament during the passing of farm bills. "I am pained today about the incidents in Rajya Sabha. It should not have happened," he said. "Nothing was heard during the passing of bills. We can only hear members shouting," Gowda told reporters in Delhi. High drama was witnessed in Rajya Sabha during the passage of  Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill as opposition members were indulged in shouting slogans, breaking a couple of microphones of the Chairman and throwing papers. However, the Vokkaliga leader blamed the government for the incidents. "The government should have allowed voting of the bills and it would have been defeated," he said.  Earlier, speaking on the legislation in Upper House, Gowda said: "The government goes ahead with the bills, the small and marginal farmers may not be in a position to deal with complex contracts that they may have to enter into with private players, and big corporations." "The Prime Minister has said that these bills will eliminate middlemen. On the contrary, I feel these bills will increase middlemen because farmers will need intermediaries of a different kind to read the fine print of documents that private players and corporations may put forward," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/todays-incidents-in-rajya-sabha-pained-me-deve-gowda-890404.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi slams farm bills as 'death warrants'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said democracy has been shamed by the manner in which the government issued "death warrants" against farmers by passing two bills related to the agriculture sector. The Rajya Sabha passed 'The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020', and 'the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020' on Sunday amid the din created by opposition members. "The farmers grow gold from land, but the arrogance of the Modi government is making farmers shed tears of blood," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Democracy has been shamed by the manner in which the government passed death warrants against farmers in the form of two farm bills in Rajya Sabha," he tweeted. Gandhi earlier termed the bills "anti-agriculture black laws" and asked how will minimum support price (MSP) be ensured with the ending of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) or farmers' market. Why is there no guarantee on MSP, he asked. "Modi ji is making farmers 'slaves' of capitalists, the country will not allow this to succeed," the former Congress chief tweeted in Hindi with the hashtag 'Kisan Virodhi (anti-farmer) Narendra Modi'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-slams-farm-bills-as-death-warrants-890440.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||JD(U) MP wonders if coronavirus being 'pushed' into Delhi||JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh wondered on Sunday if coronavirus was being "pushed" into Delhi every time cases of the infection came down in the national capital, as he claimed that the world is still debating if the virus is man-made or natural. Speaking in the Lok Sabha during a discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic, Singh said, "We see that infections in Delhi are going down sometime, and then suddenly the numbers start rising. Isn't it the case that virus is being pushed from outside into places where the numbers are declining?" There is no finality to the debate over whether the virus is natural or man-made, he claimed, adding that he was not sure if Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who was sitting in the House, agrees with this contention or not. The leader of the JD(U) in Lok Sabha, who is better known as Lalan Singh, asked the opposition to give constructive suggestions to the Union government in dealing with the pandemic instead of "wasting" time by criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The more opposition leaders criticise Modi, the more popular he becomes while their popularity declines, Singh said, praising the government's decision to impose a nation-wide lockdown in March to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. India has fared much better than the rest of the world in terms of fatality rate and recovery rate, Singh said. He also hailed the Bihar government's handling of the pandemic, saying that the state has 91.7 per cent recovery rate and only 0.5 per cent fatality rate. It has as of now only 13,000 cases of existing positive cases, Singh said. During the discussion, N Nageswara Rao of the TRS expressed concern over nearly 90,000 daily cases of Covid-19 across the country and added that the curve continues to rise. S T Hassan of the Samajwadi Party criticised the lockdown as "unplanned" and alleged that the pandemic was "communalised". NCP's Amol Ramsing Kolhe alleged that the government was busy welcoming US president Donald Trump and toppling opposition-run state governments when the disease was spreading in the country. Ramesh Bidhuri of the BJP hit out at the opposition, saying they wanted the Union government to fail in its efforts to curb Covid-19 cases, and asserted that the decision to impose the lockdown played a huge role in dealing with the pandemic. He praised Home Minister Amit Shah, saying he was instrumental in dealing with the pandemic in the national capital when the Delhi government could not tackle the crisis. Shah worked hard and visited hospitals despite being a diabetic, Bidhuri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jdu-mp-wonders-if-coronavirus-being-pushed-into-delhi-890498.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||Kerala's ruling Left, Opposition Congress flay Centre over farm bills||The ruling Left and the Congress in Kerala on Sunday lashed out at the Centre over the farm bills passed in the Parliament, and said the government 'failed' to listen to the voices of the opposition. In a statement, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly and Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said the bills ignored the agitations of farmers and did not concede their demands. "The Bill which was passed despite strong opposition will be a death knell to the farmers. It is aimed at handing over large tracts of land to corporates and to oust poor farmers from their own lands," Chennithala alleged. He claimed that only the land mafia and food industry giants would stand to benefit from the Bill. Referring to the Bill promoting contract farming, he said it would be 'detrimental' to Kerala. "Currently, the genetically modified (GM) crops are not allowed to be cultivated in Kerala, but with the advent of contract cultivation, the company which gets the contract will be able to cultivate GM crops," Chennithala said. He also claimed that the corporates that would fix the price of the crops will reap the benefits. Rajya Sabha MP and the National Secretary of CITU, Elamaram Kareem, took to twitter and said Sunday was a "Dark day" for Indian democracy. "Sabotaging of Parliamentary procedures. We MPs were denied our right to vote on a Bill. Govt feared defeat as opposition united for the farmers. We were manhandled and our voices were not heard. Shame on this Government," he said. The Rajya Sabha passed the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. A third bill, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits, is to be moved separately in the upper house. All three bills have already been passed by the Lok Sabha. The bills are facing opposition from farmer bodies as well as from within the ruling NDA coalition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/keralas-ruling-left-opposition-congress-flay-centre-over-farm-bills-890548.html
20-09-2020||National Politics||10-day session enough to discuss all Bills: Madhuswamy||Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy tells Akram Mohammed of DH that the 10-day session is adequate to discuss all key Bills being tabled in the legislature. Excerpts from an interview One of the key issues in the upcoming session is the 32 Bills being tabled in the Assembly. Is the time sufficient to discuss all of them? Of the Bills, only four to five are expected to have a long debate. Others are routine Bills and can be passed easily. For the Bills that require to be discussed, we have provided adequate time and the 10-day session is enough to discuss them. Our main problem is that we have promulgated ordinances, which have to be placed as Bills. Such Bills are 18 in number, which includes Land Reforms, APMC amendment, and others. The Opposition has demanded the government to extend the duration of the session, as there were several issues to be raised in the Assembly. Tomorrow (Monday), the Business Advisory Committee meeting will be held in which the Covid-19 pandemic, Rajya Sabha concluding early, etc., will be discussed. We will try to convince the Opposition to consider these factors (before pushing for an extension). If they still insist, we will consider and make a decision. With the pandemic, how will the session be organised? What precautions are in place? There will be a vacant seat between all MLAs and transparent sheets are fixed for seats. The members will be provided with face shields and masks. Gaps have been provided for seats for ministers also.  There are 269 seats in the Legislative Assembly and we expect 30-40 members to be absent. We have allotted new seat numbers to the MLAs, and they will be seated as per social distancing norms. Do you expect large number of MLAs to be absent due to the pandemic? No, we are not expecting them to be absent. But I am told that some have tested positive for Covid-19. We have already tested all MLAs and if somebody is positive they cannot attend Assembly proceedings and will abstain. According to our estimates, a minimum of 20-30 legislators will be absent. There are allegations that the drug racket is a diversionary tactic to hide the failures of the government during the Covid-19 pandemic, flood relief, and other issues. The drug racket case was not initiated in Karnataka. It is from outside. When they informed us that Karnataka is a hub of such rackets and peddlers, we came into the picture and started investigations. The cases came from Mumbai. We don't want to divert the issues with such things.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/10-day-session-enough-to-discuss-all-bills-madhuswamy-890552.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||DH Toon | Crossroads: Message in a probe gone wrong in Delhi riots||Delhi riots: Message in a probe gone wrong Some 751 FIRs registered, 340 cases ‘solved’, 250 charge sheets filed against 1,153 accused, 12 pistols, 121 empty cartridges, 92 live cartridges, 61 glass bottles filled with noxious chemicals and an assortment of sharp-edged weapons used in the riots that ravaged north-east Delhi in late February seized. In the normal course, one should not find fault with such statistics in an investigation into communal violence but Delhi Police is facing tough questions on the way it is conducting the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-crossroads-message-in-a-probe-gone-wrong-in-delhi-riots-890154.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Narcotics seized by BSF at foiled infiltration in Jammu||The Border Security Force (BSF) has recovered 58 packets of narcotics and two pistols after foiling an infiltration attempt from Pakistan along the International Border (IB) here, officials said on Sunday. The infiltration bid by suspected smugglers was scuttled in Arnia area of R S Pura sector during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, an official of the border guarding force said. He said troops of border outpost Budhwar and Bullechak observed suspicious movement of some Pakistani's near IB who were trying to sneak into this side under the cover of darkness. The BSF opened fire and foiled their attempt, the official said. During thorough search of the area this morning, 58 packets of narcotics, two pistols, four magazines and some ammunition were seized, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/narcotics-seized-by-bsf-at-foiled-infiltration-in-jammu-890204.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir High Court gives nod to arbitration centres in Srinagar, Jammu||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court will have arbitration centres in both regions of the union territory to provide an institutionalised framework for speedy and expeditious resolution of disputes through an alternate dispute resolution mechanism. The court has accorded approval to setting up of high court annexed arbitration centres at Srinagar and Jammu, an official spokesman said here on late Saturday evening. The centres will be called “The Jammu and Kashmir International Arbitration Centre (JKIAC)” For securing fair, speedy and inexpensive justice to the litigants and being sensitive to the fact that the object of the Section 89, in absence of detailed modalities, has remained somewhat dormant in Jammu and Kashmir, the court has set up these arbitration centres, the spokesman said. He said to ensure that the constitution of such centres is smooth and effective, the high court has also framed “The Jammu and Kashmir International Arbitration Centre (JKIAC) (International Management Rules, 2020)”. As per these rules, he said, the chief justice of the high court of Jammu and Kashmir shall be the patron-in-chief of the Jammu and Kashmir International Arbitration Centre (JKIAC). To monitor and oversee the centres, an arbitration committee consisting of three judges of the high court, advocate general, assistant solicitor general attached to the high court and three members to be nominated by the Chief Justice of the Common High Court of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh out of whom at least one shall be designated senior advocate, while the others may be any arbitration expert, in India or abroad has to be established, the spokesman said. He said to supervise and manage the JKIAC, a secretariat consisting of coordinator who shall be a member of higher judicial service and two additional coordinators who shall be members of Judicial Service, have to be appointed by the chief justice. The spokesman said the rules further envisage appointment of Chief Counsel and Deputy Counsel amongst advocates having experience in the field of arbitration. As per the rules, the JKIAC has to prepare and maintain a panel of arbitrators as approved by the arbitration committee from time to time from amongst the persons who are suitable and willing to serve as arbitrators provided that their suitability shall be determined by the arbitration committee, he said. The empanelment of the arbitrators shall consist of former judges, former judicial officers, chartered accountants, bureaucrats, engineers, architects, professors etc, he added. Similarly for dealing with arbitration proceedings in such centres, “Jammu and Kashmir International Arbitration Centre (Arbitration Proceedings) Rules, 2020” have also been framed by the high court, the spokesman said. For regulating the administrative fee of the centre and arbitrator's fee, “The Jammu and Kashmir International Arbitration Centre (Administration Pass and Arbitrator's Fee) Rules, 2020” have been framed by the High Court. The setting up of Jammu and Kashmir International Arbitration Centre would go a long way in achieving the object behind enactment of Section 89 Civil Procedure Code and at the same time shall ensure that arbitration proceedings remain inexpensive and are carried out within the shortest possible time, the spokesman said. He said courts-annexed arbitration centres are successfully functioning at Delhi, Chandigarh, Bangalore, Chennai (Madras) and Cuttack (Orrisa).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-high-court-gives-nod-to-arbitration-centres-in-srinagar-jammu-890212.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police deployed at border areas as precautionary measure amid farmers protest||The Delhi Police on Sunday said it has deployed its personnel at border areas as a precautionary measure in the wake of a protest call by farmers in neighbouring states. Two companies of forces have been deployed by the Delhi Police near Ashok Nagar -- Ghazipur side, the police said, adding that there are no protesters at the border as of now. The force has also been put on alert at the Delhi-Haryana border. "We have deployed border pickets as a cautionary measure on Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border," Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Jasmeet Singh said. The development comes after the Bharatiya Kisan Union's Haryana unit announced that it will hold a statewide protest against the Centre's farm bills on Sunday during which its members will block roads for three hours, even as Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar appealed for deferring the stir and invited them for talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-deployed-at-border-areas-as-precautionary-measure-amid-farmers-protest-890238.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Farmers block roads in Haryana, burn effigies in Punjab; 2 JJP MLAs join protests against farm bills||Farmers on Sunday blocked roads in Haryana and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in neighbouring Punjab, protesting against the farm bills passed in Parliament. Two MLAs from the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), which is part of the BJP-led ruling coalition in Haryana, also participated in the protests, reflecting a rift on the issue among their ranks on the issue. Farmers occupied portions of roads and highways at several places in the state between 12 and 3 pm, following a call given by the Haryana unit of the Bhartiya Kisan Union against the agri-marketing bills, two of which were passed by Rajya Sabha on Sunday. After 3 pm, reports said the road blockades were lifted, ending the day’s protests in which BKU was also supported by several other farmer organisations. In Ambala, Haryana Police used a water cannon at the state’s border to stop Punjab Youth Congress workers from entering the district and travelling ahead to Delhi as part of their “tractor rally”. The Punjab protesters set fire to one of their own tractors when they were forced to end their rally at the Haryana border, police said. Farmers were joined by 'arhitiyas' -- or the commission agents at ‘mandis’ --during their protests at many places in Haryana. There was heavy police deployment across the state, particularly where the bigger gatherings were expected. Police diverted traffic to alternative routes. Executive magistrates were stationed along with police at many protest venues. Ambala-Nahan national highway near Naraingarh, Jind-Patiala and Jind-Delhi roads near Julana and Sonipat-Gohana highway were among the roads blocked in Haryana. Traffic was also disrupted on Ambala-Chandigarh highway due to the protests by the Punjab Youth Congress activists. But there was no blockade on the Ambala-Delhi road. The situation at the Haryana-Punjab border was tense for a while as Youth Congress activists were bent upon moving on the national highway towards Delhi. But the spot was heavily barricaded by police, who also used water cannons to disperse the protesters. Farmers at several places in Punjab burnt effigies and copies of the farm bills, claiming that the new laws will destroy their livelihood. The three bills are aimed at giving farmers the choice to sell their produce at competitive prices. But many farm organisations fear they will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system. Two JJP MLAs, Jogi Ram Sihag (Barwala) and Ram Karan Kala (Shahbad), participated in the Haryana protests, going against the official line spelled out by the party’s senior leader and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala. Sihag said he will not hesitate even to resign if his constituents want him to do that when at any point they feel that the farmers' interests are compromised. Chautala, however, hit out at the opposition Congress accusing it of misleading farmers. “Nowhere in the new farm reforms there is any talk of abolishing the crop MSP,” he told reporters. Varun Chaudhary, the Haryana Congress MLA from Mullana in Ambala who joined the protest at Mandour village near Panjokhra Sahib, said the bills were not a “shield for farmers” but for hoarders. Meham Independent MLA, Balraj Kundu, who protested in Rohtak and Charkhi Dadri districts, claimed the bills will benefit the corporates. “From October 2, I will sit on a fast to protest against these anti-farmer measures,” he said. In Yamunanagar, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh said, “It is the country's misfortune that despite the farmers' protest these bills were passed.” He called it a “murder of democracy”. “Laws are for people and if they are the ones who are protesting then for whose benefit have they been passed?” he said. “These laws are not pro-farmers as the government claims, but the big corporates will benefit.” He said the statewide protest was peaceful and 17 farmers' organisations extended their support. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, who also joined the Youth Congress protesters, said all parties except the Akali Dal and the BJP are with the farmers. He slammed Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, accusing him of earlier supporting these "black laws". The SAD has pulled out of the Union government in protest against the bills. Joining the tractor rally, Indian Youth Congress president Srinivas B V said his party stands shoulder to shoulder with the farmers. “This government wants to destroy 80 crore families. Former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri gave the 'Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan' slogan, but under the present regime the farmers are ruined,” Srinivas said. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said when a Congress-led government comes to power the law will be repealed. The party will hold protests on Monday against the “anti-farmer” bills at district headquarters across Haryana. On Sunday, Rajya Sabha passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The bills were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday. A third bill is yet to be passed in Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-block-roads-in-haryana-burn-effigies-in-punjab-2-jjp-mlas-join-protests-against-farm-bills-890252.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh government to foot bill of doctors of autonomous medical colleges||The Madhya Pradesh government will provide full reimbursement of medical expenses to doctors and staffers of government-administered autonomous medical colleges which are at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19. This will benefit nearly 10,000 staffers and doctors of such institutions in the state, a public relations department official said on Sunday. Till now, there was a provision for medical reimbursement of up to Rs 3,000 for doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians and other staff of such medical colleges. On the other hand, staffers of various government departments are entitled for full reimbursement of their medical bills under the Madhya Pradesh Civil Services Medical Care Rules, 1958, he said. "This discrepancy has been removed now after officials and staff of government-administered autonomous medical colleges brought the issue to the notice of state Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang," the official said. The government has also decided that junior doctors working in medical colleges can get reimbursement for life saving drugs, if they get infected by coronavirus, he said. Discussions are also underway for an insurance scheme for medical students and Sarang has directed the officials concerned to prepare its draft, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-government-to-foot-bill-of-doctors-of-autonomous-medical-colleges-890259.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 disrupts routine health services in Kashmir||Routine medical services have been severely disrupted in Kashmir valley since the Covid-19 pandemic began in March this year as authorities were compelled to curtail other services. Routine care for pregnant women, elderly patients, infants and other diseases got hugely disturbed due to the pandemic. “Since March, patients are unable to access medical services, termed routine but life-saving in nature as focus is on Covid-19 pandemic,” a senior medico at Srinagar’s tertiary-care SKIMS hospital told DH. He said hundreds of cancer, tuberculosis, heart diseases and other patients are finding it difficult to visit hospitals due to the situation as while focus remained on emergencies and Covid-19 only. “While the government claims that routine OPDs and admissions have been started, the fact remains that there are very few spaces and very little manpower available,” the doctor said. Elaborating further, he said it is difficult to run the Covid-19 and non-coronavirus services from the same resources. At Srinagar’s largest general specialty SMHS Hospital, six wards were converted into Covid-19 wards. The manpower – doctors, nurses and paramedics of these wards now work for Covid-19 patients only and these wards were meant to admit patients suffering from illnesses like kidney diseases, diabetes, cancers, gastrointestinal diseases, hypertension among others.   Patients suffering from these life-threatening diseases and disorders, over the past six months, have found it hard to get a doctor to see them, unless it is “an absolute emergency”. After the outbreak of Covid-19, even the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended that healthcare providers advise people against visiting hospitals except for emergencies to avoid contracting the coronavirus. The recommendation led to a drastic reduction in the number of people visiting hospitals and might have instilled a sense of fear among patients. Even regular immunisation of children has been disrupted due to contraction fears, which experts believe may lead to other outbreaks. Not only in Srinagar, but across peripheral healthcare set-up – the district and sub-district hospitals, patient services have been badly affected, a health official said. “We have thousands of Covid-19 patients admitted across the hospitals in Kashmir, but have the same manpower as we had before. it is the common patient who is paying the price for it,” he said. Acknowledging the hardships faced by non-Covid-19 patients, Financial Commissioner Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulloo said that the government was working on a plan to cater to all kinds of patients with available resources. “It is not possible to create resources, especially that of manpower overnight,” he said and added new recruitment of doctors and paramedics is being made on a fast-track basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-disrupts-routine-health-services-in-kashmir-890272.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Farmers in Punjab burn copies of farm bills||Farmers at several places in Punjab on Sunday burnt copies of farm bills and effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging that the bills related to the agriculture sector will destroy their livelihood. The Punjab Youth Congress also started a "tractor rally" from Punjab to Delhi against the three farm bills. At many places, including Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Sangrur and Barnala, the protesters raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre. "These farm bills will destroy the farmers and farm labourers and we strongly oppose these bills," a farmer in Talwandi Sabo. The farmers have expressed apprehensions that the three bills will pave a way for dismantling the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. The three legislations -- Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill-- were passed by the Lok Sabha recently. Punjab Youth Congress chief Barinder Singh Dhillon, while speaking to the media in Dera Bassi in Mohali, said this is the beginning of the fight for the rights of farmers. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said all parties, except the Akali Dal and the BJP, are standing with the farmers for their cause. He slammed Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, accusing him of earlier supporting these "black laws". "After seeing the farmers' anger, Badal had to change his stand on the farm bills issue. Farmers have broken his arrogance," Jakhar said. Black balloons were also released in the air by activists of the Punjab Youth Congress as a mark of protest against the farm bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-in-punjab-burn-copies-of-farm-bills-890281.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||62 kg heroin, two pistols seized as BSF foils infiltration bid along International Border in Jammu||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday recovered a consignment of 62 kg of heroin worth crores of rupees and two pistols after foiling an infiltration attempt from Pakistan along the International Border (IB) here, a top officer of the border guarding force said. Inspector General of BSF, Jammu frontier, N S Jamwal said his force is shortly lodging a strong protest with Pakistan and expressed hope that stern action will be taken against those involved in the failed smuggling bid. The attempt to smuggle the narcotics and weapons was scuttled by BSF personnel of Budhwar and Bullechak border outposts in Arnia area of R S Pura sector around 2 am, leading to the recovery of 62 packets of heroin -- each packet weighing one kilogram, two Chinese pistols with three magazines and 100 rounds, Jamwal said told reporters near the scene. The IG BSF, who rushed to Arnia to congratulate his men for the successful operation, said over the past few days, there were inputs from the intelligence branch of force and police about a possible attempt from Pakistan to smuggle a consignment of drugs and weapons. "We were alert to the threat and around 2 am, a group of persons were noticed on the Pakistani territory and two to three of them came closer to the border fence to sneak into this side but were challenged by the BSF personnel,” he said. He said they opened fire but retreated to Pakistani side taking advantage of darkness and thick foliage, in the face of prompt retaliation by the BSF, leaving behind the consignment of drugs and weapons which were concealed in plastic bags tied with a rope and a PVC pipe. Jammu Senior Superintendent of Police Shridhar Patil, who also reached Arnia to inspect the seizure, said the consignment is worth around Rs 300 crore in the international market. "We see it as narco-terrorism supported by Pakistan. We have successfully foiled a number of attempts of narcotic smuggling from Pakistan over the past two years. They are pumping in drugs to ruin the lives of our youth but we are alert to the threat," he said. Terming the recovery as a "major success", the IG BSF said, "We are going to lodge a strong protest note with Pakistan along with the evidence and are hopeful that it will take stern action against those involved." Jamwal said it is for the first time that the anti-national elements used PVC pipe to hide the narcotics to facilitate its smuggling into the Union Territory. "Though it is for the first time in J&K but such type of modus operandi is in the knowledge of BSF which has successfully foiled similar attempts in Punjab over the years," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/62-kg-heroin-two-pistols-seized-as-bsf-foils-infiltration-bid-along-international-border-in-jammu-890283.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Sachin Pilot to campaign for Congress in Madhya Pradesh Assembly bypolls||The Madhya Pradesh Congress has roped in its Rajasthan leader Sachin Pilot to campaign for the party candidates in the by-elections for 28 Assembly seats in the state, a party spokesman said on Sunday. Most of these seats are in the Gwalior-Chambal region, considered to be the bastion of Pilot's former party colleague Jyotiraditya Scindia, who is now a BJP Rajya Sabha member. The Election Commission is yet to announce the schedule for bypolls in these 28 seats, which are lying vacant due to the resignation of 25 Congress MLAs and death of three sitting legislators. "Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath requested Rajasthan's former deputy chief minister Pilot to campaign for the party candidates, especially in Gwalior-Chambal region. He has readily agreed for it," state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta told PTI. Pilot is familiar with Madhya Pradesh and its politics given that Rajasthan is a neighbouring state, he said. During the by-election of Ratlam-Jhabua Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh in November 2015, Pilot campaigned for party candidate Kantilal Bhuria, who won the seat, he said. Gujjars (who are called Gurjars in Madhya Pradesh) have an influence in 16 Assembly seats of Gwalior-Chambal region where bypolls are due. Pilot, who belongs to the Gujjar community, will help to woo the voters during the bypolls, Gupta said. In July, Pilot rebelled against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, but following intervention by the Congress central leadership, he returned to the party fold. In March, 22 Congress MLAs, mostly of the Scindia camp, resigned from the party and their Madhya Pradesh Assembly membership. This led to collapse of the Kamal Nath- led state government and cleared the way for the BJP to again come to power. Scindia and his loyalists joined the BJP, with many of them becoming ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led state government. Three more Congress legislators also resigned in the last few months and joined the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sachin-pilot-to-campaign-for-congress-in-madhya-pradesh-assembly-bypolls-890296.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Three held in Uttar Pradesh with heroin worth Rs 4.78 crore on Nepal border||Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Uttar Pradesh police have arrested three persons, including a woman, with heroin worth Rs 4.78 crore recovered from their possession in Sonauli area on the India-Nepal border here, a senior official said on Sunday. The accused identified as Dinesh Lodhi, Dipak Lodhi and Sangeeta Lodhi from Kailash Nagar of Maharajganj district were arrested on Saturday during a routine checking and 478 grams of the contraband was seized, Superintendent of Police Pradeep Gupta said. The accused have been booked under relevant provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-held-in-uttar-pradesh-with-heroin-worth-rs-478-crore-on-nepal-border-890306.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Before Ram comes home, Ayodhya to stage star-studded Ramlila||The first ‘Ramlila’ in the historic city of Ayodhya since the stone-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple will witness renowned actors from across the country descend on the banks of Saryu river and act out the greatest battle depicting the victory of good over evil. In a show of valour, loyalty, and Hindu traditions, the epic of Ramayan will unfold at the Laxman Qila, less than two kilometers from the under-construction Ram Temple, from October 17-25. TV actors Sonu Dagar will play Ram, while Kavita Joshi will play Sita. With Delhi BJP MP and actor Manoj Tiwari playing the role of Angad (Ram’s emissary), Gorakhpur BJP MP and actor Ravi Kishan playing Bharat (Ram’s brother), and Vindu Dara Singh enacting the role of Hanuman, “Ayodhya ki Ramlila” will be a star-studded gala. Actor Ritu Shivpuri will enact the role of Kaikeyi, Asarani will play Narad, Shahbaz Khan of Ravana, Rakesh Bedi of Vibhishan, Rakesh Puri of Nishadraj, Raza Murad of Ahiravana and Avatar Gill will play Janak. Talking about his role of Hanuman, which became synonymous with his father Dara Singh, Vindu told PTI that this year’s Ramlila comes as a unique opportunity to play the role of Lord Ram’s loyal servant in the city of his birth. "This is the first time I have got a chance to go to Ayodhya and such an incredible opportunity it is that I am going to play the role of Hanuman in Ayodhya,” Vindu told PTI. According to the legend, Hanuman was commanded by Ram to stay on earth till the end of time even after the latter departed. “If Hanuman is still on earth, where else can he be found if not in Ayodhya. I believe he only has made it possible that we are building the Ram Temple now,” the 56-year-old actor said. For years, starting with Ramanand Sagar’s televised series “Ramayan”, late actor Dara Singh portrayed the role of Hanuman. It was the unforgettable acting of Singh that made him immortal in the eyes of all Indians, Vindu said. “I have played the role of Hanuman for some 20 years now on different platforms, my inspiration has always been my father. Even though I am inspired by him and try to walk in his shoes, those are honestly very big shoes to fill. “Even now when people close their eyes to think of Hanuman, Dara Singh’s image comes to mind. The way he lived the character, nobody can ever match that. It used to feel as if Hanuman was on the stage when he played the role,” Vindu added. If it’s about filling his father’s shoes for Vindu Dara Singh, for Chandrakanta-fame actor Shahbaz Khan it’s about portraying the biggest villain in the world -- Ravan. "It's a dream role for any actor, to play the biggest villain," Khan said. The 54-year-old actor, who's known for his negative roles, added that all famous actors made it big by playing strong negative characters on screen and stage. "To be able to play Ravan is a great opportunity. You look at Al Pacino, Robert DeNiro, Naseeruddin Shah, Nana Patekar or Jack Nicholson, they all became big actors by playing negative roles. "I am not looking at it from a religious angle but from an actor’s perspective. This is a dream role. Any actor would agree to play this role," he added. Although a grand production with celebrity starcast, “Ayodhya ki Ramlila” will not be played out to a live audience due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Organised by Delhi-based Meri Maa Foundation, with Ayodhya Ramlila Committee, the play will be broadcast through satellite TV channels, YouTube and social media websites for nine days. "It'd be different this year as there won't be any spontaneous reaction from the audience," veteran actor Raza Murad rued. Murad, who will be playing the role of Ahiravan, a son of Ravan from the netherworld, has been playing different roles in Ramlila in Delhi for the last nine years. "We are used to playing Ramlila to an audience of thousands, but due to the coronavirus this time it will be in front of cameras. So there will be no spontaneous reaction from the audience," the senior actor said. But on the bright side, Murad is happy to be a part of Ramlila at lord Ram's birthplace. "We cannot think of Ayodhya without thinking of Ram, so it's extra special this time as we are playing it in Ram's birthplace. We are going to his home and stage the legendary story," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/before-ram-comes-home-ayodhya-to-stage-star-studded-ramlila-890315.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Terrorists build underground bunkers in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian to escape Army's pursuit||Hideouts in higher reaches and seeking refuge in local houses are a thing of the past as terrorists in Kashmir valley now dig underground bunkers in dense orchards and even in seasonal streams to escape the dragnet of army and security forces. "This trend has been witnessed off late in twin districts of Pulwama and Shopian with the latter having a majority of them in view of dense apple orchards and jungles," says Colonel A K Singh, heading the 44 Rashtriya Rifles, the army's counter-insurgent unit which earned a distinction of having maximum kills of terrorists as well as surrenders or apprehensions. Talking to PTI from the well-fortified 44-RR headquarters, Col Singh and his team is always seen engaging with locals to sort out their problems which may even include career counselling or guidance in education but when it comes to countering terrorists, they are much ahead by neutralising 47 militants and ensuring detentions and surrender of seven of them. For Col Singh and his team, who man two areas of Shopian and three of Pulwama districts, both considered to be hotbeds of militancy, the task has not been easy after recovery of underground bunkers where terrorists could hide for several days without being noticed by the security forces. The shocker was a hideout in the middle of Rambi Ara, known for fluctuating water levels and often affected by flash floods, that led Col Singh and his team members back to the drawing board. "The terrorists were hiding inside an iron bunker made in the middle of Rambi Ara. The alert troops saw an opening of an empty oil barrel which was subsequently used by terrorists to enter into the bunker. This was something worth suspicion and discreet surveillance was mounted on the opening. Much to our surprise, we saw terrorists emerging out from underground in the middle of the stream, which generally has water gushing only in the rainy season," he said. Five terrorists belonging to banned Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen were killed after the troops launched an attack earlier this year. However, for the army, it was not the statistics of the number of kills but a worrisome trend indicating that terrorists were now well-entrenched inside the underground bunkers. With the help of technical intelligence coupled with human resources, a survey was ordered of surrounding areas especially in Shopian and the results were encouraging as reports of more cavities in traditional Kashmiri households and underground bunkers started surfacing. Covered by dense apple trees and situated at a height, the army found another underground bunker in Bandpoh in June this year where terrorists had managed to create a 12 feet by 10 feet room. The militants were enjoying their stay while army soldiers were looking for them in other civilian areas. The underground bunker finally lay exposed after troops noticed a polythene sheet covering nothing and the earth nearby was filled recently. "The difficult moment for us during this operation was the presence of nearly 50 ladies in the orchards which included one who was pregnant. We initiated an evacuation process and rushed the pregnant lady to a nearby health centre before launching an operation. Five terrorists were gunned down around the underground bunker, says Col Singh, who after taking over the command of 44-Rashtriya Rifles had visited some civilian houses whose kins had joined terror groups. The officer advised the family members to ensure their return and assured them of all possible assistance. Another interesting hide and seek strategy was witnessed in Labipora in Shopian where terrorists had covered an iron box on the banks of a river and kept a small pipe for breathing while hiding underground. "This list is long and I am sure we will be able to dig more underground bunkers," Col Singh said. Artificial cavities in normal households were also noticed in these areas and at many places, underground bunkers found their way through the basement of the houses. "In Amarbug area of Shopian, we found a small underground room with dimensions of 10 feet in length, 8 feet in height and 6 feet in depth being built adjacent to a boundary wall of a house. The bunker was well equipped where even mobile phones were charged using the inverter batteries," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-build-underground-bunkers-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-shopian-to-escape-armys-pursuit-890316.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Body of 65-year-old farmer found hanging from tree in Uttar Pradesh||Body of a 65-year-old farmer was found hanging from a tree in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, police said on Sunday. According to Circle Officer Ram Mohan Sharma, Suresh Pal recently had an argument with his son after he asked him to quit drinking. The body was found hanging at his house in Lalukhedi village, which comes under the jurisdiction of Titawi police station, on Saturday evening, he said. Police suspect that it is a case of death by suicide. The body has been sent for postmortem, Sharma added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-65-year-old-farmer-found-hanging-from-tree-in-uttar-pradesh-890321.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Implement NEP in letter and spirit to make Jammu and Kashmir hub of knowledge, says President Kovind||Determined efforts should be made to make Jammu and Kashmir a hub of knowledge, innovation and learning by implementing the new National Education Policy (NEP) in letter and spirit, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Sunday. He said Jammu and Kashmir is a reservoir of extremely intelligent, talented and innovative children and the implementation of the new education policy will produce students with ignited minds. “Determined efforts should be made to make the paradise a hub of knowledge, innovation and learning by implementing NEP in letter and spirit. These steps would make Jammu and Kashmir once again a ‘Firdaus on the earth, a bright jewel on the crown of Mother India’ as it was referred to in the medieval age,” Kovind said. The President made the comments during a conference on the implementation of the NEP in Jammu and Kashmir. “India has an unprecedented demographic dividend but it could be positively realised only if the young people constituting a substantial segment of the population become skilled, professionally competent, and above all educated in the real sense," he said. Citing the examples of Kalhana’s Rajtarangini and the Mahayana Buddhism, the tenets of which were popular in Kashmir, the President opined that history of India’s cultural traditions would remain incomplete without taking them into consideration. “It is important to understand our tradition and rich cultural heritage which can be achieved only in our mother tongue. It is this mother tongue that is being encouraged in the new education policy as it adheres to the cultural ethos of our country,” he said. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet in July replaces the National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for "transformational reforms" in schools and higher education systems to make India a "global knowledge superpower". “The three-language formula which is envisioned in this policy is of immense significance and could promote multilingualism as well as national unity but at the same time no language will be imposed on any state or union territory,” the President said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/implement-nep-in-letter-and-spirit-to-make-jammu-and-kashmir-hub-of-knowledge-says-president-kovind-890323.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Terror infrastructure intact in Pakistan; airdropping of weapons by drones new challenge: BSF||Asserting that the terror infrastructure in Pakistan is intact, a top Border Security Force (BSF) officer on Sunday said airdropping of weapons by drones in Jammu and Kashmir is a new challenge along with various anti-India elements coming together. Inspector General of Border Security Force (BSF), Jammu frontier, N S Jamwal said all security agencies are alive to the new security challenges and are maintaining tight vigil to scuttle the nefarious designs of the enemy forces. He was talking to reporters on the sidelines of a major recovery of 62 kg of heroin worth crores of rupees along with two pistols, three magazines and 100 rounds along the International Border (IB) in Arnia area of RS Pura sector here. “The terror infrastructure (in Pakistan) is intact as is evident from the increased activities like attempts to smuggle weapons and narcotics and firing incidents on the borders,” the officer said. He said the new threat has emerged with the use of drones to airdrop weapons. "We are alert and the work for counter-measures to deal with it is in progress,” Jamwal said, adding such type of activity was first reported in Punjab and subsequently extended to Jammu and Kashmir. He said the forces are alert to the threat and have successfully foiled two such attempts in the past few months. “The work on the counter-measures is in progress and we are utilising technology to deal with the threat.” On  June 20, the Border Security Force (BSF) shot down a Hexacopter drone with a payload of five-and-a-half kilograms including a sophisticated US-made M4 semi-automatic carbine and seven grenades at Rathua village in Kathua district. Three Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were arrested along with a cache of weapons airdropped near the LoC in Rajouri district last week. Jamwal said forces have already been sensitised about the challenge, resulting in successful operations after airdropping of the weapons. Asked about reports that various terrorist organisations are joining hands while Khalistani handlers are supervising the smuggling of drugs into India with the help of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence, he said, “all anti-India elements are coming together wherever they get an opportunity.” “Security agencies are aware of this fact and appropriate measures are being adopted to meet the challenge,” he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terror-infrastructure-intact-in-pakistan-airdropping-of-weapons-by-drones-new-challenge-bsf-890334.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh cop suspended for 'misbehaving' with BJP worker during vehicle checking||A police constable has been suspended for allegedly misbehaving with a BJP worker during checking of vehicles in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh district, officials said on Sunday. The policeman, deployed at the Masoodabad crossing for vehicle checking, had on Saturday asked for documents from Tanishk Mittal, a booth committee president in the city BJP committee, they said. According to Circle Officer Raghvender Singh, Mittal was found not found in possession of valid documents of the vehicle during checking. An argument broke out between Mittal and the policeman after which the BJP worker was taken to the Banna Devi police station, where a large crowd gathered and caused a rumpus. Senior Superintendent of Police Muniraj G said on Sunday that the police constable has been suspended and an enquiry ordered against an inspector on the charges of allegedly misbehaving with youth during checking of vehicles. City BJP MLA Sanjeev Raja, who came in support of Mittal, said the party worker explained to the policemen that he had forgotten to carry documents and would get them from his house, but they started "misbehaving" with him. They are empowered to check traffic law violations, but this does not give them the right to harass responsible citizens and the common public, Raja said. "If the SSP cannot discipline his force, our party knows how to tackle such errant policemen," the MLA had told reporters on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cop-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-bjp-worker-during-vehicle-checking-890336.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Taj Mahal to reopen for visitors after 6 months||After a staying shut for a record 188 days owing to the coronavirus pandemic, the monument of love - Taj Mahal - would throw open its door for visitors from Monday. According to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials, certain restrictions had been put in place for the tourists visiting the 16th-century ivory-white marble mausoleum on the bank of the Yamuna river in Agra and the Agra fort. The number of visitors at the Taj Mahal would be capped at 5,000, the officials said, adding that there would be no physical sale of tickets at the monument and the same could be booked only online. Face masks would be mandatory for all the visitors, who would also have to follow social distancing. The visitors would be allowed in only after thermal scanning. Only five visitors would be allowed inside the room that houses the tombs of Mughal emperor Shahjahan and his wife Mumtaz Mahal, at a time, the officials said. Group photography would not be allowed inside the Taj Mahal complex, they added. The visitors would also be asked not to touch the walls and railings of the building. Local traders and hoteliers have been demanding that the Taj Mahal and Agra Fort, the two main attractions for foreign tourists in Agra, be opened as their closure had adversely affected their business. While the other historical buildings were opened for the visitors on September 1, the Taj Mahal and Agra Fort had remained closed for the tourists. The Taj Mahal attracts around seven million visitors from across the country and abroad. The daily footfall before the Covid-19 scare was around 10,000 to 15,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-taj-mahal-to-reopen-for-visitors-after-6-months-890345.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Be cautious of both dengue and Covid-19, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday asked people of Delhi to be cautious of both dengue and coronavirus and spread awareness about measures to prevent the vector-borne disease. The Delhi government's dengue awareness campaign "10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute" entered its third week on Sunday. While inspecting his residence at 10 am, Kejriwal said collective efforts will help Delhi defeat dengue like last year. There was a significant decrease in the number of cases. "Right now, we are dealing with the coronavirus pandemic but it is also the season when dengue cases increase significantly. We have to be conscious about both dengue and coronavirus," he said. "Citizens must help in spreading awareness about measures to prevent dengue. They must pick up the phone and call 10 of their friends and relatives and advise them on the good practices such as draining stagnant water and replacing it," he said. "They must also advise their friends and relatives to take all measures to remain safe from coronavirus," he added. He later tweeted, "Delhi will defeat dengue again. On the third Sunday of the campaign at 10 am, I checked my house and replaced stagnant clean water. You must also check your house every Sunday and ask your 10 friends/relatives to do the same.” Last year, similar cooperation and collective measures from all RWAs, religious and cultural associations, ministers, MLAs, public leaders and influencers had played a huge role in reducing the impact of dengue in the city. Only 2,036 dengue cases and two deaths were recorded in the city last year as against 15,867 cases and 60 deaths in 2015. The first edition of the anti-dengue campaign “10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute” was launched in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/be-cautious-of-both-dengue-and-covid-19-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-890348.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||4 killed, 9 injured in Ayodhya road crash||Four people died on the spot and nine others were injured after the vehicle they were travelling in collided with a truck in the early hours of Sunday in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya district, police said. All the occupants of the passenger vehicle were fishermen who were on their way to the Saryu river banks, they said. Police said the vehicle was moving in the wrong direction when it collided head on with the speeding truck in Sohawal area. Police with the help of the locals took the injured to the district hospital, Ayodhya DSP R K Chaturvedi told PTI. He said the victims, residents of Bhadarsa area of the district, were going for fishing when the accident occurred. Four people have died and four are in serious condition have been referred to Lucknow, the DSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-killed-9-injured-in-ayodhya-road-crash-890352.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus pandemic, LAC tensions cast shadow on Ladakh tourism industry||The hotels are unoccupied, the taxies unhired and the markets bereft of their usual hustle bustle. Ladakh is missing its guests. As people step out of the Leh airport, Cherring Namgyal (32) waits for tourists he can ferry in his taxi to different exotic locations in Ladakh. But that's a futile wait. A few who are coming are either locals or people on official work. “The coronavirus has hit us hard and there are barely any tourists this season. The tourist season is coming to an end. To add to it, people are apprehensive about the ongoing tensions on the border,” Cherring Namgyal said. The tourism industry in India and across the globe has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic, but the impact is felt harder in Ladakh because the tourism window here is squeezed to just a few months -- mostly from April to mid-October – due to harsh winters. "There has hardly been any business this year. There are simply no tourists due to coronavirus pandemic and lockdown," Noordin, the vice-president of the Ladakh Taxi Operator Cooperative Ltd who goes by his first name, said. “Many taxi drivers are without work this year,” he said. “This year, some of the taxis have been hired by the Army.” The current tensions with China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) too has impacted tourism in a way, he added. "Many tourists want to go to the Nurba Valley and Pangong Tso. But routes to some places have been shut because of the ongoing tensions," he said. The Pangong Tso lake is one of the places in Ladakh where there is a built-up of troops on both sides. Ladakh has nearly 4,000 private taxis, Noordin said. He said Ladakh still has much more to offer beyond the regular tourist spots such Pangong Tso lake. Ghulam Mohiuddin, the owner of Hotel Grand Dragon, a starred hotel in Leh, said the room occupancy is very low this season. “The start of the tourist season coincided with the commencement of the pandemic. So there were no tourists this year and the room occupancy was also very low,” Mohiuddin said, adding the economy of Ladakh largely depends on tourism. “After the lockdown eased, there were tensions on the border. Actually, there is nothing to fear, but people are hesitant largely because of the pandemic and also due to the tension,” Mohiuddin added. The main market in the Leh city depicts the tale of how tourism has been hit this year. It wears a deserted look. Many shops did not open this year. "Many Kashmiri businessmen rented shops in the market. But due to the fear of coronavirus, they have not come back," said a garments shopkeeper. Riyaz Ahmed (70), the president of the main market in the Leh city, said there has hardly been any business this year. Ahmed, who has seen the region changing, said the tourism industry took an upswing after the '3 Idiots' movie starring Aamir Khan. “All wanted to go to Pangong Tso lake. There are many such beautiful places across the Ladakh region, but tourists have not come here at all,” Ahmed said. He said unlike the rest of the country, tourists visit Ladakh mostly from April to mid-October. After October the temperature drops to sub-zero levels. “Those who want to beat the heat come here in May-June when the mercury soars in the rest of the country. People keep coming till October end,” Ahmed said. But this year, the situation is different. “The lockdown began in March. When the restrictions were lifted, there was a seven-day mandatory guideline of self-isolation. People are still very scared (of travelling),” Ahmed said. Cherring Udgen (65), who sells dry fruits in the Ladakh market, concurred with Ahmed. “Coronavirus has disrupted everything,” he said, as he sanitised his hand with every transaction he had with his customers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-pandemic-lac-tensions-cast-shadow-on-ladakh-tourism-industry-890364.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Assembly panel issues fresh notice of appearance to Facebook India VP||A fresh notice has been issued by the Delhi Assembly's peace and harmony committee to Facebook India vice president and managing director Ajit Mohan to ensure his presence for deposing before the panel on September 23. Any defiance to the subsequent notice for appearance will be deemed to be an act of "breach of the constitutionally-guaranteed privileges" of the committee, warned a statement issued by the panel on Sunday. The final warning to the social media giant was issued by the committee chaired by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha as Mohan did not appear for his deposition during the last meeting of the panel. Chadha had said the non-appearance of the top Facebook official to depose before the committee was a contempt of the Delhi Legislative Assembly as well as the people of the national capital. He had insisted that Facebook must honour the proceedings taking place under Delhi's state legislature in the same manner as they did for a parliamentary standing committee. "Any rebuttal or disregard to this subsequent notice shall be deemed as a wilful act of breach of privilege and thus, shall entail various proceedings initiated against Facebook India," the statement said. The committee had taken cognizance of the accusations against Facebook for its alleged "complicity" in the northeast Delhi riots of February on the premise of the "incriminatory material" produced on record by the witnesses as well as their depositions in its previous meetings. "In the interest of natural justice, the committee had decided to call Ajit Mohan as an official representative of Facebook to dispel the allegations levelled against the platform and enable the aggrieved citizens to restore their faith on their platform and services offered by them," the statement said. The hearing by the Assembly panel started in the backdrop of a Wall Street Journal report that claimed that a senior Facebook India policy executive had intervened in internal communication to stop a permanent ban on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker from Telangana, after he allegedly shared communally-charged posts on the social media platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-assembly-panel-issues-fresh-notice-of-appearance-to-facebook-india-vp-890374.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||4 brick kiln workers killed, 30 injured in accident in Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur||At least four brick kiln workers were killed and 30 others injured when a speeding truck hit their DCM vehicle on the Gangoh-Titro road in Saharanpur district, police said on Sunday. The accident took place late on Saturday night, they said. Some of the injured are in critical condition and have been admitted to a nearby hospital. Police said the labourers were on their way to Punjab for work from Pipalhera village of Muzaffarnagar district. All the deceased belonged to Muzaffarnagar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-brick-kiln-workers-killed-30-injured-in-accident-in-uttar-pradeshs-saharanpur-890375.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Man sodomised at gunpoint in UP's Muzaffarnagar||A 35-year-old man was allegedly sexually assaulted at gunpoint by five men in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Sunday. The man, who had given a loan of Rs 1 lakh to one of the suspects, called him to demand the return of the amount. He was called on Saturday to a place at Pawti village in Charthawal area, from where the suspect and four others took him to a sugarcane field, according to a complaint. He was intoxicated and sodomised at gunpoint. The suspects also recorded a video of the incident and threatened to upload it, Superintendent of Police (Crime) Durgesh Kumar Singh said. A case has been registered under sections 147, 148, 323, 377 and 328 of the Indian Penal Code. A search is on for the suspects, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-sodomised-at-gunpoint-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-890381.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||World's longest high-altitude tunnel fully ready to open in Himachal Pradesh||The world's longest high-altitude tunnel on Manali-Leh national highway is fully ready to open in Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti district, a senior Border Road Organisation (BRO) official said on Sunday. The 9-km Atal tunnel built at an altitude of about 10,000 feet above sea level in Lahaul Spiti's Rohtang is likely to be formally inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in coming weeks, said BRO Chief Engineer, Brigadier K P Purshothaman. 'We are ready for its opening anytime after September 25. PM may open it in the last week of this month or first week of the next month,” Brig K P Purshothaman told PTI. No official confirmation has been received so far, we may get it within a couple of days, he said, adding it is also not yet clear if it would be a virtual opening due to the corona crisis or a physical one. The Atal Tunnel built at a cost of about Rs 3,500 crore is extremely significant from the defence point of view. This will not only shorten the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km but will also be beneficial for the residents of Lahaul-Spiti especially during the winter, a state official spokesperson said. Once thrown open, the tunnel will provide all-weather connectivity to remote border areas of Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti and Leh-Ladakh which otherwise remain cut-off from the rest of the country for about six months due to heavy snowfall during winters, he added. The BRO worked relentlessly to overcome major geological, terrain and weather challenges that included the most difficult stretch of the 587-metre Seri Nalah Fault zone. The breakthrough from both ends was achieved on October 15, 2017. Brig Purshothaman said the tunnel provides a telephone facility at every 150 metre of its stretch, a fire hydrant every 60 metre, emergency exits every 500 metre, turning cavern every 2.2 km, air quality monitors every one km, broadcasting system and automatic incident detection system with CCTV cameras every 250 metre. It is a 10.5-metre wide single tube bi-lane tunnel with a fireproof emergency egress tunnel built into the main tunnel itself. The historic decision to construct the strategic tunnel below the Rohtang pass was taken on June 3, 2000, when late Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister. The foundation stone for the access road to the south portal of the tunnel was laid on May 26, 2002. The Union government on December 25 last year named the strategic tunnel under the Rohtang Pass in Himachal Pradesh after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in a tribute to him on his 95th birth anniversary. Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur visited Rohtang on August 29 to review the progress on the Atal Tunnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/worlds-longest-high-altitude-tunnel-fully-ready-to-open-in-himachal-pradesh-890390.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||16.79 lakh people in Jammu & Kashmir given domicile certificates: Govt tells Lok Sabha||As many as 16.79 lakh people in Jammu and Kashmir have been given domicile certificates so far, the Lok Sabha was informed on Sunday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said as per the information provided by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, a total of 21,13,879 people have applied for domicile certificates. A total of 16,79,520 people were given domicile certificates, he said replying to a written question. Reddy said altogether 1,21,630 applications have been rejected so far for not annexing prescribed documents with the application. He said the Rule 5 of the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, mandates certain documents which are to be annexed with the application. Those applications which lack the prescribed documents are rejected, he added. The minister said as per the registration records maintained with the Provincial Rehabilitation Officer (PRO), Jammu and Kashmir, a total of 6,565 families were registered as displaced families from the Chhamb Niabat area during the Indo-Pak war of 1971. For the displaced families of 1971, agricultural land at the rate of 4 acres (irrigated) or 6 acres (un-irrigated) was allotted. A cash compensation of Rs 7,500 per family was also paid, he said. Reddy said due to the Indo-Pak war of 1947, a total of 31,619 families got displaced from the Pakistan Occupied Jammu and Kashmir (POJK), out of which 26,319 families got registered and settled in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. A total of 5,300 families, who were initially registered with the PRO, Jammu and Kashmir, subsequently moved to other parts of the country, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1679-lakh-people-in-jammu-kashmir-given-domicile-certificates-govt-tells-lok-sabha-890403.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||No restrictions on movement of individuals in Jammu & Kashmir: Govt||The Centre on Sunday said there are no restrictions on movement of any individual, including the members of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said in Lok Sabha that based on inputs received from the law enforcement agencies in view of the prevailing security situation in Jammu and Kashmir, the movement of some individuals, who are under security protection, got restricted to ensure their safety and security after the abrogation of Article 370 a year ago. "At present, there are no restrictions on movement but for the security advisories to maintain the law and order situation and no person is under House arrest in Jammu and Kashmir for reasons not related to public health guidelines," he said in written response to a question. Reddy said there are no restrictions on movement of any individual, including the protectees of the Peoples Democratic Party. "Considering the law and order and security situation of a particular area, it is imperative that prior intimation is given by the protected persons regarding their movements etc.," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-restrictions-on-movement-of-individuals-in-jammu-kashmir-govt-890415.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Fire breaks out a Bhilwara hospital, over 50 patients rescued||A fire broke out at a private hospital in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara on Sunday, forcing the evacuation of over 50 patients admitted there, according to police. Bhilwara’s Subhas Nagar SHO Pushpa Kasotia said the fire broke out due to short-circuit on the third floor of the hospital. Fifty-two patients admitted there were safely rescued, police said. “Panic gripped patients, their attendants and hospital staff. The rescue operation was immediately started and all of them were safely evacuated,” the SHO said. The patients were admitted to different wards of the hospital. Some of them were suspected of Covid-19 patients. “The patients were shifted to other hospitals. The flames were later doused,” the SHO said. DGP Bhupendra Singh appreciated prompt action by police officers in the matter. He said a major incident was averted due to alertness and prompt action by police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-fire-breaks-out-a-bhilwara-hospital-over-50-patients-rescued-890424.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||40-year-old man found hanging inside police lock-up in Delhi, kin allege custodial torture||A 40-year-old man arrested on charges of raping a minor girl was allegedly found hanging with a bedsheet inside the lock-up of Samaypur Badli police station following which a constable has been suspended, police said on Sunday. The deceased, Dharmendra, who was lodged in jail in a case of murder-cum-robbery was released on parole in March this year. But due to the successive lockdowns amid Covid-19, his parole period got extended. He is a resident of Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh but was presently staying at one of his relative's house in Kadipur area here, they said. Constable Yashveer, who was posted in sentry duty in Samaypur Badli police station where the man was found hanging, has been placed on suspension for the negligence, police said. The family members of the deceased alleged that police thrashed him inside the lock-up and also forced him to consume liquor. Police, however, refuted the allegations. According to police, the matter came to notice on Saturday, when a complaint was received against Dharmendra at Swaroop Nagar police station alleging him of entering a neighbour's house and raping a 14-year-old girl who was alone at her house while her mother, a labourer, was out for work. With the minor girl's father having passed away, her mother is the only earning member of their family. Based on her complaint, a case under Section 376 (punishment for rape), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered. The accused was arrested after he was found hiding at the house of his relative in Samaypur Badli area, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said. After being arrested in connection with the rape case, the accused was lodged in a lock-up of Samaypur Badli police station since there is no lock-up in Swaroop Nagar police station, he claimed. On Sunday, the accused hanged himself with a bedsheet tied around the bars of the lock-up gate. He was immediately rushed to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital but was declared brought dead by the doctors, the officer said. The Metropolitan Magistrate has been informed regarding the incident and proceedings are being carried out as per law. CCTV footage has also been preserved to facilitate the enquiry, the DCP said. The police said the accused was previously convicted in a case of sodomy registered at Alipur police station, wherein he entered the house of a 10 year-old boy and forcefully committed sodomy on him. He had also been convicted in a case of murder-cum-robbery registered at Khajuri Khas police station. The deceased man's lawyer Rakesh Kaushik said Dharmendra was in jail for the last five-six years in connection with a case of murder but was out on parole in the last five months. He said, "The man was brought to Swaroop Nagar police station by police personnel for questioning but around 11.30 pm, his relatives got a call asking them to visit Dharmendra at the police station. The family has alleged that the victim was tortured and beaten up inside the lock-up and was also made to consume alcohol." But on Sunday morning, his family was informed that he died by suicide inside the lock-up at Samaypur Badli police station, the lawyer said. Neeraj, one of Dharmendra's nephew, accused the police of thrashing his uncle inside the lock-up and also forcing him to consume liquor. He said, "My uncle had come out on parole a few months back. Around 6.30 pm, an ASI from Swaroop Nagar police station arrived at our home and enquired about my uncle. Later, we were informed by police that our uncle was in Swaroop Nagar police station. "Yet, when we reached there, we saw he was beaten up and even forced to consume liquor. But today morning, we were informed that he committed suicide in Samaypur Baldi police station."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/40-year-old-man-found-hanging-inside-police-lock-up-in-delhi-kin-allege-custodial-torture-890442.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Police use water cannon to stop Punjab Youth Congress workers from entering Haryana||The Haryana Police on Sunday used a water cannon to stop Punjab Youth Congress activists from entering the state through Ambala during a tractor rally against the Centre's farm-related Bills. The Youth Congress activists were going to Delhi through the Chandigarh-Delhi highway when they were stopped at the heavily barricaded entrance to Haryana by police. The situation at the Haryana-Punjab border turned tense as the protesters remained adamant to continue their march towards the national capital. Some activists tried to set a tractor on fire after the march was stopped. The Haryana Police denied permission to the Youth Congress workers, saying they would not allow the traffic movement on the national highway to be disrupted and also cited the coronavirus restrictions. After being denied permission to enter Haryana, the Youth Congress activists terminated their protest at the site. Vehicular traffic was disrupted on the highway. However, there was no blockade on the highway. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, who also joined the Youth Congress protesters, said all parties, except the Shiromani Akali Dal and the BJP, are standing with farmers for their cause. He slammed Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, accusing him of earlier supporting the "black laws". Indian Youth Congress president Srinivas B V said his party stands shoulder-to-shoulder with farmers and dubbed the reforms as “anti-farmer”. Punjab Youth Congress chief Barinder Singh Dhillon told media in Mohali’s Dera Bassi that this is the “beginning of the fight for the rights of farmers”. Black balloons were also released earlier in the day by the protesters as a mark of protest against the Bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-use-water-cannon-to-stop-punjab-youth-congress-workers-from-entering-haryana-890452.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Common people in Kashmir tired of terrorism: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said the common people in Kashmir are tired of terrorism and are becoming increasingly aspirational for themselves and their children. Delivering the first edition of 'Kunwar Viyogi Annual Memorial Lecture' of the University of Jammu on the 'Way Forward Post Abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A in Jammu and Kashmir', he said that terrorism is in its last phase in the region and terrorists on the run are hitting soft targets. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said things are changing for the better each day and hoped for a new beginning from the next season. He said that in the second term of the Modi government, the Prime Minister had called for giving Jammu and Kashmir similar kind of attention and focus as was being given to the Northeast. Singh said, after a very long gap, there is the almost equal distribution of central resources in Jammu and Kashmir divisions. Referring to his speech in Parliament during the abrogation of Article 370 provisions last year, when he had described it as a miscarriage of history and anomaly of the Constitution, Singh said that what was supposed to be a temporary feature remained permanent for 70 years, according to a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. He said it was the vision and strong will of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the historic wrong was undone. Singh said even the prophets of doom, who argued that the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A would lead to bloodshed and violence, were proved wrong. "On the other hand, the UT of J&K witnessed the most peaceful festive season, be it Holi, Muharram, Eid, Diwali, Republic Day or Independence Day,” the minister said. Singh, the Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur constituency, said that the people of the Union Territory are realising that in the name of special status and self-rule, it was in fact continuation of dynastic rule of three generations and autonomy was denied at the grassroots level by not holding panchayat elections. He said panchayat elections were held under the new dispensation of Lieutenant Governor in Jammu and Kashmir, thus empowering the local people, the statement said. Describing the Jammu and Kashmir Domicile Rules Notification as the dawn of a new era, Singh said that "history will vindicate us and prove that this course correction was in keeping with the principle of equality and the norms of a healthy democracy". He said that three generations of people in Jammu and Kashmir had been denied the right to live with justice and dignity. Singh said the West Pakistan refugees and displaced persons from Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir have been restored their legitimate rights and a discrimination of several decades has been undone. Recalling that two former prime ministers I K Gujral and Manmohan Singh came from Pakistan, the minister quipped they would not have become prime minister if they had chosen to settle in J&K because of the discriminatory law, the statement said. He also added that it is an irony that all India services officers, including IAS and IPS, who devoted 30 to 35 years of their life to serve in Jammu and Kashmir were, at the end of the day, after superannuation, asked to pack up, leave and look for a place elsewhere to settle. This was quite in contrast to the arrangement in several states and UTs where the all India service officers of state cadre are not only allowed to settle but are also provided plots of land for the same, Singh said. He said the same is the case for teachers, doctors and other professionals. Dwelling on the administrative outcomes, Singh said that following the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir special status on August 5, 2019, transparency, digitisation and accountability have increased. The Centre is assisting the Union Territory government of Jammu & Kashmir to establish grievance portal in each of its 20 districts, he added. He said that citizen centricity in governance has become a new norm. Similarly, several of the stalled developmental projects in the irrigation, power and other sectors have started seeing the light of the day after remaining in cold storage for more than 30-40 years, the minister added. Singh said by making Dogri an official language, another anomaly was done away with. He said that people are gradually coming out of slavish, slack and selfish mindset, and becoming part of the new milieu. In his address, University of Jammu Vice Chancellor Manoj Dhar praised the Union Minister for his passion for growth and development of Jammu and Kashmir and that of Dogri language. He informed that a full-fledged Department of Dogri is functional in the Jammu University and soon a "centre of excellence" will be established for promotion of Dogri language, culture and heritage, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/common-people-in-kashmir-tired-of-terrorism-union-minister-jitendra-singh-890461.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Ahead of monsoon session, U'khand assembly speaker tests Covid-19 positive||Uttarakhand Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday ahead of a one-day session of the House on September 23. Aggarwal in a tweet said he had undergone an RT-PCR test at his residence and his report came out positive. He advised people who had come in his contact to get themselves tested. The business advisory committee of the state assembly at a meeting chaired by Deputy Speaker Raghunath Singh decided to hold a one-day session of the state assembly here on September 23 and dispense with the Question Hour. However, issues of public interest will be raised in the House through adjournment motion, Singh, who chaired the meeting, said.  The assembly session was originally scheduled to be held for three days from September 23-25. The decision to curtail the duration of the assembly session was prompted by the circumstances created by the pandemic, he said. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh, who has also tested positive for Covid-19, was flown to a hospital in Gurugram on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-monsoon-session-ukhand-assembly-speaker-tests-covid-19-positive-890462.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||School principal shot dead, daughter critical in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur||A school principal was killed and her minor daughter critically injured after two unidentified bike-borne people fired at them in Gorakhpur’s Basharatpur on Sunday afternoon, police said. The deceased has been identified as Nivedita Major (40), a principal of a primary school. Her 16-year-old daughter Delsia is undergoing treatment at BRD Medical College here. They were attacked when they were going home on a scooter, police said. As they reached near the Ashiyana turn at Rajiv Nagar, two bike-borne people surrounded them and opened fire. The locals informed the police and they were rushed them to BRD Medical College where doctors declared Nivedita dead. Two probe teams have been constituted and police is searching for the assailants, Senior Superintendent of Police Joginder Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/school-principal-shot-dead-daughter-critical-in-uttar-pradeshs-gorakhpur-890472.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Virtual arrangements made for MLAs for one-day session||Arrangements have been made in all districts of Madhya Pradesh for legislators who want to attend Monday's one-day session of the Legislative Assembly virtually, Protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma said on Sunday. He said MLAs have been given an option to attend virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Arrangements have been made at the National Informatics Centre (NIC) offices in every district," Sharma told reporters. Earlier in the day, Sharma, Congress chief whip Govind Singh and officials of the Assembly secretariat took stock of the arrangements at the Vidhan Sabha premises. Sharma directed officials to ensure that Covid-19 protocol was followed. About 40 MLAs had tested positive for coronavirus, Sharma had said. The effective strength of the 230-member House has been reduced to 202 now due to deaths of three MLAs and resignation by 25 others earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-virtual-arrangements-made-for-mlas-for-one-day-session-890473.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||MP: Teen rapes 18-month-old girl in Damoh, held from Jabalpur||An 18-month old girl was raped in her home in Damoh in Madhya Pradesh allegedly by a teen relative who was later held from Jabalpur, some 110 kilometres away, a senior police official said on Sunday. Additional Superintendent of Police Shiv Kumar Singh said the incident happened on Saturday night when the infant's mother had gone out to buy vegetables and the father had not returned home from work. "When the infant's mother came home, she found the infant in a distressed condition and rushed her to hospital. The child is out of danger. The woman then approached police after which the 19-year-old accused was held under IPC and POCSO Act provisions," he added. Police said the accused was held from a village in Jabalpur's Katangi area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-teen-rapes-18-month-old-girl-in-damoh-held-from-jabalpur-890476.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Will take BJP, its allies to court over 'unconstitutional' farm laws: Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday said his government would take the BJP and its allies, including the Akalis, to court over the new “unconstitutional, undemocratic and anti-farmer” laws of the central government. He said he would fight till his last breath to protect the farmers’ interests in the state. “We will move the court and fight the draconian legislations as soon as they get the presidential nod and become the law of the land,” he said. Singh expressed shock at the way the BJP-led Union government “brute-forced” the agriculture Bills through the Rajya Sabha. The CM questioned the rationale behind putting the “controversial and vicious” Bills, which, he said, was a “blatant encroachment” of the state's powers and control of the agriculture sector, to voice vote, despite strong reservations by the Opposition and inadequate numbers in the House. Why did the House not go for division of votes on this critical issue, which has even divided the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), he asked. He said his government will not allow the central government, of which the SAD “shamelessly” continues to be a part, to “trample” the rights and interests of farmers through these “cruel” legislations designed to “destroy” the farming community, and Punjab state for which agriculture is its lifeline. “We stand with the farmers and will do whatever it takes to protect their interests,” he said in a statement here. “They (BJP and its allies) clearly don't care for what these laws will do to the farmers,” he said, flaying the BJP-led government for “selling” farmers’ interests to big corporates. Amid an uproar by the opposition, Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. They were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday. A third bill is yet to be passed in Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-take-bjp-its-allies-to-court-over-unconstitutional-farm-laws-amarinder-singh-890477.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Mathura: BJP MLA, four members of family test positive for coronavirus||BJP’s Baldev MLA Pooran Prakash and four members of his family were found infected with coronavirus during a random testing, an official said here on Sunday. Coronavirus rapid response team in-charge Dr Bhudev Singh said the MLA, his wife Pushpa Prakash and three other members of their family tested positive for coronavirus. They have been kept in home isolation under the supervision of doctors, he said, adding that they were found infected with the infection during a random testing. “I had participated in a cleanliness drive in my constituency for over four hours on the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” the MLA said prior to going for home isolation. The MLA said he had taken all precautions during the drive. Meanwhile, District information Officer Vinod Kumar Sharma said two people died while 65 more tested positive for coronavirus in the district, taking the fatality count to 73 and infection numbers to 3,591. He said 77 people recovered from coronavirus in the district since Saturday evening. Till now, 2,629 people have recovered from the infection in the district, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mathura-bjp-mla-four-members-of-family-test-positive-for-coronavirus-890493.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi records less than 4,000 daily Covid-19 cases after 5 days; total count past 2.46 lakh||The national capital’s Covid-19 case count went past 2.46 lakh on Sunday with 3,812 more people contracting the viral disease, while 37 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,982, officials said. Before this, the city recorded over 4,000 cases for five consecutive days. The capital recorded 4,071 cases on Saturday, 4,127 on Friday, 4,432 on Thursday, 4,473 on Wednesday and 4,263 on Tuesday. Of the total 2,46,711 cases reported in Delhi so far, 2,09,632 have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out. As many as 52,405 tests were conducted on Saturday to detect Covid-19 infection, of which 11,322 were RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 41,083 rapid antigen tests. Authorities conducted 61,973 tests on Friday, 61,037 on Thursday, 60,014 on Wednesday, 62,593 on Tuesday and a record 62,669 tests on Monday. The health authorities have conducted around 5.92 lakh tests in the last 10 days -- an average of more than 59,000 tests a day. The number of total tests conducted was 19,62,120 on September 10. It rose to 25,55,007 on Sunday. The case positivity rate during the last 24 hours was 7.27 per cent while the cumulative positivity rate was 9.66 per cent. The number of active cases increased by over 190 percent in the city since mid-August. There were 11,068 active Covid-19 cases on August 18 which increased to 32,097 on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-less-than-4000-daily-covid-19-cases-after-5-days-total-count-past-246-lakh-890507.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Stop students from dropping out: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel to officials||Amid reports of students dropping out of private schools during the coronavirus pandemic, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel asked collectors and district education officers to get information on the matter and implement remedial measures, an official said on Sunday. The state education department has written letters to collectors and DEOs directing them to meet parents and encourage them to get their wards admitted in government schools, the state public relations department official said. The letter said there were reports in media about children dropping out of private schools amid the outbreak due to a variety of reasons. The information to be collected must include names of students, addresses, contact details of parents etc, he said. The state government has laid down that schools must not insist on transfer certificates or mark-sheets while giving admission to such students between Class I and Class X, the official informed. While giving admission in Class XI, their Class X marks must be verified, the letter has stated. The process must be completed in 15 days and a report must be submitted to the state's Directorate of Public Instruction, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stop-students-from-dropping-out-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-to-officials-890509.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Main accused in al-Qaeda terror plot had travelled to many places in India: NIA||Murshid Hasan, the main accused in the al-Qaeda terror plot busted by the National Investigation Agency, had travelled to several places in South and East India and was inspired by the violent ideology of the globally proscribed terrorist outfit, NIA told a court here. Foiling an attempt by the internationally banned terror group to set up a base in India, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had arrested nine suspected terrorists, including three from Kwera; an after conducting raids in the intervening night of September 18 and 19 at Ernakulam in Kerala and Murshidabad in West Bengal. While Murshid Hasan, Mosaraf Hoseen and Yakub Biswas were arrested from various places in Ernakulam district, the six others were nabbed from Murshidabad. The agency has informed a NIA special court here that reliable inputs were received that some suspects were involved in the larger criminal conspiracy for raising and collecting funds for committing terrorist acts and furthering their jihadi ideology in order to recruit and radicalise youths. Besides the arrested accused, some unknown persons, who are also members of the group, were also involved in the criminal conspiracy for committing terror acts, NIA said in its application on Saturday, seeking their transit remand to produce them before the Court of Special Judge for NIA cases at Patiala House Court, New Delhi, which is the court of competent jurisdiction for the case. The Court granted NIA custody of the accused from 5 pm on Saturday till 11 am on September 22 to produce them before the Court of Special judge for NIA cases on or before the date of expiry of the custody with medical certificate. In its application, NIA said the group is suspected to be in possession of weapons and were actively raising and collecting funds for the purpose of procurement of arms and ammunition. It said all the members appeared to be highly radicalised and motivated to commit terrorist activities to further their jihadi ideology and activities. Several incriminating chats, photos and videos showed that they have hatched a conspiracy for anti-national activities, the agency said. "The group is headed by first accused, who is a Bengali speaking individual and has travelled to several places in South and East India. He is inspired by the violent ideology of globally proscribed terrorist outfit, al-Qaeda", the agency said in the application. The accused were taken into custody along with some incriminating documents and materials, the NIA said. A closely-monitored operation of the NIA and other central agencies began on September 11 when the investigating agency registered a case to probe the al-Qaeda module. Incriminating materials, including digital devices, documents, jihadi literature, sharp weapons, country-made firearms, a locally-fabricated body armour, articles and literature for making home-made explosive devices, were seized from the possession of the arrested terrorists, NIA officials had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/main-accused-in-al-qaeda-terror-plot-had-travelled-to-many-places-in-india-nia-890515.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Eastern Ladakh: Army strengthens dominance in over 20 strategic heights; Rafales set to scan air space||The armies of India and China are set to hold the sixth round of Corps Commander-level talks in the next couple of days to explore ways to defuse tension in eastern Ladakh even as India further bolstered its dominance in over 20 mountain heights around the friction points near the Pangong lake, government sources said on Sunday. They also said that the IAF is set to use the newly-inducted Rafale jets to carry out sorties in Ladakh as part of the overall boosting of combat readiness in view of “provocative actions” by Chinese troops including the three incidents of shots being fired in the air in the last three weeks. On the sixth round of Corps Commander meeting, the sources said a joint secretary-level officer from the Ministry of External Affairs is expected to be part of the Indian delegation as India is looking for some concrete outcome from the dialogue. "It is set to take place in the next two days. There is a possibility that it may take place tomorrow (Monday) itself," said a source. The main focus of the meeting is expected to be on the implementation of a five-point agreement reached between the two countries. Both sides reached the agreement to resolve the border row at a meeting between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) meet in Moscow on September 10. The agreement included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The sources said the Indian Army also strengthened its dominance in over 20 strategic mountain heights around the northern and southern banks of Pangong lake as well as in the extended general area of Chushul in the last few days even as freezing conditions are gripping the area, the sources said. The deployment of French-made Rafale jets in Ladakh came less than 10 days after they were formally inducted into the IAF. At a ceremony in Ambala on September 10 where five Rafale jets were inducted into the IAF, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the induction of the fleet was crucial considering the atmosphere being created along the frontier and that it is a "big and stern" message to those eyeing India's sovereignty. Speaking on the occasion, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria had said induction of Rafale jets could not have happened at a more opportune time considering the security scenario. The Rafale fleet is stationed in Ambala air force station. The multirole Rafale jets, built by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are known for air-superiority and precision strikes. "The Rafale jets are flying around Ladakh," said a source without elaborating. The IAF has deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The IAF is also carrying out night time combat air patrols in the eastern Ladakh region. The IAF has also deployed Apache attack choppers as well as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations in eastern Ladakh. The sources said the Army has made elaborate arrangements to maintain the current level of troops and weapons in all forward areas in eastern Ladakh and other sensitive high-altitude sectors in the harsh winter months when the temperature drops up to minus 25 degrees Celsius. They said the situation remained tense in both southern and northern banks of the Pangong lake areas as well as in other friction points. There have been at least three attempts by the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) to "intimidate" Indian troops along the northern and southern bank of Pangong lake area in the last three weeks where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the LAC in 45 years. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong Lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. On September 7, Chinese troops unsuccessfully attempted to close in on the Indian position and even fired shots in the air in the Mukhpari area of Rezang-La ridgeline on the southern bank of Pangong lake. As Jaishankar and Wang were to hold talks in Moscow, the Chinese military resorted to firing a barrage of "warning shots" into the air on the North Bank of Pangong lake to "intimidate" the Indian troops, Army sources had said. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has been occupying the areas between Finger 4 and Finger 8. The mountain spurs in the area are called Fingers. China has strongly objected to India's move. However, India has maintained that the heights are on its side of the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eastern-ladakh-army-strengthens-dominance-in-over-20-strategic-heights-rafales-set-to-scan-air-space-890517.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Tamil Nadu CM should 'apologise; to farmers for support to farm bills, says Stalin||DMK president M K Stalin on Sunday demanded that Chief Minister K Palaniswami "apologise" to farmers for supporting the farm bills of the BJP led government at the Centre, alleging these only protected corporates. On Palaniswami's argument that farmers would be protected from price fall, he said provisions like third party certification for quality of farm produce were aimed at "protecting corporate companies" and not to safeguard the interests of farmers. The bills that have been passed would not only control inter-state trade, but also those within the states, he alleged, seeking to rebut the Chief Minister's statement that neither farmers markets nor regulated markets shall see any adverse effects. "These laws are detrimental to farmers' market and regulated markets as well," Stalin claimed in a statement. Referring to the Chief Minister's statement that Punjab opposed the initiative due to revenue loss and the scenario there does not match with that of Tamil Nadu, the DMK chief asked why Palaniswami did not argue on the revenue aspect for the state. Stalin claimed "history will not forgive" Palaniswami for taking pride in saying he was a farmer and yet supporting the "anti-farmer" and "pro-corporate" farm bills of the BJP-led Centre. AIADMK's Rajya Sabha MP S R Balasubramoniyan opposed the Bills and this was "comical" after the party's support to it, he said. "The only option open to the Chief Minister is to apologise to the farmers, befitting the stature of his office," he said. On Saturday, Chief Minister Palaniswami asserted that the bills would benefit farmers from unexpected price fall and accused the DMK of opposing them for political reasons. Today, the Rajya Sabha passed the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. A third bill, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits, is to be moved separately in the upper house. All three bills have already been passed by the Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tamil-nadu-cm-should-apologise-to-farmers-for-support-to-farm-bills-says-stalin-890533.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Senior Himachal Pradesh doctor dies of Covid-19 in Punjab, CM Thakur expresses grief||A 60-year-old senior Himachal Pradesh doctor died due to novel coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday, a health official said. Dr Pradeep Bansal breathed his last at a private hospital in Mohali where he had been shifted four days ago on his daughter's request, Shimla Chief Medical Officer Surekha Chopra said. Dr Bansal was a professor and head of department of community medicine at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College, Nerchowk in Mandi district. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed grief over his death. The CMO said he had been referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla with history of fever dyspnoea, inability to maintain saturation and Covid inconclusive. Dr Bansal was admitted to IGMC on September 8 and reported Covid positive by TrueNAT and RT-PCR tests, she added. Subsequently, he was put on ventilatory support with remdesivir the following day. The CMO said he had been shifted to the private hospital in Mohali on September 17 at his daughter's request where he passed away on Sunday. Expressing grief over his death, CM Thakur in his condolence message said that HP has lost a corona warrior. He prayed to the Almighty to give peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family members to bear this irreparable loss, an official spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-himachal-pradesh-doctor-dies-of-covid-19-in-punjab-cm-thakur-expresses-grief-890543.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Students of 9 to 12 classes allowed to visit schools with written consent from parents in Punjab||The Punjab government on Sunday allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to visit their schools in areas outside containment zones on voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers amid coronavirus pandemic outbreak. The decision was taken in compliance with Unlock-4 guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), a government release said here. However, this permission would be subject to written consent of parents/guardians from September 21 as per Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on September 8, it said. The state home department has issued detailed instructions to also permit skill or entrepreneurship training in National Skill Training Institutes, Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), short term training centres registered with the National Skill Development Corporation or State Skill Development Missions or other ministries of the Government of India or the state governments, the release said. Likewise, activities of National Institute for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development (NIESBUD), Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) and their training providers have also been allowed from September 21 subject to strict adherence of the said SOPs, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-of-9-to-12-classes-allowed-to-visit-schools-with-written-consent-from-parents-in-punjab-890544.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||India-China tension: Sixth Corps Commanders to meet on Monday at Moldo on the LAC||The sixth meeting between senior military leaders from India and China will take place at the Chushul-Moldo area of eastern Ladakh on Monday to make yet another attempt to lower the level of tension at the 3,488 km Line of Actual Control, the disputed boundary between the two neighbours, which is on the boil since the last five months. In addition to Lt Gen Harinder Singh, Commanding-in-Chief of Leh-based 14 Corps who led the Indian side in the previous five rounds of the dialogue, Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs and a senior officer from the Army Headquarters would be present at the meeting that would be held at Moldo Hut on the Chinese side of the LAC, sources said. The Indian side would press for a “first-in, first-out” strategy suggesting since the Chinese People’s Liberation Army was the aggressor it would disengage and move out first before any reciprocal action from the Indian side. The PLA delegation would be headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military Region. It’s not known whether there would be any other senior officials from the Chinese side. The fifth round of discussions took place on August 2, but like the previous four, it failed to break the deadlock. The sixth meeting, however, would be different from the previous ones because Indian Army currently occupies dominating heights on the southern banks of the Pangong Tso and Chushul sector, and for the first time can negotiate from a point of strength. Also, this is the first senior-level military commanders meeting after 45 years of silence on the LAC was shattered by firings. The two armies blamed each other for the firing incidents that happened last month. Subsequent to the firing incident, the Defence and Foreign Ministers of India and China met in Moscow separately in order to find out a solution to end the stand-off that began in May. The two Foreign Ministers presented a five-point formula that included the resumption of the dialogue between senior military commanders. The Indian Army and the PLA have been locked in a tense stand-off in multiple areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May. A previous effort to ease off the tension didn't work out and led to a violent clash in the Galwan valley in June in which 20 Indian soldiers and a sizable number of PLA troops were killed in a brutal hand to hand combat. In the five rounds of corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. In the Parliament, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made it clear that India was in no mood to give up on its "traditional; and well-defined" patrolling points that were blocked by the PLA troops. The sources said India would not lower its guard and maintain the current state of very high-level combat readiness in eastern Ladakh till there were visible changes in the ground situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-tension-sixth-corps-commanders-to-meet-on-monday-at-moldo-on-the-lac-890545.html
20-09-2020||North and Central||Partial reopening of schools in Jammu region from September 21, attendance to be voluntary||All government-run and private schools across Jammu region will reopen partially for higher classes on Monday after six months of closure due to the coronavirus pandemic, a senior government official said, assuring that all necessary arrangements are in place for the safety of students. However, she said the attendance of the students would be voluntary and based on the consent of their parents. “We are partially reopening the schools outside containment zones for the students of 9th to 12th classes from tomorrow (Monday) with terms and conditions in accordance with the guidelines of the government,” Director School Education, Jammu zone, Anuradha Gupta told PTI. She said only 50 per cent of teachers would attend their duties as per the prepared roster, while the students of Classes 9 to 12 can attend their classes only after a written consent from their parents or guardian. “If the parents feel confident over the arrangements which have been put in place keeping in mind the threat of coronavirus infection, they can send their children otherwise there is no compulsion for the students to attend their school,” she said. Gupta said the department has worked out arrangements with the school management which have undertaken fumigation and sanitisation and will also ensure availability of adequate number of hand sanitisers, face masks and will follow the guidelines issued by the health department besides ensuring social distancing. The school management would also ensure medical help if needed, she said. The department is also coordinating with the district administration and “we are hopeful that with caution and care, we will be able to overcome all issues”, she added. “Keeping in view the peculiar circumstances (due to Covid-19), we have introduced online and offline methods of education besides community classes in non-containment zones. The blending of offline and online mechanisms is meant to provide options to the students and safeguard their future,” Gupta said. Meanwhile, National Conference Provincial President Devender Singh Rana questioned the rationale behind opening of schools for Classes 9 to 12 at a time when panic-stricken people are wondering how to brave the alarming spike in Covid-19. “The administration is rushing to open the schools from tomorrow, though giving options to parents whether to send their wards to attend the classes or not. This unwise decision can prove to be counter productive," Rana said in a statement. He sought rescinding of the order for the opening of schools till the anvil of vaccine to fight the virus, saying this is all the more important as the health structure has totally collapsed in Jammu. “The medical facilities are inadequate and children, the future of the nation, cannot be exposed to risk. Keeping this in view, the administration must revisit the decision and take appropriate measures to instil confidence among the people,” he said. The NC leader said the option of submitting indemnity bonds by the parents, intending to send their children to schools, in itself speaks that the government is not very sure on its decision. “In the larger interest of the student community, the decision about the opening of schools should be deferred and rolled back till the situation normalises,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/partial-reopening-of-schools-in-jammu-region-from-september-21-attendance-to-be-voluntary-890555.html
20-09-2020||Opinion||The transformative power of rural tourism||Are domestic Indian tourists interested in staying in people’s homes in offbeat locations and exploring local culture? A decade ago, it didn’t seem like they did. At the time, I was doing some promotional work for Mahindra Homestays, a brand set up by Mahindra Holidays and Resorts in 2008 to organise and market India’s blossoming homestays. The target clientele was deemed to be foreigners looking for that fabled “real India” experience. Unfortunately, the brand was discontinued in 2013 -- in my opinion, prematurely -- as the company chose to focus on its flagship business. The subsequent, and significant, increase in the popularity of homestay accommodations indicates how domestic tourism has evolved. Yet, many Indians still prefer to vacation abroad, attracted by better value for money and relief from hassles such as poor infrastructure. With the pandemic scuppering that possibility for a while, though, travel within India is getting more attention. And, the government has big plans for it -- including the development of rural and agro-tourism. More than ever, this is needed right now. Confined to our homes, we’ve grown inactive, disturbed, and disconnected from nature and other people. “Why did you want to come here?”, a curious villager asked me while I was sitting on a charpoy in a remote settlement in Gujarat’s Kutch region. Behind me was a traditional mud bhunga, where a family lived. Underneath my feet, the soil was parched. Around me, the landscape was barren and inhospitable. Nearby, a couple of women skillfully embroidered fabric together. The question was understandable, given that I had just explored the village and it wasn’t on the tourist trail. What struck me was the quietness and simplicity of the villagers’ existence. That’s why I wanted to go there, to feel it. Part of me really envied it. On another trip to Gujarat, while staying at Woods at Sasan resort, I was taken to visit a Maldhari tribal settlement inside Gir National Park. It was inhabited by the Rabari community, who lived off the land. They refused to leave the forest, despite primitive conditions and no electricity. There were lessons to be learned there, too. My guide explained that the Rabaris didn’t want anyone to give them money. They found such a gesture offensive because it indicated others pitied them or thought they were superior to them. The Rabaris were happy and proud of their simple lifestyle. Initially polite but standoffish, the women warmed to me when they could see I was genuinely interested in them. The conversation about their attire and daily routine flowed. This prompted one of the hotel staff, who was from another Rabari village, to spontaneously invite me home to dress up in his wife’s outfits and milk the buffalo. Fun, laughter and bonding ensued. It was everything that makes India special to me. When we can travel again, how refreshing it would be to ditch the television, the demand for room service, and the desire to be entertained on a holiday. How meaningful it would be to connect with a less materialistic and less destructive way of living, and to allow the restorative power of nature to heal us. The pandemic has certainly forced one of the main issues in India -- cleanliness and hygiene -- to be addressed. Hopefully, it has also opened people up to introspection and change, so that they can truly appreciate what rural tourism has to offer. The challenge will be to keep rural tourism authentic, and beneficial to the communities involved. For that, tourists must make it less about themselves and more about the locals and the environment. This means dropping the pursuit of the perfect Instagram poses, and instead just “being”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-transformative-power-of-rural-tourism-890124.html
20-09-2020||Opinion||Time to revisit Article 22||Part III of the Constitution of India is rightly hailed as one of the most progressive Bill of Rights in the world. It guarantees the right to life and liberty, mandates equality of opportunity, protects minority rights and freedoms of citizens, and abolished untouchability and forced labour. Yet, Article 22 in Part III allows the government to detain anyone without trial for at least three months and lets Parliament decide what should be the maximum time for which a person can be thus detained. This seems strange at first sight. After all, many in the Constituent Assembly had undergone exactly such “preventive detention” and had campaigned against laws authorising such detention without trial -- including the infamous Rowlatt Act. There was an apt phrase used to describe such laws -- “na vakeel, na daleel, na appeal” (no lawyer, no argument, no appeal). Why then did the Constitution allow for such laws to be passed and made in independent India? When the draft articles on preventive detention were introduced in the Constituent Assembly, there was much concern among the members, articulated best perhaps by Purnima Banerji who said: “Sir, the article…is a very serious one as it takes away some of the liberties granted by Article 15 as fundamental rights and provides for the arrest of persons and even detention of persons without trial…any form of detention of persons without trial is obnoxious to the whole idea of democracy and to our whole way of thinking.” The objections ranged from those, like Banerji, who found the very idea of permitting preventive detention in a democracy intolerable, to those who felt that the safeguards against misuse of preventive detention needed to be strengthened. Many moved their own amendments to the provision. Babasaheb Ambedkar defended the preventive detention provision. “I think it has to be recognised that in the present circumstances…, it may be necessary for the Executive to detain a person who is tampering either with public order as mentioned in the Concurrent List or with the Defence Services of the country. In such a case, I do not think that the exigency of the liberty of the individual should be placed above the interests of the State...” he said. What were the “present circumstances” that Ambedkar was alluding to? Partition, of course. More specifically, the horrific bloodletting on either side of the newly-drawn border, largely on religious lines. Large numbers of displaced people still lived in insecurity and fear just outside where the Constituent Assembly debates were taking place. The threat of fresh outbreaks of communal violence was ever-present. Admitting the need for such a preventive law to preserve public order, Ambedkar relied upon the safeguards to argue that even for an individual under preventive detention, enough procedures had been put in place to prevent prolonged, unjust detention. That didn’t satisfy all members though. The exchanges between Ambedkar and the members got pretty heated, as this short exchange between Mahavir Tyagi and Ambedkar shows. Said Tyagi: “Sir, Dr Ambedkar will please pardon me when I express my fond wish that he and the other members of the Drafting Committee had had the experience of detention in jails before they became members of the Drafting Committee.” To which Ambedkar replied: “I shall try hereafter to acquire that experience.” In closing the six-hour debate on this provision, however, Ambedkar expressed the hope that: “If all of us follow purely constitutional methods to achieve our objectives, I think the situation would be different and probably the necessity of having preventive detention might not be there at all.” But, of course, his hope was dashed almost as soon as the Constitution came into force. From the very first constitutional case featuring AK Gopalan, a Communist leader detained without trial, to Dr Kafeel Khan, who was recently released from prison on the Allahabad High Court’s orders, the misuse of preventive detention laws against political opponents has a long and unfortunate history in independent India. The issue of having preventive detention laws was contentious right from the days of the Constituent Assembly and perhaps needs to be re-examined in the light of everything that has happened since.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/time-to-revisit-article-22-890125.html
20-09-2020||Opinion||The ‘two rupees’ minister||Years ago, when I had just transited from active journalism to a corporate role, I was invited to dinner with a Karnataka minister at a prominent club in Bengaluru, ostensibly to discuss a project. But as the evening progressed, it started to become obvious that dinner, or my company’s project, was the last thing on his mind. As we were digging into our food, the minister said rather matter-of-factly, “I need a small favour from you. Can you give me two rupees?” Two rupees? Being new to the corporate world, I was a little bewildered, only to be educated by the minister that in politico-business parlance, ‘two rupees’ meant Rs 2 crore! I almost fell off my chair. “I have suffered losses in business and am in huge debt. Please convince your management to give me the money,” he said, promising to clear all hurdles in the way of the project my company was undertaking in the state. My gentle admonition that the media company which I represented also owned a prominent news channel and that making such outlandish demands could land him in trouble had no impact. Though steeped in debt, he was quite reckless in his spending and often doled out 500-rupee notes as tips to police constables, doormen, drivers, security guards and hangers-on. By now, lenders had grown restive and were hounding the minister. So much so that there were times when he had to be locked up in his chambers in Vidhana Soudha to save him from their wrath. Given this situation, the minister became even more persistent and made at least 50 calls to me daily from different numbers demanding his ‘two rupees’. Though I would rebuke him each time, it would neither deter nor embarrass him. Ultimately, we did not pay the bribe and I took the easy way out to avoid his calls — I changed my phone number. On another occasion, enthused by the right noises that Karnataka was making about creating an investor-friendly climate, one of our group CEOs landed in Bengaluru, armed with several proposals. The minister concerned patiently sat through the presentations as the CEO explained how the projects would help the state augment revenue and employment. He expected the government to roll out the red carpet, but what the minister said left him speechless, “What is there in it for me?” That was the first and the last meeting. However, not all experiences are unpleasant. Bengaluru was a late entrant to the mall culture due to a provision in the Karnataka Cinematography Act that movie theatres cannot be set up on higher floors. A major policy change was required and that usually requires that the minster be ‘taken care of’. One of our companies was in the multiplex cinema business and I had approached the then Home Minister Mallikarjun Kharge with the problem and had sought a meeting for our CEO. On the appointed day, I excused myself from the meeting after the usual introductions, as I do not involve myself in ‘deals.’ To my surprise, the CEO walked out in less than a minute, and I wondered what had gone wrong. My apprehension was unfounded. “You have saved us crores of rupees,” he beamed. Apparently, in the interim, Kharge had visited other cities to study the mall concept and was convinced that our demand was genuine. He called for the file and approved the amendment to the rules right there, with absolutely no demands. The entire process took no more than five minutes. That is how multiplexes came to Bengaluru. During my career, I have met politicians of all hues, but none like the ‘two rupees’ minister. Politics is a mixed bag of the good, the bad and the ugly, but some are in a class of their own.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-two-rupees-minister-890126.html
20-09-2020||Opinion||Less is more: You know, the pre-smartphone generation was smarter||My grandmother Padmini turned 99 last week. One year closer to the record of spending a century on the planet – the same planet where many people half or even quarter her age are already finding it a drudgery to be. On the day of her birthday, all of us cousins, aunts, grand-uncles and nieces broke our self-imposed Covid-19 house arrest and landed at our uncle’s; masks on our mouths, wishes on our mind. We stood surrounding her bed, to which she is mostly confined for the past two years of what was earlier an extremely active and independent life. The clan’s youngest, her five-year-old great-grandson, put a dunce cap on her and on himself. His mother placed a home-baked cake before her, and the mass Happy Birthday opera began for Padmini Paati. An uncle did a live-video to an uncle abroad. That uncle in the video wanted to wish his mom, but she couldn’t hear. Nobody could hear anybody. Through the next 15 minutes, I watched as someone made paati’s soft, wrinkled hands hold a knife, cut through the eggless crust, fed her a piece, someone fed her one more, all the great-granddaughters pouted for a selfie around her, and she quietly smiled through it all. An aunt remarked, “How sweet of her to not protest. Guys, if I get to be her age, don’t put me through this torture!” Paati, while visiting my place a decade ago in her active days, had told me how in her childhood, no one among her nine siblings remembered birthdays or even if they did, didn’t think much about the day. “Amma would make some sweet, and we would visit the temple, that’s all.” She who didn’t miss ‘celebrating’ all those 85-90 years, bore this cake-and-candle cacophony, too, with the same grace. There is something to be learnt from the generation that did not make a big deal of stuff. People who knew to be content without anything; and happy when life gave them something. Paalige bandidhu Panchamrutha: What comes to you as your share, treat it like nectar. Or was it that the people of a poor country, where ‘less’ was the default setting, were just resigned to it? Less salary, less luxury, it was up to you to nevertheless live life happily. As more wealth came, came along the dil that maange more. While aspiration isn’t a bad thing, has it led to us becoming happier? Look no further for the answer to that question than our TV channels that for the past 100 days have chucked the good old values of decency and civility, under the garb of probing a popular actor’s death, by suicide or by alleged murder. But more than helping crack the case, the spinoffs and sub-plots of that coverage have thrown at us the picture of an India that seems dysfunctional, full of deceit, disquiet, distrust. Those who have been around for a few decades know that life isn’t as bad as the Indian media can make you believe it is, but no one is telling that to the young. In a social media post, a friend said, “I am turning 30 this week and bro, the world I see seems a scary place to grow older in.” Why does youth feel like a burden to some? How does age sit lightly on some others? Recently, when we had a festival and I could not invite anyone over, I decided that I would instead go and drop off the sweets at the homes of people who matter much to me. Among those was the father of a Mumbai friend who lives in a huge house in Bengaluru all by himself. I entered his gate and walked around in his garden full of fruit trees and vegetable shrubs that he himself tends to. Uncle V handed over a fresh bunch of moringa leaves, telling me in detail how to cook it. “Wow, I thought you didn’t know cooking, you have now become a chef or what!” I teased him. “You see, this (Covid-19) phase, the maid had to stop coming. So, I started seeing YouTube videos and cooking. Simple,” said Uncle V, who turned 84 this year. “Anyway, I am glad you came now at 2, my Yoga class starts at 3 pm.” “Great. Who is your teacher?” I asked. “What do you mean? I am the one. What Yoga I learnt before, I now teach all my fellow senior citizens, online.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/less-is-more-you-know-the-pre-smartphone-generation-was-smarter-890127.html
20-09-2020||Opinion||Toyota or pakora? Which economy will Modi govt choose?||By Andy Mukherjee Narendra Modi says, “Make in India.” Toyota Motor Corp. says, stop treating cars as though they were drugs or alcohol. The Japanese carmaker has a point about the tax structure being unviable for the industry, and Shekar Viswanathan, vice chairman of the India unit, made it forcefully in an interview to Anurag Kotoky of Bloomberg News. However, instead of trying to address the specific concern about the high sin levies on cars, the government turned it into a public relations issue. The minister for heavy industries, who also looks after information and broadcasting, took to Twitter to announce that “the news that Toyota... will stop investing in India is incorrect.” The additional luxury-tax burden — 1% to 22% depending on the size of the vehicle and engine capacity — is what jacks up the overall levy in the world’s fourth-biggest car market to as much as 50% on some sports utility vehicles. Six years of headline management should have been enough for Prime Minister Modi’s government. From justifying its bizarre overnight ban on most banknotes in 2016 to defending suspiciously cheerful gross domestic product data and suppressing a not-so-rosy household consumption survey, Team Modi has left no stone unturned when it comes to spinning a narrative in which it’s doing everything right. The longer this pretense continues, the higher the risk of India getting stuck in a post-pandemic sub-5% growth rut. That isn’t the whole story. Import duties on steel and electronic components may go up, ostensibly to promote Modi’s Make in India campaign, pushing prices for cars still higher. The market will then be even smaller. So what can be done? Auto analyst Govind Chellappa has practical suggestions. Even if taxes remain high for now, end the constant tinkering with the rates, regulation and the fuel policy — diesel, petrol or hybrid — and commit to stability for 15 years. “It takes 24 to 36 months to develop a new product and another 12 months to set up the physical infrastructure. If taxes and regulation change every 24 months, how does one decide what to invest in?” Chellappa asks. Similarly, the badly designed goods and services levy needs a one-time overhaul, followed by long-term certainty. India must break out of this vicious cycle in which taxes are high, consumer demand is low, investment and job creation are constrained, and wage incomes are insufficient to boost purchasing power at the bottom of the pyramid. Taxes are hence exorbitant and have to be collected from a small consuming class that can afford a $23,000 Toyota sedan — and fill it up with highly taxed gasoline that costs three-quarters more than what Americans pay. Modi said in an early 2018 television interview that those earning $3 a day by selling “pakoras” — Indian fritters — should also be counted as employed. That would leave the government off the hook for the absence of new jobs in the formal economy. This false pakora/Toyota equivalence must end. India should enable large companies to grow and create good jobs with social security. When they’re more productive and paid a little better, low-wage workers will be able to afford Made in India shirts and trousers, which, as economist Rathin Roy has noted, are more expensive than imported clothing from Bangladesh and Vietnam. Ultimately, the Modi government needs to focus on one simple statistic highlighted by Ambit Capital Pvt. and Singapore-based investor Akash Prakash. As much as 40% of the country’s listed nonfinancial firms have revenue of less than $15 million. They’re tiny even by emerging-market standards, and the ratio hasn’t increased at all over the past decade. Just when India should be presenting itself as an alternative to China by making it easy for enterprises to scale up, the Soviet-style statism that New Delhi discarded three decades ago is creeping back into politics, policies,andeven court orders. The first step for course correction will be to listen to criticism, rather than dismiss concerns as sour grapes or fake news. Otherwise, India Inc. will consist of a handful of very large business islands surrounded by tiny atolls that will be first to go underwater in bad weather.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/toyota-or-pakora-which-economy-will-modi-govt-choose-890221.html
20-09-2020||South||Telangana's Covid-19 tally rises to 1.71 lakh with 2,137 new cases||Telangana reported 2,137 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection count to 1,71,306 while eight more deaths pushed the toll to 1,033, a government bulletin said on Sunday. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of fresh cases with 322, followed by Rangareddy (182) and Medchal Malkajgiri (146) districts, it said, providing data as of 8 pm on Saturday. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,39,700, while 30,573 were presently under treatment across the state. As many as 53,811 samples were tested on September 19, taking the total specimens examined so far to 24,88,220. The samples tested per million population was 67,020, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state stood at 0.60 per cent, while it was 1.60 per cent at the national level. Telangana's recovery rate was 81.54 per cent against 79.65 per cent at the country level. The number of individuals in-home or institutional isolation was 24,019, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telanganas-covid-19-tally-rises-to-171-lakh-with-2137-new-cases-890192.html
20-09-2020||South||Hyderabad airport gets ACI health accreditation for safe travel||The GMR Group-led Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here has been granted the airport Health Accreditation (AHA) by ACI, a worldwide association for the air transport industry, for the safety measures being takenat the aerodrome, the operator said on Sunday. It is among the first airports in Asia Pacific region to have received this coveted accreditation by the Airport Council International (ACI), a release from the GMR said. The accreditation is the outcome of the rigorous assessment of the RGIA on the alignment of its health measures with the ACI Aviation Business Restart and Recovery guidelines and ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation) Council Aviation Recovery Task Force (CART) Recommendations along with industry best practices, it said. According to the release, the ACI assessment covered the health and safety measures undertaken by the airport for passengers and staffin all the terminal areas including departures, arrivals and transfers, transportation services, food and beverage services, escalators and elevators, lounges, facilities and baggage claim area among others. The assessment also captured the initiatives that the airport took for safety and well-being of employees and stakeholders. With growing passenger confidence, the airport is steadily seeing an increase in passenger traffic. Last month, the airport handled on an average over 16,000 domestic passengers and over 170 domestic air traffic movements daily amidst the best in industry safety standards and contactless travel options. The airport has regained its 50 domestic destinations (till August 31) out of 55 pre-Covid-19 destinations, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-airport-gets-aci-health-accreditation-for-safe-travel-890203.html
20-09-2020||South||13 new cases push Covid-19 tally of Andaman to 3,644||The Covid-19 tally of Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 3,644 on Sunday as 13 more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said. Eleven new infections were detected during contact tracing, while two patients have travel history, he said. Twenty-two more people have been cured of the disease, the official said. The Union territory now has 156 active coronavirus cases, while 3,436 people have recovered from the disease and 52 patients have succumbed to the infection so far, he said. The administration has so far sent 50,687 samples for Covid-19 tests, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/13-new-cases-push-covid-19-tally-of-andaman-to-3644-890218.html
20-09-2020||South||Two Maoists killed in fire exchange in Telangana: Police||Two Maoists were killed in an exchange of fire between them and police in Kumaram Bheem District in Telangana, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred on Saturday night when the police, including special force Greyhounds,were combing the forests around Kadamba village in the district, which borders Maharashtra, a senior police official said. On a tip-off, the police parties were conducting searches in the forest area when a group of Maoists opened fire and the police returned fire in retaliation, following which they fled the area, the official said. "Our forces were searching for the escaped Maoists throughout the night. In the morning (Sunday) we found two bodies. One of the deceased has been identified, Kumaram Bheem In-charge Superintendent of Police V Satyanarayana told PTI. The identification process of the other deceased was going on, he added. The police found two weapons and some Maoist literature with the slain. Earlier this month, three Maoists were killed in similar "exchange of fire" with police in two different incidents in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district bordering Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-maoists-killed-in-fire-exchange-in-telangana-police-890247.html
20-09-2020||South||Karnataka's new industrial policy to push value of mobile production in state to Rs 30K crore: ICEA||The new industrial policy of Karnataka is expected to push mobile production in value terms in the state to Rs 30,000 crore and create 1.2 lakh jobs by 2023, mobile handset and electronics body ICEA said on Sunday. In August, Karnataka announced New Industrial Policy (NIP) 2020-25 which has a provision to incentivise mobile manufacturing. The India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA), whose members include Apple, Winstron, Lava, among others, said specific policy incentives such as production linked incentive of 1 per cent of annual turnover during the policy period for five years is a welcome and bold step by the state government. "We are confident that such initiatives will help the ESDM (Electronics System Design and Manufacturing) sector to grow. Currently, the state's share in the country is 1-1.5 per cent (Rs 2,500 crore) of mobile production, which is expected to cross 7 per cent or Rs 30,000 crore by 2023," ICEA Chairman Pankaj Mohindroo said. "This will also boost employment by creating 1.2 lakh jobs by 2023," he added. Karnataka has an estimated gross state domestic product of over Rs 16 lakh crore, with 70 per cent of India's chip designers based in the state. The new industrial policy provides for reimbursement of stamp duty and registration charges, reimbursement of land conversion fee, power tariff reimbursement and exemption from electricity duty. "The Karnataka government's NIP 2020-25 is a very forward-looking policy which addresses several crucial labour reforms such as working shifts for women employees, overtime hours...Such measures put Karnataka at the forefront of 'Ease of Doing Business' in the country," Sudipto Gupta, managing director, Wistron India and chairman of ICEA's labour and HR Committee said. Wistron is one of the electronic manufacturing companies in the state which plans to raise its headcount from around 2,000 in May 2020 to 20,000 by the end of next fiscal year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnatakas-new-industrial-policy-to-push-value-of-mobile-production-in-state-to-rs-30k-crore-icea-890271.html
20-09-2020||South||'Constructive destruction' of Hindu temples on in Andhra Pradesh, alleges YSRC rebel MP in Lok Sabha||YSR Congress rebel member in Lok Sabha K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju has alleged that there was a constructive destruction of Hindu temples in Andhra Pradesh and sought that a dharmic commission be established to address the issue. Raising the issue during Zero Hour on Saturday, he said: "In Andhra Pradesh, as of now, constructive destruction is happening with regard to the Hindu temples. So, let there be a commission, a dharmic commission or a Hindu commission, in line with Christian minorities or Muslim minorities to address the issue." Raju sought Prime Minister Narendra Modis intervention in this regard, saying only a karma yogi shall address this issue. Otherwise, atrocities are going on in our state, the rebel MP said. Though Hindus were a majority, we are being treated like a minority, he charged. The MP from Narsapuram also alleged that age-old rules in the famous Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala near Tirupati were being altered for the sake of one individual. They are changing the rules of the Hindu temples for the sake of one individual. This issue has to be addressed, Raju said. It was an oblique reference to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Chairman Y V Subba Reddys statement that as Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy need not sign the mandatory declaration, affirming faith in Lord Venkateswara, while visiting the temple on the Tirumala Hills. Non-Hindus are, as per rule, required to sign the declaration to visit the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/constructive-destruction-of-hindu-temples-on-in-andhra-pradesh-alleges-ysrc-rebel-mp-in-lok-sabha-890327.html
20-09-2020||South||Flood alert sounded along Bhavani river in Tamil Nadu||A flood alert was sounded on Sunday to the people living on the banks of Bhavani river in and around Mettupalayam in the district following release of surplus water from Pilloor Dam. According to official sources, the inflow to the dam was steadily increasing and recorded at 13,000 cusecs on Sunday due to incessant rains being experienced in the catchment area and also in neighbouring Nilgiris district. With authorities releasing 7,000 cusecs, people living in the low lying areas were asked to be safe and not to venture into the river for taking bath or washing clothes, they said. Meanwhile, Animal Husbandry Minister Udumalai Radhakrishnan on Sunday released water from Amaravathi Dam in Udumalpet in nearby Tirupur district for irrigation. About 8,700 cusecs will be released till February 2 to irrigate 51,903 acres of land in Tirupur and Karur districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flood-alert-sounded-along-bhavani-river-in-tamil-nadu-890340.html
20-09-2020||South||After Quran and Ramadan relief kits, dates come under customs scanner in Kerala||After festival relief kits and religious books were distributed by the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, the distribution of around 18,000 kg of dates to children in various institutions, including orphanages, is under scanner in connection with the probe into the Kerala gold smuggling case. In May 2017, a programme was initiated by UAE President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan to distribute high-quality dates to around 40,000 children of various institutions like poor homes, special school and BUDS schools under Kerala social justice department. It was then reported that 18,000 kg of dates were being sent from UAE to Kerala. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and UAE consul general Jamal Hussain Al Zaabi formally launched the scheme in May 2017 by distributing dates packets to some children of a poor home in the state capital. Accused in Kerala gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh was then serving as the executive secretary at the consulate, and reportedly played a key role in the programme. The dates distribution is now under the scanner of the Customs department, which has already registered a case. About 17,000 kg of dates were found to be imported. Customs sources said that prima facie there was an evasion of duty, as the norms only allow duty exemption to items brought as diplomatic cargo meant for personal consumption of the diplomats. The dates imported for children would not normally get duty exemptions available for diplomatic cargo. Meanwhile, the quantity of the dates distributed is also under the scanner. The head of a children's institution in the state told DH on the condition of anonymity that only a few packets of dates were received at many institutions and only one or two dates were given to each student in some institutions. The reports of 17,000 kgs of dates being imported was quite surprising, said an official. Customs also suspect that the dates meant to distribution to children might have been diverted to others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-quran-and-ramadan-relief-kits-dates-come-under-customs-scanner-in-kerala-890355.html
20-09-2020||South||BJP hits out at DMK for politicising farm bills, to launch counter campaign soon||The BJP's Tamil Nadu unit on Sunday accused the opposition DMK of creating 'misapprehension' among farmers by 'needlessly' politicising the Centre's agriculture bills and said it would soon launch a campaign to counter the propaganda by the Dravidian party. The three bills were meant to liberalise trade of agricultural commodities and provide the farmers a better competitive price, senior BJP leaders said. Though the Congress was in power for long, it 'failed' to address the woes of farmers, BJP state general secretary K T Raghavan alleged. Although Congress assured to make amendments to the legislations, it was the Narendra Modi-led government that overcame all barriers and piloted the bills to reform the farm sector for the benefit of the ryots. "The DMK is merely politicising the issue. The bills seek to eliminate the middlemen and facilitate a high remunerative price for the produce to the farmers across the country," Raghavan told PTI. He said his party would counter DMK's "false propaganda" through a campaign soon. The saffron partys decision to take on the DMK assumes significance, as the Dravidian major has convened a meeting of its allies on Monday to chalk out thenext course of action over the agriculture bills that were adopted by the Lok Sabha. The DMK, Congress and several parties have been opposing the Centre's Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020, The Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. The DMK has alleged these bills would lead to hoarding of agricultural produce by corporates. Countering the party, BJP state Vice-President Vanathi Srinivasan said in the backdrop of absence of mandis, southern states, particularly Tamil Nadu, would stand to gain by the legislation. "DMK president M K Stalin has no locus standi to talk about hoarding by corporates. Everyone knows his family's clout in the field of education and film industry," she alleged. She claimedthe legislation on price assurance and farm services would regulate contract farming, which was being practised in respect of cocoa, sugarcane and poultry in Tamil Nadu. "Even certain districts like Erode which produces good quality turmeric, would gain, as the farmers would be in a position to bargain for fair price for their produce," Srinivasan said and urged people not to fall prey to the "false and malicious propaganda" of the DMK. Supporting the bills and criticising Stalin's stand, Chief Minister K Palaniswami had said removal of the stock- holding limit would benefit not only farmers but also consumers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-hits-out-at-dmk-for-politicising-farm-bills-to-launch-counter-campaign-soon-890392.html
20-09-2020||South||Karnataka to form panel to study long term effects of Covid-19 in those recovered||The Karnataka government on Sunday said a committee comprising of medical experts will be formed to study the long-term effects of Covid-19 among those who have recovered from the illness and tested negative for the virus. In a tweet, state Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said, "Karnataka will constitute a special technical committee of medical experts to study the long term effects of Covid-19 in patients who have recovered from the infection." The panel will evaluate those who had mild and severe symptoms, especially people with comorbidity. New strategies would be drawn up for clinical care to ensure that those who recovered from the viral infection do not develop any health complications in the future, the minister noted. Karnataka has so far reported 5.11 lakh infections and 7,922 deaths till Saturday evening. The infections include recovery of 4.05 lakh people and 98,564 people undergoing treatment in various hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-to-form-panel-to-study-long-term-effects-of-covid-19-in-those-recovered-890413.html
20-09-2020||South||Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh touches 6.25 lakh||The coronavirus tally touched 6.25 lakh in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday as 7,738 more cases were reported even as 10,608 more patients got cured. In the 24 hours ending 9 am on Sunday, the state recorded 57 fresh fatalities, taking the gross toll count to 5,359, according to the latest bulletin. After a sum of 51,04,131 sample tests, the state saw a total of 6,25,514 coronavirus positives so far, the overall positivity rate being 12.26 per cent. In all 5,41,319 patients have recovered, leaving 78,836 active cases in the state, the bulletin added. The two Godavari districts, East and West, added 1,260 and 1,005 cases afresh, while Prakasam reported 869 anew. Krishna reported eight new Covid-19 casualties, Anantapuramu and Chittoor seven each and Prakasam and Visakhapatnam six each in 24 hours, the bulletin added. PTI DBV Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh touches 6.25 lakh Amaravati, Sep 20 (PTI): The coronavirus tally touched 6.25 lakh in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday as 7,738 more cases were reported even as 10,608 more patients got cured. In the 24 hours ending 9 AM on Sunday, the state recorded 57 fresh fatalities, taking the gross toll count to 5,359, according to the latest bulletin. After a sum of 51,04,131 sample tests, the state has seen a total of 6,25,514 coronavirus positives so far, the overall positivity rate being 12.26 per cent. In all 5,41,319 patients have recovered, leaving 78,836 active cases in the state, the bulletin added. The two Godavari districts, East and West, added 1,260 and 1,005 cases afresh, while Prakasam reported 869 anew. Krishna reported eight new Covid-19 casualties, Anantapuramu and Chittoor seven each and Prakasam and Visakhapatnam six each in 24 hours, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tally-in-andhra-pradesh-touches-625-lakh-890431.html
20-09-2020||South||DMK-AIADMK spar over Farm Bills in Parliament||Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK and principal opposition DMK are involved in a war of words over the former’s support to two bills relating to farmers in Parliament. While Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami issued a long statement on Saturday supporting the Bills and terming them as “good” for the farming community, his party member, SR Balasubramanian, spoke against the bills in Rajya Sabha on Sunday. The party, which has just one member in Lok Sabha, supported the Bills in the lower house of Parliament. AIADMK’s stand of supporting the Bill in Lok Sabha and opposing it in Rajya Sabha prompted DMK President M K Stalin to seek an apology to the people on different stands on one issue. “The AIADMK’s support to Farmers’ Bills is the worst of the things that have so far been taken by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The only way out for him is to issue an open apology before the people admitting that he supported the Bill only to save his government and escape from corruption cases,” Stalin said in a statement on Sunday.   AIADMK’s support in Rajya Sabha came after the party came under severe criticism for its stand in the lower house of Parliament. The party’s stand in the upper house of Parliament after Palaniswami issued a statement rebutting Stalin’s statement on Saturday in which the Opposition Leader accused the AIADMK of betraying farmers’ interests. In his statement on Saturday, Palaniswami had questioned Stalin why his party, DMK, had supported similar legislation which was piloted by former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. "There is no provision in the bill to force the farmers or aspects that would affect them," Palaniswami said, adding that he was always a “proud farmer.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-aiadmk-spar-over-farm-bills-in-parliament-890438.html
20-09-2020||South||Heavy rains lash Kerala, red alert in eight districts||Heavy rains continued to lash Kerala with eight districts put under red alert on Sunday and the IMD sounding Orange alert in ten districts for Monday. The weatherman said that a low-pressure area had formed over North East Bay of Bengal and Neighbourhood on Sunday morning. "A low-pressure area has formed over Northeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood today morning. It is likely to move west-northwest during the next 2-3 days and become more marked over Northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during next 24 hours," a weather bulletin issued at 3 pm said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert in Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts onSunday. Meanwhile, the IMD has issued Orange alert on Monday for the districts of Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. A red alert is sounded for rainfall of over 20 cm while an orange alert is for 6 cm to 20 cm of rain. As Muvattupuzha river is reaching flood level, banks of the river in Ernakulam and Kottayam districts are expected to be flooded,Ernakulam district officials said. Authorities have directed the panchayats and municipalities through which the river flows to issue necessary warnings. Heavy rains lashed many parts of Ernakulam. Also, heavy winds were reported in Edathala near Aluva this morning, uprooting several trees, damaging four houses and disrupting power supply. No one was injured in the localised weather event which occurred in Edathala panchayat, police said. The State Disaster Management Authority has banned fishing for the next 48 hours startingfrom Sunday morning. Three units of the National Disaster Response Force have reached Kerala and have been deployed in Wayanad, Malappuram and Thrissur districts. Already there are two teams in Idukki and Kozhikode districts. While Vadakara in Kozhikode district received 21 cm rain in the last 24 hours, Thaliparambu in Kannur received 17 cm, Munnar received 14 cm, Irikkur in Kannur and Kudulu in Kasaragod received 13 cm of rain. Fishermen have been warned not to put out to sea as strong winds with speed reaching 45-55 kmph are likely to prevail along and off Kerala, Karnataka coasts and over Lakshadweep area. A landslide triggered by heavy rains in the hilly district of Idukki on August 7 had flattened a row of dwelling units of tea estate workers at Pettimudi in Rajamalai claiming 66 lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-lash-kerala-red-alert-in-eight-districts-890450.html
20-09-2020||South||Professors oppose renaming of Anna University||Tamil Nadu government’s decision to bifurcate Anna University, the premier engineering institute in the state, and change its original name has led to a major controversy with teaching and non-teaching staff taking objection to the move. While all affiliated colleges, including those owned by the government and private individuals, would come under the Anna University, four institutes, including the prestigious College of Engineering, Guindy (CEG), and the Madras Institute of Technology (MIT), which are originally part of the varsity will now be known as Anna Technological and Research University (ARTU). Professors and former Vice-Chancellors of Anna University scoff at the renaming of the “parent institute” saying the move would only benefit private colleges as the name “Anna University” is known worldwide. As a mark of their opposition to the move, professors will wear black badges from Monday. Certificates of students who graduate from CEG, MIT, School of Architecture and Planning (SAP) and Alagappa College of Technology (ACTECH) will no more carry the tag “Anna University”, the professors say, adding that it will be the “biggest injustice” to the students and the university as a whole. They are also worried about funding for ARTU as the institute is involved in several research activities. “Anna University is known across the world and these four institutes constitute the varsity. The government wants to snatch the name from us and give it to private colleges whose students will get certificates in the name of Anna University and those who graduate from here will carry the new name of ARTU. Who knows what is ARTU?” a professor asked.  Anna University was formed in the 1970s by bringing CEG, MIT, SAP and ACTECH under it, while private engineering colleges were affiliated to the University of Madras and other varsities that functioned in various cities of the state. In 2002, all engineering colleges in the state were brought under the control of Anna University and the government had last week moved a bill in the Assembly seeking to bifurcate the varsity for “administrative purposes.”. “While we have preserved the institute’s name for so many decades through our hard work, it is nothing but stealing the name and fame from us and giving it to private colleges. Why is the parent institution is denied its original name while the child gets the parent’s name? We would have been happy even if we had been called Anna University of Tamil Nadu,” I Arul Aram, former president of Anna University Teachers’ Association (AUTA), told Deccan Herald.   Former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University and author, E Balagurusamy, went a step ahead to charge the Tamil Nadu government of succumbing to the “pressure” from private engineering colleges. He questioned the need to rename the parent institute and “gift” the name to the newly-created institute. “I have no qualms in saying that the government has made a terrible mistake here. They could have given any name but Anna University to the institute that manages the affiliated colleges. The government had no business to play with the name of the university. CEG is one of the oldest engineering colleges in India and it is being robbed of its eminent status. This is ridiculous,” Balagurusamy told Deccan Herald. He also questioned the logic behind changing the name of the mother university and sought to know whether the government was helping the private institutes many of which are owned by politicians. Prof. Arul Aram said the move to rename Anna University amounts to Intellectual Property Rights theft and breach of trust on the part of the government. “When the management of Anna University protested against its renaming in 2019, the government assured them that the name will not be tampered with. But today the name of the university has been gifted to private colleges while we have been given a new name. This is nothing but breach of trust,” Aram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/professors-oppose-renaming-of-anna-university-890454.html
20-09-2020||South||Man trapped on bridge beam amid heavy rains in Kerala rescued||While many parts of Kerala received heavy rains on Sunday, an aged man who was trapped on the beam of a bridge was rescued in a risky operation by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. Babychan, 72, a native of Bisonvalley village in Idukki district, was trapped on the beam of a river at Kunjuthanni near Adimali in Idukki. Since he had no home he used to sleep on the beam of the bridge during night. On Sunday he woke up to the shocking sight of the water level in the river increasing and heavy water flow. Some local people who spotted him trapped on the beam alerted the fire and rescue services unit. One rescue worker subsequently entered the beam by climbing down from the bridge using rope. Then, Babychan was lifted using a rescue net. He did not suffer any injuries. A red alert was sounded at eight districts, including Kasargod and Wayanad, on Sunday in view of the heavy rains following low pressure formation over Bay of Bengal. Very heavy rains were reported at Kasargod, Kannur, Wayanad, and Idukki districts. Shutters of several dams, including Banasura in Wayanad, were opened and families shifted to relief camps at various places. Tree were uprooted in many areas and fishing boats damaged in heavy winds. The rough weather is likely to be there for two more days. Orange alert was sounded at ten of the 14 districts in the state for Monday also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-trapped-on-bridge-beam-amid-heavy-rains-in-kerala-rescued-890460.html
20-09-2020||South||Kerala: Rs 12 crore Onam lottery winner yet to be identified||Even as the results of the Onam bumper lottery ticket from the Kerala government that fetches prize money of Rs. 12 crore was announced on Sunday, the winner was yet to be known. Over 40 lakh lottery tickets were sold out and the draw was held at Thiruvananthapuram. The winning ticket, bearing number TB 173964, was found to be sold in Kochi. But till Sunday evening the winner was not known. Either the winner could not have come across the results so far or the winner could be refusing to reveal identity to avoid publicity, said a lottery agent. Kochi is a place with a considerable floating population and also has a sizable number of migrant workers. The lottery ticket was sold by Tamil Nadu's native Alakaswami who used to work under a major lottery agency in the locality. The winner will get around Rs. 7.5 crore after taxes and agent commission. The ticket price was 300. Last year the bumper prize was won by a ticket purchased jointly by six youths who were working as salesmen in a jewelry shop. Apart from the bumper prize, six tickets won Rs. one crore each as second prize and Rs. 10 lakh each won by 12 tickets as third prize.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-rs-12-crore-onam-lottery-winner-yet-to-be-identified-890466.html
20-09-2020||South||Heavy rains likely in Telangana; administration put on alert||Heavy to very heavy rainfall may occur over isolated parts of Telangana on Monday, the Meteorological Department has said. All the superintendents of police (SPs) and District Collectors have been directed to be alert, an official press release said on Sunday. This directive was issued after Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao held a meeting with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar during the day, the release said. The SPs and the Collectors should be available in their respective headquarters to take necessary measures to ensure no loss of life and property in view of the rains, it said. Heavy rains are very likely to occur at isolated places in districts of Telangana on Sunday and Monday, according to a bulletin issued by India Meteorological Department. The rainfall may occur in the erstwhile districts of Adilabad, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Warangal and Khammam, the release said. "Massive flooding and water-logging are likely to occur in low-lying areas. Falling of trees and electricity posts can happen leading to disruption of normal activities," the release said. Besides, reservoirs, tanks and streams may overflow causing inundation of low-lying areas and low bridges and causeways may overflow too, posing threat to traffic and people, it said. The Collectors have been requested to put the district administration on alert and follow the flood protocol communicated earlier, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-likely-in-telangana-administration-put-on-alert-890470.html
20-09-2020||South||AIADMK will 'split' before Assembly polls, claims DMK leader||DMK propaganda secretary Thanga Tamil Selvan on Sunday claimed that the ruling AIADMK is likely to "split" ahead of the Assembly elections next year owing to a host of issues including differences within the party. A clear picture would emerge in the coming weeks and "as the election approaches, we will see splits," he claimed. The AIADMK was beset with several problems, he alleged and said the "verbal duels within their four walls" now gave ample indications of what was going on in the party. Apparently, Selvan was referring to a meeting of the AIADMK days ago in Chennai where party coordinator O Panneerselvam and co-coordinator K Palaniswami did not reportedly see eye-to-eye on a number of party related issues. Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar had, however, dismissed such claims saying the two leaders had an excellent understanding and they were like Lord Rama and his brother Lakshmana. "The altercations will soon spill over to the streets and the party will get split into several factions before the Assembly elections," the DMK leader claimed. Speaking to reporters at Andipatti near here after attending a party meeting, Thanga Tamil Selvan, in reply to a question said the reported "differences" between the party leaders was just a beginning that would pave way for the split. "Already the AIADMK government has earned the ire of the people over National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). The only way to save Tamil Nadu will be to make the DMK win in the elections and DMK chief M K Stalin alone could steer the state towards growth," he claimed. The Central government could not force Tamil Nadu to conduct the NEET when M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa ruled the state. But, in the absence of the two leaders, the BJP-led government at the Centre took the state "for granted and thrust" NEET. As a result, the medical college aspirants died by suicides due to fear of NEET, he claimed. The Assembly elections are likely by April-May 2021 in Tamil Nadu. In 2017, the AIADMK factions led by Palaniswami and Panneerselvam came together and Thanga Tamil Selvan was with the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam led by T T V Dhinakaran before joining the DMK last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-will-split-before-assembly-polls-claims-dmk-leader-890474.html
20-09-2020||South||Dhinakaran makes surprise visit to Delhi; sparks off political speculation||Rebel AIADMK leader and V K Sasikala’s nephew T T V Dhinakaran made a surprise visit to the national capital on Sunday, sparking off speculation about a change in political equations in Tamil Nadu where assembly elections are due early 2021. Dhinakaran, whose political stocks plummeted to a new low after his party’s poor performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, is understood to have made the trip to meet a top BJP leader, according to sources. The AMMK leader took a special chartered flight from Chennai on Sunday morning, making his first visit to the national capital, probably for the first time after 2017 when he was lodged in Tihar Jail for allegedly trying to bribe officials of the Election Commission. “He did take a chartered flight and is expected to return either late Sunday night or Monday,” a source said. However, the sources did not divulge the “actual reason” for the visit, though the “sudden trip” set off speculation whether the BJP was trying to merge the AMMK with the parent party of AIADMK. Political observers said the visit is significant, but it will be too early to predict its outcome. The sudden visit also assumes significance in the wake of efforts by Dhinakaran’s camp to get Sasikala released from the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru in the next few weeks, though the “probable date” is January 27 as mentioned by the prison department in reply to an RTI query. Her release might lead to political changes in the AIADMK as several ministers and MLAs owe their positions to Sasikala. Sasikala’s lawyer N Raja Senthoor Pandian had last week told Deccan Herald that they will soon move a court in Bengaluru to pay the fine of Rs 10 crore imposed on Sasikala by the Supreme Court. He said efforts were on to get Sasikala released by the end of September as she is eligible for “remission” on grounds of non-availed regular leave. Dhinakaran, who was banished by former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2011, was brought back into AIADMK and appointed its deputy general secretary on February 15, 2017, the day Sasikala left for Bengaluru to surrender before the authorities at the Parappana Agrahara prison to serve her 4-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case.  However, Dhinakaran was removed from the position in September 2017 after Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam patched up and sacked Sasikala as the “interim general secretary.” After being removed from the AIADMK, Dhinakaran founded the AMMK and became its general secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dhinakaran-makes-surprise-visit-to-delhi-sparks-off-political-speculation-890488.html
20-09-2020||State||43 fresh Covid-19 cases in Kodagu||Kodagu district has recorded 43 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 2,237, said Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. Some of the infected are - three women, 38-year-old, 23-year-old and a 19-year-old from Cheriyaparambu in Napoklu; a 48-year-old woman from Basaveshwara Layout and a 29-year-old man from convent junction in Madikeri. A total of 1,812 people recovered and have also been discharged from hospitals and Covid care centres. The district has 395 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/43-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kodagu-890143.html
20-09-2020||State||A state of shock: Karnataka faces a dire financial reality||Karnataka has slipped into its worst spiral of financial woes and excessive borrowing in two decades, and the implications are frightening. The development could grind to a halt or citizens could be taxed to help repay the state’s loans. Wherever you look, the signs are dire. Not a single announcement from the state Budget has been given effect; allocations have been cut; free rice for the poor has been hacked to 3 kg from 5 kg; money meant for free bus passes for students has been diverted to pay salaries; and all direct recruitment is indefinitely frozen, dashing the hopes of thousands of government job aspirants. That’s not all. Flood relief measures are yet to reach victims who saw their homes flooded last year. Even before the economic blow to state governments from Covid-19 had become apparent, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa had declared in March that Karnataka was facing unprecedented economic difficulties and vowed to take loans to fund development works. Experts point out that if the state government has an economic strategy to come out of this crisis, it has not outlined it yet. “The sooner you act, the sooner can you get back to shape,” said Narendar Pani of the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS), warning that growing debt could reduce the number of agencies willing to finance the government as its credit rating would drop. Karnataka is the second-most arid Indian state after Rajasthan, with 60% of its geography drought-hit between 2001 and 2015. Coupled with successive years of drought, the state has been at the receiving end of floods since 2018. In addition, Karnataka’s dependence on Central funds has increased over the years. Between 2011 and 2019, the share of Central funds in Karnataka’s receipts went up by 12%, whereas receipts from its own revenue sources are gradually declining. That the BJP is in power in the Centre has not made Yediyurappa’s life easy. It has left him and his party vulnerable to derision every time the state looks to the Centre for funds and gets less than it wanted. When the state suffered its worst flooding in 100 years in July 2019, the government estimated flood damages at Rs 35,000 crore. It only received Rs 1,869 crore aid from National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). This year, Karnataka has estimated over Rs 8,000 crore in flood losses, but is eligible to receive only Rs 682 crore, forcing it to practically fund relief on its own. Generally, Karnataka is seen as one of India’s better-off states. It was India’s first state to have introduced a framework to maintain fiscal rules in 2002. But today, its Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to liabilities ratio is already more than that of Maharashtra and Telangana. A host of factors have contributed to it: Economic losses from Covid-19, reduced tax devolution and GST compensation delays among others. It’s worth noting that Karnataka suffered a major blow when the 15th Finance Commission reduced its share in the divisible pool of devolved taxes, which means the state will lose around Rs 60,000 crore over the next five years. Kerala is set to lose around Rs 20,000 crore and Andhra Pradesh around Rs 32,000 crore. Its committed expenditure – salaries, subsidies, pensions and so on – consume a major share of revenue receipts, leaving little fiscal room for developmental spending and forcing the government to borrow more. Difficult measures In a bid to tackle this situation, Karnataka has now decided to borrow Rs 33,000 crore, which is an additional 2 percentage points of its GSDP (the Centre has raised the borrowing limit from 3% to 5% of GSDP for all states to sail through the economic crisis). Also, the state government has decided to go with Option 1 of the GST compensation offered by the Centre, which involves borrowing Rs 11,324 crore. These borrowings will have serious ramifications in the long run. At a time when uncertainty over the pandemic still prevails, experts say growing debt will be a severe fiscal risk for the government. Loan repayment will start from 2021-22, compromising many welfare schemes as funds are diverted to repay debt. “This is an extraordinary situation. All activities were stopped for 4-5 months, which took a toll on the economy. We have to make some extraordinary decisions and that’s what has been done,” Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who represents Karnataka in the GST Council told DH. But public finance expert Ashok Rao disagrees. “The allocation for servicing these new loans will come at the cost of expenditure to various welfare schemes,” said Rao. He added that the fiscal prudence provisions under the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act will go for a toss with the additional borrowing. States are known to compress expenditure so as to meet targets of fiscal indicators. Karnataka has compressed its capital expenditure and marginally decreased its spending on education, social welfare and nutrition, which has impacted human development indicators, according to a January 2020 working paper of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “It is intriguing that the state, with comfortable levels of fiscal consolidation since 2005, has resorted to heavy off-budget borrowing to finance state programmes,” the paper pointed out. Populism catches up The populist crop loan waiver schemes implemented by the previous Congress and Congress-JD(S) coalition governments made a dent on the state exchequer. According to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) figures, Karnataka expanded its loan waiver programme from Rs 18,000 crore announced in 2017-18 to Rs 44,000 crore in Rs 2018-19 – equivalent to 3.4% of GSDP. Also, during the floods, Karnataka burnt a hole in its pocket by announcing relief to victims that was five times more than the NDRF norms. For instance, the state announced Rs 5 lakh compensation to each flood-damaged house, while NDRF provided only around Rs 95,000. All this has added up over time. Both the state government and experts are now pointing towards job creation as a solution to the current crisis. “One way is to spend the borrowings to generate demand in the market, hoping it would create jobs,” Pani of NIAS noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/a-state-of-shock-karnataka-faces-a-dire-financial-reality-890144.html
20-09-2020||State||Monsoon session of Karnataka legislature to begin tomorrow under Covid-19 shadow||An eight-day monsoon session of Karnataka legislature will begin on Monday under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, amid unprecedented safety measures and restrictions, as several Ministers and legislators have tested positive for the infection. The session is likely to be stormy with the Opposition eyeing to corner the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government on a host of issues, including management of the pandemic, which has affected over 5.11 lakh people in the state. Principal opposition Congress has also decided to raise issues such as the D J Halli violence, drugs scandal, law and order situation and the state's financial situation during the session, slated to end on September 30, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri has made it mandatory for all, including members, officers, staff and journalists, to undergo RT-PCR test for Covid-10, seventy two hours prior to the start of the session. Covid negative certificate has been made compulsory for entry into both the Houses at the Vidhana Soudha here. According to the legislature secretariat, both the assembly and the Legislative Council would meet at 11 am. The session had to be convened before September 23 in view of the Constitutional provision that the legislature has to meet at least once in six months. The budget session was cut short andadjourned sine die on March 24 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak with the state reporting 41 positive cases and one death at the time. As of September 19, cumulatively 5,11,346 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 7,922 deaths and 4,04,841 discharges. As part of preventive measures in the legislature, seats of members are separated by transparent shields. Attendees will also have to wear face shields and follow the preventive measures for coronavirus. While public will not be allowed entry, the press gallery has been shifted to the second floor. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Saturday joined the list of Ministers who have tested positive for Covid-19. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah were infected earlier last week. Several legislators from both treasury and opposition sides have also tested positive. There are 10 new bills, 19 ordinances and two bills pending from the previous session that are likely to be taken up during the session. Pointing to this, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said the time fixed for the session will not be enough and it needs to be extended. The senior Congress leader and former chief minister is likely to raise it during the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting slated for Monday morning ahead of the commencement of the session. The party has alleged corruption in procurement of medical equipment, and is likely to raise the issue on which both the opposition and the ruling BJP have locked horns in the past. The session is taking place at a time when there is speculation in some quarters that the BJP central leadership is mulling to replace 77-year-old Yediyurappa, considering his age. Yediyurappa, meanwhile, is awaiting the high command's nod to go ahead with the expansion or reshuffle of his Cabinet, despite fears of possible disgruntlement, with too many aspirants and limited ministerial berths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/monsoon-session-of-karnataka-legislature-to-begin-tomorrow-under-covid-19-shadow-890237.html
20-09-2020||State||Railways implemented more projects in Karnataka during NDA regime than in UPA: Piyush Goyal||Railways has implemented 34 per cent more works in Karnataka during NDA regime compared to the UPA regime, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal informed Lok Sabha. Replying to BJP member Shobha Karandlaje question, Goyal said the NDA government sanctioned more funds to railways projects in the state compared to the previous government. During 2009-14, total 565 km length (206 km new line, 185 km, gauge conversion and 174 km doubling) falling fully/partly in the state have been commissioned at an average rate of 113 km per year. However, during 2014-20, total 907 km length (253 km of the new line and 654 km of doubling) falling fully/partly in Karnataka have been commissioned at an average rate of 151 km per year, which is 34 per cent more than those commissioned during 2009-14, the Minister said. For the 2020-21 fiscal total Rs 4,220 crore budget outlay was made for railways works in Karnataka. "As on April 1, 2020, total 36 ongoing projects of total length 4,529 km, costing Rs 49,536 crore, falling fully/partly in Karnataka were in different stages of planning/sanctioning/execution, out of which commissioning of 935 km length has been achieved and an expenditure of Rs 13,618 crore has been incurred up to March 2020," Goyal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/railways-implemented-more-projects-in-karnataka-during-nda-regime-than-in-upa-piyush-goyal-890373.html
20-09-2020||State||Man held for smuggling tortoises in Mandya||The police on Sunday arrested a person for smuggling two live tortoises and deer antlers in Srirangapatna town. 38-year-old Madappa of Channahalli Bore village was intercepted when he was on his way to Mysuru. The police acted on a tip-off and seized the antlers and tortoises. Upon inquiry, he confessed to being involved in poaching activities for several days. The accused was handed over to the Forest department and has been booked under the Wildlife Protection Act, according to Range Forest Officer Sunitha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-held-for-smuggling-tortoises-in-mandya-890418.html
20-09-2020||State||Covid-19 deaths cross 8,000 mark in Karnataka, tally crosses 5.19 lakh cases||Covid-19 fatalities in Karnataka crossed the 8,000 mark on Sunday with 101 fresh deaths, while 8,191 new infections took the tally to 5,19,537, the health department said. The day also 8,611 patients being discharged after recovery. The active cases stood at 98,403, including 811 in Intensive Care Units in different hospitals, the department said in a statement. The spike in cases on Sunday was led by Bengaluru urban district, which recorded 3,322 fresh cases and 32 deaths. The city has so far reported 1,94,760 cases and 2,657 deaths, with 41,754 under treatment There were cumulatively 1,50,348 discharges in the city including 2,970 on Sunday. After Bengaluru Urban, Myrusu district accounted for the maximum number of cases with 481, followed by 380 in Dakshina Kannada, 337 in Koppal, 305 in Dharwad, 295 each in Shivamogga and Udupi, 298 in Ballari, 277 in Hassan and 244 in Tumakuru. Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Kalaburagi, Haveri and Gadag were among the other districts where fresh infections were also reported. Mysuru, with 12 deaths, came behind Bengaluru Urban, followed by eight in Ballari, six each in Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Shivamogga and Hassan. While a majority of those who died were aged above 50, there was also a one-year-old girl in Mysuru, a 12-year-old boy and a 19-year-old girl in Bengaluru urban district who succumbed to the infection. Most of those who died had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness, or the Influenza-Like Illness, the bulletin said. As on Sunday, over 5.09 lakh people were home quarantine, the department said A total of 60,477 tests done on Sunday, including 26,731 Rapid Antigen Detection Tests,taking the total number so far to 42. 40 lakh, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-deaths-cross-8000-mark-in-karnataka-tally-crosses-519-lakh-cases-890516.html
20-09-2020||State||8-day Karnataka legislature session to begin on Monday; 32 bills on the cards||The Opposition is looking to corner the government on several fronts, including its response to Covid-19 pandemic and alleged irregularities in the procurement of Covid equipment, GST compensation issues, flood relief, the DJ Halli riots among others. The Congress on Sunday alleged that the BJP government was planning to curtail the session for just three days and demanded that the session be held for an additional 15 days.  The Yediyurappa government plans to table over 30 bills in the session, which will last a maximum of eight working days, attracting opposition from various groups. A massive protest by a collective of 32 labour, farmer, Dalit and other organisations is scheduled in Bengaluru as the session kicks off, against amendments to the Land Reforms Act, the APMC Act and various labour laws. The issues will also be raised by Opposition parties who have made their reservations clear over the Bills being tabled in the legislature. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has urged the government to increase the duration of the session, noting that eight days were insufficient to discuss all the Bills the state wanted to table. Discussion on extending the session is expected in the business advisory council meeting slated for Monday morning. On Sunday, KPCC president D K Shivakumar said the government was planning to curtail the session for just three days. “When there are several issues to discuss (Yediyurappa) called me yesterday and said Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has asked him to conclude the session in four days,” he said, adding that the Opposition would not yield to the demands. “We need 15 more days,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/8-day-karnataka-legislature-session-to-begin-on-monday-32-bills-on-the-cards-890573.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Drugs case: Man held for possessing narcotic in Bengaluru||The Central Crime Branch, probing the drug abuse in Kannada film industry, has detained a man here and seized some narcotic substances from him, police said on Sunday. "In the drug case registered at the Cottonpet police station, during investigations the name of Srinivas Subramanian had come up. CCB detained him on Saturday," a release said. Police seized 13 ecstasy tablets, 100 grams cannabis, 1.1 grams MDMA and 0.5 gram Hashish from Srinivas' flat. "Also, one of the actresses in custody now had earlier visited his flat 3 to 4 times in the last few months," it said. Two film actresses-- Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani-- are among the 13 people arrested so far in connection with the case, while many are still absconding. Those who are at large include former minister late Jeevaraj Alva's son Aditya Alva. The CCB took up the investigation after the Narcotics Control Bureau had arrested three people with a huge cache of synthetic drugs, for allegedly supplying them to Kannada film actors and singers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drugs-case-man-held-for-possessing-narcotic-in-bengaluru-890376.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Law students move HC against webinar based public hearing on 8-lane peripheral road in Bengaluru||Three law students have challenged before the Karnataka High Court a proposed webinar-based public hearings on September 23 by State pollution control Board and Bangalore Development Authority on the eight-lane peripheral road, saying it was "illegal, arbitrary and malafide". P B Shashaankh and Pratik Kumar from Jindal Law School and Anushka Gupta from National Law University, Delhi, in their writ petition, raised seminal questions regarding the limited efficacy of webinar being used like a open public hearing for crucial environmental activities. "As the project causes major environmental impacts to multiple rural and urban communities and the biodiversity of the region, holding the public consultation process virtually restricts multiple vulnerable communities, having no technical means to attend the virtual hearing, from effectively raising their concerns about the project, leading to an abject fail of the ‘public consultation’ process," they said. In their petition filed by advocate Sushal Tiwari, the students asked the court to quash August 30 notification for zoom based webinar and direct for holding physical public consultation. On March 18, the Karnataka government's proposal to build a 65-km eight-lane peripheral ring road in Bengaluru to decongest the city traffic suffered a setback with the Supreme Court directing the Bangalore Development Authority to conduct a “fresh rapid” environmental impact assessment of the project. Mooted in 2005, the project got further delayed after the court's judgement, which noted failure by authorities in following the due process in clearing it and making contradictory stand on diversion of forest land. Citing studies showing about 42% of the population in Karnataka has access to an internet connection, the petitioners contended that disregarding the social inequalities in India and making access to the internet a prerequisite to participate in the public consultation process hindered the rights of several minority communities from accessing justice. "This perpetuates an almost invisible form of violence on socially and economically backward communities and furthers us from the goal of achieving social equality in India," they claimed. Referring to the Supreme Court's judgement in the case of Research Foundation for Science Technology National Resource Policy vs Union of India (2005), the petitioners said the public participation process, especially for environmental decision making is an inalienable part of the fundamental right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. It is the duty of the State to ensure wide scale participation in this process, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/law-students-move-hc-against-webinar-based-public-hearing-on-8-lane-peripheral-road-in-bengaluru-890422.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Media ran campaign against Kumaraswamy government, says HD Deve Gowda||Media ran a campaign against Kumaraswamy when he was the Chief Minister of Karnataka, former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda said on Sunday.  "Media did not co-operate with the government when Kumaraswamy was the CM. They run a campaign against the government. Media called H D Revanna as Super CM " Gowda told reporters in Delhi. "After Kumaraswamy met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa recently, some media has been giving different political colour. I have nothing to say about these stories," he said "Though some people have been calling Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa son B Y Vijayendra as Super CM, I am not saying anything. Since Vijayendra became more active in BJP, maybe some of BJP leaders finding difficult to tolerate," he said. Reacting to the news about the change of leadership in the Karnataka government, Gowda said, "it is up to BJP leaders to decide on Yediyurappa's future." If the BJP leaders allow Yediyurappa to continue as CM by violating their own 75-year retirement age, then he may face problems within the party, Gowda said. On selection of party candidate for the Sira Assembly segment byelection, the former PM said, the JD (S) would field a candidate for the election. Talks were on with late leader Satyanarayana family members, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/media-ran-campaign-against-kumaraswamy-government-says-hd-deve-gowda-890430.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Opportunistic party' remark: HD Kumaraswamy hits out at Siddaramaiah||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy described former CM Siddaramaiah's brand of politics as "chameleon politics", after the latter accused JD(S) of being an opportunistic party. "Siddaramaih, who jumped to Congress to satisfy his lust for power has revealed the true color of his chameleon politics by calling JD(S) an opportunistic party," he said in a tweet. Accusing him of quitting the party after enjoying all powers while being with the JD(S), Kumaraswamy said that his party had little to learn from an "opportunistic and thankless" Siddaramaiah. "JD(S) has little to learn from a self-deceitful politician," he added. Siddaramaiah, during an event held at KPCC office Saturday, had attacked the JD(S), calling it an opportunistic party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/opportunistic-party-remark-hd-kumaraswamy-hits-out-at-siddaramaiah-890521.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shrinking forests diminishing rivers in Uttara Kannada districts: Study||A study by the Indian Institute of Science has found that the proportion of evergreen forests in the Uttara Kannada district has declined from 56.07% to 24.85% in four decades, leading to a deficit of water in rivers.  Led by TV Ramachandra of IISc's Energy and Wetland Research Group, four researchers, studied the land use in Uttara Kannada district between 1973 and 2018 to understand the change in hydrological and ecological dynamics. About 1.59 lakh acres of forest land was diverted for industries, hydro and nuclear power projects. Contiguous forests, which made up 62.17% of the total forest cover have been reduced to 24.74%, thanks to fragmentation and erosion of forests with native species which are crucial for sustaining the aquatic ecosystems. "Our field studies showed that catchments with over 65% vegetation of native species had water all the 12 months. In monoculture plantations, it was six to eight months while in degraded areas with less than 30% forest cover the water availability was limited to four months," Ramachandra said. The availability of water directly affects the livelihood of people a majority of whom are engaged in agriculture and related activities. "Monoculture plantation also affects pollination, which will have a direct impact on productivity," he said. The study found that forest cover in the Aghanashini riverscape fell from 72.15% in 1973 to 24.09%. The moist deciduous forest, which was less than 10% jumped to about 26%. Similarly, the dams in Kali river basin were responsible for the reduction in forest cover from 87.26% to 54.24%. The stories of Sharavathi and Bedthi (Gangavali) were no different.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shrinking-forests-diminishing-rivers-in-uttara-kannada-districts-study-890523.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Post-Covid-19 care yet to gain steam as woes worsen for survivors||The problem of Covid-19 survivors exhibiting extended symptoms is worsening by the day, but post-Covid therapies have not yet taken off on a large scale. In discussions held last week, the government was told about survivors exhibiting a range of extended symptoms and medical health issues, but a protocol to tackle these cases is not in place, medical experts said. Dr Thrilok Chandra, head of the Critical Care Support Unit, said that a protocol has been drafted by the Covid-19 Technical Committee, but it is still up for review. A health official said cases of people suffering from brain fog, fatigue and hyper-inflammatory syndrome are already being reported to authorities in Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Mysuru districts. “Cases are coming on and off,” Dr. Chandra said. Dr. Giridhar Babu, the epidemiologist, said the cases are “just the tip of the iceberg”. He described the problem as being prevalent in urban areas, where the number of Covid-19 cases have been high.  Should the existing medical infrastructure be expanded to treat these cases? “Not necessarily,” said Dr. C N Manjunath, nodal officer for testing in Karnataka. He added, however, that it was too early to tell. Care centres are limited currently and so are the staff. Dr. Sanjiv Lewin, Medical Superintendent of St John’s Hospital, said number of experts in physical medical rehabilitation (PMR) is low in India. The Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), which had announced plans to initiate a Post-Covid Care clinic in mid-August, said work was yet to start. “The protocol for care is still being formulated, staff have to be hired and more importantly, the Covid-19 survivors discharged from BMCRI will have to be surveyed to determine what issues they face,” said Dr. Smitha Segu, nodal officer for Covid-care, BMCRI. The lack of data means the scale of the problem is unknown, said Dr. Manjunath. He, however, explained that cases of “people with pulmonary fibrosis, continued breathlessness, extreme fatigue with myalgia and secondary infections had been noticed”.  Some of the first post-Covid sequelae (PCS) cases in Bengaluru have been seen at Ramaiah Memorial Hospital, which has had 50 patients so far. “Out of these, we admitted five. They had pulmonary fibrosis and cardiac events. Many had extreme fatigue to the point of being unable to walk,” said Dr Naresh Shetty, president of the hospital. At St John’s Hospital, which started its post-Covid care centre 10 days ago, Dr. Lewin said the main form of PCS being seen was cardiac. “We are treating these cases through a combination of chest medicine and PMR, which also covers mental health,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/post-covid-19-care-yet-to-gain-steam-as-woes-worsen-for-survivors-890534.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Yediyurappa takes stock of flood situation; red alert till Tuesday||Very heavy rainfall pounded parts of Karnataka on Sunday, causing flooding in the Udupi district and pushing National Disaster Response Force for rescue efforts.  Heavy showers, which triggered landslides in Malnad and coastal districts, is expected to continue till Tuesday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who took stock of the rain situation in the state, directed officials of Udupi and Bengaluru Urban districts to take measures to prevent any untoward incidents. The CM spoke to BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta over the phone, with instructions to prevent flooding along stormwater drains of the city. All officials should be available round the clock as rainfall to continue, the CM said. Yediyurappa reviewed the rescue and relief efforts being carried out in the Udupi district with  DC G Jagadeesh. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that army helicopters will be deployed for rescue efforts if required. Udupi and other coastal districts have received very heavy rainfall over the past two days. India Meteorological Department has issued red alert for very heavy rainfall till Tuesday for coastal districts, and till Monday morning for Malnad districts. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell dashboard, more than 100 mm rainfall was recorded in 12 hours in many stations of Uttara Kannada and Udupi districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-yediyurappa-takes-stock-of-flood-situation-red-alert-till-tuesday-890536.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three die in rain-related incidents||Moderate to heavy rain continued to lash several parts of the Kalyana Karnataka and Mumbai Karnataka regions. Three people, including two boys, died in separate rain-related incidents in Belagavi and Bidar districts. A bike rider was swept away when he tried to cross an overflowing stream in Aland taluk on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Beershetty Bodhanawadi (28) of Srichand village in the taluk. Two boys Anu Fakru and Arasu Fakru accidentally fell into the Nijampur lake, which was full to the brim following the recent rain, and died on Saturday. The incident occurred when the siblings went to the lake when their parents, fruit vendors at Kolhar K in Bidar taluk, were not in the home. A bike rider had a narrow at Ugargol in Saundatti taluk, Belagavi district. The rider got stuck in the strong undercurrent of a stream. As luck would have it, a few locals formed a human chain and pulled the man in distress, along with his bike, out of the stream.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-die-in-rain-related-incidents-890537.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: No escape from rain fury||Even before the coastal districts and Kodagu recover from the devastating August floods and landslides, torrential rain returned with a renewed vigor in the region on Sunday. Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts witnessed extremely heavy showers throughout the day, turning both the cities and many towns and villages into islands. Udupi town and several parts of the district bore the maximum brunt. The district has been experiencing relentless rain since Saturday afternoon. Most of the villages in Udupi, Brahmavar and Kaup taluks have been cut off.  The NDRF teams, joined by the Indian Coast Guard personnel, firemen, police and locals, evacuated 2,874 people of 785 families from the affected villages to safety. The flood situation in the temple town was precarious. The Udupi Krishna Mutt complex, Puttige Mutt, several residential layouts in Udupi and Shirva are marooned. Many rivers and streams in the region, including Swarna, Seeta, Puttige stream. Madisaalu, Yennehole and Shambhavi, are in spate. Vast tracts of farmland have gone underwater. The National Highway 169 A, between Udupi and Shivamogga, was out of bounds for traffic for severalhours. According to the weather department, Airodi in Udupi recorded a whopping 44.9 cm of rain in the last 24 hours. Udupi town saw 42.2 cm (422 mm) of rain, Brahmavar 35.2 cm, Kaup 33.6 cm and Karkala witnessed 25.4 cm. Water supply to Udupi and surrounding areas have been hit after the Baje reservoir, the major of water for the temple town, filled to the brim. The story of the neighbouring Dakshina Kannada was no different. The unrelenting showers have triggered landslides at several places and damaged over 25 houses in the district. Six people have been injured in rain-related incidents. Heaps of mud caved in on railway tracks near Padil. However, the incident has not affected the rail service on the route, Palakkad rail division officials said. The water level in Netravathi, Kumaradhara, Payaswini and Phalguni rivers has gone up considerably. Uttara Kannada witnessed low-intensity showers on Sunday. Floods return to haunt Kodagu With memories of the devastating floods of August still fresh in their minds, people of Kodagu woke up to yet another flood-like situation in the hilly district on Sunday. Incessant showers have surged Cauvery and Lakshmanathirtha rivers and many rivulets and streams. Bhagamandala has been submerged for the third time this rainy season. The swollen Cauvery river has brought traffic on Bhamandala-Ayyangeri and Madikeri-Bhagamandala roads to a standstill. The overflowing Cauvery river has triggered flood fears in Guhya Nelliahudikeri, Karadigodu, Bettadakadu, Kumbaragundi, and Kushalnagar. Heavy showers have wreaked havoc on coffee and areca nut plantations in Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts. Tunga, Bhadra and Hemavathi rivers have come alive following heavy rain in their catchment areas in Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-no-escape-from-rain-fury-890540.html
20-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 60k cases in a week; 1-yr-old girl dies of Covid-19||Over the last week, the state has registered 60,192 Covid-19 cases, out of which 8,191 were reported on Sunday.  The highest concentration of Sunday’s cases is 3,332 in Bengaluru Urban, which nevertheless amounts to 41% of the cases. The rest of the day's caseload was strewn across the state's 28 remaining districts, with the next highest numbers being in Mysuru (481), Dakshina Kannada (380), Koppal (337), Ballari (298), and Udupi and Shivamogga with 295 cases each.  Interestingly, Chitradurga reported zero cases. There were also 101 new deaths reported, the majority of which (32) had transpired in Bengaluru Urban. The next highest numbers were 12 in Mysuru and eight in Ballari. The remaining were distributed across 17 districts. The youngest fatality was a one-year-old girl from Mysuru with breathlessness. She died on September 15 in a private hospital on the day she tested positive for Covid-19. However, she was not the only child fatality reported on Sunday. Another was a 12-year-old boy in Bengaluru urban, who also died on the same day of diagnosis, but in a government hospital. He had a fever and a cough. The oldest fatality was a 96-year-old man in Mysuru, who succumbed to the disease on September 9, six days after being diagnosed with the disease. He had breathlessness and was a diabetes patient. The state also saw 8,611 recoveries on Sunday, out of which 2,970 cases (34.4%) were in Bengaluru Urban. Bengaluru situation The concentration of new cases in Bengaluru were highest in Yelahanka and West Zone (both of which reported a 16% share), which is a sudden shift in the number of new cases. For much of August and September, West Zone had the lion’s share of new cases. East Zone had 15% of new cases, while the South had 14%. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), it carried out 22,486 tests on Sunday. The city’s positivity rate is 13.98%. The city’s positivity rate has been averaging around this for the last two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-60k-cases-in-a-week-1-yr-old-girl-dies-of-covid-19-890553.html
20-09-2020||West||South Goa district hospital commissioned as Covid-19 facility||The South Goa district hospital has been commissioned has a Covid-19 treatment facility with an initial capacity of 150 beds, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane has said. Till now, Covid-19 patients in the state were being treated at the ESI Hospital in Margao (South Goa), the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) near Panaji (North Goa) and the Sub-District Hospital in Ponda (South Goa). The new facility at Margao in South Goa has been set up in the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the coastal state. "Inspected and commissioned the South Goa District Hospital as a Covid Hospital today as assured to the people with an initial capacity of 150 beds. We shall be moving towards 250-300 beds in a phased manner and then ramping it up 400 beds. If required, we can take it up to 566 beds," Rane tweeted on Saturday. He said the government has recruited 70 people for handling patients at the facility, where HFNO (high flow nasal oxygen) machines and ventilators have been installed "with an aim to make it a high dependence unit". Quality and nutritious meals will be provided to patients along with housekeeping services, the minister said. "With stringent protocols in place, we have started taking patient admissions and shifting of patients from ESIC and Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. Team Goa is working persistently towards intensifying our fight against Covid-19," Rane said in another tweet. Till Saturday, Goa reported 28,022 Covid-19 cases and 342 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/south-goa-district-hospital-commissioned-as-covid-19-facility-890208.html
20-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Thane Covid-19 tally rises to 1,56,922||Thane district of Maharashtra has added 1,788 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 1,56,922, an official said on Sunday. The death toll in the district rose to 4,116 with the addition of 34 fatalities on Saturday, he said. Kalyan town reported 470 new cases, followed by Navi Mumbai-408 and Thane city-395. The remaining cases were reported from other areas of the district, the official said. Out of the total cases, Kalyan topped the list so far with 38,301 cases, followed by Navi Mumbai-32,779 and Thane city-32,477, he said. As of now, there are 18,956 active Covid-19 cases in the district while 1,33,850 patients have recovered from the disease, the official said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district is 85.30 per cent and the mortality rate is 2.62 per cent, he said. The neigbouring Palghar district has so far reported 31,688 Covid-19 cases and 606 deaths due to the disease, an official from the district administration said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-thane-covid-19-tally-rises-to-156922-890214.html
20-09-2020||West||Maharashtra BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar Covid-19 positive||Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra minister Sudhir Mungantiwar on Sunday tweeted that he had been detected with the novel coronavirus infection. He said he had isolated himself after his reports came on Saturday evening and requested those who had come in contact with him over the past few days to get themselves tested for the infection. The 58-year-old Ballarpur MLA was finance and forest minister in the previous Devendra Fadnavis government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-leader-sudhir-mungantiwar-covid-19-positive-890294.html
20-09-2020||West||106-year-old woman wins battle against Covid-19 in Maharashtra||A 106-year-old woman from Maharashtra's Thane district defeated Covid-19 and was discharged from hospital on Sunday with doctors and nurses giving her a warm farewell. With happiness writ large on her face, the woman proudly displayed her discharge certificate to the media before walking out of the hospital after a 10-day stay. After the Dombivli-based centenarian contracted the disease, no hospital was initially ready to admit her due to her age, said her daughter-in-law, who were happy to see her mother-in-law discharged from the hospital after recovering from the disease. She was finally admitted 10 days back to the Covid-19 treatment facility set up by the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) at Savlaram Krida Sankul (sports complex) and doctors and medical teams there took proper care of her, the daughter-in-law said. "We are really thankful to the hospital's medical team who took proper care of her and helped her in defeating the coronavirus," she said. Dr Rahul Ghule, managing director of 'One Rupee Clinic' which is managing this Covid-19 treatment facility, appreciated his team for taking care of the elderly woman. "We are happy that she successfully responded to the treatment," he said, adding that the hospital was opened on July 27, and so far it has treated 1,100 Covid-19 patients. 'One Rupee Clinics', which charge Re 1 per patient for their services, have been set up at select stations on the Central Railway's suburban section to provide emergency help to rail accident victims and give medical treatment to the general public. Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackery took to Twitter to laud the KDMC staff and Shiv Sena's Kalyan MP Shrikant Shinde for providing proper treatment to the elderly woman. He said the blessings of the woman and many more like her "keep us all going strong". KDMC spokesperson Madhuri Phopale said so far 38,301 Covid-19 cases have been reported from areas falling under the civic limits and of these, 762 have died due to the disease. As of now, there are 5,451 active Covid-19 cases in Kalyan-Dombivli while 32,088 patients have recovered, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/106-year-old-woman-wins-battle-against-covid-19-in-maharashtra-890302.html
20-09-2020||West||Gujarat: 61-year-old Covid-19 patient kills self in Junagadh hospital||A 61-year-old Covid-19 patient on Sunday allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the third floor of a private hospital where he was being treated in Keshod town in Gujarat's Junagadh district, police said. The man, a retired government employee, was being treated there for the past two days, an official said. "The exact reason why he took this step will be known only after our probe is completed," the Keshod police station official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-61-year-old-covid-19-patient-kills-self-in-junagadh-hospital-890365.html
20-09-2020||West||Monsoon session of Gujarat Assembly from Monday; no Question Hour||There will be no Question Hour during the five-day monsoon session of the Gujarat Assembly session which will begin from Monday under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, a state minister said on Sunday. Nearly 20 bills will be taken up for discussion during the session which will be conducted while adhering to all Covid-19 prevention protocols, he said. Seating arrangements will be made while following the social distancing norms and no visitors will be allowed in the premises, a release from the state Assembly earlier said. Covid-19 tests were conducted on Speaker Rajendra Trivedi and 505 staff members of the Assembly over the past couple of days, and five were found to be infected, it said. "During the business advisory committee meeting last week, it was decided that there will be no Question Hour. Legislators can raise important current issues through short call notice," state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pradeepsinh Jadeja said. On the first day of the Assembly session, the government will present its report on the work done to fight the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, he said. Nearly 20 bills will be introduced during the five- day session, he said. "Normally, the monsoon session of the Gujarat Assembly is held for two-three days. But this time, as the government has to get approval for 20 bills and give updates regarding the work done to fight coronavirus, the session will go on for five days," Jadeja said. Speaker Rajendra Trivedi has decided to take special measures to hold the Assembly session during the time of the pandemic. "All MLAs and ministers will be tested and only those who are found negative for coronavirus will be allowed to attend the proceedings. There will be segregated seating arrangements for MLAs," the Assembly release said. Visitors will not be allowed entry into the Assembly premises to view the House proceedings, it said. Journalists covering the daily proceedings will also have to get themselves tested before entering the premises, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/monsoon-session-of-gujarat-assembly-from-monday-no-question-hour-890368.html
20-09-2020||West||Guj: Boat capsizes in reservoir; 1 dead, 5 swim to safety||A man drowned and five people were rescued after their boat capsized in the reservoir of Ukai dam in Tapi district in Gujarat, police said on Sunday. Six people from Manekpore village had gone fishing late Saturday evening but their boat toppled due to a strong gust of wind, an Uchhal police station official said. "Miraj Gamit (60) went missing while the other five managed to swim to safety. Gamit's body was found on Sunday morning. An accidental death case has been registered," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/guj-boat-capsizes-in-reservoir-1-dead-5-swim-to-safety-890386.html
20-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Recently recovered BJP MLA flouts restrictions by dancing in temple||While coronavirus has confined the world to their homes, one BJP MLA from Gujarat celebrated his recovery from the virus by dancing and singing bhajans at a Hanuman temple without wearing a mask or maintaining social distance.  Madhu Shrivastav, the MLA from Waghodia Assembly constituency in Vadodara, who tested positive for coronavirus at the end of August, was seen dancing to bhajans amid cheers from his supporters in an Indian Express video.  As visible in the video, only two people in the gathering, which the MLA claimed was a private one and didn't break any guidelines, were wearing masks.  While in the hospital for Covid-19, he released a video in which he told his supporters, “I am Bahubali, and I will defeat coronavirus. There is nothing like coronavirus,. It is not so strong. Half of it has already been defeated and I will defeat the other half too. I will always be in your service.” Talking to the publication, he said, “The video of me dancing in the temple is true. I do it every Saturday. I went there yesterday as I have been going over there for over 45 years….”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-recently-recovered-bjp-mla-flouts-restrictions-by-dancing-in-temple-890389.html
20-09-2020||West||ABVP activists show black flags to Maharashtra minister||ABVP activists on Sunday tried to stop convoy of Maharashtra Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant here for various demands. The incident occurred in afternoon outside the campus of the Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) near the city. A group of 10-15 activists squatted on the road, waved black flags and shouted slogans against the minister, a police official said, adding that they were detained. The Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has been demanding 30 per cent waiver in fees for college students in view of the Covid-19 pandemic besides raising other demands. Samant has been visiting various varsities in the state to prepare a plan for conducting final year exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/abvp-activists-show-black-flags-to-maharashtra-minister-890428.html
20-09-2020||West||Amitabh Gupta takes charge as Pune police commissioner||Senior IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, who had courted a controversy by allegedly facilitating the travel of DHFL scam accused Wadhawan brothers during the lockdown in Maharashtra, on Sunday took charge as the new commissioner of police, Pune. His new posting had drawn attention when the Maharashtra government on Thursday transferred over 50 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. Current Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham has been transferred as additional director general of police (special campaign). Gupta was Principal Secretary, Home, Maharashtra, when he allegedly facilitated travel for Kapil Wadhawan and his brother Dheeraj Wadhawan--promoters of the scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL)--to Mahabaleshwar hill station in Satara district from Mumbai in April, days after a lockdown was imposed to fight the coronavirus. He was sent on compulsory leave after the travel pass emerged. When asked about Gupta's new posting, state Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh told reporters here that the government had conducted an inquiry after the controversy. "IPS officer Amitabh Gupta had made a mistake. Since he is an efficient officer, he was transferred as new commissioner of Pune Police," Deshmukh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amitabh-gupta-takes-charge-as-pune-police-commissioner-890429.html
20-09-2020||West||History-sheeter shot dead in Nashik, three booked||A 28-year-old history-sheeter was allegedly shot dead by three persons in Maharashtra's Nashik, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred in DGP Nagar area of the city on Saturday night. The deceased, Nawaz alias Baba Sheikh, had suffered serious injuries in the incident and died at a private hospital on Sunday, police said. "Sheikh was going on a motorcycle when he was shot at around 10 pm by three persons. He was later shifted to the hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries," a police official said. His uncle lodged a complaint at Upnagar police station, in which he said that immediately after the attack, Sheikh called him and told him about the incident, the official added. "Based on the complaint, police registered a case of murder against three persons, identified as Taufiq alias Tipu Sheikh, Sameer Khan alias Murgi Raja and Arjun Piwal," he said. Police have launched a search for them, the official said, adding that the deceased had some criminal cases registered against him, including that of murder and loot||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/history-sheeter-shot-dead-in-nashik-three-booked-890432.html
20-09-2020||West||Maharashtra reports 20,598 new Covid-19 cases, death toll up by 455||Maharashtra recorded as many as 20,598 new coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, which took the state's overall tally to 12,08,642, the health department said. With the death of 455 patients, the state's fatality count mounted to 32,671, it said. A total of 26,408 patients were discharged during the day, the department said in a statement. So far, 8,84,341 patients have recovered in the state. There are 2,91,238 active cases in Maharashtra at present. As many as 58,72,241 people have been tested across the state so far, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-20598-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-up-by-455-890475.html
20-09-2020||West||Lok Sabha passes bill to upgrade Gujarat-based University as institution of national importance||The Lok Sabha on Sunday passed a bill which seeks to upgrade the Gujarat-based Raksha Shakti University as an institution of national importance and also change its name. In a brief debate before its passage by a voice vote, Abdul Khaliq of the Congress wondered about the need to upgrade the university. According to the proposal, the Rashtriya Raksha University (in place of Raksha Shakti University) will be a multi-disciplinary institution to create new knowledge through research and collaboration with different stakeholders. While the Raksha Shakti University is a state university, the Rashtriya Raksha University will be a central institute. It will also help to fulfil the need for a pool of trained professionals with specialised knowledge and new skill sets in various wings of policing, criminal justice system and correctional administration, according to the bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-upgrade-gujarat-based-university-as-institution-of-national-importance-890532.html
